[TITLE]
Planting seeds of change among Sabah’s children

[METADATA]
ticker: NESTLE
company_name: Nestle Malaysia Berhad
publish_date: 2025-01-03
source_name: The Star
url: https://www.thestar.com.my/metro/metro-news/2025/01/03/planting-seeds-of-change-among-sabahs-children
confidence_tier: high

[NEWS_P001] Campaign seeks to teach pupils to be environmental stewards A food-and-beverage manufacturer has expanded its Project ReLeaf reforestation initiative to cultivate greener values among schoolchildren. At the launch of its inaugural ReLeaf Educational Programme at SK Abaka in Tawau, Sabah, over 100 pupils and teachers joined Nestle Cares volunteers in tree-planting efforts and other interactive activities. With the support of partners Sime Darby Foundation, SD Guthrie Bhd and the Tropical Rainforest Conservation & Research Centre, the programme engaged both pre-school and primary school students to plant native tree species in the school’s vicinity.

[NEWS_P002] Among the types planted were tropical almond trees or ketapang, jambu air, Taisai Paya, Simpur, Sentang and Obah Jangkang. These species were selected to enhance local biodiversity and promote ecological balance, while also contributing to the greening of the school area. Nestle Malaysia chief executive officer Juan Aranols said, “We are committed to shaping a sustainable future for both people and the planet. “As part of our ‘Forest Positive’ strategy, through Project ReLeaf and previously Project Rileaf, we have already planted three million trees to date.

[NEWS_P003] Nestle Cares volunteers demonstrating tree-­planting methods to SK Abaka pupils, encouraging them to take an active role in caring for the environment. “This marks our positive progress towards our goal of planting four million trees across Malaysia by the second or third quarter of 2025, as well as contributing to the national ‘Greening Malaysia’ campaign, which aims to plant 100 million trees. “By extending our efforts to students via the ReLeaf Educational Programme, we strive to inspire the next generation of environmental stewards in safeguarding Malaysia’s precious ecosystems.” A highlight of the ReLeaf Educational Programme was its six interactive learning stations, designed to engage students in meaningful environmental education.

[NEWS_P004] Participants joined in the practical demonstrations on planting and caring for trees, learned about native species through engaging trivia games, and discovered the critical role trees play in generating oxygen and supporting wildlife. The pupils also learned about responsible waste management through hands-on activities such as recycling workshops and a “Trash Tower Challenge”. This helped young learners gain a better understanding on the importance of recycling, waste reduction and sustainable practices that they can apply in their daily lives.

[NEWS_P005] Project ReLeaf plays a key role in Nestle Malaysia’s environmental conservation efforts. Guided by the 3 “Rs” – Reforest, Restore and Respect – the initiative focuses on reforesting wildlife corridors to connect fragmented forests and protect habitats, as well as restoring riparian buffer zones to minimise water contamination. They also engage local communities in seedling production and tree planting to create a holistic ecosystem of environmental stewardship.

[NEWS_P006] The project supports both ecological restoration and community livelihoods, creating a greener and more resilient future.
