[TITLE]
Volunteers pack 5,500 aid boxes for flood relief

[METADATA]
ticker: NESTLE
company_name: Nestle Malaysia Berhad
publish_date: 2025-11-12
source_name: The Star
url: https://www.thestar.com.my/metro/metro-news/2025/11/12/volunteers-pack-5500-aid-boxes-for-flood-relief
confidence_tier: low

[NEWS_P001] AS THE year-end monsoon season approaches, a food and beverage company is proactively supporting communities facing risk of floods. In collaboration with the Malaysian Red Crescent (MRC) and Food Bank Foundation Malaysia (YFBM), Nestle Malaysia has pre-packed and mobilised essential supplies to ensure timely support is available and deployed for thousands of families via its annual Nationwide Flood Aid Relief. This spirit of collaboration and compassion came to life again this year as over 200 Nestle employee volunteers joined hands with MRC members and student volunteers from Universiti Pertahanan Nasional Malaysia to pack 5,500 boxes of essential products such as Milo, Maggi, Nestum and Nescafe.

[NEWS_P002] (From left) Aranols, Tengku Zatashah and volunteers packing supplies for families at risk during the monsoon season. These food aid boxes will be distributed to temporary relief centres (PPS) and flood-affected families nationwide, ensuring that those affected continue to have access to nourishing meals and daily necessities. Through its partnership with YFBM, Nestle is delivering essentials to 480 families in remote islands and rural areas, including Orang Asli, fishing and rubber tapper communities.

[NEWS_P003] Through YFBM’s Susur Pulau 2025 and Kembara Tengkujuh 2025 programmes, essential food and household items will be delivered to families in these areas. Channelled through these partnerships, Nestle Malaysia’s total contribution of products in-kind and financial support is valued at approximately RM2.3mil. This support covers food provisions, flood preparedness measures and recovery assistance for families and communities across the country. “The monsoon season is a difficult time for many families, specifically in flood-exposed regions.

[NEWS_P004] “Through our long-standing partnership with the Malaysian Red Crescent, we are able to deliver timely assistance to those affected,” said Nestle Malaysia chief executive officer Juan Aranols. “We are also scaling up our efforts together with Yayasan Food Bank Malaysia to support the resiliency of communities and villages in remote and often isolated areas, like the east coast islands,” Aranols added. MRC national chairman Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Almarhum Sultan Abdul Halim Mu’adzam Shah said, “Our collaboration with Nestle Malaysia has grown from strength to strength, anchored by a shared mission to assist those affected by natural disasters.

[NEWS_P005] “Nestle’s consistent support enhances our capacity to respond more effectively during floods, allowing us to extend critical aid to more communities.” YFBM chairman Tengku Zatashah Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah said: “Through programmes such as Susur Pulau and Kembara Tengkujuh, Yayasan Food Bank Malaysia is working to ensure that vulnerable communities, especially those in remote and rural areas, receive the necessary support during the monsoon season.

[NEWS_P006] “This is a tangible example of how public-private partnerships can bring about real benefits for the community,” she added. The Nationwide Flood Aid Relief initiative is part of Nestle Sayang Komuniti, a platform which mobilises the company’s resources and empowers employees to contribute directly to community and environmental causes.
