[TITLE]
Company to nurture 20 women food entrepreneurs

[METADATA]
ticker: NESTLE
company_name: Nestle Malaysia Berhad
publish_date: 2025-10-31
source_name: The Star
url: https://www.thestar.com.my/metro/metro-news/2025/10/31/company-to-nurture-20-women-food-entrepreneurs
confidence_tier: low

[NEWS_P001] AS MAGGI marks over five decades of nourishing Malaysians, its flagship empowerment initiative “Wanita Cukup Berani” (WCB) enters its fourth year. The programme is aimed at uplifting women through food, mentorship and digital learning. The nationwide programme − rooted in the campaign’s signature spirit of “Tak Kenal Tak Cinta” − has empowered more than 4,000 women since its launch. Maggi now aims to reach 10,000 participants and nurture at least 20 new food entrepreneurs by 2026.

[NEWS_P002] The launch of WCB 2025 in Petaling Jaya celebrated not only the initiative’s impact, but also the evolution of Maggi from a trusted kitchen companion to an empowerment partner. “Good food and cooking have always been at the heart of Maggi’s story,” said Maggi Malaysia and Singapore business executive officer Ivy Tan. “Food is never just food; it’s a love that strengthens families, a form of creativity and even a pathway to income. “Through WCB, we have seen women discover courage, self-worth and confidence in ways that go far beyond the kitchen,” she added.

[NEWS_P003] This year, Maggi plans to award grants of RM5,000 each to at least 20 participants to help kickstart their ventures, supported by guidance from WCB mentors and alumni. This year’s programme will feature online and physical learning modules, making it more accessible for women from all walks of life. The curriculum includes entrepreneurship and financial management with entrepreneur Anne Idris, personal branding and confidence-building with Alleena Abdullah, healthy cooking and nutrition with local TV host and chef Muhammad Naim Ramli as well as digital and social media training through partnerships with Google and TikTok.

[NEWS_P004] Tan said these collaborations demonstrate how empowerment extended beyond culinary skills, by equipping women to become entrepreneurs, digital creators and community role models. “Our past three seasons reached 4,500 women through blended learning,” she said. “This new digital format allows us to scale up even further, giving more women the confidence to take that first step of starting a business,” she added. Participants can register online for free, complete the learning modules and submit a business plan to qualify for grants and mentorship opportunities.

[NEWS_P005] Women, Family and Community Development Minister Datuk Seri Nancy Shukri, in her speech read by Women’s Development Department deputy director-general Dr Faridah Awang, commended Maggi for aligning with national goals of empowering women and improving digital literacy. “Real change happens when the government, private sector and community walk hand in hand,” she said. “Programmes like WCB show that when women gain the confidence to try something new, they transform not just their lives but also the lives of those around them.” Nestle Malaysia chief executive officer Juan Aranols said the programme reflected the company’s purpose of enhancing quality of life and contributing to a more sustainable future.

[NEWS_P006] “WCB is an example of our belief in action; empowering women through food, mentorship and opportunity,” he said. As the programme entered its fourth season, Tan said the growing alumni would play an even bigger role in supporting new participants.
