[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
Market Review
OUR OPERATING LANDSCAPE
The year 2022 has been marked by two key
and opposing factors. Positively, it has seen the
gradual unravelling of movement and social
restrictions imposed to contain COVID-19. Yet, rather than herald a significant economic
recovery, global GDP growth is expected to
decelerate to about 3.2 per cent after hitting
a high of 6.1 per cent in 2021. The International
Monetary Fund (IMF) was prompted to
downgrade its GDP forecast in July 2022
because of the Russia-Ukraine war, intermittent
COVID-19 outbreaks, and a continued slowdown
in manufacturing and logistics. Starting from a lower base of 3.1 per cent
growth in 20211 , Malaysia’s GDP is expected
to expand by 6.4 per cent according to the
World Bank, supported by domestic demand
underpinned by enhanced labour market
conditions2. Growth in Thailand, meanwhile, is
anticipated at between 2.7 per cent and 3.2 per
cent3, slightly higher than initially predicted as
the tourism industry is beginning to pick up. This is from a base of 1.5 per cent growth in
2021.

[MDA_P002]
Key factors reigning in a fuller recovery
are high inflation and muted trade with China,
which has enforced several lockdowns in
attempts to maintain zero-COVID. Economic growth discrepancy aside, both
countries continue to be affected by supply
chain disruptions and a sharp increase in
the price of commodities, especially palm
oil, skimmed milk powder and tin plates – all
of which are used in F&NHB’s products and
packaging. Both our key markets have also been
impacted by the US Government’s monetary
tightening and interest rate hikes, which have
resulted in the reverse flow of capital from
emerging markets back to the US, contributing
to depreciation in regional currencies. As of the end of September 2022, the Malaysian
ringgit had weakened to 4.6 against the dollar. However, the Thai Baht was even more affected,
dipping to 38 against the dollar – marking its
lowest exchange rate since July 2006. The
weak Ringgit and Baht further increase the cost
of already high imported commodity prices.

[MDA_P003]
1 According to a Ministry of Finance press release,
11 Feb 2022
2 https://www.theedgemarkets.com/article/world-
bank-ups-2022-gdp-growth-forecast-malaysia
3 https://www.cnbc.com/2022/08/15/thai-second-
quarter-gdp-grew-2point5percent-year-on-year-
below-expectations.html
KEY MARKET TRENDS
OUR RESPONSE
Digitalisation has been a catchphrase for
a few years and has further accelerated
throughout
the
pandemic. To
remain
competitive,
corporations
are
fully
digitalising their operations to capture
and analyse data for 1) more informed
decision-making;
2)
more
effective
marketing; 3) better customer service, and
4) more efficient operations. Consumers
today increasingly rely on technology
for daily tasks such as banking, working
and education. Trends towards digital
channels also mean cyber risk is a global
focus of organisations and governments. The rising trend in cashless payments has
positively boosted online shopping, which
had
remained
strong
post-pandemic,
indicating that consumers are already
accustomed
to
the
convenience,
affordability,
and
rewards
of
online
shopping.

[MDA_P004]
•
Business intelligence tools are vital
enablers in our operations, particularly
in gathering market insights, including
consumers’ purchasing behaviour and
the movement of commodity prices. •
A robust Cybersecurity Framework
ensures
effective
identification,
protection, detection, response, and
recovery of cybersecurity incidents. Cybersecurity training and external
vulnerability assessment were also
conducted during the year. •
We
continue
to
increase
our
e-commerce
presence
through
partnering with e-commerce platforms
like Lazada, Shopee and partners like
Potboy and JOCOM. At the same, we
continued to grow our own platform,
F&N Life, in Malaysia and launched
F&N Nom-Aroi in Thailand. •
Our
Enterprise
resource
planning
system and ASRS at Shah Alam
warehouse and regional distribution
centre
in
Rojana
create
greater
efficiencies while reducing the risk of
human injury. Even before the pandemic, there was
increasing awareness of the importance of
maintaining a good diet and being physically
active to optimise one’s well-being. Since
the pandemic, people are taking their
health and well-being even more seriously.

[MDA_P005]
There is increased demand for low-sugar
or no-sugar beverages, low-fat foods and
nutritious food and beverage products. At
the same time, more people are converting
to a plant-based diet. Another outcome
of the pandemic is greater awareness of
staying active to enhance natural immunity
against COVID-19. People are exercising
more and enjoying other outdoor activities
to maintain good mental and physical
health. Therefore, food and beverage (F&B)
players must cater to healthier lifestyles to
resonate better with the current consumer
mindset. • Our sugar index has dropped by 50%
over the last ten years, representing the
reduction of total sugar content in our
drinks from 2013 to 2022. Over 90% of
the ready-to-drink products sold today
have less than 5g of sugar per 100 ml. • More than half of our total product
portfolio
now
comprises
healthier
options endorsed by MOH’s Healthier
Choice Logo, including six new products
this year. • We invested RM128 million in a new liquid
milk and plant-based manufacturing
facility in Wang Muang and are equipping
our Pulau Indah plant with plant-based
capabilities.

[MDA_P006]
• 100PLUS
World
Hydration
Day
celebration promoted an active lifestyle
to
100,000
Malaysians
through
a
four-day Hari Hidrasi Sedunia 100PLUS
carnival. HEALTH CONSCIOUSNESS &
PHYSICALITY
DIGITALISATION
& THE E-ECONOMY

[MDA_P007]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
4 https://focusmalaysia.my/not-so-great-
resignation-59-of-workers-in-southeast-
asia-not-quitting-without-job-offers/
In recent years the clarion call for climate
action has gained urgency, as the effects
of an increasing global temperature are
beginning to be evident. Most governments
have committed to taking action to limit the
global temperature increase to 2°C from
pre-industrial days. Malaysia has set the
goal to reach carbon neutrality by the year
2050 through efforts to halter deforestation
and
reduce
methane
emissions. It
is
imperative that corporations, organisations
and individuals also play their part. Indeed,
with increasing awareness of the potential
calamity that unmitigated emissions will
bring, investors, employees, customers and
consumers actively seek to support green
organisations. Companies that do not take
emissions reduction seriously risk alienating
their important stakeholders. • We
embarked
on
renewable
energy
through
solar
PV
systems
at
our
manufacturing facilities in 2020.

[MDA_P008]
Before
the end of 2022, we will be generating
enough renewable energy to replace 20
per cent of our electricity requirement
with solar panels on the roofs of our plants. • Our new Shah Alam warehouse and regional
distribution centre in Rojana (RDC) will
contribute to an annual reduction of 1,400
tonnes of CO2e emissions from reduced
forklift operations and lesser shunting and
double handling. • F&B Thailand is guiding some 2,000 dairy
farmers in a cooperative to assess their
carbon emissions and develop plans to
reduce their carbon footprint. • We began a phased implementation of
climate-related
disclosures
in
relation
to the Task Force on Climate-related
Financial
Disclosures
(TCFD)
recommendations
and
conducted
a
climate-related impact assessment this
year. As the global population grows, we are
consuming more and more of the world’s
natural resources and discarding an increasing
volume of waste, 90 per cent of which is either
dumped or burned. Landfills overflow while
poorly managed waste gets washed by rain
and drains into the sea.

[MDA_P009]
As the World Bank puts
it, poorly managed waste is contaminating the
world’s oceans, clogging drains, transmitting
diseases, increasing respiratory problems
from burning, and unknowingly harming
animals that consume waste. Among the
most effective solutions to the problem is to
increase circularity in the value chain, reduce
raw materials needed, prioritise renewable
inputs, and recover/recycle as much as
possible. Consumers and other stakeholders
today have high expectations of corporations
in the fast-moving consumer goods sector to
demonstrate a commitment to effective and
sustainable waste management. • Apart from renewable energy, we source
raw materials that are produced sustainably,
such as RSPO, VIVE, and BONSUCRO. We
only use paper carton products certified
by Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). We
also aim to achieve 100 per cent physical
certified palm oil by 2025. • We have increased the use of recycled
material in our packaging to 25 per cent and
aim for all beverage and dairy packaging to
be 100 per cent recyclable by 2025.

[MDA_P010]
(2022:
99 per cent)
• 100 per cent of the industrial sludge from
our dairy production is converted into
organic fertiliser and distributed to local
farmers. • After two years hiatus due to the pandemic,
we re-activated our nationwide school
recycling programme to inculcate 5R
philosophy in our future generation. We are
also a founding member of the Malaysian
Recycling Alliance (MAREA), which seeks to
develop effective post-consumption waste
strategies and policies with all stakeholders. Gen Zs and millennials represent about half
of the working population in Malaysia and
Thailand today. They seek employers that
provide excellent compensation and benefits,
provide an enabling culture and career growth
opportunities, respect the need for flexibility
and work-life balance, and demonstrate strong
ESG principles. While the ‘Great Resignation’
appears to be more muted in Southeast Asia,
86 per cent of the talents surveyed in a recent
poll by Robert Walters have reassessed their
priorities in work and workplaces4. Along with
the stresses brought about by COVID-19, a
majority (76 per cent) are prioritising their
mental and physical well-being.

[MDA_P011]
The poll
conducted on 2,600 professionals in June
2022 also showed that 68% of them planned
to change jobs within the following year. Given
the perennial lack of good talent, corporations
must make more effort to discover what their
employees want from their employers in order
to retain them. • To
enable
greater
flexibility
for
work-life balance, we have maintained the
technology-enabled hybrid work approach
adopted during the pandemic. • Conducted
a
Reward
Benchmarking
Exercise in 2022 as part of our periodic
review to ensure we offer competitive
salaries against the industry. • To promote a culture of engagement and
inclusion, an Employee Engagement Survey
was conducted in 2022 and participated
by 100 per cent of our employees. Other
engagement
channels
included
CEO
Townhall and our employee mobile apps,
Fraserian Connect in Malaysia, and Line app
in Thailand. • We continue to care for our employees’
well-being by conducting second COVID-19
booster
vaccinations
at
our
plants. RM400,000 in crisis assistance funds was
distributed to employees affected by the
floods, while 68 children of our employees
were awarded the Chairman’s Award for
their excellent results.

[MDA_P012]
CLIMATE CHANGE
& ITS MITIGATION
WASTE MANAGEMENT &
CONSCIOUS CONSUMPTION
EMPLOYEES & THE GREAT
RESIGNATION

[MDA_P013]
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
Key Risks and Mitigation
Snapshot of the Enterprise Risk Management Process Flow
Risk Identification
& Assessment
Risk
Treatment
Risk
Reporting
Four core
response
strategies
Accept
Avoid
Reduce
Transfer
Continuous risk
assessment at
fundamental and
Operations
level through its
self-assessment
scorecard
Key risks,
mitigating actions
or controls
carried out and
residual rating are
highlighted to the
Sustainability and
Risk Management
Committee
quarterly
A
B
E
F
G
H
J
K
N
O
P
Material Issues
Key Risks
Product & Service Labelling
B
Other Financial Risks
Human Capital Development
Product Quality & Standards
Packaging
Health, Safety & Security
Community Development
& Inclusive Growth
J
Political/International
Instability & Geopolitical Risk
Nutrition
H
Managing Stakeholders,
Expectations & Perceptions
Economic Performance
E
Risk from Disruptive Digital
Technology & Innovation
Water Stewardship
N
Cyber Threats &
Data Security Risk
Waste Management
O
Talent Management &
Succession Planning
Energy
P
Supply Chain Risks
Climate Change
Biodiversity
Employee Safety, Health
& Well-being
K
Infectious Disease
Human Rights
Environmental Damage
Policy & Regulations
F
Corruption, Fraud,
Pilferage & Ethical Risks
Innovation
G
Non-compliance with Laws,
Rules, Regulations & Standards
Product Quality & Safety
A
Signiﬁcant Increase in
Commodity Prices
Governance & Ethics
Inability to Anticipate
Respond Timely to Changing
Consumer Needs
Supply Chain Stewardship
Strategic Risk Involving
New Business Investment
Economic
Social
Environment
Governance & Ethics
Reputational
Operational
Financial/economic
Strategic

[MDA_P014]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
Addressing Our Risks & Opportunities
Risk
Mitigation actions
Material Issue
Extreme weather events and other environmental concerns (Emerging Risk)
Rising concerns associated with
environmental impact such
as extreme weather events,
water-related risks, waste and
pollution risks, and biodiversity
loss. At F&N, we recognise the role of business in protecting the
environment. The transition to a circular economy offers
opportunities to create business value as well as minimise
environmental impacts. • We are guided by our Environmental, Safety and Health
Policy, which ensures all major plants in the group are ISO
14001:2015 (environmental management system) certified. • Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) elements are
considered and integrated into our business strategies,
including capital expenditure investment(s) to ensure
business resiliency. • Various environmental-related sustainability targets and
metrics have been established, monitored, tracked and
reported on periodic basis. • We undertake Environmental Impact Assessments prior to
any project. • We partner with local communities to protect and preserve
the environment.

[MDA_P015]
• We strive for zero waste as well as zero pollution through
continuous improvement of our environmental management
system. Significant increase in commodity prices (Emerging Risk)
Commodities and material
prices are influenced by the
global & local supply and
demand, weather conditions
as well as regulatory changes
imposed by the government. As
such, any significant increase
in prices of commodities and
materials could materially affect
the cost and profitability of our
products. • Commodities and materials price risk is managed through
forward purchase of key commodities, active monitoring of
commodities price trends, and vigilant sales forecasting and
production planning. • In addition, we also source from multiple suppliers and
origin of commodities/ materials as listed in our approved
vendors list to enable us to respond ably in the event of
shortage in supply and/or increase in price. • We also hedge our purchases using our enlarged and
collective purchasing capability. • Price adjustment would be considered as last resort to
protect profitability of the products.

[MDA_P016]
Exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates
In times of foreign currency
market volatility, the Group
is exposed to the risk of
fluctuations in foreign exchange
rates against the local currency
due to:
• Importation of materials for
production;
• Exports of goods are traded
in foreign currency; and
• Overseas operations are
valued in foreign currencies. • The Group is guided by the Group Treasury Policy which
outlines the policy in hedging the identified and committed
foreign exchange exposure. • Typically, at least 60 per cent of our forex requirements are
hedged to manage fluctuating prices of commodities as well
as forex movements. • Exports serve as additional natural hedge to cushion the
impact of depreciating local currencies.

[MDA_P017]
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
Key Risks and Mitigation
Risk
Mitigation actions
Material Issue
Product quality and standards
As a player in the food &
beverage industry, the Group is
exposed to the risks associated
with product quality and
standards as product safety
and quality are of paramount
importance to the Group. The exposure in product quality
and standards may bring
serious ramifications in terms
of financial impact as well as
reputational impact. • Quality assurance cycle begins with suppliers’
pre-qualification and approval, source or origin of raw
materials, manufacturing facilities and procedures, up to the
distribution and storage of our products. • Comprehensive policies and procedures established on
processing, packaging and storage, equipment and plant
sanitisation as well as employee personal hygiene to prevent
contamination. • Compliance with stringent quality systems in place such as
ISO22000, Food Safety System Certification 22000 and
HACCP Certification by Ministry of Health. • Contingency plans on product traceability and product
recall/ withdrawal should such circumstances arise.

[MDA_P018]
Ability to anticipate/ respond timely to changing consumer needs (Emerging Risk)
Consumers are becoming more
informed on nutritional facts
of their diet and adoption of
active/healthy lifestyles. This
risk relates to the Group’s ability
to stay competitive and relevant
to consumer needs by building
competitive advantage through
innovation. Should we fail to address the
shift in the consumer trends
nimbly and effectively, it may
result in financial as well as
reputational impact in the
longer term. • Prioritise Research & Development initiatives on developing
new products and further improve our product offerings in
food & beverages to meet consumers’ demand for healthier
choices which are in line with the rising health and wellness
trend without compromising on taste. • Continuous improvement on the offerings of healthier
choice products in our innovation roadmap with target to
offer a healthy option in every product category that we are
in. • Introduce new pack size as part of our portion control
commitment. • Promote sports and active lifestyles through programs that
target schools and communities.

[MDA_P019]
Supply chain risks
The Group is exposed to risks
associated with anticipated
or unanticipated disruption to
the supply chain and normal
operations of the Group which
could be due to internal or
external factors such as extreme
weather events, infectious
diseases, etc. • Group Business Continuity Management Framework (BCMF)
has been established which sets out the policies and
procedures in relation to response, recovery and restoration
of business in the event of a crisis or disaster. • Business Continuity Plans (BCP) are in place and being
tested in accordance with the BCMF. • Regular engagement with internal and external stakeholders
to ensure resilience in the supply of materials amidst supply
chain disruptions. • Maintain healthy cashflow positions during crisis. • Ensure compliance with SOPs issued by government.

[MDA_P020]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
Risk
Mitigation actions
Material Issue
Cyber threats and data security risks
Amid the evolving technology-
reliant business environment,
the Group is exposed to
cyber security threats from
cyber criminals which may
compromise data integrity and
even leakage of confidential and
sensitive information which is
valuable to the Group. • The Group has developed Cybersecurity Framework to
provide guidance to businesses on managing cyber security
risks. • Regular trainings via e-Learning platform and constant
updates related to cyber threats are provided to all
employees to maintain awareness level. • Implementation of Data Leakage Protection solutions to
mitigate cyber threats and data security risks. Managing stakeholders’ expectations and perceptions
Managing and balancing
stakeholders’ expectations/
perceptions in relation to
environmental, social and
governance (ESG) aspects
such as human rights, Halal
assurance, community
development and inclusive
growth have always been
challenging as ESG topics have
rapidly climbing on the ranking
of top concerns amongst many
leaders, investors, and other
stakeholders.

[MDA_P021]
• Proactive stakeholder engagements including shareholders
& investors, customers, suppliers, regulators, communities,
and employees. • Full commitment from our Board of Directors in
implementing our strategic initiatives as well as
sustainability priorities. • Policies and procedures are established, supported by
dedicated resources to implement the framework, and
uphold the various compliance standards, including Halal
Governance and Assurance Framework. • Stringent compliance with various compliance standards
along our entire value chain, from sourcing of raw materials
to delivery of products. • Close monitoring of news published in the media and
response procedures are in place to address circumstances
should it occur. Fraud and Corruption Risks
The Group could be exposed
to governance and ethics-
related risks such as fraud and
corruption practices involving
employees and/or external
stakeholders which eventually
may result in financial losses
and reputational repercussions. • Top-level commitments from the Board and Senior
Management on zero-tolerance towards unethical practices.

[MDA_P022]
• Awareness training programme for employees designed to
enhance awareness in protecting the interest of the Group. • Whistleblowing channel is available for internal employees
as well as the public to escalate concerns or report to the
Receiving Officer should there be any incident detected.

[MDA_P023]
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
Strategic Performance Review
Strategic Review
Strategic Performance Review
FY2022 Key Highlights
• Successfully launched 14 new products in different
product categories, with 6 healthier options without
compromising taste and convenience. • Strengthened our Halal packaged food pillar via the
acquisition of Cocoaland companies. • Building new capabilities with integrated dairy farming
& agriculture as the journey began with successful
completion of Ladang Permai Damai land acquisition. • Operating since October 2022, Wang Muang plant
in the Saraburi province, Thailand is a liquid milk &
plant-based beverages factory. It is a strategic shift for
the Group to reduce reliance on condensed milk and
enable us to grow our brand in the liquid milk segment. Priorities for 2023
• Accelerate innovation across all facets of our businesses,
from new product development, channels management
to value chain activities to better serve the rapidly
evolving consumer and stakeholders needs. • Investment in sustainable farming and agriculture to
support the National Food Security Agenda In Dairy &
Beef.

[MDA_P024]
• Leverage on combined strength with Sri Nona and
Cocoaland to expand growth in Halal packaged food
business organically and beyond domestic market. BUILD
Building new capabilities and business
opportunities
PASSION 2025
STRATEGIC
DOMAINS

[MDA_P025]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
FY2022 Key Highlights
• Defended market share leaderships in Malaysia and Thailand
within our core categories while we continued expanding our
reach in the existing markets. • Our global footprint expanded to 89 countries despite the market
uncertainties and challenges. • Our continuous effort in marketplace, workplace and environment
received external validation through numerous awards,
recognitions and ratings, including:
- Top decile company in S&P Corporate Sustainability Assessment,
ranking among the top 10 companies in the Beverages industry
- 97th Percentile Rank in the Global Food & Beverage Supersector,
remaining a constituent of the FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index
(F4GBM) and FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Shariah (F4GBMS) Index
- Top 3 Performers in ASEAN and Gold Award for Consumer Goods &
Services in the inaugural The Edge ESG Awards 2022
• Supported local communities through strategic partnerships while
we continue to strengthen our Halal leadership in the industry. FY2022 Key Highlights
• Rooftop Solar Photovoltaic (PV) System in our
manufacturing plants had begun generating
renewable energy progressively to power the
operations.

[MDA_P026]
• Unlocking potentials among the existing talent
pools in support of future business expansion
to become a more efficient, agile and focused
organisation. • Strategic collaborations with key suppliers to
achieve common partnership goals. • Leveraged on sukuk financing to unlock future
business growth as well as diversifying our
business risks. Priorities for 2023
• Defend our existing business leadership in our core categories
through transformative projects to strengthen our brand portfolio
management as we continue to expand our product portfolio. • Continue to expand our reach by leveraging on digital and
technologies in strengthening our route-to-market strategies
while achieving cost effectiveness. • Continue to drive operational efficiency, commercial excellence
and fiscal discipline across our value chain from raw materials,
production, marketing & sales, and post-consumption packaging
management as we integrate ESG elements as part of strategic
management, where applicable. Priorities for 2023
• Transforming through disruption and building
business resilience across different aspects of
the Company.

[MDA_P027]
• Unlock values from our assets and investments
to drive stable and sustainable growth. • Transitioning to next-level of strong governance
company and establish programmes to improve
operations, empower our employees, strengthen
stakeholders’ engagement and deliver business
values. • Create a smart hybrid workplace that facilitates
greater integration and collaboration when our
team are housed under one roof in Shah Alam. STRENGTHEN
Strengthening our core businesses for market
leadership positions
UNLOCK
Unlocking potentials of the Group
to create maximum value

[MDA_P028]
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strategic Review
Key Performance Indicators
HOW WE TRACK OUR PROGRESS
F&N is focused on
building a stronger
and more sustainable
business for the future
through continued
focus on profitable
growth, sustainable
cost structure, and
organisation excellence. Here are several ﬁnancial and operating metrics
that help us to measure our effectiveness in
creating value for our people and stakeholders
while we expand our portfolio and reach. SUSTAINABLE PRACTICES
Complementing these metrics are 12 F&N
Group Sustainability targets to be achieved by
2025 that track our ESG performance in three
primary themes of sustainable value creation. These 2025 targets will drive our ambition for
Better Business through responsible business
fundamentals; a Better Society by caring for the
well-being of people and communities; and a
Better Planet through circularity & environmental
protection initiatives. Refer to pages 149 to 150 for a summary of
the targets and progress to date
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
Objective:
Maximise value creation and provide good returns to
shareholder.

[MDA_P029]
Proﬁt After Tax (RM million)
Dividend Payout Ratio (%)
Return on Shareholders’ Equity (ROE) (%)
395.1
410.1
410.1
382.3
14.0
15.2
12.8
Target
ratio:
not lower
than 50%

[MDA_P030]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE
ORGANISATIONAL CAPABILITY
Objective:
Ensure sustainable revenue growth and increase the
Company’s efficiency and cost competitiveness.
Objective:
Build capability of our talents and product innovation to
maintain our competitive edge.
Revenue (billion)
Average Training Hours per Employee
OPEX* as percentage of NSR (%)
Women in Management (%)
Revenue over Full Time Equivalent (FTE) (RM 000)
Healthier Choice Products Ratio in Portfolio (%)
4.13
3.99
4.47
18.07
19.04
16.70
17.2
18.3
16.1
1,655
1,525
1,775
* Comprise distribution, marketing and administrative expenses.
target: at
least 12
training
hours per
employee

[MDA_P031]
Management Discussion & Analysis
Strengthening our Halal Ecosystem
F&N IS COMMITTED TO BE A LEADING
PRODUCER OF HALAL PRODUCTS.
HALAL POLICY AND RESOURCES MADE
AVAILABLE TO ENSURE HIGHEST LEVEL
OF INTEGRITY TO STAKEHOLDERS.
100%
Halal- Certified
Products
RECOGNITION TOWARDS OUR HALAL COMMITMENT
Fraser & Neave
Holdings Bhd
Best Halal
Achievement
Awards
MIHAS Awards
Fraser & Neave
Holdings Bhd
A constituent of the
FTSE4Good Bursa
Malaysia Shariah
(F4GBMS) Index
JAKIM
(Malaysia)
MUI
(Indonesia)
CICOT
(Thailand)

[MDA_P032]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
F&NHB established a Group
Halal Council in 2016 to
embed the Halalan Toyyiban
guidelines, extending it
into our operations and our
engagement with consumers
and society. The Group Halal Council is assisted by the Halal Affairs
Department. The Internal Halal Committee is responsible for all matters
pertaining to Halal compliance in our supply chain, from material
selection to the storage and transportation of our products
A dedicated Internal Halal Committee is set up in each of
our manufacturing plants. ESTABLISHING GROUP
HALAL COUNCIL (GHC)
ENSURING HALAL
COMPLIANCE & INTEGRITY
ACROSS OUR VALUE CHAIN
FACILITATING EXTERNAL
ENGAGEMENT TO UPLIFT
HALAL ECO-SYSTEM
100% of our products are Halal-certified by
the relevant authorised certification bodies:
- Department of Islamic Development
Malaysia (JAKIM)
- Majelis Ulama Indonesia (MUI)
- Central Islamic Council of Thailand (CICOT)
We facilitate positive collaborative engagement
with Halal authorities such as JAKIM, Jabatan
Agama Islam Selangor (JAIS) and Halal
Development Corporation Berhad (HDC).

[MDA_P033]
- Partner with JAKIM and JAIS in community
outreach programmes
We are actively engaging with the Department
of Malaysia standards through Federation of
Malaysian Manufacturers (FMM) to provide
our input towards developing Halal related
standards to, such as:
- Sertu standards
- Malaysian Standard 1514 Good Manufacturing
Practice (GMP for Food)
- Halal Industrial Park - General Requirements
and Guidelines
To further propel the Halal eco-system, we
partner HDC on the Halal Sourcing Partnership
Programme, a capacity-building programme
aimed at:
- sharing Halal industry best practices
- providing technical advice and knowledge
transfer to small and medium enterprises (SMEs)
- coaching the SMEs to elevate their capability
to be qualified as Halal vendors for multi-
national companies
Through the programme, in 2021, we have
successfully onboarded one SME as our
ingredient supplier for F&N Kurma Madu
Cordial. We are in the midst of developing
more Halal SMEs to become our supplier. We also support HRDCorp by providing our
input towards the development of Industrial
Skills Framework for Food & Beverages –
Food Manufacturing, particularly in career
development related to Halal Industry.

[MDA_P034]
We also actively participate in knowledge
sharing sessions such as:
- 18th Malaysia International Halal Showcase
(MIHAS)
- World Halal Business Conference Australia 2022. CULTIVATING
INTERNAL
HALAL CULTURE
We continuously
strengthen of employee’s
Halal awareness and
understanding through:
- Regular Halal Awareness
programme, including
training, contests and
quizzes
- Regular training in Good
Manufacturing Practices
and Good Hygiene
Practices
- Prohibition of non-Halal
foods and drinks within
the factory premises,
including office and
canteen
Various trainings were
organised to expand internal
capacity:
- Mandatory Halal
awareness training for all
employees
- Halal labelling training
- Halal Competency training
100% of our employees,
including newcomers
in Malaysia undergo
mandatory Halal awareness
training while employees
with a responsibility in
Halal matters also attended
a series of professional
training related to Halal
internal audits and
assurance. Our Shah Alam and Pulau Indah plant are
awarded the Whitelist status by JAKIM, in
which Halal applications and approval are
fast tracked.

[MDA_P035]
Halal Assurance Management System
(HAS) version 2020 is implemented to
maintain and ensure the sustainability of
Halal production processes. - A pool of qualified Halal Executives is
maintained to implement a robust HAS
- Internal Halal Audits are conducted for
all of our plants. To ensure Halal compliance downstream
our supply chain, Halal awareness trainings
are conducted for our key transporters and
distributors. - We have conducted Halal audits on
100% of our transporters to ensure Halal
compliance. - Halal audits are also conducted on our
distributors to ensure Halal compliance
further downstream our supply chain
We perform porcine analysis for our
products and ingredients as further
assurance of Halal. Used equipment or machines brought
into our factories underwent Shariah sertu
cleansing to maintain Halal integrity of
our products. Our Halal Risk Management plan for all
plants is updated to meet Halal Assurance
Management System (HAS) version 2020
requirements.

[MDA_P036]
Management Discussion & Analysis
Business Review

[MDA_P037]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
SUCHIT
RIEWCHAROON
Managing Director,
F&N Dairies (Thailand) Limited
NG
ENG CHEANG
Managing Director,
Commercial Operations
Malaysia
TONY CHAN
CHWEE WAN
Managing Director,
Sri Nona
LAI
MING KONG
Managing Director,
International Markets
Development
GRAHAM
Managing Director,
Commercial Operations
(East Malaysia & Borneo)

[MDA_P038]
Management Discussion & Analysis
(F&B Thailand)
Food & Beverages Thailand
THE YEAR
CONTINUED
TO BE VERY
CHALLENGING
FOR FOOD &
BEVERAGES
THAILAND
(F&B THAILAND)
OUR THAI OPERATIONS, ESPECIALLY
WITH THE ESCALATION IN COST OF
COMMODITIES SUCH AS PALM OIL,
MILK POWDER AND TIN CANS AND
FREIGHT COSTS, TOGETHER WITH A
DEPRECIATION OF THE THAI BAHT
IN THE FACE OF THE STRONG US
DOLLAR. Despite the macro challenges, the
recovery in out-of-home channels, new
product innovations, effective loyalty
campaigns and double-digit growth in
exports to Cambodia contributed to
revenue growth in F&B Thailand. This
is further boosted by the progressive
recovery in tourism and out-of-home
consumption in Quarter 4. During the year, our newly completed
Rojana Distribution Centre (RDC)
helped to create greater distribution
and cost efficiencies as well as reducing
carbon footprint for the Group. Our
new plant in Wang Muang, which is fully
operational since October 2022, will
enable us expanding our presence in
the liquid milk and building our brand in
the plant-based beverages segment in
Thailand.

[MDA_P039]
Thailand
Key Focus Areas
Manage the high-cost regime through increased
operational and marketing efficiencies
Grow the business through increased production capacity,
a wider export market, and launch of an online platform,
F&N Nom-Aroi
Increase sales through product and packaging innovation,
supported by effective promotions and campaigns
Strengthen the supply chain through digital systems,
and enhanced relationship with suppliers and business
partners

[MDA_P040]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
Key Initiatives
Achievements
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1: ENHANCE REVENUE
Grow manufacturing
capacity
• Invested RM128 million in a new liquid milk and plant-based beverage
manufacturing facility in Wang Muang. Product
re-engineering
• Introduced six new products:
TEAPOT Low Fat 25% Less Sucrose Sweetened Condensed Milk (SCM) Tube
TEAPOT Purple Sweet Potato Flavoured SCM Tube
TEAPOT Evaporated Milk Product for Cooking & Bakery
TEAPOT Sweetened Evaporated Milk (2-in-1) for Beverages Brik 1L
F&N Magnolia Ultra-High Temperature (UHT) Milk
F&N Magnolia Plus Milk with Vitamin ACD
• Introduced a new, more convenient and hygienic packaging (1L paper carton) for
TEAPOT Extra Prisma. • Retained its No.1 position in the total condensed milk category. • TEAPOT maintained its leadership position in the flavoured sweetened
condensed milk segment. • Gained higher share in the liquid milk market with the launch of various F&N
Magnolia UHT products. Grow export
markets
• Strong double-digit growth in exports to Cambodia, supported by marketing
activation and visibility programmes, and expanded distribution network.

[MDA_P041]
• Expanded the Export network to China, Middle East and Central West Africa. • Strengthen TEAPOT’s leadership as the No.1 brand in the sweetened milk
segment in Cambodia and Laos, where TEAPOT is available at more than 10,000
outlets. Enhance route-to-
market strategy
• Continued to expand distribution network in Thailand and Indochina. • Launched e-commerce platform, F&N Nom-Aroi, in May 2022. Business Performance Review

[MDA_P042]
Management Discussion & Analysis
Business Performance Review
Key Initiatives
Achievements
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2: ACHIEVE COST EFFICIENCIES & REDUCE CARBON FOOTPRINT
Logistics
efficiencies
• Started operations at RM52 million integrated RDC in Rojana, equipped with an
Automated Storage and Retrieval System (ASRS), in January 2022. Energy
efficiencies
• The solar PV system in Rojana continues to provide savings from the generation
of clean energy. This was particularly significant in FY2022, when the cost of
electricity increased significantly. STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3: BUILD STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS
Dairy
Farmers
• Under this programme, the team has been collaborating with local Thailand-based
farmers in cooperatives since 2013 to help farmers increase productivity, lower
cost, improve milk quality, and reduce waste. Hawkers
• Despite a decline in total number of hawkers during the pandemic, F&B Thailand
grew back its network of hawkers from 40,000 to 53,000 by being a true
partner even in challenging times, as the No.1 most visible brand among hawkers
in Thailand.

[MDA_P043]
• Building on the LINE account for hawkers – “TEAPOT Ying Chai Ying Dai”, the
LINE app active membership increased by 15 per cent. • A nationwide Hawker Decoration Competition was organised to retain current
hawker members and recruit new hawker members, in which it attracted over
14,000 participants. Read more in F&NHB Sustainability Report 2022 in pages 74 to 75. (F&B Thailand)
Food & Beverages Thailand

[MDA_P044]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
Meeting Our Challenges
INCREASED COST OF GOODS DUE TO COST OF COMMODITIES, ENERGY & FREIGHT
Mitigation Efforts
Results
• Hedging policy to smooth out the impact of
increase of raw material prices
• Operationalisation of integrated RDC in Rojana
• Adjusted the price of products to preserve
• Achieved cost and operational efficiencies
CONTINUED SUPPLY CHAIN DISRUPTION
Mitigation Efforts
Results
• Replaced affected materials and ingredients with
alternatives
• Sought alternative modes of transport to sea
freight to overcome reduced availability of vessels
and increased cost
• Secured 100 per cent of supply needs at competitive prices
• Used land transport for exports to Singapore
INFLATIONARY PRESSURE
Mitigation Efforts
Results
• Continued focus on innovative products and
packaging to meet customers’ and consumers’
need
• Organised promotion activities, including thematic
campaign and lucky draw, to secure sales volume
and maintain brand awareness with optimal spend
• Prioritised engagement with hawkers
• Enhanced distribution to reach out to more
customers
• Maintained market leadership in the condensed milk and
evaporated milk market despite overall market decline.

[MDA_P045]
• TEAPOT maintained the leadership position in Flavoured
SCM Segment. • Maintained sales volume and increase brand awareness. • Hawker base increased by 32.5 per cent from 40,000 to 53,000. • Total customer network in Thailand, Laos and Cambodia
grew by 7% to over 170,000. PROSPECTS
Although costs in general are likely to remain high in FY2023, revival of tourism is very positive for F&B Thailand as it
would greatly increase demand for dairy products. Based on this, the team expects revenue to grow sufficiently to also
ensure operating profits for the year. On the supply side, F&B Thailand will focus on ramping up production at the Wang Muang plant as it seeks to establish itself
as a leading player in the liquid market. It will also continue to innovate on the development of more products and product
packaging that cater to market demand in order to maintain brand competitiveness. Distribution-wise, F&B Thailand will
optimise the new RDC for greater supply chain efficiencies, while exploring more Export markets and strengthening its
footprint in Indochina. Meanwhile, as e-commerce becomes integral to Thais’ lifestyle, it will promote its new e-commerce
platform more actively.

[MDA_P046]
Management Discussion & Analysis
TEAPOT
Marketing Highlights
TEAPOT FURTHER STRENGTHENED
ITS DOMINANCE IN THE SWEETENED
CONDENSED MILK MARKET WITH THE
LAUNCH OF TWO NEW PRODUCTS
Launched in April 2022, pioneering a first
as sweet potato has never been used to
flavour condensed milk before. Leveraging
its unique taste, the team partnered with
local Chinese donut stores Pa-tong-go Café,
Pa-thong-kho Station, Risa Cafe and Bistro
to create awareness of the new offering.
TEAPOT Purple Sweet Potato Flavoured
SCM Tube comes in 150g tubes, making it
perfect for small and frequent treats.
TEAPOT Purple
Sweet Potato
Flavoured SCM
Tub
TEAPOT Low
Fat 25% Less
Sucrose SCM
Tube
Introduced in January 2022, satisfies the
health-conscious consumer’s craving for
condensed milk with less sugar, while
being fortified with vitamins D and B1.
First made available at 7-Eleven outlets,
the 170g tubes were rolled out nationwide
in February 2022.
(F&B Thailand)
Food & Beverages Thailand

[MDA_P047]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
In response to increased cooking at
home during the new normal and
resumed operations of restaurants,
F&B
Thailand
launched
TEAPOT
Evaporated Milk Product for Cooking
& Bakery in May 2022. Formulated specifically to enhance
the flavour of soups, cakes and
desserts, the evaporated milk product
also caters to restaurant owners,
bakeries and dessert vendors. The product is available in 385g cans,
like other evaporated milk products. The
new
product
was
made
available exclusively at Makro in
September 2022 and will be rolled-
out nationwide in December 2022
with marketing activities such as
cooking workshops with top chefs,
and content on social media such
as YouTube, Facebook and Tik-
Tok, as well as in-store activations. As
part
of
the
continued
engagement
with
hawker
customers, two key campaigns
were
run
to
maintain
brand
awareness. The first campaign –
“TEAPOT, the more you use, the
more you get” – enabled hawkers
to collect points and redeem
prizes through the official LINE
account “TEAPOT Ying Chai Ying
Dai”. Run from December 2021
to April 2022, it attracted more
than
14,000
participants.

[MDA_P048]
The
second campaign, from April to
June 2022, sought to create more
brand visibility by encouraging
hawkers to decorate their shops
with TEAPOT products to win
various prizes. In the year, TEAPOT rolled out a
nationwide consumer programme
“Enjoy the delicious TEAPOT and
win grand prizes from TEAPOT –
Year 2. To participate, consumers
would need to submit the codes
from their purchases to stand a
chance to win weekly prizes of
gold and motorcycles and a final
grand prize of a “Pick-Up car”. Meanwhile, for added convenience of
F&B operators, TEAPOT launched TEAPOT
Extra Prisma Brik 1 Litre, which is not only value for
money – at THB59 – but is easy to use and store for
F&B operators. The new packaging was launched in July 2022 with
online communications on YouTube, Facebook, Tik-
Tok and Line, supported by product sampling and
in-store media. TEAPOT Evaporated
Milk Product
SPECIFICALLY FOR BARISTAS AND OTHER DRINK MAKERS, THE TEAM
LAUNCHED TEAPOT SWEETENED EVAPORATED MILK (2-IN-1) FOR
BEVERAGES BRIK 1 LITRE, OFFERING THE IDEAL COMBINATION OF
UNSWEETENED AND SWEETENED CONDENSED MILK FOR PERFECT
DRINKS, EVERY TIME.

[MDA_P049]
Run from January
to May 2022,
the campaign
received close to
1.3 million codes.

[MDA_P050]
Management Discussion & Analysis
F&N MAGNOLIA
CARNATION
F&B THAILAND ALSO EXPANDED ITS UHT PORTFOLIO TO GROW THE LIQUID
MILK SEGMENT WITH TWO NEW PRODUCTS – F&N MAGNOLIA UHT MILK AND F&N
MAGNOLIA PLUS MILK WITH VITAMIN ACD. To maintain its leadership in the condensed milk market
in Thailand, Carnation ran a nationwide campaign
from March to August 2022 to reward consumers and
customers for making it the No.1 brand. Consumers and
customers earned points with every Carnation purchase
entitling them to redeem prizes instantly and stand the
chance to win a lucky draw prize. Meanwhile, to strengthen Carnation’s leadership in
the evaporated milk segment, the brand ran an online
cooking campaign between January and March 2022. During these three months, well-known chefs, brand
ambassador Nadech and dining guru M.L. Parsan Swasti
demonstrated how Carnation can be used in various
recipes, especially Thai curries. Marketing Highlights
Introduced in February 2022, F&N
Magnolia UHT Milk offers a unique
sweet milky taste combined with
the goodness of milk fortified with
vitamin D for stronger bones, teeth
and immune systems.

[MDA_P051]
The product
is available nationwide in 180ml
plain and chocolate flavours. The
launch was accompanied by TV
commercials, online communication
and in-store sampling. F&N Magnolia Plus Milk with Vitamin ACD,
launched in May 2022, contains all the
goodness of milk plus added vitamins A,
C and D which work together to protect
health and skin. The fortified milk comes
in two variants – Blackcurrant and Brown
Sugar – and is available nationwide in 180ml
beverage carton. Marketing was conducted
online as well as in-store sampling, focusing
on modern trade outlets. This has helped to
double the market share of F&N Magnolia in
the UHT milk segment. F&N Magnolia UHT Milk
F&N Magnolia Plus Milk with Vitamin ACD
(F&B Thailand)
Food & Beverages Thailand

[MDA_P052]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
BEAR
BRAND
THROUGHOUT THE YEAR
2022, SAMPLING OF
BEAR BRAND GOLD WAS
ACCELERATED IN ALL
SALES CHANNELS TO
COMPENSATE FOR THE
LOCKDOWNS IN 2021
WHEN BEAR BRAND GOLD
ACEROLA CHERRY WAS
LAUNCHED.
As a result
of the
new
product
trials,
BEAR
BRAND
Gold
saw its
market
share
increase by
2%
From February to May 2022, a
“BEAR BRAND Drink Every Day for
a Million Rewards” campaign was
carried out to drive consumption
of BEAR BRAND sterilised milk and
BEAR BRAND Gold. TV commercials
featuring
brand
ambassador
Yaya were supported by online
marketing, in-store visibility and
campaign packaging.
Finally, BEAR BRAND sterilised Milk entrenched its position as the
No. 1 sterilised milk by leveraging its “love, warm and care” tagline.
Special packs were created for Songkran and Mother’s Day to serve
as a health gift for loved ones. The brand also promoted 150ml cans
for out-of-home consumption among younger consumers via social
media.

[MDA_P053]
Management Discussion & Analysis
(F&B Malaysia)
Food & Beverages Malaysia
THE INCREASE
IN COMMODITY
COSTS COMBINED
WITH LINGERING
EFFECTS OF THE
PANDEMIC – SUCH
AS SUPPLY CHAIN
DISRUPTIONS AND
HEIGHTENED FREIGHT
COSTS – LED TO
ANOTHER YEAR OF
CHALLENGES FOR BOTH
OUR DOMESTIC AND
EXPORT BUSINESSES. YET, OUT-OF-HOME CONSUMPTION
ROSE PROGRESSIVELY WITH THE END
OF MOVEMENT CONTROL ORDER IN
MALAYSIA. F&B MALAYSIA PULLED
TOGETHER VERY STRONG TOP AND
BOTTOM LINE PERFORMANCE. This was the result of going back to basics
and focusing on our fundamentals, such as
good customer service, successful trade
execution and ensuring we meet market
demand. Our performance was also
enhanced by teamwork and concerted
efforts to work effectively as well as
efficiently, supported by digital platforms
and technology. This was also supported
by contribution from Exports due to better
region and product mix, as well as foreign
exchange gain despite registering lower
volume mainly to Greater China amidst
COVID-19 restrictions, and price-sensitive
markets this year.

[MDA_P054]
Malaysia
Key Focus Areas
Cost management to counter the increase in commodity
and freight prices as well as devaluation of the ringgit
Better customer experience to strengthen relationships,
thus also sales
Greater production capacity to support sustainable
growth
Enhanced in-house sufficiency to reduce reliance on third
parties, as well as for better supply chain efficiencies and
reduced expenses

[MDA_P055]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
Business Performance Review
Key Initiatives
Achievements
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1: ENHANCE REVENUE
Invest in strategic
acquisitions
• Acquired 100 per cent equity interest in Ladang Permai Damai Sdn Bhd to embark on
upstream fresh milk for downstream production and distribution of fresh milk. • Acquired remaining 72.38% equity interest in Cocoaland Holdings Berhad, an established
confectionary and snacks brand, to enhance our Halal packaged food portfolio, and also
to serve as a platform to expand into more Halal food segments and to meet the rising
demand for packaged food products. Expand production
capacity
• Completed the building and installation of RM20 million drinking water production plant at
Kota Kinabalu Industrial Park, with the commercial run starting in November 2022. • Developing plant-based beverages capability in our Pulau Indah plant through an
investment of RM20 million, scheduled to complete by end 2022. Enhance the
customer experience
• Increased engagement to motivate sales team with the aim of strengthening customer
relationships, driving more ground activations, and rewarding customers/consumers.

[MDA_P056]
• Backend staff in East Malaysia were redeployed to customer-facing positions, and a
dedicated marketing manager has been appointed to look after marketing, customer
communication and activations. Build existing
brands
• Sri Nona underwent a rebranding, with new logo and packaging to reflect a more
cosmopolitan Malay lifestyle brand. • Launched a total of 9 new products in Malaysia, including:
NONA Ketupat (Nasi Ayam and Nasi Lemak), NONA Kicap (Lemak Manis, Manis and
Masin) and NONA Sup Uncang
Healthier options such as F&N 25% Reduced Sugar Sweetened Creamer, F&N Magnolia
Pasteurised Full Cream Milk and F&N SEASONS Soya Rose
• Introduced the Malaysian favourite drink Teh Tarik in can format. • Retained market leadership in isotonic segment, condensed milk category and evaporated
milk category. Retain brand
loyalty
• Introduced value packs such as 1.75L carbonated soft drinks for the price of 1.5L; and
Farmhouse Twin Packs at promo price. • Ran four-day Hari Hidrasi Sedunia 100PLUS carnival, reminding Malaysians of the superior
rehydration properties of our No. 1 isotonic drink. • On-ground activations organised during festive seasons helped to maintain our market position.

[MDA_P057]
Grow global
footprint
• Continued to strengthen our exports to Halal markets. • Recalibrated our Export market and product mix to achieve higher profit. • Expanded to 4 new countries: Palestine, Bhutan, Suriname & Guyana. • Focused on strengthening our house brand footprint.

[MDA_P058]
Management Discussion & Analysis
Business Performance Review
Key Initiatives
Achievements
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2: INCREASE PRODUCTIVITY & PROFIT THROUGH DIGITALISATION
Digitalisation of
operations
• Implementation of Microsoft Power BI to gather market insights. • Use of robotic arms in our plants to improve productivity. Building e-commerce
platforms
• KPIs have been set to ensure customers/consumers receive their orders through
F&N Life on time, while we are strengthening our partnerships with established
e-commerce platforms such as Lazada, Shopee and Potboy (an e-groceries
mart). STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3: ACHIEVE COST EFFICIENCIES & REDUCE CARBON FOOTPRINT
Enhance route-
to-market
• Warehouse in Kota Kinabalu Industrial Park (KKIP) was completed in the third
quarter, reducing logistics costs. • Completed the integrated warehouse in Shah Alam, equipped with Automated
Storage & Retrieval System (ASRS) and capacity to store over 50,000 pallets. Together with the RDC in Thailand, they are expected to deliver more than RM10
million annual savings in logistics cost, as well as shorten delivery lead-time to
customers and reduce carbon footprint for the Group.

[MDA_P059]
Reduce carbon
footprint
• Launched in-sourced transportation service in Malaysia with five new delivery
trucks to better manage supply chain activities and have better control of the
service quality and costs. • Installed solar PV panels on the roofs of Shah Alam, Pulau Indah and Bentong
plants, which will reduce our carbon emissions by about 9,000 tonnes and save
RM3 million - RM4 million annually. (F&B Malaysia)
Food & Beverages Malaysia

[MDA_P060]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
Meeting Our Challenges
FLOODS IN DECEMBER DAMAGED SHAH ALAM PLANT
Mitigation Efforts
Results
• Quick response and collaboration between
manufacturing and sales teams resulted in minimal
disruption
• A three-line flood mitigation plan has been developed to
prevent future occurrence.

[MDA_P061]
CONTINUED SUPPLY CHAIN DISRUPTION
Mitigation Efforts
Results
• Strengthening our relationship with suppliers
through Halal Sourcing Partnership Programme
and the F&N Business Partner Award Programme
• Acquisition of Ladang Permai Damai to develop
into a dairy farm
• On-boarded one new SME as a Halal-certified supplier for
F&N Kurma Madu Cordial
• Once the dairy farm is operationalised, we will be more
self-sufficient in fresh milk supply
INCREASED COST OF GOODS DUE TO COST OF COMMODITIES & LOGISTICS
Mitigation Efforts
Results
• Hedging policy to smooth out the impact of any
increase of raw material prices
• Export serves as the natural hedge to cushion
forex impact
• Use of Microsoft Power BI to gather market
insights, including commodity price trends
• Focused on customer service and on-ground
activations to boost sales
• Continued emphasis on automation, digitalisation
and in-house capabilities to reduce costs
• Achieved cost and operational efficiencies. PROSPECTS
Although our operating environment will continue to be challenging with high costs and supply chain disruptions
compounded by a weakening ringgit and inflation, F&B Malaysia remains optimistic of our immediate outlook.

[MDA_P062]
We have already seen the effects of working more collaboratively and efficiently in terms of maintaining our productivity
and market dominance. This will be further supported by the completion of various capex projects such as the drinking
water production plant at KKIP and the plant-based beverages line in Pulau Indah. We can also look forward to significant
savings and better environmental performance following the transition to solar energy at three plants in the country.

[MDA_P063]
Management Discussion & Analysis
A key event for Malaysia’s No. 1 isotonic drink was World
Hydration Day (Hari Hidrasi Sedunia 100PLUS), a first for
the country in which Malaysians were reminded of the
importance of being active and staying hydrated. 100PLUS
organised a four-day fun-filled carnival held at the Pavilion
Kuala Lumpur involving brand ambassadors such as Datuk
Wira Dr. Lee Chong Wei, and celebrities such as Syafiq
Kyle. The isotonic drink was also distributed to the public
at LRT stations in the city and at Stadium Sultan Ibrahim,
Iskandar Johor. In total, over 100,000 Malaysians were kept
hydrated with 100PLUS during the event. 100PLUS was also distributed at various events organised
during the holy month of Ramadan, to ensure Muslims
kept optimally hydrated by including the isotonic drink in
their iftar as well as sahur. 100PLUS partnered Persatuan
Seniman Malaysia to distribute 100PLUS at more than
20 mosques across Klang Valley. It also collaborated
with media partner, Media Prima OMNiA, to spread the
100PLUS message through segment sponsorships on
entertainment news show Melodi TV.

[MDA_P064]
The overall theme of
the Ramadan campaign was “With 100PLUS, Ramadan ini,
semua#DONE”, i.e. that it is much easier for Muslims to
carry out all their religious obligations by consuming the
most effective hydrating drink. Marketing Highlights
(F&B Malaysia)
Food & Beverages Malaysia
CELEBRATING
INDEPENDENCE
WITH JOM
RONDA
THIS YEAR, F&NHB PARTNERED
MEDIA PRIMA OMNIA’S JOM RONDA
IN CELEBRATING THE COUNTRY’S 65TH
ANNIVERSARY OF INDEPENDENCE. For almost three weeks from 30 August
until 18 September 2022, about 65,000 F&N
products including 100PLUS Zero, 100PLUS
ACTIVE, F&N Sarsi, F&N Ice Cream Soda and
F&N Teh Tarik were distributed in selected
locations throughout Klang Valley with
the Jom Ronda crew and celebrities Aman
Aziz, Fiza Thomas, Sharul Kamal, Nabil Aqil,
Ahmad Adly and Afieq Shazwan. Jom Ronda
was initiated in November 2021 to bring joy
to Malaysians impacted by the pandemic. TOTAL OVER
100,000 MALAYSIANS
WERE KEPT HYDRATED WITH 100PLUS
100PLUS

[MDA_P065]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
In March 2022, the brand ran a thematic campaign,
called JOM100, to inspire Malaysians to always give
their best in everything they do. Various events
were organised to demonstrate how important it
is to remain hydrated in order to stay 100 per cent
focused, 100 per cent energised and 100 per cent
ready for everything and anything. In addition to
creating awareness of the campaign on TV talk
show Malaysia Hari Ini, radio stations HITZ FM,
HotFM and ERA FM, and social media, 100PLUS
ran an advertisement on a digital screen outside
Pavilion Kuala Lumpur featuring brand ambassador
Syafiq Kyle to drive home the campaign message. Given the immense support lent to Malaysian
sports and sporting personalities, as well as
its enduring popularity among everyone who
leads an active lifestyle, it came as no surprise
when 100PLUS bagged its sixth Gold in the Non-
Alcoholic Beverages category at the Putra Brand
Awards 2021. The drink that has always championed
sports this year made a comeback in
sponsoring two prominent events that took
a two-year break during the pandemic.

[MDA_P066]
It was the official beverage sponsor of
the Malaysia Open and Malaysia Masters
badminton tournaments which played out
at the Axiata Arena Bukit Jalil in late June. Meanwhile, to celebrate the historic win of
doubles pair Aaron Chia and Soh Wooi Yik
at the World Badminton Championships
(WBC) held in Tokyo in late August 2022,
100PLUS awarded its brand ambassadors
with RM100,000. It was definitely a moment
of glory for 100PLUS and the country when
the duo brought home the country’s first
trophy in the WBC’s 45-year run.

[MDA_P067]
Management Discussion & Analysis
Marketing Highlights
(F&B Malaysia)
Food & Beverages Malaysia
F&N
SEASONS
F&N
TEH TARIK
Fans of rose-flavoured drinks were in for a
treat when F&N SEASONS brought back its
distinctive Soya Rose drink for a limited time
during Ramadan. What is more, they were able
to enjoy the delicious beverage secure in the
knowledge that it was a healthier option, as
endorsed by the Ministry of Health’s Healthier
Choice Logo (HCL).
As if the F&N Teh Tarik wasn’t already
creating waves with consumers who
can’t have enough of Malaysia’s most
iconic drink, F&N stirred more hype with
the launch of the drink in convenient-
to-carry cans. In conjunction with the
launch of F&N RTD Teh Tarik cans, a
team of F&N Teh Tarik ORI Troopers
went around Klang Valley from 1 July
to 3 September 2022 distributing the
product for all to try.

[MDA_P068]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
F&N
CONDENSED
MILK
Ever conscious of the need to offer healthier
choices to consumers, this year F&N launched
the F&N 25% Reduced Sugar Sweetened Creamer
allowing consumers to indulge in beverages that
have just the right amount of creaminess and
sweetness… all guilt-free. As a bonus, each 380g
can offers the goodness of calcium and 4.3g of
protein per 100g.
F&N
MAGNOLIA
FRESH MILK IS QUICKLY GAINING
POPULARITY IN THE COUNTRY; AND IN
APRIL 2022, F&N MAGNOLIA MADE SURE
MALAYSIANS WILL ALWAYS HAVE ACCESS
TO THE WHOLESOME DRINK, WITH THE
LAUNCH OF F&N MAGNOLIA PASTEURISED
FULL CREAM MILK 1L. RICH IN CALCIUM
AND VITAMIN D, WHICH MAXIMISES
CALCIUM ABSORPTION AND RETENTION,
THE MILK IS HCL CERTIFIED.
TEAPOT
TEAPOT achieved a milestone when it was named
the Top Growing Brand in the Dairy Sector 2022 by
Kantar. The brand had reached six million Consumer
Reach Points, a 45 per cent increase from the previous
year, based on Brand Footprint’s Consumer Reach
Points Measurement, monitored by Kantar Malaysia,
Worldpanel Division.

[MDA_P069]
Management Discussion & Analysis
NONA
IT WAS A SIGNIFICANT YEAR FOR NONA,
WHICH UNDERWENT A REBRAND COMPLETE
WITH A NEW LOGO AND LOOK. CATERING
TO THE COSMOPOLITAN HALAL COMMUNITY/
CONSUMERS WITH A CATCHY TAGLINE OF
“NONA-KAN HARIMU”, NONA POSITIONS
ITSELF TO ENABLING CONSUMERS TO SERVE
UP A GREAT MEAL DESPITE A BUSY WORK
SCHEDULE.
Marketing Highlights
(F&B Malaysia)
Food & Beverages Malaysia
The rebrand was accompanied by a 360-degree marketing
plan that included a music video launched on 8 July 2022,
engagement with key opinion leaders, and a NONA-kan
Harimu signature dance contest. To garner more interest,
famous actress Lala Sharmila shared popular Malaysian
recipes incorporating products from the NONA range. A
recipe contest was also held via Tik Tok targeted at Glokal
Halal consumers.

[MDA_P070]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
Along with its brand restage, NONA launched a number of new products during the year. These included three
variants of NONA Kicap, offering the first press of soya using a traditional fermentation process – Kicap Lemak Manis,
Kicap Manis and Kicap Masin; NONA Sup Uncang (Soup Spices); and two new flavours in the NONA Ketupat category
- Ketupat Ala Nasi Ayam and Ketupat Ala Nasi Lemak.

[MDA_P071]
Management Discussion & Analysis
5-Year Group Financial Summary
and Highlights
Notes:
(i)
Restated for adjustments pursuant to the adoption of MFRS 15, Revenue from
Contracts with Customers. (ii)
Included proposed dividend of 33.0 sen, which will only be recognised in the
financial statements upon shareholders’ approval.

[MDA_P072]
Year ended 30 September
Results (RM million)
Revenue
Profit before tax (“PBT”)
Adjusted PBT (iv)
Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation (“EBITDA”)
Adjusted EBITDA (iv)
Profit for the year
Dividend per share
Earnings - basic
(sen)
Earnings - diluted
(sen)
Dividend - net
(sen)
Dividend - cover
(times)
Dividend - payout
(%)
Statement of Financial Position (RM million)
Share capital
Shareholders’ equity
Total assets
Total debts (iii)
Share capital
(number of shares)
Net assets per share
(RM)
Ratio (%)
PBT on revenue
Adjusted PBT on revenue (iv)
Return on shareholders’ equity
Debt to equity ratio
Net debt to equity ratio
REVENUE
(RM million)
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
(RM million)
FY18
FY18
3,871.0 (i)
424.1 (i)
FY19
FY19
4,077.1
533.0
FY20
FY20
3,988.5
522.9
FY21
FY21
4,130.9
479.4
FY22
FY22
4,470.2
454.1
EBITDA
(RM million)
FY18
515.6 (i)
FY19
624.7
FY20
655.3
FY21
613.5
FY22
581.7
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
(RM million)
FY18
386.5 (i)
FY19
410.2
FY20
410.1
FY21
395.1
FY22
382.3

[MDA_P073]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
3,871.0 (i)
4,077.1
3,988.5
4,130.9
4,470.2
424.1 (i)
533.0
522.9
479.4
454.1
402.5 (i)
537.3
524.4
500.3
473.0
515.6 (i)
624.7
655.3
613.5
581.7
494.0 (i)
629.0
656.8
634.4
600.6
386.5 (i)
410.2
410.1
395.1
382.3
105.3 (i)
111.9
111.9
107.8
104.5
104.9 (i)
111.6
111.7
107.6
104.3
57.5
60.0
60.0
60.0
60.0 (ii)
1.8
1.9
1.9
1.8
1.7
816.8
816.8
816.8
816.8
816.8
2,305.4 (i)
2,529.3
2,690.6
2,819.0
2,982.5
3,345.3
3,503.8
3,520.1
3,631.7
4,190.6
335.5
123.3
116.4
66.0
310.1
366.8
366.8
366.8
366.8
366.8
6.29 (i)
6.90
7.34
7.69
8.13
11.0 (i)
13.1
13.1
11.6
10.2
10.4 (i)
13.2
13.1
12.1
10.6
16.8 (i)
16.2
15.2
14.0
12.8
14.6
4.9
4.3
2.3
10.4
-
-
-
-
-
NET DIVIDEND PER SHARE
(sen)
TOTAL ASSETS
(RM million)
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(RM million)
NET ASSETS PER SHARE
(RM)
FY18
FY18
FY18
FY18
57.5
3,345.3
2,305.4 (i)
6.29 (i)
FY19
FY19
FY19
FY19
60.0
3,503.8
2,529.3
6.90
FY20
FY20
FY20
FY20
60.0
3,520.1
2,690.6
7.34
FY21
FY21
FY21
FY21
60.0
3,631.7
2,819.0
7.69
FY22
FY22
FY22
FY22
60.0 (ii)
4,190.6
2,982.5
8.13
(iii) Consist of borrowings and lease liabilities. (iv) Excluding one-off non-operating items i.e.

[MDA_P074]
flood related expenses, insurance claim
receivable and restructuring costs.

[MDA_P075]
Management Discussion & Analysis
Simplified Group Statement
of Financial Position
TOTAL ASSETS
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Property, plant and equipment
Right-of-use assets
Investment properties
Properties held for development
Intangible assets
Investment in an associate
Investment in a joint venture
Trade and other receivables
Inventories
Cash and cash equivalents
Other assets (i)
Total equity
Loans and borrowings
Trade and other payables
Contract liabilities
Other liabilities (ii)
Notes:
(i)
Comprise deferred tax assets, current tax assets and derivative financial assets.
(ii)
Comprise lease liabilities, employee benefits, deferred tax liabilities, current tax liabilities and derivative financial liabilities.
FY2022
FY2022
FY2021
FY2021
11%
5%
21%
17%
6%
22%
2%
2%
2%
2%
1%
1%
3%
35%
70%
15%
5%
15%
18%
2%
15%
2%
2%
2%
2%
1%
3%
40%
78%

[MDA_P076]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
Group Segmental Analysis
FY2022
FY2021
37%
21%
62%
78%
1%
1%
OPERATING PROFIT – BY OPERATING SEGMENTS
F&B Malaysia
Property
F&B Thailand
FY2022
FY2021
94%
93%
2%
3%
3%
3%
1%
1%
REVENUE – BY GEOGRAPHICAL SEGMENTS
South East Asia
Greater China
Middle East & Africa
Other countries
FY2022
FY2021
54%
52%
46%
48%
REVENUE – BY OPERATING SEGMENTS
F&B Malaysia
Property
F&B Thailand
Others
Others

[MDA_P077]
Management Discussion & Analysis
Statement of Value Added
Notes:
(i)
Employee benefit expenses comprise wages, salaries, contributions to state plans, expenses related to defined benefit plans, share-based payment
expense, one-off restructuring costs and other staff costs.

[MDA_P078]
(ii)
Economic value retained is calculated by direct economic value generated (revenue) - economic value distributed (annual dividends, cost of sales,
employee benefit expenses and income tax expenses). Community investments are not included.

[MDA_P079]
REVENUE
(RM million)
FY21
4,130.9
2,136.5
Malaysia
1,994.4
Thailand
ANNUAL DIVIDENDS
(RM million)
FY21
220.1
FY22
220.1
EMPLOYEE BENEFIT EXPENSES
(RM million)
FY21
289.7
FY22
294.1
ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED
(RM million)
FY21
600.1
FY22
588.1
COST OF SALES
(RM million)
FY21
FY22
2,936.7
3,296.1
INCOME TAX EXPENSES
(RM million)
FY21
84.3
FY22
71.8
FY22
4,470.2
2,422.7
Malaysia
2,047.5
Thailand

[MDA_P080]
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report
Group Quarterly Financial Performance
Note:
(i)
Excluding one-off non-operating items i.e. flood related expenses, insurance claim receivable and restructuring costs.

[MDA_P081]
RM million
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
FY2022
Revenue
1,106.6
1,107.7
1,118.2
1,137.7
4,470.2
Operating profit
107.2
109.5
111.8
119.4
447.9
Adjusted operating profit (i)
132.3
108.4
108.2
117.9
466.8
Profit before tax
108.1
112.0
114.4
119.6
454.1
Adjusted profit before tax (i)
133.3
110.8
110.8
118.0
472.9
Profit for the year
92.9
93.9
97.5
98.0
382.3
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen)
25.4
25.6
26.6
27.0
104.5
RM million
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
FY2021
Revenue
1,083.1
1,091.8
1,059.6
896.4
4,130.9
Operating profit
156.8
138.0
117.2
60.3
472.3
Adjusted operating profit (i)
156.8
139.2
126.1
71.1
493.2
Profit before tax
158.9
139.3
119.2
62.0
479.4
Adjusted profit before tax (i)
158.9
140.6
128.1
72.7
500.3
Profit for the year
136.8
103.5
96.1
58.7
395.1
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen)
37.3
28.2
26.2
16.0
107.8
Revenue
(RM million)
Operating profit
(RM million)
Profit before tax
(RM million)
Profit for the year
(RM million)
Basic earnings per
ordinary share
(sen)
Q1
Q1
Q1
Q1
Q1
Q3
Q3
Q3
Q3
Q3
Q2
Q2
Q2
Q2
Q2
Q4
Q4
Q4
Q4
Q4
1,106.6
1,107.7
1,118.2
1,137.7
107.2
108.1
92.9
25.4
109.5
112.0
93.9
25.6
111.8
114.4
97.5
26.6
119.4
119.6
98.0
27.0
FY2022: 4,470.2
FY2022: 447.9
FY2022: 454.1
FY2022: 382.3
FY2022: 104.5

[MDA_P082]
17 JANUARY 2022
60th Annual General Meeting
17 JANUARY 2023
61st Annual General Meeting
21 JANUARY 2022
Date of entitlement of the final
single tier dividend of 33 sen per
share for the financial year ended
30 September 2021
16 DECEMBER 2022
Announcements on the Notice of 61st
Annual General Meeting and dates of
entitlement and payment for the for
the proposed final single tier dividend
of 33 sen per share for the financial
year ended 30 September 2022
9 FEBRUARY 2022
Date of payment of the final
single tier dividend of 33 sen
per share for the financial year
ended 30 September 2021
31 MAY 2022
Date of payment of the interim
single tier dividend of 27 sen
per share for the financial year
ended 30 September 2022
17 MAY 2022
Date of entitlement of the
interim single tier dividend of
27 sen per share for the financial
year ended 30 September 2022
8 NOVEMBER 2022
Quarterly announcement on
consolidated results for the
financial year ended
30 September 2022
8 FEBRUARY 2022
Quarterly announcement on
consolidated results for the financial
year ended 31 December 2021
19 DECEMBER 2022
Issuance of Annual Report for the
financial year ended 30 September 2022
and Circulars to Shareholders
27 APRIL 2022
Quarterly announcement on
consolidated results for the
financial year ended
31 March 2022
3 AUGUST 2022
Quarterly announcement on
consolidated results for the
financial year ended
30 June 2022
Financial Calendar
Management Discussion & Analysis

[MDA_P083]
Investor Relations
as at 15 November 2022
Share Capital
No. of
Shareholders
Total No. of
Issued Shares
RM816.8
million
7,732
366,778,501
Substantial
Shareholders
76.235%
Fraser and
Neave, Limited
55.475%
Employees
Provident Fund
Board
13.242%
Amanahraya
Trustees Berhad
- Amanah Saham
Bumiputera
7.518%
OUR INVESTOR PORTAL
We communicate with our shareholders and
general public via our corporate website,
www.fn.com.my/investors/. This website is also
a platform where we share our annual reports,
financial results, financial briefing presentation
decks, press releases and disclosures to Bursa
Malaysia.
OUR INVESTOR CALENDAR
17 January
60th Annual General
Meeting
28 April
Half Year Results Briefing
9 November
Full Year Results Briefing
* Included proposed dividend of 33.0 sen, which will only be recognised in the financial statements
upon shareholders’ approval.
SHAREHOLDER RETURN (FY2013 - FY2022)
F&NHB share price (RM)
Dividend per share (sen)
Special dividend
Interim dividend
Final dividend
F&NHB share price
FY
FY
FY
FY
FY
FY
FY
FY
FY
FY
22.0
22.0
27.0
27.0
27.0
27.0
27.0
27.0
27.0
33.0
35.5
30.5
30.5
33.0
30.5
33.0
33.0
33.0*
10.0
20.0
30.0
Fraser
& Neave
Holdings
Bhd
Annual
Report