[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion & Analysis – Strategic Review | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 |
P e r s p e c t i v e
CHAIRPERSON’S

[MDA_P002]
Our priority during the year
was on implementation of
our strategic priorities, while
operating with resilience”
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
DLMI is committed to strong corporate governance, robust
risk management practices, and a conducive culture,
enabling us to operate a profitable and sustainable business
over the long run. As Chairperson, I am dedicated to
upholding sound principles of governance and an efficient
Board. Our responsibilities include driving difficult
conversations to help prudent business and people
decisions, maintaining transparent communication with
stakeholders, and ensuring timely information flow. We
consistently review and update policies, with a particular
focus on enhancing practices related to risk management. In 2023, we enhanced our Compass Toolkits to include
Cybersecurity policies for our production location as well
as the policy on ‘Doing Honest Business’’ which safeguards
us against the risks of corruption. We also documented
and secured Board approval for Sustainability Policy and
Guidelines (for roll-out in early 2024), which is focused on
DLMI’s local approach to managing economic, environmental,
social, and governance (EES&G) priorities.

[MDA_P003]
The Sustainability Policy and Guidelines will support
implementation of our strategies in seven key focus areas:
Better Nutrition, Better Packaging, Better Sourcing, Better
Climate, Better People, Better Society, and Better
Governance. These focus areas reflect our Grass to Glass
philosophy and support 7 out the 17 UN Sustainable
Development Goals: SDG2, SDG3, SDG5, SDG6, SDG8,
SDG12, SDG13. These SDGs have been prioritised based
on a preliminary assessment done in 2022 of our direct
impact and material areas where we may have a certain
degree of control and influence to move the needle. During the year, the Board reviewed and approved DLMI’s
first-level ambition with interim mid-term 2030 targets for
each of the focus areas. We will continuously re-assess
our direction in light of the progress made, issues addressed
as well as the evolving policy and regulatory landscape. By
2030, we will have the next set of interim targets again. All sustainability focus areas and strategies are deliberated
by the Sustainability Steering Committee (SSC). Critical ESG
risks and strategies are tabled to the Board by the SSC
every quarter.

[MDA_P004]
Meanwhile, sustainability KPIs are part of
Managing Director and Management Team’s annual targets. Our three-year journey towards transition and adoption of
Integrated Reporting principles, which commenced from
the reporting cycle of 2022, is currently ongoing. The
intent is to take a more interconnected approach to
reporting performance. This means, we are committed to a
four-year journey starting 2024 to align with the Taskforce
on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in line
with Bursa’s sustainability reporting requirements and the
new IFRS S1 and S2. SHAREHOLDER AND STAKEHOLDER VALUE
DLMI strives to maximise value for both shareholders and
stakeholders through a dedicated and balanced approach
to risk and performance. Our emphasis is also on
engagement and fostering valuable relationships with our
employees, consumers, suppliers, industry and the
government. Shareholders: We remain committed to delivering shareholder
returns and to creating value for all stakeholders. On the back
of a 7.7% revenue growth, DLMI generated an adjusted
operating profit of RM159.1 million (excluding accelerated
depreciation and one-offs).

[MDA_P005]
For the fiscal year ended 31
December 2023, a total of RM32.0 million was disbursed as
standard interim dividends to shareholders, representing a
44.2% distribution of the Company’s net profit attributable to
shareholders. Employees: DLMI remained committed to people welfare
and wellbeing, enabling our talent and catalysing
both performance and growth. We also continued our
focus on embracing diversity as a powerful differentiator
that contributes to real value. Being a multinational
company, it is important to gain insights and leverage on
our people who come from various backgrounds, respect
their strengths and integrate their values into our culture
as we embark on our journey to become a truly diverse,
equitable, inclusive and purposive global organisation. I also take pride in the fact that as at 31 December 2023,
we have 75% female representation on Board and 44% in
top management. Consumers: Our priority for our consumers is on ensuring
the accessibility and affordability of our products. Annually,
we engage with over 3.8 million households (Kantar
Worldpanel Malaysia – Household Panel, MAT P13 2023).

[MDA_P006]
Through the year, we focused on ensuring we reached
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023
CHAIRPERSON’S PERSPECTIVE

[MDA_P007]
more households with our different tailored offerings for all
lifestyle choices and stages, from tailored nutrition for
toddlers to convenient preferences for young adults and
families. Our commitment remains steadfast in connecting
with consumers to align with their evolving needs and
expectations, encompassing both improved quality and
enhanced nutritional value. Year on year, Dutch Lady takes
pride as the No.1 Most Chosen Brand in the Dairy Category
(Kantar Brand Footprint 2023), and a brand loved by
Malaysians (Gold winner in the Putra Brand Awards). Suppliers: As part of our sustainability focus, we continued
to adopt and integrate social and environmental responsibility
criteria into procurement processes and decisions. In
delivering value for suppliers, we also maintain transparent
communication and avoid withholding any pertinent
information that may impact them. We continuously
support sustainable and responsible sourcing of palm oil
and cocoa powder. Furthermore, we ensure that our
primary packaging materials are sourced from suppliers
using Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)/Programme for the
Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) certified paper.

[MDA_P008]
This certification ensures adherence to environmentally
responsible and socially beneficial forestry practices and
standards. Industry: We proactively disclose information and share
knowledge, expertise, and resources to advance purpose-
led institutions such as the Malaysian Recycling Alliance
Berhad (MAREA) and the CEO Action Network (CAN). Our
collaboration with MAREA is centred on boosting the
circular economy value chain and significantly improve
collection and recycling of post-consumer packaging
through a multi-stakeholder approach. This initiative aims
to significantly contribute to the necessary systemic
change required to divert waste from landfills. With CAN,
we continue to support the workstream focused on
Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion (DEI). Our objective is to
develop an implementation guide for Malaysia on DEI,
which includes specific interventions for adoption by
members and the industry as a whole. The emphasis
extends beyond gender diversity, aiming to promote the
business case for principles of equity and inclusion. These
principles are deemed critical from both organisational and
social justice perspectives.

[MDA_P009]
Government: In “Nourishing our Nation”, we actively
support national endeavours to stimulate dairy development
and broaden access to nutrition. In our efforts to broaden
access to nutrition, DLMI partnered with the Ministry of
Education to supply our milk products to primary schools
in Malaysia through the School Milk Programme. DLMI’s
involvement in the Programme did not merely result in the
increased consumption of milk among schoolchildren, but
also provided access to 1,000 government officials,
parents and teachers to nutrition education. Through a
series of nutritional talks conducted by DLMI from July
until August 2023, the public was educated on the rising
issues of stunting and malnutrition among children and the
importance of consuming dairy to address said issues. This
is a novel addition provided by DLMI exclusively in 2023
via the Programme. Through a Memorandum of Collaboration (MoC) with the
Department of Veterinary Services, we address and
advocate for sectoral issues while fostering the growth of
farms, farmers, and other ecosystem stakeholders.

[MDA_P010]
The
scope of MoC includes the exchanging and sharing of
resources, facilities, data, knowledge, and skills to further
mutual interest and agenda; and increasing knowledge and
skills of local dairy farmers through a flagship programme. Our bespoke Farmer2Farmer programme, for one, aims at
improving the quality and quantity of raw milk of dairy cows
by equipping farmers with sustainable farming practices. 2024 OUTLOOK & ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The 2024 economic outlook is mixed, marked by slower
growth, monetary policy impacts, and concerns about
inflation and geopolitical tensions. Against this backdrop,
Malaysia’s milk market is projected to experience robust
growth, with an anticipated expansion of +5.1% in 2024. As
we transition to our new manufacturing facility DLMI@Enstek,
which will be fully operational within 2024, we remain positive
and confident of our ability to meet the growing nutritional
dairy needs of Malaysians. Meanwhile, on behalf of the Board of Directors, I wish to
express our sincere appreciation to the Management Team,
employees and business partners for their demonstrated
resilience and strong support throughout FY2023.

[MDA_P011]
I express my appreciation to the esteemed members of the
Board for their insightful business expertise, which played
a crucial role in steering us through the challenges of the
year and achieving positive financial results. With our collaborative efforts as a unified team, I am
optimistic about DLMI’s ability to move forward and
achieve even greater milestones in the years to come. | Section | 01 | 02 | 03 Management Discussion & Analysis – Strategic Review | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 |
CHAIRPERSON’S PERSPECTIVE

[MDA_P012]
Dear Shareholders and Stakeholders,
MANAGING
DIRECTOR’S
R e p o r t
60 YEARS OF BUILDING TRUST
& DAIRY LEADERSHIP
2023 marked our 60 years of strong dairy
leadership in Malaysia. For generations, we have
delivered our promise of quality, healthy, Halal,
accessible and affordable nutrition. Over the
years, we earned the trust of our consumers,
customers, regulators as well as the government. We partnered with them to shape the dairy
industry landscape in the country and we
continue to support the national agenda of
developing Malaysia’s capacity and capability in
sustainable dairy. I take great pride in my association with
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (DLMI),
which I see as a Malaysian company, with
international roots; committed to local
nutritional needs through global nutritional
standards; working to create local impact
through cross-market best practices and
global sustainable development goals. STAYING STRONG TO
EXTERNAL HEADWINDS
Market recovery in the post-COVID era, even
in 2023, has been uneven. Exasperated
by the turmoil in the global markets due to
geo-political tensions, war and social chaos,
markets were plagued by uncertainty.

[MDA_P013]
This
includes the highly volatile monetary regime in
Europe and other parts of the world while
foreign exchange exposure remained high,
which affected the costs of sourcing dairy raw
materials. This in turn meant higher consumer
prices and reduced margins. Growing emphasis
on ESG integration efforts, especially from
critical shareholders, regulators and investors,
put additional pressure on limited and
constrained resources. Shifting power and
positions in local politics has had its own
impact on the overall business ecosystem and
its continuing performance as well as future
prospects. While navigating these challenges,
DLMI remained well on track with our current
performance and future growth plans. Most
importantly, as a business, we remained strong
in responding to the external headwinds. DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023

[MDA_P014]
2023 was an important milestone for DLMI.
As a leading dairy company committed to
fulfilling the nutritional needs of Malaysians,
we celebrated our 60th anniversary. We also
demonstrated our resilient leadership by staying
strong to external headwinds and delivered
a profitable year. We remained on track to
transition to our new state-of-the-art, Halal
manufacturing facility in Bandar Enstek. Our
new facility will enable us to double our current
capacity with immense potential for future
innovations. We also embarked on a critical
journey to shape a fit-for-purpose operating
model and a fit-for-purpose cost structure to
fuel our future growth in a sustainable manner.”
RAMJEET KAUR VIRIK
Managing Director
| Section | 01 | 02 | 03
Management Discussion & Analysis – Strategic Review | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 |

[MDA_P015]
Our focus during the year and in early 2024 has been on
two critical aspects. First was to successfully transition our
manufacturing facility DLMI@PJ with minimal disruption. The next was to ensure our new IR 4.0 manufacturing
facility, DLMI@Enstek was being shaped into a full-capacity,
efficient set-up. This required a careful balancing of
priorities, resource planning and deployment of well-
integrated strategies. In the last two quarters, we shifted
our focus to future-proof our people and business by
Our Purpose, People, Performance & Potential
People growth leads to business growth. We
maintain our emphasis on human capital as critical
reinforcement into business to drive financial
performance and reputational equity. Identifying,
employing, and developing talent is what we do
best and we continued to accelerate our efforts on
building our people strength and capability. In 2023, DLMI became the first-ever dairy
company to be certified as the Top Employer in
Malaysia. The global authority, Top Employers
Institute, assesses 20 Topics & 350 People
Best Practices helping organisations to prioritise
changes beyond processes, controls and
operations.

[MDA_P016]
70% of the assessment topics such
as people strategy, Digital HR, work environment,
People
In shaping our sustainability agenda, at DLMI,
we remain committed to our purpose: Nourishing
Our Planet and People in Every Stage of Life. We also believe that Sustainability is Business
and Business is Sustainability. In 2023, as part of DLMI’s Sustainability 2030
Roadmap, we have defined our first-level
sustainability ambition with interim mid-term
2030 targets for each of our seven key focus
areas: Better Nutrition; Better Sourcing; Better
Climate; Better Packaging; Better People, Better
Society, and Better Governance. For instance,
with our transition to our new manufacturing
facility DLMI@Enstek in 2023, we aspire to
Purpose
actively planning and implementing our sustainability
roadmaps as well as the global reorganisation exercise
focused on shaping a fit-for-purpose operating model.

[MDA_P017]
Overall, due to positive consumer demand, our product
performance and prudent management strategies, we
maintained our market position as No.1 dairy producer and
remained the largest purchaser of fresh milk in Malaysia. achieve a 30% reduction in carbon intensity and water
intensity by 2030 against 2022 baseline. We will continuously re-assess our direction considering
the progress made in our key focus areas, issues
addressed as well as the evolving policy and regulatory
landscape. By 2030, we will have the next set of interim
targets again. Our ultimate objective is to plan and
deliver towards accelerated Net Climate Neutral and #1
Nutrition Brand in Malaysia. For more information on how we are aligning our
performance with our purpose, please refer to Sustainability
Statement on pages 054-104 of this Integrated Annual
Report. wellbeing, employee listening, rewards and recognition,
ethics and integrity etc. are also critical for “Better
People” focus area of DLMI’s Sustainability 2030
Roadmap. DLMI was assessed and placed in the 2nd Quartile
reinforcing our commitment to achieve excellence in
people practices.

[MDA_P018]
Our aspiration is to demonstrate
continuous improvement and achieve Top Quartile Score
by focusing on employee experience, wellbeing, capability
and leadership development and growth founded on D&I. For more information on how we are committed to
people and people development, please refer to Better
People section of our Sustainability Statement on
pages 080-095 of this Integrated Annual Report. DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023
MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REPORT

[MDA_P019]
a. Product Performance:
Nutrition: DLMI has demonstrated multi-
sectoral initiatives to advocate the crucial
role of milk as one of the solutions to
addressing nutrition deficiencies amongst
Malaysian children. These include but
not limited to Nutritional Symposium
advocating healthy nutritional value;
Continuous Medical Education Programme
(CME) with key authorities; Roundtable
Discussions and Dialogue Sessions
recommending policy interventions; and
Breakfast Campaigns to promote milk
consumption for healthy nutrition. DLMI also launched the School Milk
Programme in September 2023. The
School Milk Programme, introduced by
the Ministry of Education, focuses on
primary schools in Selangor, Wilayah
Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur and Wilayah
Persekutuan Putrajaya where 75,000
primary schoolchildren are targeted to be
nourished with high quality, Halal Dutch
Lady milk products. By the end of this programme in 2024,
DLMI would have supplied close to
14 million packs of milk products to nourish
primary schoolchildren in Malaysia. Since
2011, DLMI has distributed over 217 million
packs of milk to primary schoolchildren in
Malaysia via the School Milk Programme.

[MDA_P020]
These avenues have helped to set the
stage for the Government, professional
bodies, academicians as well as DLMI to
collaborate and work together to address
the nutritional challenges to improve the
health of the future generation of Malaysia. Performance
We believe as an organisation, if we are clear with our purpose and have strength in our people, we
can drive positive performance. At DLMI, performance is about ‘Winning Profitably’ in a manner that it
is meaningful for both our shareholders and stakeholders. Performance in 2023 can be assessed in
two key areas:
Competition: Dutch Lady has extended its
leadership in the dairy market in Malaysia and
realised significant volume and revenue growth. We are always looking at competitive developments
and other players in the dairy market in Malaysia,
as it is one of the many drivers behind product
performance. We believe, the more the competition,
the more we can collectively create greater
awareness on issues such as malnutrition and
obesity in Malaysia.

[MDA_P021]
In short, our performance on
the mission to Nourishing Our Nation is catalysed
by competition and accelerated by our continuous
efforts to improve the nutritional content as well
as formats of our products. b. Financial Performance:
Revenue: DLMI continued to report positive
growth in revenue with over RM1.4 billion, an
increase of 7.7% compared to the previous year. On the back of sustained strong demand for our
brands, we witnessed consistent market share
gains across all market segments. This growth
reinforces our strong brand equity among
Malaysian households that we have earned over
60 years of dairy excellence. Capital Spending: DLMI maintained its investments
towards sustainable future growth. In 2023, we
invested RM186.8 million toward the buildings,
machines and new equipment of our new
manufacturing facility in Bandar Enstek. As this
facility will be equipped with state-of the art
IR4.0 technology, RM14.6 million was invested in
technology that drives efficiency, cost reductions
and insights into processing performance.

[MDA_P022]
For more information on how we are creating
value for our shareholders and stakeholders,
please refer to Financial Director’s Analysis as well
as Economic Value Created and Distributed on
pages 038-045 of this Integrated Annual Report. | Section | 01 | 02 | 03 Management Discussion & Analysis – Strategic Review | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 |
MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REPORT

[MDA_P023]
We believe that performance cannot be
measured or assessed in isolation for a given
fiscal year. Aspects such as value creation in
terms of enhanced capacity, capability and
new opportunities for growth determine the
true potential of a business to continue
delivering its core purpose as well as profits. DLMI’s RM540 million investment in the
country, business and people through our new
manufacturing facility DLMI@Enstek reinforces
the immense potential that will help us to
continue producing high-quality, sustainable
and Halal dairy nutrition for Malaysia and
Potential
FUTURE-PROOFING BUSINESS & PEOPLE
2023 was a landmark year as we celebrated our 60 years
of “Nourishing Our Nation” positively contributing to the
health and wellbeing of Malaysia and Malaysians. 2023 was
also a critical year when our global company, FrieslandCampina,
embarked on a fact-finding process for our business in
various markets, including Malaysia. As a result, we saw the
roll-out of a global reorganisation exercise to help devise a
fit-for-purpose operating model and fit-for-purpose cost
structure.

[MDA_P024]
The end objective of the strategy is to improve profitability,
drive sustainable, future growth while we focus on our
purpose, ‘Nourishing Our Planet and People in Every Stage of
Life’. The reorganisation will keep us focused on our mission,
‘To grow Access to Nutrition to as many people as possible
in Asia.’ The nutritional status of our children, including
Malaysia is alarming. With the triple burden of stunting, lack
of nutrition and obesity, we at DLMI together with our
colleagues in Asia, have a significant role to play to reverse
this alarming nutritional situation. beyond. With the implementation of Industry 4.0
technology, we will drive integration and collaboration
as we strive for operational excellence and efficiency. As at 31 December 2023, with <5% remaining work to
bring the new facility to full operational capacity, our
growth potential in 2024 and beyond is amplified. Our
new hub will allow us to continue to win in the market
as we meet the increasing demands of our consumers
today and for years to come, reduce carbon footprint
whilst working together with our valued partners
(employees, government, business partners, shareholders,
farmers, neighbours, consumers).

[MDA_P025]
Our underlying commitment is to continue increasing the
penetration of milk to improve the health status of Malaysians. In doing so, we will strive to find a perfect balance between
pricing, economic conditions, growing consumption whilst
managing the interest of our shareholders and stakeholders
alike. Our priorities next year will be to:
•
Invest in our new Halal manufacturing facility DLMI@Enstek
and the transition that continues to change our mindset to
one of growth with multiple opportunities ahead. •
Accelerate operational efficiencies, product innovations,
and cost optimisation to achieve higher revenue targets. •
Roll-out targeted strategies that will help us grow stronger
as the number 1 player in Dairy Nutrition. •
Integrate EES&G principles i.e. Economic, Environment,
Social & Governance into all business decision taking the
Efficiency & Impact approach. DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023
MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REPORT

[MDA_P026]
ACKNOWLEDGMENTS
I take this opportunity to specially extend our sincere
appreciation to Anjali Menon, HR Director and Hadi Abdullah,
Corporate Affairs Director who have made career moves
outside the Group. Their contributions to DLMI have been
significant and invaluable. I welcome Edalyn Hadjula-Legarde
and Ezmir Hazizi Azhar who are overlooking HR and Corporate
Affairs, respectively, to the Management Team. We look
forward to collaborating and championing innovative ideas and
new growth for DLMI. Last but not the least, I thank all our stakeholders including
our employees and frontliners, our suppliers and partners,
as well as members of the Board and Management for
believing in our purpose as well as our potential to
consistently deliver positive performance. With 60 years of dairy excellence in Malaysia, we must
continue to persevere, especially with increasing volatility of
external environment, stiff competition, and ever-changing
consumer behaviour. We want to continue winning as we
remain guided by our purpose Nourishing our Planet and
People in Every Stage of Life. This means evolving as an
organisation to become robust and future-ready.

[MDA_P027]
| Section | 01 | 02 | 03
Management Discussion & Analysis – Strategic Review | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 |
MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REPORT

[MDA_P028]
FINANCE
DIRECTOR’S
Analysis
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (DLMI) witnessed
solid topline and profit growth in the fiscal year
2023, amidst the escalating inflationary pressure,
geopolitical tensions, high exchange rate volatility,
and persistent uncertainties in global supply chains.
RM1,442.8
Revenue
million
2022: RM1,339.4
(RM1,014.4)
Cost of Sales
million
2022: (RM983.9)
7.7%
3.1%
Revenues surged beyond RM1.4
billion, marking a 7.7% increase
compared to 2022. This growth was
attributed to both volume expansion
and the implementation of Revenue
Growth Management initiatives.
Our proactive approach to revenue
growth management necessitated the
adjustment of product prices to offset
the inflationary pressures. This delicate
balancing act was undertaken with a
commitment to keeping DLMI products
affordable and accessible, aligning with
our mission of Nourishing Our Nation. It
underscores DLMI’s dedication to
maintaining an equilibrium between
economic challenges and our
commitment to providing quality
products to our valued consumers.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023

[MDA_P029]
Our 2023 performance reinforced our
continuing resilience as a business,
while reflecting our ability to deliver
both shareholder and stakeholder value
through focused and responsible growth.
Despite headwinds in the global and local
operating environments, DLMI realised
further revenue and profit growth as well
as growth in cash from operations. This
helped to back our investments in our new
manufacturing facility to secure future
progress of the company.”
KAI DE KLERK
Finance Director
| Section | 01 | 02 | 03
Management Discussion & Analysis – Strategic Review | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 |

[MDA_P030]
The effectiveness of Revenue Growth Management initiatives,
including pricing strategies have played a prominent role in
restoring margins, and bolstered our overall financial
performance in 2023. Operating Profit increased by 77.2% to
RM100.0 million despite having to grapple with challenges
stemming from rising energy costs and the depreciation of
the Malaysian Ringgit against the US Dollar, driven by top-
line growth and softening Dairy Raw Material prices. ANALYSIS OF INCOME
Revenues
Revenues in 2023 soared to over RM1.4 billion, showcasing
an increase of 7.7% compared to the previous year. Volume grew by 3.0% as a result of sustained strong demand
for our brands, coupled with market share gains across our
diverse market segments. This growth serves as a testament
to the robust brand equity of both Dutch Lady and Friso
brands among Malaysian households, reflecting the enduring
impact of our 60-year heritage in Malaysia. The volume growth extended across DLMI’s Dutch Lady
portfolio, encompassing liquid milk and Formula & Toddler
Nutrition, and across both the retail and professional
channels.

[MDA_P031]
Additionally, growth was observed in the
distributed Friso and Debic ranges, with positive impact. Profitability Metrics
Gross Profit Margins exhibited a positive trajectory, climbing
from 26.5% in 2022 to 29.7% in 2023. The Gross Profit
reached RM428.4 million, reflecting a substantial 20.5%
increase from RM355.5 million in 2022. The gross profit of DLMI showed a positive development. In
the first half of the year, margins were impacted by latent
effects of increasing raw material prices, resulting in a gross
margin of 27.6%. However, in the second half, the softening
of raw material prices had a more favourable impact, leading
to a significant improvement in gross margin to 31.7%. Adjusted Operating Margins, excluding accelerated
depreciation and one-off costs increased from 8.5% to
11.0% in 2023. This improvement was primarily driven by the
higher gross margins achieved during the year. Adjusted
Operating Profit (excluding accelerated depreciation and one-
offs) witnessed a surge of 39.3%, reaching RM159.1 million,
up from RM114.2 million in 2022. This growth was primarily
fuelled by improvements in Gross Profit.

[MDA_P032]
The unadjusted Operating Profit saw a remarkable uptick of
77.2%, reaching RM100.0 million from RM56.4 million in
2022 with operating margins increasing from 4.2% in 2022
to 6.9% in 2023. Profit before tax demonstrated a substantial improvement,
reaching RM96.5 million, a surge of 76.9% compared to the
previous year’s RM54.6 million. In tandem with the positive trajectory of gross margins and
operating margins, net profit increased by 56.5% from
RM46.3 million in 2022 to RM72.4 million, with net profit
margins rising from 3.5% to 5.0%. Cost Structure
The dairy raw material market experienced a softening
trend in the course of 2023, a welcome deviation from the
record-high prices witnessed in 2022. The crisis in Ukraine
had cast a significant impact on various commodities,
including Skimmed Milk Powder (SMP), Anhydrous Milk Fat
(AMF), and Whole Milk Powder (WMP) in the previous year. The softening trend in 2023 represented a positive shift,
offering relief from the heightened prices observed in the
aftermath of the crisis. Despite the favourable trend in raw material prices, the
weakening Malaysian Ringgit (MYR) against the US Dollar
(USD) partially dampened the positive impact.

[MDA_P033]
Since raw
materials are predominantly procured on the world market
in USD, the currency depreciation presented a challenge
by offsetting some of the benefits derived from the
softening raw material prices. Furthermore, other input costs contributed to the overall cost
dynamics. Energy costs increased as Malaysia reduced
subsidies on energy, reflecting a broader trend of rising
energy expenses. Concurrently, labour costs experienced an
upward trajectory in 2023, impacting both production costs
and general administrative expenses. This dual increase in
energy and labour costs added to the overall production
expenses, the volatility of raw material and commodity
pricing as well as the MYR against other currencies. Such was
the complexity and multifaceted nature of the economic
landscape faced by DLMI during the year. To optimise costs and improve operational efficiencies, we
implemented some strategic initiatives in 2023. One key
focus area was achieving a balanced investment in advertising
and promotion expenditures, ensuring that resources were
allocated carefully to maximise their impact on brand equity
and market presence.

[MDA_P034]
We also pursued an optimisation strategy to create a fit-
for-purpose organisational structure, aligning the company’s
business operations with its parent company in the
Netherlands. This restructuring also reduces the company’s
cost base in the long term, for which a restructuring
provision was taken in December 2023. DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S ANALYSIS

[MDA_P035]
ANALYSIS OF STATEMENT ON FINANCIAL
POSITION
Balance Sheet and Working Capital
The company’s asset composition reflects a substantial
investment in its new facility at Bandar Enstek in Negeri
Sembilan, a state-of-the-art IR 4.0 manufacturing facility set
to go live in 2024. The construction costs are reflected in the
increase in capitalisation of property, plant, and equipment,
reaching RM503.2 million from RM344.2 million. With
investments in IR4.0 technology as integral part of the
transition from the Petaling Jaya plant to our production
facility in Enstek intangible assets rose by RM14.3 million. Working capital management continues to be a focus, with an
emphasis on optimising cash flow amidst inflationary challenges. While inventory increased due to the transition from milk
powder production and stock build-up for Enstek, trade
receivables were controlled, and prepayments decreased
significantly. Inventory balance increased by RM12.2 million, partially
influenced by discontinuation of milk powder production in
Petaling Jaya, and sourcing of these products from
FrieslandCampina’s subsidiary in Indonesia for resale in the
Malaysian market.

[MDA_P036]
This move reduced raw material but
increased finished goods. In addition, we relied on stock build-
up of finished goods towards a seamless market transition
during the Enstek move. Receivables were managed tightly to preserve working capital. The trade and other receivables balance reduced by 3.4%,
whereas revenue went up by 7.7%. Trade and other payables increased by 17% to RM482.1
million, driven by higher purchases of finished goods and
expenditures related to the investments in our new production
facility. Thus far DLMI has not employed any long-term debt as we
continued to focus on cash preservation and financed the
Enstek facility investments through internal funds. The change in provision for restructuring costs, from RM17.9
million to RM13.1 million, reflects the utilisation and release of
the provision taken up in 2022 for the restructuring related
to the closure of some production lines in the PJ manufacturing
facility. In December 2023 a provision taken to implement
the fit-for-purpose commercial and administrative
organisational design going forward.

[MDA_P037]
RM428.4
Gross profit
million
2022: RM355.5
20.5%
RM159.1
Adjusted Operating
Profit
million
2022: RM114.2
39.3%
RM100.0
Operating Profit
million
2022: RM56.4
77.2%
RM72.4
Net profit
million
2022: RM46.3
56.5%
RM96.5
Profit Before Tax
million
2022: RM54.6
76.9%
| Section | 01 | 02 | 03 Management Discussion & Analysis – Strategic Review | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 |
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S ANALYSIS

[MDA_P038]
Cash Flow
Net cash generated from operating activities increased
significantly to RM206.6 million, RM53.0 million more than
the prior financial year, when cash generated was RM153.6
million. The solid growth in cash flow from operations follows
revenue growth and margin improvement, and is testament to
the strong working capital management employed by DLMI. Net cash outflows from investing activities stood at RM200.8
million, an increase of RM78 million from the previous year’s
RM122.8 million. Almost all investments are towards the
buildings, infrastructure, production lines and operations
technology for our brand new manufacturing facility in Bandar
Enstek. This increase is a reflection of the strong progress
made on the construction in 2023. The facility will be ready
for commercial production in 2024. Cash flows from financing activities remained consistent at
RM44.6 million in 2023, compared to the RM44.2 million in
the previous year. This stability was maintained as the
company kept dividend payments constant and refrained
from attracting any external debt during the period.

[MDA_P039]
As a result, cash balances at the financial year end amounted
to RM66.2 million a reduction of RM38.8 million from
RM104.9 million in 2022. Shareholder Equity
Shareholder equity increased by RM40.4 million, attributed
to retained profits used for investments in the new
manufacturing facility. The company paid dividends amounting to RM32 million to
shareholders in 2023, consistent with the previous year. This
constitutes 44.2% of the company’s net profit attributable to
shareholders of RM72.4 million. An amount of RM40.4 million
was retained and added to the shareholder fund (equity). Return on equity improved significantly from 14.2% to 22.9%
upon better operating results. Basic earnings per share recorded a substantial increase,
climbing from 72.3 Sen in 2022 to 113.1 Sen in 2023. This
surge of 56.4% underscores the company’s strong commitment
to delivering value to its shareholders. REVIEW OF TRENDS AND IMPACT
Business Landscape
DLMI’s financial performance has been subject to the
nuanced influence of various market and industry trends.

[MDA_P040]
The ongoing growth in demand for high-quality nutritional
products at an affordable price has positively contributed
29.7%
Gross Profit Margin
2022: 26.5%
315 Basis Point
11.0%
Adjusted Operating
Profit Margin
2022: 8.5%
250 Basis Point
6.9%
Operating Profit
Margin
2022: 4.2%
272 Basis Point
5.0%
Net Profit Margin
2022: 3.5%
156 Basis Point
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S ANALYSIS

[MDA_P041]
to DLMI’s revenues. The company remains aligned with the
national health agenda, resulting in increased sales of our
products.
In contrast, continued uncertainty in global markets, marked
by geopolitical tensions, has affected both consumers and
producers. This uncertainty has particularly influenced
demand in the Hotels, Restaurants and Catering (HoReCa)
channel. Renewed tensions in the Middle East have also
led to supply chain uncertainties as some shipping
companies avoid sailing through the Red Sea. DLMI is
closely monitoring the situation and assessing the potential
impact on our supply chain. While some shipping carriers
have opted for alternative routes, it is currently not
expected to impact the delivery of finished goods to the
Malaysian market.

[MDA_P042]
The softening trend in dairy raw material prices had a
positive impact compared to the previous year. However,
prices remain historically high, and geopolitical tensions
may influence commodity prices and shipping rates in the
future. The USD exchange rate continued to strengthen against the
MYR, impacting the purchase of commodities and goods on
the world market traded in USD. An evolving regulatory
landscape, such as the reduction of subsidies on energy
purchased by companies, also affects the company’s cost
base. DLMI closely monitors all trends and adjusts its short-term
approach as needed to ensure the availability of its products
in the market. Simultaneously, we optimise costs across the
board to preserve value for our shareholders as well as
other stakeholders. 2024 Journey/Prospects
2024 promises to be a transformative period for DLMI as
it embarks on a new and exciting journey that ensures we
can continue Nourishing Our Nation for generations to
come.

[MDA_P043]
Central to this initiative is the planned opening of
our state-of-the-art IR4.0 manufacturing facility in 2024, a
pivotal move that not only facilitates DLMI’s continued
growth but also opens up new opportunities to solidify our
position as the leader in the Malaysian dairy industry. The transition to the IR4.0 manufacturing facility entails a
temporary investment in additional resources to facilitate
the seamless continuation of our operations. This strategic
move encompasses a successful transfer of assets and
ensures the continuous availability of our brands and products
in the market. DLMI remains committed to its mission of
nourishing our people and planet, and this transition is a
testament to our dedication to meeting the evolving needs of
our consumers. Amidst these promising developments, it is essential to
acknowledge and address potential challenges that may
impact our financial landscape in the upcoming year. Ongoing
geopolitical tensions continue to introduce volatility in the
prices of raw materials, potentially leading to fluctuations and
an upward trend in the costs of these commodities, particularly
in the dairy sector.

[MDA_P044]
Simultaneously, the MYR’s volatility amidst
global and domestic uncertainties, coupled with regulatory
changes and updates to the tax regime, poses challenges
that could result in higher input costs. DLMI recognises the importance of continued investment in
its brands, which enjoy high penetration among Malaysian
households. A cautious and balanced approach will continue
to be adopted, balancing the need for cost control with the
imperative to invest in brand building. The outlook for the
coming year is cautiously optimistic, we anticipate moderate
growth in both volume and top-line performance. DLMI anticipates operating within a dynamically evolving
regulatory and economic environment in Malaysia. In 2023, we
observed an increase in energy prices due to the reduction in
subsidies. Meanwhile, the government’s announcement on the
sales and service tax (SST) hike from 6% to 8%, along with an
expanded range of services covered by the regulation, is
expected to lead to heightened input costs for services acquired
by the company. However, the increase in sugar tax is foreseen
to have no short-term impact on the company as our products
remain exempt.

[MDA_P045]
DLMI remains steadfast in its commitment to environmental,
social, and governance (ESG) considerations. The integration
of state-of-the-art IR4.0 technology at the manufacturing site
in Enstek is set to revolutionise operations, and will not only
drive cost efficiencies but also aligns with sustainability goals,
targeting a 30% reduction in carbon and water intensity by
2030 compared to the 2022 baseline. Moreover, our focus on Research and Development (R&D)
ensures continuous advancements in product formulations. This commitment ensures that our products consistently meet
the evolving nutritional needs and expectations of customers
and bolster our competitive edge in the market. DLMI will continue to uphold our purpose, facilitate the
transition to Bandar Enstek, establish a robust financial
foundation for growth, and align with our dedicated strategic
journey towards achieving self-sufficiency in domestic fresh
milk by the year 2030. | Section | 01 | 02 | 03 Management Discussion & Analysis – Strategic Review | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 |
FINANCE DIRECTOR’S ANALYSIS

[MDA_P046]
Revenue
(RM ‘million)
Profit before tax
(RM ‘million)
Net profit for the year
(RM ‘million)
‘19
‘20
‘21
‘22
‘23
1,066.6
1,100.6
1,133.7
1,339.4
1,442.8
‘20
‘19
‘21
‘22
‘23
X,XXX
‘19
‘21
‘22
96.5
54.6
284.5
97.5
137.6
‘20
‘19
‘20
‘21
‘22
‘23
102.9
73.4
248.0
46.3
72.4
Net dividend paid
(RM ‘million)
Paid-up share capital
(RM ‘million)
Shareholders fund
(RM ‘million)
‘19
‘20
‘21
‘22
‘23
64.0
32.0
51.2
32.0
32.0
‘19
‘20
‘21
‘22
‘23
64.0
64.0
64.0
64.0
64.0
‘19
‘20
‘21
‘22
‘23
382.6
396.9
437.2
166.6
144.4
Total assets
(RM ‘million)
Net asset backing per share
(RM)
Earnings per share
(Sen)
‘19
‘20
‘21
‘22
‘23
443.6
701.2
844.2
946.9
498.8
‘19
‘20
‘21
‘22
‘23
2.26
5.98
6.20
6.83
2.60
‘19
‘20
‘19
‘21
‘22
‘23
387.5
113.1
114.7
72.3
160.8
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023
5-YEAR
FINANCIAL SUMMARY

[MDA_P047]
VALUE ADDED STATEMENT
VALUE DISTRIBUTED
In RM Million
FY2023
FY2022
Directors and employees
Government and society*
Providers of capital
Dividends
Finance costs
Local suppliers
Reinvestment
Total
* Income Tax and CSR Contributions
In RM Million
FY2023
FY2022
Revenue*
1,443
1,339
Operating expenses excluding directors and employee expenses, depreciation &
amortisation, spends on local suppliers and societal contributions*
(697)
(611)
Other operating income, other gains and losses and finance income
Total
Directors and Employees
Government and Society*
Providers of Capital
Local Suppliers
Reinvestment
2%
5%
44%
8%
41%
3%
9%
1%
45%
42%
VALUE ADDED STATEMENT
& VALUE DISTRIBUTED
| Section | 01 | 02 | 03
Management Discussion & Analysis – Strategic Review | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 |

[MDA_P048]
The economic landscape in 2023 presented a mix of
challenges and opportunities for Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad (DLMI). The ongoing global economic uncertainties,
driven by geopolitical tensions and trade fluctuations,
posed challenges that required resilient strategies. However,
many new opportunities emerged in the form of evolving
consumer preferences, increased focus on sustainability,
and a growing demand for quality, affordable and nutritious
dairy products. At the domestic level, Malaysia's GDP
growth also played a pivotal role in shaping consumer
purchasing power and continued demand for dairy products,
providing a stable foundation for Dutch Lady's performance. Global Economic Conditions
The global economic landscape witnessed a broad-based
and sharper-than-expected slowdown, significantly impacting
various sectors. This deceleration stemmed from a
confluence of factors, including the cost-of-living crisis,
tightened financial conditions, Russia's invasion of Ukraine,
and the slow but gradual recovery from COVID-19 pandemic. Inflation, amongst others in the food category, puts pressure
on Malaysian households.

[MDA_P049]
We see this back in the
consumption patterns of consumers in certain categories. On
the other hand, consumers still look for good nutrition for the
whole family and our strong brand and nutritious product line
contributes to a nutritional diet, so we are positioned well. In 2023, we saw input costs moderating, but the weakening
Ringgit Malaysia against the USD and Euro offset this
effect. The dual dilemma we continued to face during the
year was about balancing the affordability of our products
while also continuing to generate healthy underlying profit
margins. We therefore kept our focus on optimising our
costs and investing where we generate the best returns. Additionally, we implemented prudent cost management
strategies, ensuring controlled expenses without
compromising product quality or market competitiveness. To address the anticipated global slowdown, emphasising
innovation and optimising the product portfolio aligns DLMI
with evolving consumer preferences and market demands,
ensuring sustained relevance and competitiveness.

[MDA_P050]
A nuanced focus on key priorities, with tailored marketing
strategies and product offerings aligning with consumer
preferences, acts as a buffer against uncertainties in the
global economic landscape. Pace of Domestic Economic Recovery
The Malaysian economy showed some recovery in 2023
following the health and economic crisis. The resurgence
was underpinned by substantial policy support, solid
macroeconomic fundamentals, and a resilient financial
system. The buffers established in the pre-pandemic period
played a crucial role in helping the economy navigate the
crisis successfully. The inflationary pressures heightened due to the war in
Ukraine, impacted the prices of fertilisers, animal feed, and
agricultural produce, as well as food imports. Although
inflation moderated throughout 2023, it remained elevated
compared to pre-pandemic levels, reflecting Malaysia's
significant food import bill and ongoing food security
concerns. Despite these challenges, the Malaysian economy
maintained its growth in the fourth quarter of 2023,
supported by strong domestic demand and stable labour
market conditions.

[MDA_P051]
But the year-on-year growth momentum
for 2023 overall decelerated due to weak external demand
stemming from global economic uncertainties, declining
commodity prices, geopolitical tensions, and sluggishness in
the global semiconductor markets. Foreign Exchange
The foreign exchange trends in 2023 presented both
challenges and opportunities for DLMI. Fluctuations in
currency values impact the cost of DLMI imported raw
materials, thereby influencing production costs, and shaping
pricing strategies. Conversely, a favourable exchange rate
can boost DLMI's competitiveness in international markets,
opening avenues for export growth. DLMI responded to currency market volatility with robust
risk management strategies to increase predictability by
employing various financial instruments such as forward
contracts. Our continuing effort is to ensure a more stable
financial foundation amid uncertainties. Supply Chain Resilience
Supply chain disruptions continued to persist, stemming
from a variety of factors such as existing or emerging
geopolitical conflicts, inflationary pressures, the recessionary
environment, climate change-induced weather events, and
potential unforeseen challenges.

[MDA_P052]
These disruptions have
the potential to impact the accessibility of goods and
contribute to surging prices, among other concerns. Employing a multifaceted approach, DLMI ensures the
stability of its operations and guards against potential
disruptions. Actively diversifying sourcing strategies stands
out as a proactive measure, aimed at reducing dependency
on a single source and mitigating risks associated with
geopolitical and economic uncertainties. This strategic
diversification contributes to creating a more resilient and
adaptable supply chain. DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023
ECONOMIC LANDSCAPE
& OUTLOOK

[MDA_P053]
Additionally, our supply chain resilience strategy included
an increased focus on exploring local suppliers, aligning
with sustainability principles, and operationalising our
new manufacturing facility @ Bandar Enstek to full
capacity. These collectively assured business continuity,
minimising external impacts on the supply chain. We also adopt a forward-looking stance by negotiating
long-term contracts with key suppliers, providing
predictability in the flow of raw materials over an extended
period. KEY MARKET TRENDS
Nutritional Status of Malaysia
The announcement of the Southeast Asian Nutrition
Surveys II (SEANUTS II) results commissioned by
FrieslandCampina and conducted by Universiti
Kebangsaan Malaysia in Peninsular Malaysia had the
following key findings:
•
84% and 70% of children do not meet the average
needs of vitamin D and calcium respectively. •
1 in 3 children do not consume breakfast daily. •
40% of children under 4 years of age have
anemia.

[MDA_P054]
(Anemia can impact children’s cognitive
development, physical growth and immunity .)
The results also indicate low dairy consumption:
•
1 in 4 children consumes a portion size of less than
100 ml of dairy, fewer than five times a week. •
Only 37% of children consume milk and dairy at
breakfast, with median intake of 0.9 servings. •
83% of children who consume breakfast did not
meet the recommended dairy intake of 2 servings
per day. •
Children who consume dairy at breakfast had 3-fold
and 6-fold higher intake of Calcium and Vitamin D
compared to those who did not. The National Health & Morbidity Survey (NHMS) 2022
conducted by National Institutes of Health, Ministry of
Health Malaysia further reveals that children below the
age of 5 suffer from:
•
Stunting (too short for their age): 21.2%
•
Underweight (too thin for their age): 15.3%
•
Anaemia: 46.5%
These alarming results from SEANUTS II and NHMS draw
our attention and focus on developing better and affordable
products that meet nutritional needs of children and in
setting up programmes that promote a well-balanced diet
and active lifestyle in collaboration with the local authorities,
health professionals and schools.

[MDA_P055]
New Regulatory Landscape
A new regulatory landscape emerged in 2023 as Malaysia
undertakes the initiative to update regulations governing
the dairy sector, which have remained largely unchanged
for four decades. The proposed regulatory updates aim to
address contemporary concerns related to food safety and
fraud in the milk industry. The regulatory changes are driven by a proactive approach
to ensure the integrity and safety of dairy products in the
market. As a prominent player in the Malaysian dairy
industry, we closely monitor and adapt to the evolving
regulatory landscape, aligning our operations with the
updated standards and requirements. This may involve
implementing new quality control measures, enhancing
traceability in the supply chain, and ensuring compliance
with the latest safety protocols. Our proactive engagement with regulatory authorities and
commitment to meeting or exceeding these standards can
be instrumental in maintaining consumer trust and
safeguarding the reputation of DLMI's products. Packaging Innovations
Packaging innovations reflect shifting consumer preferences
towards eco-friendly and sustainable solutions.

[MDA_P056]
We are
actively responding to this trend by incorporating innovative
packaging designs that not only reduce environmental
impact but also highlight the company's commitment to
environmental stewardship. Our emphasis on innovative packaging serves as a proactive
response to meet the increasing demand for sustainable
practices from environmentally conscious consumers. Our
packaging innovations may include the use of recyclable
materials, reduced packaging waste, and the implementation of
eco-friendly technologies. These measures not only contribute
to our sustainability goals but also resonate positively with
consumers who prioritise environmentally responsible products. In short, at DLMI, in delivering responsible and accessible
nutrition, we also promote responsible consumption. While
we are targeting to design all our packaging materials for
recycling or reuse, we advocate that consumers and
customers also consciously and proactively channel their
waste to the recycling system – even when the recycling
infrastructure is evolving and not optimal.

[MDA_P057]
With more responsibility, we believe, consumers and
customers can join us in driving better efficiencies (doing
more with less) and better equity (leaving our business,
our planet in a better shape for future generation of
stakeholders). | Section | 01 | 02 | 03 Management Discussion & Analysis – Market & Product Review | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 |
ECONOMIC LANDSCAPE & OUTLOOK

[MDA_P058]
According to industry projections (Euromonitor), the dairy
market in Malaysia is expected to experience robust growth,
with an anticipated expansion of +5.1% in 2024. This growth
signifies an upward trajectory for the dairy sector, and DLMI,
as a key player in the Malaysian dairy market, is well-
positioned to capitalise on this positive trend. Drinking/liquid milk (including plant based) continues to have
the largest growth potential, whilst consumers continue to
seek healthier and sustainable options. DLMI will continue to
explore opportunities within growing dairy segments,
aligning its product offerings with the growing consumer
demand for healthier and environmentally conscious choices. Global factors, such as sluggish milk supply growth and
improving dairy prices, are expected to characterise the
dairy industry in 2024. As a participant in the global dairy
landscape, we should navigate these dynamics strategically. Managing supply chains efficiently and adapting to market
fluctuations will be crucial for sustained growth. Additionally, insights into the fluid milk market for the years
2024-2031 suggest ongoing demand and regional variations.

[MDA_P059]
DLMI can leverage its market expertise to tailor its products
to meet specific regional preferences, ensuring continued
relevance in diverse markets. The 2024 outlook also presents a mixed economic landscape
globally, characterised by a slower growth pace, lingering
impacts from tight monetary policies, and concerns about
inflation and geopolitical tensions. As indicated by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the
2024 economic outlook reflects a resilient but challenging
global economic recovery. While the recovery endures, the
path ahead is characterised by increasing challenges. As the global economy anticipates a slower growth trajectory
in 2024, DLMI should remain vigilant about potential
challenges stemming from tight monetary policies and
heightened inflation. Fluctuations in commodity prices pose
a clear upside risk, impacting the cost of raw materials for
the dairy industry. The outlook for Malaysia highlights the importance of
resilient domestic demand in supporting economic growth. DLMI can benefit from steady growth in household spending,
driven by employment and wage growth.

[MDA_P060]
Additionally, the
expected improvements in tourist arrivals and spending
provide opportunities for us to cater to the local market. The implementation of Budget 2024 measures is expected
to provide additional impetus to economic activity, potentially
creating avenues for the dairy industry to expand its market
reach. While the growth outlook is positive, DLMI must remain
cautious of downside risks, including weaker-than-expected
external demand and challenges in commodity production. However, we can capitalise on upside potential, such as a
stronger recovery from the electrical & electronics (E&E)
downcycle and robust tourism activity. Aligning products with
evolving consumer preferences remains critical for realising
growth opportunities. environmentally friendly and resource-efficient methods,
we aim to enhance the overall sustainability of our milk
production, contributing to both national and global
sustainability objectives. Technology adoption is another integral component of
DLMI's future-proof strategies.

[MDA_P061]
We will explore partnerships
that support innovative agricultural technologies and
innovations allowing our partners to optimise production
efficiency, improve yield, and ensure the quality of our
dairy products. This technological integration aligns with
DLMI's forward-looking strategy, positioning us as a leader
in the modernisation of the dairy industry. In 2023, the pursuit of self-sufficiency in milk production
by 2030 has emerged as a pivotal trend, and Dutch
Lady Milk Industries Berhad (DLMI) is actively aligning
itself with this transformative movement. In accordance
with the National Agrofood Policy 2021-2030 (NAP 2.0),
DLMI has embarked on a strategic journey dedicated to
achieving self-sufficiency in domestic fresh milk by the
year 2030. Our commitment to this ambitious goal involves
substantial investments in various key areas. First, we
have prioritised the adoption of sustainable farming
practices through our Farmer2Farmer initiative. By
promoting and helping or farming partners to integrate
Self-Sufficiency in Milk Production by 2030
OUTLOOK
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023
ECONOMIC LANDSCAPE & OUTLOOK

[MDA_P062]
| Section | 01 | 02 | 03 Management Discussion & Analysis – Market & Product Review | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 |

[MDA_P063]
At Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (DLMI), our efforts are focussed on integrating enterprise risk management practices
throughout our operating entity to accelerate growth and enhance performance. We work towards timely identification,
ranking, and effective mitigation of risks that could impact not just our local operations in Malaysia but also the position and
strategic objectives of our parent company, FrieslandCampina (FC). In doing so, we aspire to embed risk management in both
mindset and behaviour, strengthen risk management capabilities and methods, and continuously improve risk mitigation. In
the process, we unlock expertise/synergies to support (local) business and build resilience by keeping things simple and
achieving the needed speed, focus, and pragmatism. The table below shares our overall approach to monitoring and
managing enterprise-level risks. Risk Category
Internal Risks
Mitigation
Foreign exchange risk (FOREX)
Ringgit continue to decline against major
currencies around the world particularly
the USD, this drives the cost of doing
business.

[MDA_P064]
Mitigation plans were developed
to address the risk and minimise any
impact to our customers and consumers
With strong hedging strategies in place for
our primary commodities, we successfully
minimised the effects of input cost
challenges, allowing us to strike a
favourable balance between input costs
and product pricing. Furthermore, our
operational recovery plan effectively
mitigated the rise in input costs, ensuring
sustained resilience
Financial
Risk
ESG Reporting
The evolving landscape of regulatory
requirements and stakeholder expectations
presents a heightened risk of non-
compliance with ESG regulations or
agreements. This risk includes the
potential for inaccurate or incomplete
reporting, which could lead to reputational
damage, liabilities, penalties, sanctions,
and obstacles to future business growth
or financial losses for the organisation
The implementation of a clear roadmap,
along with a materiality exercise, has
facilitated the effective identification of
key priorities within the organisation.

[MDA_P065]
Additionally, a robust governance structure
has been established, and a capability-
building exercise has been undertaken to
realign and reinforce the importance of
EESG to both the organisation and its
stakeholders
Compliance
Risk
Economic
Risk
Operating margin pressure
Combination of cost inflation and foreign
exchange impact is driving input cost. Business mitigation plans were carried out
to address the risk diligently and minimise
any impact to profitability as well as our
customers and consumers
We addressed the challenges posed by
rising input costs through the implementation
of an operational recovery plan and the
reassessment of our revenue-generating
activities, which included adjustments to
promotional and trading terms. Furthermore,
we are establishing a Fit-for-Purpose
Organisation aimed at fostering synergy and
enhancing the company’s efficiency
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023
KEY RISKS &
MITIGATION ACTION

[MDA_P066]
Project Management
Our major CAPEX investment is constantly
reviewed to ensure the project is delivered
within the right timeline and budget
allocated. Steering Committees are
established to review the progress and
provide direction for management
Continuous strategic approach of
reviewing the project, encompassing
expenditure and construction management,
communication and collaboration with
project contractors and government
regulators has helped the organisation in
navigating uncertainties due to COVID
Lockdown, reduced availability of foreign
labours and increase in construction cost. This strategic approach allowed for
simultaneous project tasks, ultimately
boosting project output
Climate Change Risks
Such risks are triggered from mismanagement
or inefficient use of resource inputs, creating
a negative carbon, water, and waste
footprint that can be detrimental to both
business resilience and reputation
Our focus remains on ‘reduction at source’
by improving operational efficiencies in a
manner that optimises the use of energy
and water, minimises wastage and reduces
our overall carbon footprint.

[MDA_P067]
During the
year, we completed our preliminary carbon
assessment for Scope 1 and Scope 2 and
established clear mid-term targets. We will
be reassessing these alongside our targets
on sustainable packaging as we progress
to accelerate our contribution to a better
climate
Talent & People Management
These risks stem from challenges in
attracting and retaining talent, as well as in
developing critical capabilities for the
future. Factors contributing to these risks
include poor motivation, unfair and non-
transparent policies, low engagement,
misalignment of culture and values, and
weak management practices
Continuously invest in people to propel
business growth, emphasising capacity
and capability building, which encompasses
Employee Wellbeing Programs, fostering
Psychological Safety awareness, and
driving awareness of Key Policies such as
Compass and SpeakUp initiatives
Risk Category
Internal Risks
Mitigation
Strategic
Risk
| Section | 01 | 02 | 03 Management Discussion & Analysis – Market & Product Review | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 |
KEY RISKS & MITIGATION ACTION

[MDA_P068]
OUR PRODUCTS
& WINNING BRANDS
Despite the challenges of market uncertainty and price movements in 2023, exasperated by the turmoil in the global
markets due to the geo-political tensions, war and social chaos, we have continued our focus on our mission of Nourishing
Our Nation. We continue to focus on bringing value through tailored nutrition to cater across consumer lifestyles and life
stages in innovative formats and/or flavours. We target our communication to encourage milk nutrition and consumption
to address the issues of malnutrition and obesity in Malaysia. Through these continuous efforts and focus, we have driven
volume growth by +5.6% vs. last year, despite the category being flat at -0.2%. With the right portfolio and channel mix,
along with our activities, we grew value double of category +10.8% vs. last year (category is at +4.9%). We extended our
leadership in the dairy market in Malaysia, where our market share improved to 28.2%, making us the No. 1 most chosen
dairy brand in Malaysia, reaching 3.8 million Malaysian households consuming Dutch Lady products annually.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2023

[MDA_P069]
Dutch Lady further strengthened our leadership position within the liquid milk segment with a 42.7% value share. This growth
is contributed by our focus on hero focused assortment within the right channels, coupled with impactful consumer-centric
campaigns such as our Dutch Lady ‘Berkat Ramadan Dan Susu’ & Morning Campaigns. Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
(DLMI) also extended its leadership position in the total infant and toddler nutrition (IFT) segment with 24.7% value share
with both Dutch Lady and Friso. Despite a declining category volume of -0.6% vs. last year, DLMI grew volume by +4.6%
vs. last year. Furthermore, Dutch Lady IFT and MaxGro delivered both a positive volume and value growth compared to
previous year with +5.4% volume & +8.9% value growth vs. last year. This is due to the multiple consumer activities both
on-air and on-ground when Dutch Lady launched its ‘Sepenuh Nutrisi, Sepenuh Potensi’ campaign to encourage parents to
care for their child’s nutrition in their progression in life. We continued our focus on Dutch Lady MaxGro to support the
Optimal Growth of Malaysian children in our efforts to minimise the Stunting issue faced in Malaysia.

[MDA_P070]
Along with our
communication highlight on the need for milk consumption as part of a balanced diet, sharing the benefits of milk nutrition,
we continue to be a much-loved dairy brand by Malaysians – winning the Gold Award in the Putra Brand Awards. Friso Gold grew value too in 2023 in the IFT premium segment through the continued focus on Novas Signature Milk which
contains small molecules & soft structure, quality checked milk produced by our farms in the Netherlands to enable ‘Good
Digestion for Stronger Inside’. This year, we strengthened our pool of advocates with Friso Gold DadMombassadors with
the addition of working with Eyra Hazali and Mira Filzah, to bring strong social and positive word-of-mouth for the brand. We increased our activities in-store and on-ground this year with our Nutri Advisors and multiple baby exhibitions,
integrated across mediums and channels to drive awareness and engagement of Friso Gold. KEY PRODUCT HIGHLIGHTS
| Section | 01 | 02 | 03
Management Discussion & Analysis – Market & Product Review | 04 | 05 | 06 | 07 |
OUR PRODUCTS & WINNING BRANDS