[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS (CONT’D)

[MDA_P002]
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD
FINANCIAL REVIEW (cont’d)
OPERATIONS REVIEW - MALAYSIA
Categorised as essential services, CCK’s farms (chicken and prawns), factories (chicken abattoirs and prawn
processing) and retail stores were fully operational during the various stages of the Covid-19 lockdowns during
2020.
In 2020, we expanded our
retail network as follows –
-
-
-

[MDA_P003]
-
1 CCK Fresh Mart retail store
in Sabah in Kota Marudu;
3 CCK Fresh Mart retail stores
in Sarawak in Simunjan,
Asajaya and Song;
1 CCKLocal supermarket
in Kuching, Sarawak; and
1 CCKLocal supermarket
in Kota Kinabalu, Sabah.
The Group’s deposits with licensed banks and cash and bank balances increased by 88.1% and 27.5%,
respectively, in line with the increase in revenue of the Group.
Dividends paid out during the year were as follows –
•
An interim single-tier dividend of 1.25 sen per share on 30 June 2020; and
•
A final single-tier dividend of 0.5 sen per share on 22 September 2020.
Bintulu
2 Outlets
Kuching
32 Outlets plus 1 Supermarket
Miri
9 Outlets
Kota Kinabalu
10 Outlets
plus 1
Supermarket
Sibu
9 Outlets
Sandakan
2 Outlets
Mukah, Kapit,
Sarikei, Labuan
1 Outlet Each
CCK Group Retail Network
The prawn segment was adversely affected by
weak global pricing of prawns and demand,
hence affecting our exports, particularly to our
traditional markets of Japan and Australia.
Malaysia
Japan
containers
in 2019
containers
in 2020
Australia
containers
in 2019
containers
in 2020
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS (CONT’D)

[MDA_P004]
ANNUAL REPORT
FINANCIAL & OPERATIONS REVIEW – INDONESIA
Our operations in Indonesia were not affected by the pandemic as, unlike Malaysia, no nationwide lockdowns were
declared by the Indonesian authorities in response to the pandemic. Revenue in Indonesia increased resulting from
increased production and sales of sausages and nuggets. 5 Years Revenue Trend
Sausages continue to be the Group’s best seller in Indonesia whilst the sales of nuggets continues to gain
momentum. All products from our 2 factories in Jakarta and Pontianak are sold to our network of 6 locally partnered
Freshmart outlets in Pontianak and also to third parties in Jakarta and Pontianak. The new factory in Pontianak was completed in the 4th quarter of 2020. However, due to pandemic related
transportation delays, the installation of machinery and commencement of operations will be delayed to the 1st
quarter of 2021. ANTICIPATED OR KNOWN RISKS
CREDIT RISK
CCK practises a policy of dealing with creditworthy customers based on careful evaluation of each credit
customer’s financial standing and credit history. This practice mitigates the risk of financial loss from
possible default payments.

[MDA_P005]
The Group has also in place a credit monitoring process which regularly
monitors the status and payments of our credit customers. FOREIGN CURRENCIES FLUCTUATION RISK
The Group imports frozen products for the network of retail stores where the purchases are denominated
in US dollars. As such, the Group is exposed to currency fluctuation risk. Any adverse fluctuation in the
MYR/USD rate may affect the profitability of the Group. In addition, fluctuations in the MYR/USD will likely
affect the cost of feed for the poultry segment. LIQUIDITY RISK
The Group maintains an adequate level of cash and cash equivalents and banking facilities to ensure
sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as and when they fall due. The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk
arises principally from trade payables, other payables and other bank borrowings (bankers’ acceptances
and a revolving credit). COMPETITION RISK
CCK retail stores face increasing risks from existing and new competitors who offer similar products and
compete on the basis of pricing. To mitigate this, we are continuously looking at means to improve our
competitive edge.

[MDA_P006]
The Management not only focuses on pricing of products but also in evolving business
models which improve the customers’ shopping experience. BIOSECURITY AND DISEASE RISK
Concerns regarding disease and biosecurity at our chicken farms are constantly high on the agenda. The
economic impact of a disease outbreak in any farm can be catastrophic on CCK’s bottom line. Constant
monitoring is a compulsory standard operating procedure across all our operations even as we
continuously innovate and update our biosecurity measures. A. B. C. D. E.

[MDA_P007]
Revenue (‘000)
89,846
110,641
100,161
105,884
116,089
% of Group
Revenue
16.07
17.97
16.29
16.26
17.70
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS (CONT’D)

[MDA_P008]
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD
DIVIDENDS
CCK has an internal dividend policy of paying up to 30% of the profit after taxation and minority interests whilst
taking into consideration the level of available funds, the amount of retained earnings, capital expenditure
commitments and other investment planning requirements. In line with our continued focus on shareholder returns, the Board is pleased to announce a first and final
single-tier dividend of 2 sen per share for the financial year ended 31 December 2020. FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENT
With the ongoing pandemic affecting global economies, Malaysian’s economic growth was not spared. Overall,
GDP shrank by 5.6 per cent, the biggest contraction since the 1998 Asian Financial Crisis. In line with expected
global economic recovery, Bank Negara Malaysia has projected the nation’s GDP to return to positive growth in
2021 at rates ranging between 6% - 7.5% on sustained progress of vaccine roll-outs. With the relaxation of restrictions affecting movement controls across the country, CCK expects our retail
segment to gradually improve in-line with the pace of state-wide vaccine roll-outs.

[MDA_P009]
Barring unforeseen
circumstances, we expect our performance to improve in the second half of 2021 driven by a reduction in new
cases, pick-up in the pace of vaccine roll-outs and an improvement in consumer sentiment. Building on this
momentum, the Group projects to open one (1) new supermarket in Sarawak and four (4) new retail stores in
East Malaysia in 2021. CCK is cautiously optimistic about our Indonesian subsidiary’s performance. The commencement of operations
of our new facility in Pontianak, Indonesia, in the first quarter of 2021 is expected to boost the production of
sausages in the region to cater for increasing demand. The increasing price of feed resulting from rising raw material prices is of a concern to the management. Feed
prices constitute a significant portion of the poultry segment’s costs. With the expected improvement in demand
from the food and beverage industry, CCK hopes to be able to mitigate the increase in feed prices by economies
of scale and a gradual increase in selling prices of our chicken products.

[MDA_P010]
APPRECIATION
I would like to record my profound appreciation to my fellow directors on the Board, the management teams and
the staff of the CCK Group of Companies for all their hard work and dedication. Their commitment and their
tireless work have made CCK the success it is today. I would also like to acknowledge the support of our
shareholders, business partners, suppliers and customers and thank you for your continued belief in CCK. TIONG CHIONG HIIUNG
GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS (CONT’D)