[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
Profit Before Tax
RM107.44
million
Total Liabilities
RM144.69
million
Revenue
RM980.75
million
Total Assets
RM576.25
million
Profit After Tax
RM83.36
million
Current Ratio
2.68
times
Earnings
Per Share
13.35
sen

[MDA_P002]
ANNUAL REPORT • 5
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS (Cont’d)
5-YEARS FINANCIAL SUMMARY (CONT’D)
1,000,000
800,000
600,000
400,000
200,000
RM’000
REVENUE
150,000
120,000
90,000
60,000
30,000
RM’000
EBITDA
120,000
100,000
80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
RM’000
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO
OWNERS OF THE COMPANY
100,000
80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
RM’000
EPS
Dividend per share
NUMBER OF RETAIL STORES &
SUPERMARKETS (UNITS)
Retail stores
Supermarkets
1.75
5.28
2.00
5.98
1.25
3.91
3.50
10.12
4.25
13.35

[MDA_P003]
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD
6 •
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS (Cont’d)
Dear Esteemed Shareholders,
The Management Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to provide the stakeholder with operational and
financial highlights of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“CCK” or “The Group”) for the financial year ended
31st December 2023 (“FY2023”).

[MDA_P004]
The MD&A should be read together with the audited financial statements of the Group and Company as set out in
this Annual Report. INTRODUCTION
CCK’s business comprises of four (4) segments, namely; retail, poultry, prawn and food service. Business operations
are carried out primarily in Sarawak, Sabah and Indonesia (Jakarta, Pontianak and Tarakan). The Group employs a
total of approximately 2,800 employees across all business segments. The Group’s mainstay and core business is the retail segment, which operates retail stores, supermarkets and
wholesale stores. Since the opening of the first retail store in Sibu in 1970, CCK’s network has grown to seventy-five
(75) touch points comprising of retail stores and supermarkets across East Malaysia (Sarawak and Sabah). Retail
stores are operated under the CCK Fresh Mart brand and supermarkets under the CCKLocal brand. CCK Fresh Mart retail stores cater to both businesses and households, carrying a smaller range of strategically
selected stock keeping units (“SKU”) which are specifically targeted to certain locations and buyer demographics.

[MDA_P005]
CCK Fresh Mart retail stores are typically smaller format stores located in both urban and rural areas. CCKLocal supermarkets typically occupy a larger footprint and offer households a wide range of SKUs ranging from
local and imported food items to general household items. CCK’s wide-reaching retail network is supported by a fully integrated supply chain consisting of a feedmill, layer
farming, poultry farming and processing, prawn farming and processing, and the manufacturing of house-brand food
products. As Sarawak’s largest integrated poultry supplier, CCK’s wide-reaching retail network benefits from being vertically
integrated with the poultry segment. Much like the retail network, CCK’s farm operations and processing facilities
are also located in Sarawak and Sabah. On a blended basis, fresh dressed chicken and chicken parts make up
approximately 15% of CCK Fresh Mart retail stores’ products. The other 85% of CCK Fresh Mart retail stores’ products
comprise house-brand and third-party frozen products, seafood products, fresh fruits, and vegetables. In the previous financial year (“FY2022”), CCK completed the acquisition of PT Bonanza Pratama Abadi (“PT
Bonanza”).

[MDA_P006]
PT Bonanza operates out of Tarakan, Indonesia and processes shrimp for local and export sales. Principal
products include frozen raw shrimp, frozen cooked shrimp and frozen Nobashi Ebi shrimp. The acquisition has proven
to be synergistic, adding size and scale to the Group’s prawn segment and export-oriented prawn products. REVIEW OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Revenue for FY2023 increased by 10.7% to RM980.7 million from a year ago (“FY2022”). Revenue growth was driven
by strong performances from the retail and prawn segments. Higher consumer demand led to an outperformance in
the retail segment whilst a full year of contributions from PT Bonanza significantly boosted the prawn segment. During FY2023, new CCK Fresh Mart retail stores were opened in Telipok and Kota Kinabalu in Sabah, and Kuching
in Sarawak. This expanded our retail network to sixty-six (66) CCK Fresh Mart retail stores, three (3) CCKLocal
supermarkets and six (6) wholesale stores. This gives us a total of seventy-five (75) touchpoints, up from seventy-two
(72) as at end FY2022. The retail segment achieved a revenue of RM858.4 million during FY2023, 5.5% higher than FY2022.

[MDA_P007]
Growth was
driven by more matured contributions from our established retail network, higher sales volumes from both the retail
and wholesale channels, and strong demand for our in-house manufactured processed products in Indonesia.

[MDA_P008]
ANNUAL REPORT • 7
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS (Cont’d)
REVIEW OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE (CONT’D)
Notably, our Indonesian manufacturing operations was able to cater to the strong demand due to the additional
production capacity that came on stream in January 2021. Revenue from our Indonesian manufacturing operations
(Pontianak and Jakarta) amounted to RM188.2 million, accounting for 19.2% of total Group revenue for FY2023.

[MDA_P009]
The poultry segment reported a total segment revenue of RM336.6 million for FY2023, a 2.7% improvement from the
same period last year. This was driven by improved demand for poultry products to institutional clients and consumer
sentiment. Poultry sales via our own retail stores (intersegment sales) remained robust. The prawn segment’s revenue amounted to RM109.9 million in FY2023, 36.8% higher than FY2022. Revenue growth
was largely due to the contribution from PT Bonanza which boosted overall segment export volumes to Japan,
Taiwan, Thailand and The People’s Republic of China. The food service segment reported revenue of RM24.1 million, an improvement from RM22.5 million in FY2022. This
was due to an overall increase in activities of government schools in Sarawak covered under our supply contracts. Group profit before tax (“PBT”) for FY2023 increased by 30.2% to RM106.0 million. This significant growth in overall
profitability was primarily due to contributions from the retail, poultry, and prawn segment. Gross profit margins for
FY2023 inched up to 20.2% from 18.2% in FY2022.

[MDA_P010]
The retail segment continued to be the largest contributor to Group PBT for FY2023, reporting a segment profit of
RM71.4 million, an increase of 6.5% against FY2022. FY2023 segment PBT was driven by a myriad of factors, namely;
increased sales volumes in our retail and wholesale channels driven by an overall improvement in consumer demand,
more favourable product mix and strong demand for our in-house manufactured processed products in Indonesia. Notably, FY2022 profitability was boosted by of a one-off gain from disposal of investment property amounting to
RM6.0 million leading to a high base effect which moderated headline PBT growth. The poultry segment reported a PBT of RM24.5 million, a significant growth of RM175.2% from RM8.9 million in
FY2022. Segment profitability was boosted by the subsidy scheme from the Government of Malaysia in relation to the
price ceilings for chicken and eggs. In addition, effective cost control measures, a strategic alignment of the product
mix and a favourable movement in feed input costs were also contributing factors to the improvement in profitability.

[MDA_P011]
The prawn segment recorded a segment profit of RM9.5 million, a significant increase from RM5.0 million in FY2022. Notably, a full year of contribution from PT Bonanza boosted overall segment profitability as export volumes to Japan,
Taiwan, Thailand and The People’s Republic of China increased significantly. The segment also benefited from
economies of scale and robust domestic sales via our own retail channels. The food service segment reported a PBT of RM3.0 million in FY2023, increased marginally from RM2.9 million a
year ago. Operating and administrative expenses increased due to the additional running costs incurred by PT Bonanza,
facilities in Pontianak, Indonesia, and retail outlets that came on stream in the last few quarters. Share of results in our associate company, Gold Coin (Sarawak) Sdn Bhd, amounted to RM4.8 million in FY2023, a
growth of 5.7% from RM4.5 million in FY2022. Effective cost pass-through mechanisms and adjustments in selling
prices mitigated unfavourable movements in foreign exchange and raw material prices.

[MDA_P012]
Finance costs for FY2023 amounted to RM2.7 million whilst total borrowings stood at RM49.8 million against
shareholders’ funds of RM431.0 million as at end FY2023, translating into a gearing ratio of 0.12x. CCK maintained a net cash position as deposits with licensed banks and cash and bank balances surged, more than
doubling to RM124.6 million from RM63.1 million as at end FY2022. The Group’s property, plant and equipment rose to RM216.2 million as at end FY2023 from RM200.8 million a year
ago. Notable capital expenditure carried out during FY2023 was for the commissioning of three (3) additional CCK
Fresh Mart stores, upgrades to the poultry processing plant in Kuching, and new breeder houses and farms across
East Malaysia. All capital expenditure was funded by a combination of bank borrowings and internally generated
funds.

[MDA_P013]
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD
8 •
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS (Cont’d)
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS

[MDA_P014]
In FY2023, we expanded our retail network as follows –
- Three (3) CCK Fresh Mart stores; one (1) in Kuching, Sarawak, one (1) in Telipok, Sabah and one (1) in Kota
Kinabalu, Sabah. To recap, the acquisition of PT Bonanza was completed in July 2022, during the previous financial year. Established
for the past 22 years, PT Bonanza operates out of Tarakan and is engaged in the processing of shrimp for local and
export markets. PT Bonanza’s key products are frozen raw shrimp, frozen cooked shrimp and frozen Nobashi Ebi
shrimp. As evidenced by the performance of the prawn segment in FY2023, the acquisition has augmented our seafood
business and increased the size and scale of our export-oriented prawn products. Specifically, the prawn segment
benefitted from a full year of contribution from PT Bonanza which boosted export volumes to Japan, Taiwan. Thailand
and The People’s Republic of China. Manufacturing operations in Indonesia continued to benefit from an overall increase in production capacity due to the
addition of Pontianak’s facility that was commissioned in January 2021.

[MDA_P015]
This additional production capacity supported
the higher sales volumes of our own in-house brands of sausages, nuggets and other processed products. Sausages continue to be the CCK’s best seller in Indonesia whilst the sales of nuggets continue to gain momentum. All products from our two (2) factories in Jakarta and Pontianak are sold to our network of six (6) locally partnered
Freshmart outlets in Pontianak as well as to third parties in Jakarta and Pontianak. ANTICIPATED OR KNOWN RISKS
a. Credit Risk

[MDA_P016]
CCK practises a policy of dealing with creditworthy customers based on careful evaluation of each credit
customer’s financial standing and credit history. This practice mitigates the risk of financial loss from possible
default payments. The Group has also in place a credit monitoring process which regularly monitors the status
and payments of our credit customers.

[MDA_P017]
ANNUAL REPORT • 9
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS (Cont’d)
ANTICIPATED OR KNOWN RISKS (CONT’D)
b.
Foreign Currencies Fluctuation Risk

[MDA_P018]
The Group imports frozen products for the network of retail stores where the purchases are denominated in US
dollars. As such, the Group is exposed to currency fluctuation risk. Any adverse fluctuation in the MYR/USD
rate may affect the profitability of the Group. In addition, fluctuations in the MYR/USD will likely affect the cost
of feed for the poultry segment.
c.
Liquidity Risk

[MDA_P019]
The Group maintains an adequate level of cash and cash equivalents and banking facilities to ensure sufficient
liquidity to meet its liabilities as and when they fall due. The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk arises principally
from trade payables, other payables and other bank borrowings (bankers’ acceptances and a revolving credit).
d.
Competition Risk

[MDA_P020]
CCK retail stores face increasing risks from existing and new competitors who offer similar products and compete
on the basis of pricing. To mitigate this, we are continuously looking at means to improve our competitive edge.
The Management not only focuses on pricing of products but also in evolving business models which improve
the customers’ shopping experience.
e.
Biosecurity And Disease Risk

[MDA_P021]
Concerns regarding disease and biosecurity at our chicken farms are constantly high on the agenda. The
economic impact of a disease outbreak in any farm can be catastrophic on CCK’s bottom line. Constant
monitoring is a compulsory standard operating procedure across all our operations even as we continuously
innovate and update our biosecurity measures.
DIVIDENDS
CCK has an internal dividend policy of paying up to 30% of the profit after taxation and minority interests whilst taking
into consideration the level of available funds, the amount of retained earnings, capital expenditure commitments and
other investment planning requirements.

[MDA_P022]
In line with our commitment to reward shareholders, the Board is pleased to announce a first and final single-tier
dividend of 4.25 sen per share for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
PROSPECTS
In the fast-paced and increasingly challenging landscape of retail, CCK remains focused in providing essential
everyday staple products. Through our extensive urban and rural network of stores, we cater to diverse consumer
needs, offering a wide range of products including poultry, fresh produce, seafood, and both house-brand and third-
party frozen goods.

[MDA_P023]
Employing a vertically integrated business model, this allows us to exert greater control over our supply chain and
operations. This integrated approach, coupled with the nature of our product offerings, gives us the ability to be agile
whilst developing a commendable resilience to market fluctuations and challenges.
That said, we continue to operate in a high inflationary environment, exerting pressure on costs throughout the supply
chain. This inflationary trend compounds the challenges posed by fluctuating currency exchange rates and rising
input costs, further straining our cost structures.
Specifically, the volatility of the US dollar against the Malaysian Ringgit remains a concern as it leads to fluctuations in
prices of corn and soy. Feed prices constitute a significant portion of the poultry segment’s costs which in-turn make
up about 50% of our retail segment’s sales.

[MDA_P024]
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD
10 •
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS (Cont’d)
PROSPECTS (CONT’D)
Consequently, we actively employ strategies to address these cost
pressures, seeking efficiencies wherever possible while remaining
mindful of the impact on pricing and profitability. Our focus remains
on mitigating these cost pressures through prudent cost management
practices, operational optimisations, and strategic pricing adjustments,
ensuring that we maintain our competitiveness while safeguarding our
dominant position in the market. Strategically expanding our retail network remains integral to our growth
trajectory, with a concerted focus on optimising economies of scale
and enhancing the efficiency of our fully integrated supply chain. This
will bolster our capacity to meet evolving consumer demands while
maximising operational efficiencies. In Indonesia, a burgeoning market for our in-house manufactured
brands of sausages and nuggets presents a promising avenue for
growth. The facility in Pontianak that came on stream in January 2021
has significantly boosted our production capabilities, enabling us to cater
to escalating demand.

[MDA_P025]
As we continue to witness sustained traction for
our products, we are actively looking to invest further in expanding our
production capacity. As we look forward, we remain steadfast in our commitment to proactive
risk mitigation and operational optimisation across all key business
segments. Whilst we navigate the aforementioned challenges with
agility and foresight, we are equally committed to execute our growth
plans and strategies. Taking into account the above, we are therefore cautiously optimistic
with regards to the coming financial year. APPRECIATION
I would like to extend my heartfelt gratitude to the Board of Directors,
Management Team, and dedicated staff of CCK for their unwavering
commitment, hard work, and dedication. It is through their collective
efforts and steadfast resolve that we have been able to navigate the
complexities of the retail landscape and overcome numerous challenges. Their resilience and tireless dedication have been instrumental in driving
CCK forward, ensuring our continued growth and success. Additionally, I would like to express my sincere appreciation to our valued
shareholders, esteemed business partners and other stakeholders.

[MDA_P026]
I am deeply grateful for your continued collaboration, partnership,
and patronage. Your ongoing support fuels our motivation to strive for
excellence and reinforces our commitment to delivering exceptional
value and service. Together, we look forward to building upon our
successes and forging ahead towards a brighter future for CCK. TIONG CHIONG HIIUNG
GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR