[MDA_P001]
Annual Report for a more detailed management discussion and analysis
of our business operations and performance in FY2021.
COVID-19 Initiatives
PPB Group continued to undertake various initiatives to
support the community during the COVID-19 pandemic.
We spent a total of RM6 million in 2021 on food products
for
20,000
vulnerable
recipients;
medical
equipment
requested by hospitals, and items to enhance the
wellbeing of frontliners. We also provided a total of 149,700
lunch meals to 2,400 recipients in Seremban, Penang, Johor,
and the Klang Valley, whilst generating income for more
than 50 unemployed individuals or struggling operators who
prepared the meals. In addition, PPB engaged local singers,
buskers, muralists, home bakers and skilled workers, with
334 engagements to assist them in earning an income.
MESSAGES FROM OUR LEADERS
2021 Annual Repor t
RISE ABOVE ADVERSIT Y

[MDA_P002]
MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
Dear Shareholders,
The PPB Group performed satisfactorily in 2021 despite the continuing COVID-19 pandemic. Notwithstanding the difficulties faced by our businesses, the Group results remained stable, due
largely to the contribution from Wilmar International Limited (“Wilmar”). Group revenue was 16% higher at RM4.86 billion (2020: RM4.19 billion), with revenue increase
in all business segments. Group pre-tax profit was also higher, with a 5% increase to RM1.50
billion (2020: RM1.42 billion), mainly due to a higher share of results of Wilmar of RM1.50
billion (2020: RM1.24 billion). “
“
Economic and Operating Environment in 2021
The Malaysian economy registered positive growth of 3.6% in the fourth quarter of 2021. This was supported mainly by improved domestic
demand as economic activities recovered following the easing of containment measures under the National Recovery Plan (“NRP”). The Group performance improved gradually with our business segments adapting to the new normalcy in line with the NRP. The Grains
and Agribusiness segment recorded a small profit despite challenging business conditions.

[MDA_P003]
Notably, our Film Exhibition and Distribution
segment had a strong close in the fourth quarter of the year, as the relaxation of COVID-19 standard operating procedures (“SOP”) and
strong movie title releases mitigated the segment loss. The Group will continue optimising and managing costs, focusing on operational excellence and new business initiatives for additional
revenue streams. Lim Soon Huat
Managing Director
MESSAGES FROM OUR LEADERS
2021 Annual Repor t
RISE ABOVE ADVERSIT Y
FFM Grains and Mills’ flour mill in Pasir Gudang

[MDA_P004]
GRAINS AND AGRIBUSINESS SEGMENT
The Grains and Agribusiness segment is the largest contributor to Group revenue. This segment comprises Flour Milling, Feed Milling, Corn
Trading and Livestock Farming, contributing 78% of the Group’s revenue and 4% of profit in FY2021. FFM Berhad (“FFM”) Group, an 80% subsidiary of PPB, owns and operates nine flour mills, of which five are located in Malaysia, two in
Vietnam and one each in Indonesia and Thailand, with a total flour milling capacity of 7,540 MT/day. FFM also has 20% interest in eight
associates in China, which have a combined flour milling capacity of 18,950 MT/day. FFM also owns and operates five feed mills across Malaysia, with a total milling capacity amounting to 67,200 MT/month. The livestock farming operations comprise a layer farm in Trong, Perak and two breeder farms in Sua Betong, Negeri Sembilan and Gurun,
Kedah. The production capacity of the Trong layer farm is estimated at 21 million eggs per month, while the breeder farms have a combined
production capacity of about 3 million chicks per month.

[MDA_P005]
Flour Milling
Animal Feed Milling
Navigating the Pandemic
FFM Group’s increased revenue for 2021 was due to the higher
selling prices and sales volume in both Indonesia and Vietnam. The
rise in raw materials cost contributed to the increase in selling price
of flour; a portion of the cost increase being passed to customers. The increase in wheat prices and freight charges has intensified
market competition, and the price volatility had driven up the
cost of products. However, we leveraged on our Group’s extensive
experience in grains procurement, supply chain management and
technical competency to mitigate the adverse impact of the wheat
price volatility and supply chain disruption. FFM’s flour milling capacity has increased with the completion of
its new 500 MT/day wheat flour mill constructed by 51%-owned
VFM-Wilmar Flour Mills Co Ltd at its existing factory in Quang
Ninh Province, in northern Vietnam at an estimated cost of
USD20 million. Looking ahead, the domestic market growth looks more positive
after the opening of all economic sectors.

[MDA_P006]
However, we expect
the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict to add more uncertainty and
volatility to the commodity market and cause greater disruption
to the global supply chain. This will continue to be a challenging
year. Notwithstanding the volatility of raw material prices and other
rising costs, we do not pass all cost increases to customers. The Animal Feed Milling’s business environment is uncertain due to market segment contraction as many high-volume customers switched
to home mixing or toll milling to cut costs. Previously, independent farmers had also abandoned the traditional farming model and opted
for an integrated farming scheme, which has an impact on independent feed millers.

[MDA_P007]
The Division has introduced a few measures to mitigate these challenges, such as increasing procurement efficiency and effectiveness,
improving and maintaining high-quality feed, adjusting the pricing to be more competitive and widening the customer base to avoid
dependence on a few key customers. While poultry farming continues to be pressured, the Division will continue to explore means of diversifying the feed ranges to other
segments such as ruminant feed, and also expansion of our customer base to cushion the impact of poultry integration. The Grains and Agribusiness segment saw lower sales in all business sectors due to various constraints caused by the
pandemic. Factory shutdown and labour shortages affected the production and sales of the Flour Milling Division. In the Animal Feed
Milling Division, the lower sales were attributable to the closure or lower sales volume of restaurants and food service outlets. Sales in
the Livestock Farming Division were affected by lower demand for DOC and table eggs; which was due to reduced or halted intake from
broiler farmers and reduction in egg production due to disease outbreaks.

[MDA_P008]
To mitigate these adverse effects, the Flour Milling Division had rolled out several strategies such as focusing on the speed of market
access and upholding our service standards to stay competitive. In the Animal Feed Milling Division, we will continue the cost reduction
initiatives and support long-standing customers. The Livestock Farming Division looks to improve sales by widening the customer base
and earlier depopulation of non-profitable flocks. Livestock Farming
The COVID-19 pandemic affected the Livestock Farming Division,
due to lower consumer spending, leading to increasing unsold day-
old-chicks (“DOC”). There was also the risk of a shrinking DOC
market caused by independent farmers facing losses and halting or
reducing their DOC intake. Additionally, an increased risk of disease
outbreaks in poultry farms also affected this Division. The Division implemented several measures to deal with industry
challenges, such as improving the quality of DOC and eggs,
implementing more competitive pricing and improving infectious
disease surveillance and preventive vaccination programmes. Production was also adjusted according to market demand to
optimise cost.

[MDA_P009]
Projecting ahead, we are optimistic of a recovery as poultry products
such as egg and broiler meat are the most widely accepted food
and cheapest source of protein. However, the livestock farming
business continues to be competitive as many major players in the
industry are moving fast and continuously perfecting their business
models by adopting full integration. Overall, we expect the business for livestock farming to be
satisfactory in 2022, in the absence of unforeseen circumstances
that may negatively affect the farms’ performance or operations. MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
FFM Farms’ layer farm in Trong, Perak
MESSAGES FROM OUR LEADERS
2021 Annual Repor t
RISE ABOVE ADVERSIT Y
Palletised bagged animal feed in warehouse

[MDA_P010]
CONSUMER PRODUCTS SEGMENT
The Group’s Consumer Products segment under FFM Marketing Sdn Bhd (“FMSB”) is the second-highest contributor to the Group’s revenue. This segment involves the marketing and distribution of fast-moving consumer goods (“FMCG”) comprising both in-house and agency
products. This segment consists of the Consumer Products Distribution, Bakery and Food Processing businesses. FMSB has 13 warehouses across Malaysia, with a capacity of more than 300,000 sq. ft. The bakery business consists of the well-known Massimo brand of products, known for its quality, taste and consistency. The Italian Baker
Sdn Bhd (“TIB”) has five production lines producing up to 16,000 bread loaves/hour; 24,000 rolls/hour; 15,000 pieces of cakes/hour; and
6,000 buns/hour. The food processing business comprises 2 production lines, primarily producing nuggets, burgers, and sausages. MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
Consumer Products Distribution
Bakery
Food Processing
Challenging economic conditions caused by the pandemic have
negatively impacted the Consumer Products Distribution segment.

[MDA_P011]
The supply chain disruptions and rising raw material prices have
driven up distribution costs and put pressure on margins. The
currency volatility and higher wages also contributed to margin
compression in this segment. FMSB will continue to strengthen the positioning of its brands
and launch new products to sustain its long-term growth whilst
actively pursuing new agencies to grow revenue. This segment will
continue to work with its business partners to develop products for
the foodservice sector. The consumer goods sector expects the business environment to
remain challenging amidst the ongoing pandemic. However, we are
able to leverage on our strong distribution network, established
brands and varied in-house products to provide a solid base for
long term business sustainability. TIB generated slightly higher revenue than the previous year. Although the bread market for FY2021 was relatively stable, the
entry of prominent new players introduced keen competition in the
industrial baking scene.

[MDA_P012]
The year 2021 saw the introduction of several new products and
services such as the Massimo Tamper-Evident bread bag packaging,
Peanut Butter roll, Seeded Multigrain with Barley loaf, Burrosa
Butter, Burrosa Red Velvet and Burrosa Tiramisu. With new players in the market, we will have to increase our
efficiency, control our costs, introduce more unique products, and
aggressively expand distribution points and availability to maintain
and grow our market share. In 2021, FFM Further Processing Sdn Bhd (“FFP”) started a partnership to produce food items under their in-house brands. This initiative
aims to optimise capacity utilisation of the factory, reduce operational expenditures per unit and increase resource utilisation efficiency. As
a result, a 23% higher volume was achieved over 2020. Volatile raw materials cost and rising transportation cost resulted in sharp increases of product costs with limited room to price-in the cost
increase to customers. This Division also encountered labour shortages due to the challenges in recruitment and restrictions on hiring of
foreign workers. We have broadened the supply base to acquire raw materials at more competitive prices.

[MDA_P013]
In addition, we are leveraging
on our existing partnership to strengthen volumes and improve bargaining capability. We believe 2022 will be a challenging year for this Division, with the ongoing supply chain disruption and high raw material prices. On the
brighter side, we observed that market demand remained higher than pre-pandemic years. This growing demand enables the expansion
of production capacity and sales. FFP will focus on volume growth and drive revenue by increasing our workforce and operating our lines
concurrently. With that, business margins are expected to improve, especially when the food service industry recovers. Navigating The Pandemic
The COVID-19 outbreak has caused numerous disruptions in the Consumer Products segment. Most businesses faced higher
operational costs due to the additional health and safety measures such as sanitisation, medical screenings and equipping the
workplace with adequate hygiene facilities. Efficiency was also affected by the SOPs imposed by the Government, restricting the number
of on-site employees, and the restriction of sectors categorised as non-essential.

[MDA_P014]
Several countermeasures were administered to address the impact of the pandemic. Businesses in this segment monitored sales
movement and ensured sufficient stock supplies, and addressing consumer demands by the use of various channels. The Division also
looked into opening new distribution channels such as e-commerce platforms to further improve sales. Massimo introduced Malaysia’s first tamper-evident bread loaf packaging in February 2021
TIB’s office and production plant in Pulau Indah, Klang
MESSAGES FROM OUR LEADERS
2021 Annual Repor t
RISE ABOVE ADVERSIT Y

[MDA_P015]
FILM EXHIBITION AND DISTRIBUTION SEGMENT
Golden Screen Cinemas Sdn Bhd (“GSC”) remains the leading cinema chain in the Malaysian cinema sector, with 400 screens showcasing
movies at 40 locations across the country. In Vietnam, the Group owns a 40% stake in Galaxy Studio Joint Stock Company, which extends
our income stream beyond Malaysian shores. Galaxy Studio is the third-largest cinema exhibitor in Vietnam, operating 108 screens in 18
locations. MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
Another Year in an Unprecedented Market
Looking Ahead
Since early-2020, the COVID-19 pandemic has adversely impacted the cinema sector. Cinemas in Malaysia struggled as the sector was
not allowed to operate during the multiple lockdowns. However, in the last quarter of the year, cinemas reopened after an appeal to the
authorities as vaccination rates in the country increased. The Malaysian cinema box office collected RM131 million, a 5.2% drop from RM138 million in 2020. The release of “Spider-Man: No Way
Home” collected RM38 million, contributing 29% of the Malaysian box office collection, despite operating under reduced seating capacities
and strict SOPs.

[MDA_P016]
In September 2021, GSC completed the acquisition of 18 cinema assets from MCAT Box Office Sdn Bhd (“MBO”) and Reel Entertainment
Holdings Sdn Bhd, increasing its market share to more than 50%. In December, we also celebrated the first Happy Food Co outlet launch
in GSC Southkey, Johor Bahru. Happy Food Co is GSC’s expansion into cafes in key locations. GSC is optimistic that lifting of movement controls, relaxation
of social restrictions and a strong line-up of movie blockbusters
would positively contribute to cinema admissions. As the recovery
momentum picks up in 2022, we anticipate the Film Exhibition and
Distribution segment to deliver better financial results on a year-
on-year comparison. The Group has several development plans for the coming year,
such as GSC Rewards programme to drive more admissions, retain
and attract new cinemagoers, and build customer loyalty. We are
launching eight BIG cinema halls to provide for a better immersive
experience and opening at least two Happy Food Co outlets during
the year. GSC also targets the introduction of new cinemas in
Bintulu, Johor, Kuala Lumpur, and Putrajaya, with a total of 50 new
screens.

[MDA_P017]
Navigating the Pandemic
The Government imposed two rounds of MCO in
2021, preventing cinemas from operating during those
periods. GSC was only allowed to operate 186 days compared
to 222 days in 2020. Our cinemas operated under strict
SOPs to safeguard customers’ wellbeing, with regular hall
sanitisation. Various cost control measures were implemented
to defray operating costs, including continued negotiation with
landlords for rental rebates. To maintain brand awareness with our customers, we
boosted our online presence to sell merchandise products
and expanded to non-movie related merchandise through
GSC’s online store ‘Keepsake’. Other efforts to mitigate the
pandemic’s effects include developing food and beverage
sales through Happy Food Co, screening independent
titles and alternative content, and promotional ticket
pricing packages for individual and corporate customers. GSC is the first in Malaysia to introduce ScreenX, a unique screen format
from Korea that delivers an immersive cinematic experience all around
the auditorium
MESSAGES FROM OUR LEADERS
2021 Annual Repor t
RISE ABOVE ADVERSIT Y

[MDA_P018]
ENVIRONMENTAL ENGINEERING AND UTILITIES SEGMENT
PROPERTY SEGMENT
Chemquest Sdn Bhd (“CQ”) Group is a leading provider of innovative solutions, advanced technologies and professional management for
the water and sewage industries. In 2021, the CQ Group’s utilities and environmental engineering, and waste management businesses
were primarily undertaken by CWM Group Sdn Bhd (“CWM”). CWM has successfully commissioned more than 140 water and sewage
projects with a combined contract value in excess of RM3.3 billion. In 2021, the CQ Group completed two water treatment plants in Johor and Sarawak, with a total contract value of RM87 million. It had
also secured three water projects in Sarawak, Johor, and Kedah with a total contract value of RM212 million, bringing the order book to a
total of RM360 million as at 31 December 2021. During the financial period under review, the Group exited the solid waste management business with the divestment of its entire equity
interests in Sitamas Environmental Systems Sdn Bhd and Worldwide Landfills Sdn Bhd.

[MDA_P019]
We will continue to generate value for our clients in 2022 by improving operational efficiency, expanding our process design innovations,
and strengthening our project management and construction teams to take on larger projects, especially those in the infrastructure sector. Over the years, the Group has built a reputation as a reliable niche property developer, and operator of commercial and retail properties. We strive to produce high-quality homes and commercial properties that add value to our buyers, tenants and local communities. In Kuala Lumpur, our properties are Cheras LeisureMall and Cheras Plaza in Taman Segar. We also have properties in Georgetown, Penang,
namely New World Park and The Whiteaways Arcade. Our latest property development project is Megah Rise in Taman Megah, Petaling Jaya. This 228-unit condominium and adjacent retail
podium is targeted to complete by the second quarter of 2022. In the north, we have a residential development known as Taman Tanah
Aman in Bukit Mertajam, Penang. Taman Sinar Mentari, our development in Bedong, Kedah, comprises mainly residential developments,
namely affordable houses, with some commercial shop offices.

[MDA_P020]
This segment is also involved in property management, namely the Southern Marina Residences in Johor, the nature-inspired retail mall,
The LINC in Kuala Lumpur, and the soon-to-be-completed Megah Rise retail mall in Petaling Jaya. MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
Looking Ahead
Going into 2022, we anticipate a slow recovery from the pandemic
which will have an impact on the Group’s investment properties
and property development. With the country’s transition to the endemic stage and borders
reopening from April 2022, we are cautiously optimistic that foot
traffic and sales will continue to rise. The Megah Rise residential construction is nearing completion, and
our focus this year is on the retail mall’s opening planned for the
fourth quarter of the year. Management is also reviewing potential
new developments in Penang and Bedong, Kedah. The Group strives to actively look for more strategic land banks and
establish strategic partnerships with reputable industry players to
expand business opportunities. Navigating the Pandemic
As the property sector continues to experience uncertainty,
the Group is committed to developing innovative measures
to keep up with market trends.

[MDA_P021]
This includes the digitalisation of
our marketing efforts to reach prospective buyers through various
social media platforms. Megah Rise development in Petaling Jaya
Outlook and Prospects
We are optimistic that 2022 will see a steady recovery for this
sector with the relaxation of social restrictions and recovering
markets. We now qualify to participate in Government tenders as
a main contractor for water and sewage projects. Also, the market
has recognised us as a capable infrastructure works contractor,
opening more opportunities. Going into 2022, CQ Group has tendered for water projects in
Malaysia and Brunei valued at RM400 million and will continue to
focus on opportunities in water, sewage, and infrastructure projects. Navigating the Pandemic
The implementation of numerous MCOs and strict SOP
guidelines in 2021 caused significant delays in project
activities. These constraints adversely affected productivity due
to quarantine restrictions, supply chain disruptions, and labour
shortages, resulting in project implementation delays, and led to
additional costs for the Group.

[MDA_P022]
To future-proof our business and develop more bottom-line
impact, we strive to implement new IT infrastructures to enable
working remotely and minimising cyber risks. MESSAGES FROM OUR LEADERS
2021 Annual Repor t
RISE ABOVE ADVERSIT Y
Nyabau Water Treatment Plant in
Bintulu, Sarawak
Sewerage Network Pump
Station in Papan, Perak
Sewerage Network Pump Station
in Melawati, Kuala Lumpur
Southern Marina Residences

[MDA_P023]
GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The Group achieved total revenue of RM4.86 billion, 16% higher than FY2020, as all core segments recorded higher revenue. The Group achieved a 5% increase in pre-tax profit to RM1.50 billion. Our main business, Grains and Agribusiness, recorded a decrease
in profit by 77% to RM62 million; whilst Film Exhibition and Distribution recorded a lower loss of RM113 million. Contribution from our
18.6%-owned associate, Wilmar International Ltd (“Wilmar”) increased by 21% to RM1.50 billion. Profit attributable to shareholders
totalled RM1.50 billion, with earnings per share amounting to 105.17 sen, a 13.6% increase from the previous year. Grains and Agribusiness
Segment revenue was higher by 17% to RM3.77 billion (FY2020 : RM3.22 billion). The segment recorded lower profit at RM62 million as
compared to RM272 million in the previous financial year. Segment performance was affected by higher raw material costs of flour, feed
and maize, with limited price-in mechanism; in addition, fair value loss on derivative instruments for hedging purposes amounted to RM109
million (FY2020: gain of RM3.7 million).

[MDA_P024]
MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
RM’000
RM’000
Revenue
Segment revenue
Profit before tax
Segment profit
Profit attributable to shareholders
Earnings per share (sen)
4,857,430
3,770,632
1,496,111
1,498,073
61,522
105.17
4,190,690
3,220,584
1,316,961
1,420,933
271,682
92.57
RM’000
RM’000
Consumer Products
Film Exhibition and Distribution
Environmental Engineering and Utilities
Segment revenue was higher at RM645 million (FY2020: RM628 million). Segment profit for FY2021 was at RM6.5 million (FY2020: RM32
million). Notwithstanding the one-off gain in FY2020 of RM21 million on step-acquisition of an associate, segment performance in FY2021
was weaker due to increased product and distribution costs. Segment revenue was slightly higher at RM116 million (FY2020: RM114 million). The segment recorded lower losses of RM113 million
(FY2020: RM136 million), driven primarily by higher contribution from box office collections in 4Q2021 as well as various cost control
measures implemented during the year.

[MDA_P025]
Cinema operations were significantly impacted by the intermittent cinema closures since the
second quarter of FY2020 as the country imposed nationwide containment measures against the COVID-19 pandemic. Segment revenue was higher at RM205 million (FY2020: RM190 million). The segment recorded a profit of RM647,000 for FY2021 (FY2020:
RM14 million). Performance in FY2021 was affected by a loss amounting to RM4 million on divestment of a 40%-associate involved in
landfill operations. Contribution from the said associate immediately prior to the divestment was a loss of RM526,000 as compared to a
profit of RM5.1 million recorded in the previous financial year. RM’000
RM’000
RM’000
Segment revenue
Segment revenue
Segment revenue
Segment profit
Segment loss
Segment profit
645,183
116,470
204,843
6,543
(113,278)
628,275
114,255
189,543
31,548
(135,598)
14,382
RM’000
RM’000
RM’000
Financial Performance by Business Segments
MESSAGES FROM OUR LEADERS
2021 Annual Repor t
RISE ABOVE ADVERSIT Y

[MDA_P026]
MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
Property
Group Financial Position
Group Cash and Cash Equivalents
Group Bank Borrowings
Group Capital Expenditure
Segment revenue and profit were higher at RM115 million (FY2020: RM67 million) and RM15 million (FY2020: RM4 million) respectively. The improvement in profit was mainly attributable to additional sales and progressive profit recognition of the Megah Rise development project. The Group’s total assets increased by 10.1% to RM27.40 billion as at 31 December 2021. This was mainly attributable to the increase in
the share of net assets of Wilmar. Group total liabilities increased by 65.8% to RM2.22 billion as at 31 December 2021. The increase was mainly due to an increase in
borrowings by RM621 million to RM1.10 billion. Net asset per share stood at RM17.17 as at 31 December 2021. Group cash and cash equivalents amounted to RM1.30 billion as at 31 December 2021 (FY2020: RM1.42 billion). Group bank borrowings increased by RM621 million to RM1.10 billion as at 31 December 2021, 90% which comprise of trade finance-
related facilities. 90% of the Group’s bank borrowings are unsecured and carry variable interest rates.

[MDA_P027]
81% or RM890 million are foreign currency-denominated working capital loans for the foreign operations of the Grains and Agribusiness
segment; these were mainly in United States Dollars, Indonesian Rupiah and Vietnamese Dong. The Group incurred total capital expenditure of RM218 million in the financial year ended 31 December 2021. Major areas of spend were as follows:
RM’000
RM’000
Segment revenue
Total assets
Net assets
Segment profit
Total liabilities
Net assets per share (RM)
115,030
27,397,162
24,431,488
14,825
2,216,859
17.17
67,046
24,883,658
22,818,749
3,940
1,337,213
16.04
RM’000
RM’000
RM52 million in the Grains and Agribusiness segment, mainly for the construction of new flour milling plants, and upgrading of the
flour and feed milling plants;
RM103 million in the Film Exhibition and Distribution segment for the acquisition of the former MBO cinema assets and opening of
new cinemas;
RM26 million in the Property segment, mainly for the construction of investment properties; and
RM34 million in the Consumer products segment, mainly for the purchase of trucks and equipment.

[MDA_P028]
With the multitude of challenges in our various businesses, identification and management of risks are important to ensure business
sustainability. For a conglomerate like PPB Group, minimal disruption to the value creation process for stakeholders is imperative. The
Group has identified the following top six risks that must be managed to ensure its continued long-term success:
•
•
•
•
ANALYSIS OF THE GROUP’S TOP RISKS
Foreign exchange risk
4. The fluctuation of the Ringgit has presented challenges
to PPB Group as most of the raw materials for the food
processing and manufacturing segments, film rights
purchases and overseas investments are denominated
in foreign currencies. The Group monitors currency
fluctuations closely and hedges part of its exposure; it
also has a natural hedge in view that part of its income is
generated in foreign currencies. Reliance on certain income streams
1. PPB Group is a conglomerate which also has an 18.6%-stake
in Wilmar. For FY2021, it relied to a large extent on
contributions from Wilmar to meet one of its key objectives,
which is to reward shareholders with sustainable and
consistent dividends.

[MDA_P029]
The Group therefore invests in and
expands its other business segments both domestically
and overseas, while continually looking for investment
opportunities to diversify its portfolio. Health and safety hazards
3. The nature of certain business segments in the Group may
expose our employees to health and safety hazards. To
foster a safe and healthy work environment, we take a
range of actions including safety awareness and training
sessions for employees and other stakeholders, the
formation of OSHA committees and stringent enforcement
of OSHA requirements. Compliance with regulatory requirements
2. PPB Group places high priority on compliance with relevant
regulatory requirements. As such, the Group endeavours to
create awareness and equip employees through relevant
training and engagement of external advisers or consultants
for advice on compliance matters. MESSAGES FROM OUR LEADERS
2021 Annual Repor t
RISE ABOVE ADVERSIT Y
Fluctuation of commodity prices
5. Some of the raw materials used in the Group’s production
are traded in the commodities market, which is exposed
to price fluctuation risk.

[MDA_P030]
Changes in consumer demand,
extreme weather changes, and unforeseen events like the
Russian/Ukraine conflict, are amongst some circumstances
that can influence commodity prices. It is critical to secure
raw materials at favourable prices for the Group to remain
competitive and profitable. The Group closely monitors
commodity price movements and hedges its exposure. Supply Chain Disruption Risk
6. The unprecedented disruptive worldwide events such as
adverse weather, port congestion, labour shortages and
the escalation of geopolitical tensions between Russia and
Ukraine, have exposed the Group to supply chain disruption
risk. The Group recognises the need for our supply chains
to be resilient. To mitigate the impact, action being taken
includes monitoring closely global supply and demand,
implementing strategic procurement of raw materials,
diversifying supply sources and optimising operational
efficiencies through our Group’s extensive procurement
experience and technical competency.

[MDA_P031]
The Malaysian economy recorded 3.6% growth in the fourth
quarter of 2021. This was primarily contributed by the recovery in
domestic demand as economic activities began to recover following
the relaxation of containment measures under the National
Recovery Plan. For 2022, we anticipate growth to be supported by the steady
resumption of global demand and higher private sector expenditure
due to improving labour market conditions and ongoing public policy
support. Growth is also expected to be attributed to continuing
significant investment projects supporting development in the
private and public sectors. However, the ongoing Russia-Ukraine
conflict will create more ambiguity and disruptions for global supply
chains and commodity markets. The Grains and Agribusiness segment experienced a decline due
to the unprecedented high raw material costs induced by global
supply shocks and supply chain disruptions. Projecting into
2022, we forecast margin pressures to persist due to the volatile
commodity market prices and high freight costs.

[MDA_P032]
We are committed
to optimising operational efficiencies through our Group’s extensive
grain procurement experience and technical competency to
mitigate the impact of rising raw materials and operating costs. The Consumer Products segment experienced increased production
costs due to higher commodity and logistics costs. Despite this, the
segment is expected to perform better as its market reach expands
through the food services channel and e-commerce platform. The Environmental Engineering and Utilities segment will maintain
its focus on replenishing its order book and exploring new project
opportunities. The Property segment is set for a gradual recovery,
and we are on target to complete the development of the Megah
Rise project in the second quarter of 2022. Wilmar’s performance
will continue to contribute substantially to the overall profitability
of the Group. 24 March 2022
The Film Exhibition and Distribution segment had a spectacular
finish in the fourth quarter. A strong line-up of movies and the
relaxation of COVID-19 SOPs contributed to the improvement
in cinema admissions.

[MDA_P033]
The acquisition of the former MBO assets
in September 2021 to expand our cinema circuit nationwide, is
expected to contribute positively to the performance and support
the recovery of this segment. Management remains prudent with
expenditure during the shift to normalcy and will continue to
explore revenue diversification to improve operation resilience. MANAGING DIRECTOR’S REVIEW
GROUP OUTLOOK & PROSPECTS FOR 2022
MESSAGES FROM OUR LEADERS
2021 Annual Repor t
RISE ABOVE ADVERSIT Y