[MDA_P001]
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Profit Before Tax
RM 112.03
million
Current Ratio
3.91
times
Earnings Per Share
11.51
sen
Revenue
RM 1,057.65
million
Profit After Tax
RM 71.58
million
Total Assets
RM 767.96
million
Total Liabilities
RM 155.11
million

[MDA_P002]
ANNUAL REPORT | 5
NUMBER OF RETAIL STORES &
SUPERMARKETS (UNITS)
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Cont’d)
1,200,000
1,000,000
800,000
600,000
400,000
200,000
120,000
100,000
80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
RM’000
REVENUE
RM’000
EBITDA
RM’000
PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS
OF THE COMPANY
RM’000
150,000
120,000
90,000
60,000
30,000
100,000
80,000
60,000
40,000
20,000
5-YEARS FINANCIAL SUMMARY (CONT’D)
EPS
Dividend per share
5.98
2.00
1.25
3.50
4.25
3.50
3.91
10.12
13.35
11.51
Retail stores
Supermarkets

[MDA_P003]
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD
6 |
The Management Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) is intended to provide the stakeholder with operational and
financial highlights of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“CCK” or “the Group”) for the financial year ended
31 December 2024 (“FY2024”). The MD&A should be read together with the audited financial statements of the Group and Company as set out in this
Annual Report. INTRODUCTION
CCK’s business comprises of four (4) segments, namely; retail, poultry, prawn and food service. Business operations
are carried out primarily in Sarawak, Sabah and Indonesia (Jakarta, Pontianak and Tarakan). The Group employs a
total of approximately 2,986 employees across all business segments. The Group’s mainstay and core business is the retail segment, which operates retail stores, supermarkets and
wholesale stores. Since the opening of the first retail store in Sibu in 1970, CCK’s network has grown to seventy-six
(76) touch points comprising of retail stores and supermarkets across East Malaysia (Sarawak and Sabah). Retail
stores are operated under the CCK Fresh Mart brand and supermarkets under the CCKLocal brand.

[MDA_P004]
CCK Fresh Mart retail stores cater to both businesses and households, carrying a smaller range of strategically
selected stock keeping units (“SKU”) which are specifically targeted to certain locations and buyer demographics. CCK Fresh Mart retail stores are typically smaller format stores located in both urban and rural areas. CCKLocal supermarkets typically occupy a larger footprint and offer households a wide range of SKUs ranging from
local and imported food items to general household items. CCK’s wide-reaching retail network is supported by a fully
integrated supply chain consisting of a feedmill, layer farming, poultry farming and processing, prawn farming and
processing, and the manufacturing of house-brand food products. As Sarawak’s largest integrated poultry supplier, CCK’s wide-reaching retail network benefits from being vertically
integrated with the poultry segment. Much like the retail network, CCK’s farm operations and processing facilities
are also located in Sarawak and Sabah. On a blended basis, fresh dressed chicken and chicken parts make up
approximately 15% of CCK Fresh Mart retail stores’ SKU.

[MDA_P005]
The other 85% of CCK Fresh Mart retail stores’ products
comprise house-brand and third-party frozen products, seafood products, fresh fruits, and vegetables. REVIEW OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Revenue for FY2024 increased by 7.8% to RM1,057.6 million from a year ago (“FY2023”). Revenue growth was
driven by improved performances from the retail and poultry segments. Notably, higher consumer demand led to a
better performance in the retail segment whilst higher demand for poultry products from both our institutional clients
and our own retail stores (intersegment sales) boosted the poultry segment. During FY2024, two (2) new CCK Fresh Mart retail stores were opened in Beaufort in Sabah and in Kanowit in
Sarawak and one (1) CCK Fresh Mart retail store was closed in Mukah in Sarawak. This brought our retail network
to sixty-seven (67) CCK Fresh Mart retail stores, three (3) CCKLocal supermarkets and six (6) wholesale stores. This
gives us a total of seventy-six (76) touchpoints, up from seventy-five (75) as at end FY2023. The retail segment achieved a revenue of RM819.8 million during FY2024, 9.0% higher than FY2023.

[MDA_P006]
Growth was
driven by more matured contributions from our established retail network, higher sales volumes from both the retail
and wholesale channels, and strong demand for our in-house manufactured processed products in Indonesia. Notably, our Indonesian manufacturing operations was able to cater to the strong demand due to the additional
production capacity that came on stream in January 2021. Revenue from our Indonesian manufacturing operations
(Pontianak and Jakarta) amounted to RM212.6 million, accounting for 20.0% of total Group revenue for FY2024. MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Cont’d)

[MDA_P007]
ANNUAL REPORT | 7
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Cont’d)
The poultry segment reported a total segment revenue of RM374.9 million for FY2024, an increase of 11.4% from the
same period last year. The better performance was mainly driven by an increasing demand for poultry products with
sales from both institutional clients and our own retail stores (intersegment sales). The prawn segment’s revenue amounted to RM91.3 million in FY2024, declined marginally by 2.3% from
RM93.5 million in FY2023. The segment’s performance continued to be driven by the contributions from PT Bonanza,
which continued to drive overall segment export volumes, particularly to Japan and Taiwan. Sales via our own retail
channels also remained stable despite some moderation, contributing positively to overall segment performance. The food service segment reported revenue of RM20.8 million, declined from RM24.1 million in FY2023. This was
mainly due to lower sales volume and demand from the government schools in Sarawak covered under our supply
contracts. The Group recorded a profit before tax (“PBT”) of RM112.0 million for FY2024, increased 4.3% from RM107.4 million
in FY2023.

[MDA_P008]
Overall profitability was primarily driven by the better performance of the retail segment, while the poultry,
prawn and food service segments remained relatively stable despite some moderation. Notably, the poultry segment
saw a spike in profitability in FY2023 due to government subsidies related to price ceilings for broilers and eggs,
creating a high base effect. Gross profit margins for FY2024 inched up to 21.4% from 20.2% in FY2023. The retail segment reported a segment PBT of RM80.8 million, a significant improvement of 13.1% compared to the
same period last year. Growth was driven by a myriad of factors, including increased sales volumes in our retail and
wholesale channels driven by an overall improvement in consumer demand, more favourable product mix and strong
demand for our in-house manufactured processed products in Indonesia. The poultry segment reported a PBT of RM24.7 million, was largely unchanged compared to FY2023. However,
operational performance has improved, benefiting from effective cost control measures and a favourable product mix. In contrast, last year’s profitability was boosted by government subsidies related to price ceilings for broilers and eggs.

[MDA_P009]
The prawn segment recorded a PBT of RM9.1 million, declined 4.4% from RM9.5 million in FY2023. Segment
profitability affected by a moderation in average selling prices and sales volumes to key export markets during the
period under review. The food service segment reported a PBT of RM1.5 million in FY2024, lower compared to RM3.0 million in FY2023. The decrease in profitability was due to lower sales volume of the segment. Operating and administrative expenses increased due to the additional running costs incurred by PT Bonanza,
facilities in Pontianak, Indonesia, and retail outlets that came on stream in the last few quarters. Share of results in our associate company, Gold Coin (Sarawak) Sdn Bhd, amounted to RM5.0 million in FY2024, a
growth of 4.4% compared to RM4.8 million in FY2023. Finance costs for FY2024 amounted to RM3.0 million whilst total borrowings stood at RM49.0 million against
shareholders’ funds of RM565.4 million as at end-December 2024, translating into a gearing ratio of 0.09 times. CCK maintained a net cash position as deposits with licensed banks and cash and bank balances surged to
RM172.9 million from RM124.6 million as at end-December 2023.

[MDA_P010]
The Group’s property, plant and equipment rose to RM232.2 million as at end-December 2024 from RM216.2 million a
year ago. Notable capital expenditure carried out during FY2024 was for the commissioning of two (2) additional CCK
Fresh Mart stores, acquisition of a new shoplot in Sibu and addition of motor vehicles for use in Sibu, Kota Kinabalu
and Bintulu, as well as new building and equipment for the Black Soldier Fly project, and upgrades to an existing
Fresh Mart store in Sibu. All capital expenditure was funded by a combination of bank borrowings and internally
generated funds.

[MDA_P011]
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD
8 |
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Cont’d)
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS

[MDA_P012]
In FY2024, we expanded our retail network as follows –
- Two (2) CCK Fresh Mart retail stores; one (1) in Beaufort, Sabah, and one (1) in Kanowit, Sarawak. Meanwhile, the Group closed one (1) CCK Fresh Mart retail store in Mukah, Sarawak. To recap, the acquisition of PT Bonanza was completed in July 2022, during FY2022. Established for the past
22 years, PT Bonanza operates out of Tarakan and is engaged in the processing of shrimp for local and export
markets. PT Bonanza’s key products are frozen raw shrimp, frozen cooked shrimp and frozen Nobashi Ebi shrimp. As evidenced by the performance of the prawn segment in FY2024, the acquisition has augmented our seafood
business and increased the size and scale of our export-oriented prawn products. Specifically, the prawn segment
benefitted from a full year of contribution from PT Bonanza which boosted export volumes to Japan and Taiwan. Our manufacturing operations in Indonesia continued to benefit from an overall increase in production capacity due
to the addition of Pontianak’s facility that was commissioned in January 2021.

[MDA_P013]
This additional production capacity
supported the higher sales volumes of our own in-house brands of sausages, nuggets and other processed products. Sausages continue to be the CCK’s best seller in Indonesia whilst the sales of nuggets continue to gain momentum. All products from our two (2) factories in Jakarta and Pontianak are sold to our network of six (6) locally partnered
Freshmart outlets in Pontianak as well as to third parties in Jakarta and Pontianak. Notably, during FY2024, the Group successfully completed the disposal of 37.7% stake in PT Adilmart to Astrantia
in December 2024. We are optimistic that this strategic alignment will add a new dimension to our growth strategies
and accelerate our pace of expansion. Beyond unlocking operational efficiencies, Astrantia will also support the
expansion of production capacity, the opening of new sales channels, and brand building. With this partnership, we are
well-positioned to drive long-term, sustainable growth for PT Adilmart. ANTICIPATED OR KNOWN RISKS
a. Credit Risk

[MDA_P014]
CCK practises a policy of dealing with creditworthy customers based on careful evaluation of each credit
customer’s financial standing and credit history. This practice mitigates the risk of financial loss from possible
default payments. The Group has also in place a credit monitoring process which regularly monitors the status
and payments of our credit customers.
b.
Foreign Currencies Fluctuation Risk

[MDA_P015]
The Group imports frozen products for the network of retail stores where the purchases are denominated in US
dollars. As such, the Group is exposed to currency fluctuation risk. Any adverse fluctuation in the MYR/USD
rate may affect the profitability of the Group. In addition, fluctuations in the MYR/USD will likely affect the cost
of feed for the poultry segment.
c.
Liquidity Risk

[MDA_P016]
The Group maintains an adequate level of cash and cash equivalents and banking facilities to ensure sufficient
liquidity to meet its liabilities as and when they fall due. The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk arises principally
from trade payables, other payables and other bank borrowings (bankers’ acceptances and a revolving credit).

[MDA_P017]
ANNUAL REPORT | 9
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Cont’d)
d.
Competition Risk

[MDA_P018]
CCK retail stores face increasing risks from existing and new competitors who offer similar products and compete
on the basis of pricing. To mitigate this, we are continuously looking at means to improve our competitive edge.
The Management not only focuses on pricing of products but also in evolving business models which improve
the customers’ shopping experience.
e.
Biosecurity And Disease Risk

[MDA_P019]
Concerns regarding disease and biosecurity at our chicken farms are constantly high on the agenda. The
economic impact of a disease outbreak in any farm can be catastrophic on CCK’s bottom line. Constant
monitoring is a compulsory standard operating procedure across all our operations even as we continuously
innovate and update our biosecurity measures. DIVIDENDS
CCK has an internal dividend policy of paying up to 30% of the profit after taxation and minority interests whilst taking
into consideration the level of available funds, the amount of retained earnings, capital expenditure commitments and
other investment planning requirements. In line with our commitment to reward shareholders, the Board of Directors declared a special interim single-tier
dividend of 5.0 sen per ordinary share in respect of FY2024, duly paid on 22 January 2025. The Board is pleased to announce a final single-tier dividend of 3.50 sen for the financial year ended
31 December 2024. PROSPECTS
Operating in the dynamic and increasingly challenging retail landscape, CCK remains committed to delivering
essential everyday staples through our extensive urban and rural network.

[MDA_P020]
We cater to diverse consumer needs with
a wide range of offerings – including poultry, fresh produce, seafood, and both house-brand and third-party frozen
goods. While our key business segments are closely tied to consumer sentiment and demand, the inherent resilience
of these staple products reinforces our position in the market. Employing a vertically integrated business model, this allows us to exert greater control over our supply chain and
operations. This integrated approach, coupled with the nature of our product offerings, gives us the ability to be agile
whilst developing a commendable resilience to market fluctuations and challenges. That said, we continue to operate in a high inflationary environment, exerting pressure on costs throughout the supply
chain. This inflationary trend compounds the challenges posed by fluctuating currency exchange rates and rising
input costs, further straining our cost structures. Specifically, the volatility of the US dollar against the Malaysian Ringgit remains a concern as it leads to fluctuations in
prices of corn and soy.

[MDA_P021]
Feed prices constitute a significant portion of the poultry segment’s costs which in-turn make
up about 50% of our retail segment’s sales. Consequently, we actively employ strategies to address these cost pressures, seeking efficiencies wherever possible
while remaining mindful of the impact on pricing and profitability. Our focus remains on mitigating these cost pressures through prudent cost management practices, operational
optimisations, and strategic pricing adjustments, ensuring that we maintain our competitiveness in the market. Strategically expanding our retail network remains integral to our growth trajectory, with a concerted focus on optimising
economies of scale and enhancing the efficiency of our fully integrated supply chain. This will bolster our capacity to
meet evolving consumer demands while maximising operational efficiencies.

[MDA_P022]
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD
10 |
In December 2024, CCK successfully
completed the disposal of a stake in
PT Adilmart to Astrantia. Having grown
our Indonesian manufacturing business
at double-digit rates since our venture
more than a decade ago, we are excited
to welcome Astrantia as a partner as we
work hand-in-hand to take this business
to the next level. This transaction
marks a significant step in enhancing
our value-creation potential, as we
leverage our partnership with Astrantia
to unlock new growth opportunities
through combined expertise. Following
the first closing date of the transaction
(23 December 2024), Astrantia now
owns 37.7% of PT Adilmart. Looking ahead, we are optimistic that
this strategic alignment will add a new
dimension to our growth strategies
and accelerate our pace of expansion. Beyond
unlocking
operational
efficiencies, Astrantia will also support
the expansion of production capacity,
the opening of new sales channels, and
brand building. With this partnership, we
are well-positioned to drive long-term,
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (Cont’d)
sustainable growth for PT Adilmart.

[MDA_P023]
As we look forward, we remain steadfast in our commitment to proactive risk mitigation and operational optimisation
across all key business segments. Whilst we navigate the aforementioned challenges with agility and foresight, we
are equally committed to execute our growth plans and strategies. Taking into account the above, we are therefore cautiously optimistic with regards to the coming financial year. APPRECIATION
I want to express my deepest gratitude to the Board of Directors, Management Team, and the incredible staff of CCK. Your dedication, perseverance, and collective commitment have been the driving force behind our success, enabling
us to navigate an ever-evolving retail landscape with confidence and resilience. Your hard work and determination continue to propel CCK forward, ensuring sustained growth and progress. I also
extend my sincere gratitude to our valued shareholders, trusted business partners, and stakeholders. Your ongoing
support, collaboration, and trust inspire us to push boundaries, innovate, and deliver greater value. Your unwavering support and confidence inspire us to push boundaries, strive for excellence, and deliver exceptional
value and service.

[MDA_P024]
Together, we look ahead with optimism, building on our achievements and striving for an even
brighter future for CCK. TIONG CHIONG HIIUNG
GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR

[MDA_P025]
ANNUAL REPORT | 11
DIRECTORS’ PROFILE
YBhg. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk is the founder of CCK
Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“CCK”) and its subsidiaries
(“CCK Group”). He was appointed as Executive Chairman to
the Board of CCK on 15 July 1997 and re-designated as Non-
Independent Non-Executive Chairman on 20 March 2002. He is a member of the Audit Committee and Nomination
Committee of CCK and the Chairman of the Remuneration
Committee of CCK. He also acts as Chairman of the other
companies within CCK Group. Under his stewardship, CCK
Group has progressed from a small family-run business to
one of the Sarawak’s largest integrated poultry producers and
producers of frozen seafood. YBhg. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong began his career as a seafood
trader at the age of 14. He also involved in poultry industries
for the past 40 years. YBhg. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong also sits on
various school boards and is actively involved in the Foochow
and Zhang Associations in the world and in Malaysia as well. He is the Honorary Life President of the Sibu Chinese Chamber
of Commerce and Industry and the Honorary President of The
Association Chinese Chambers of Commerce and Industry of
Sarawak.

[MDA_P026]
He was appointed as the Honorary Life President
of World Federation of Foochow Association in 2004 and the
Permanent Honorary Life Chairman and Inaugurator of the
World Zhang Clan Association in 2011. He also sits on the
boards of Hua Shang Economic Corporation (Sibu) Bhd. and
other private limited companies in Malaysia. YBhg. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong is the Executive Chairman of
Nam Cheong Limited (“NCL”), a public company listed on the
Singapore Exchange. He oversees NCL Group’s strategic
direction and shipbuilding operations. YBhg. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong was conferred the “Panglima
Jasa Negara” (PJN) which carries the title “Datuk” by Seri
Paduka Baginda Yang Di-Pertuan Agong on the occasion of
His Excellency’s 75th Birthday on 2 June 2001. He was also
awarded the “Pingat Bintang Sarawak” (PBS) and “Johan
Setia Mahkota” (JSM) in 1987 and 2000 respectively by the
Sarawak State Government and Seri Paduka Baginda Yang
Di-Pertuan Agong respectively for his contributions to the
community. On 4 June 2016, he was bestowed the “Panglima
Setia Mahkota” (PSM) which carries the title “Tan Sri” by Seri
Paduka Baginda Yang Di-Pertuan Agong XIV on His Majesty’s
88th Birthday.

[MDA_P027]
The Award is in recognition of Tan Sri Datuk
Tiong’s contribution as a leader of diverse and multi-business
ventures, his contribution to national economic development
and to the society and country. YBhg. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong
was awarded with Consumer Goods Industry Entrepreneur of
the Year at the Asia Pacific Entrepreneurship Awards 2016. During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, YBhg. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong attended all the six (6) Board meetings
held. His shareholdings in CCK as at 2 April 2025 are disclosed on
page 146 of this annual report. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
AGE | 83
NATIONALITY | MALAYSIAN
GENDER | MALE

[MDA_P028]
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD
12 |
Tiong Chiong Hiiung
Group Managing Director
Chong Shaw Fui
Executive Vice Chairman
AGE | 80
NATIONALITY | MALAYSIAN
GENDER | MALE
Mr. Chong Shaw Fui was appointed as Executive Vice Chairman to the Board of CCK
Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“CCK”) on 15 July 1997. He is a member of Risk
Management Committee. He has more than 53 years of experience in the field of poultry industry. He is responsible
for the management of the poultry business unit of CCK, which ranges from breeding,
hatchery, and table eggs to the production line accordingly. Mr. Chong commenced his poultry breeding experience in Singapore in 1972. He was
the founder of Sarawak Breeding Farm, specialising in the hatching and breeding
of commercial broiler day-old chicks. He then developed this business into Zhang
Agriculture Development Sdn. Bhd., which is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of CCK. In 1983, he incorporated Poultry Industry (S) Sdn. Bhd. (“Poultry Industry”) and started
contract farming. Poultry Industry supplies day-old chicks and feed to their contract farms
and buy back the broilers which are then supplied to CCK’s abattoir.

[MDA_P029]
Poultry Industry is
now a wholly-owned subsidiary of CCK. During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, Mr. Chong attended all the six (6)
Board meetings held. His shareholdings in CCK as at 2 April 2025 are disclosed on
page 146 of this annual report. DIRECTORS’ PROFILE (Cont’d)
AGE | 58
NATIONALITY | MALAYSIAN
GENDER | MALE
Mr. Tiong Chiong Hiiung was appointed to the Board of CCK Consolidated Holdings
Berhad (“CCK”) on 15 July 1997. He is the Group Managing Director of CCK, a member
of Remuneration Committee and the Chairman of Risk Management Committee. He graduated with a Bachelor of Economics from Monash University in Australia in
1989. He joined the Group after his graduation. In 1994, he was appointed as Managing
Director of Central Coldstorage Kuching Sdn. Bhd., and was responsible for the overall
management and operations of CCK Group. He has been actively involved in every
aspect of the Group’s operations, including breeding, broiler farming and processing of
seafood. He is instrumental in transforming CCK Group’s operations into one of the most
modern in Sarawak. He is the Executive Vice Chairman of Nam Cheong Limited (“NCL”) group.

[MDA_P030]
NCL is a
public company listed on the Singapore Exchange. He is also the Financial Director and
a member of Nominating Committee of NCL Group. He provides guidance to the Finance
team in financial strategies and control towards a healthier financial performance for
NCL Group. Mr. Tiong is a Licensed Company Secretary by the Companies Commission of Malaysia. He also sits on the boards of various private limited companies. During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, Mr. Tiong attended all the six (6)
Board meetings held. His shareholdings in CCK as at 2 April 2025 are disclosed on
page 146 of this annual report.

[MDA_P031]
ANNUAL REPORT | 13
Kueh Chung Peng
Executive Director
AGE | 71
NATIONALITY | MALAYSIAN
GENDER | MALE
Mr. Kueh Chung Peng was appointed as Executive Director of CCK Consolidated
Holdings Berhad (“CCK”) on 15 July 1997. He is a member of Risk Management
Committee. He has over 43 years’ experience in aquaculture and coldstorage products industry, and
he plays an advisory role for CCK in the field of coldstorage, aquaculture farming and
poultry processing. He joined Kin Eastern Frozen Food Sdn. Bhd. in 1982 as the Managing Director and is
responsible for the aquaculture farming division of CCK Group. He was appointed to the
Board of CCK Fresh Mart Sdn. Bhd. in 1993. He was then appointed as the Managing
Director of Central Coldstorage Kuching Sdn. Bhd. on 27 August 2014 to oversee the
businesses of coldstorage, poultry processing and retailing. During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, Mr. Kueh attended
all the six (6) Board meetings held. His shareholdings in CCK as
at 2 April 2025 are disclosed on page 146 of this annual report. Tiong Chiong Soon
Executive Director
AGE | 55
NATIONALITY | MALAYSIAN
GENDER | MALE
Mr.

[MDA_P032]
Tiong Chiong Soon was appointed as Executive Director of CCK Consolidated
Holdings Berhad (“CCK”) on 15 July 1997. He is a member of Risk Management
Committee. He graduated with a Bachelor of Business from University of Oklahoma in USA in
1994. He joined CCK Group after his graduation, and is principally responsible for the
purchasing function and the retail division of the Group. He maintains an excellent
rapport with the suppliers thus ensuring timely delivery of products of the highest quality
for the Group. He is the Executive Director (Operations) of Nam Cheong Limited (“NCL”) Group, a public
company listed on the Singapore Exchange. He supervises NCL Group’s shipbuilding
operation, vessels’ repair works, procurement and sourcing of equipment required for
the shipbuilding and chartering operation. He also sits on the boards of various private
limited companies including subsidiaries of NCL. During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, Mr. Tiong attended all the six (6)
Board meetings held. His shareholdings in CCK as at 2 April 2025 are disclosed on
page 146 of this annual report. DIRECTORS’ PROFILE (Cont’d)

[MDA_P033]
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD
14 |
Ling Ting Leong @
Ling Chong Seng
Senior Independent Director
AGE | 73
NATIONALITY | MALAYSIAN
GENDER | MALE
Mr. Ling Ting Leong @ Ling Chong Seng is a member of Audit Committee. He joined
CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“CCK”) Group in 1983 and was responsible for
the finance and corporate secretarial matters of CCK Group. He was appointed as
Executive Director to the Board of CCK on 15 July 1997, and was re-designated as Non-
Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 July 2013. He was subsequently re-designated
as Independent Director on 13 April 2020 and appointed as Senior Independent Director
on 1 June 2023. Mr. Ling is a businessman with a wealth of experience. He also sits on the boards of
various private limited companies. From 1971 to 1982, Mr. Ling gained his experience in accounting and auditing. He
is a Certified Company Secretary and is a member of the Malaysian Association of
Company Secretaries (“MACS”) since 2001. He was appointed as Sarawak Liaison
Co-Chairman of MACS since 11 October 2011. He was then appointed as Sarawak
Region Committee Deputy Chairman of MACS since 29 December 2015. Mr.

[MDA_P034]
Ling
retired as Sarawak Region Committee Deputy Chairman in mid of 2018, but remains as
fellow member in MACS. During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, Mr. Ling attended all the six (6)
Board meetings held. His shareholdings in CCK as at 2 April 2025 are disclosed on
page 146 of this annual report. Lau Liong Kii
Executive Director
AGE | 74
NATIONALITY | MALAYSIAN
GENDER | MALE
DIRECTORS’ PROFILE (Cont’d)
Mr. Lau Liong Kii was appointed as Executive Director to the Board on 15 July 1997. He
is a member of the Remuneration Committee and Risk Management Committee. He joined CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“CCK”) Group in 1982 as the Managing
Director of Ableway Sdn. Bhd., principally responsible for the operations of Ableway Sdn. Bhd. He also oversees the production and marketing functions of CCK’s prawn division. Since then, he gained vast experience in domestic and international food markets, and
brought to the Group an in-depth understanding of specialist trends of the food industry. He also sits on the boards of Tiong Su Kouk Foundation and various private
limited companies. During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, Mr.

[MDA_P035]
Lau attended
all the six (6) Board meetings held. His shareholdings in CCK as at
2 April 2025 are disclosed on page 146 of this annual report.

[MDA_P036]
ANNUAL REPORT | 15
Wong Siaw Wei
Independent Director
AGE | 49
NATIONALITY | MALAYSIAN
GENDER | FEMALE
Ms. Wong Siaw Wei was appointed to the Board as an Independent Director of CCK
Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“CCK”) on 1 June 2024. She is the Chairperson of Audit
Committee and a member of Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee. She is a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (FCCA) and
Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA). She has more than 25 years of experience
in the fields of accounting, auditing, investment banking and corporate affairs. Her
professional expertise is developed from Arthur Anderson & Co., Ernst & Young,
Aminvestment Bank Berhad and few other private and public listed companies. She is an Independent Non-Executive Director and the Chairperson of Sustainability
Committee of Ibraco Berhad since 22 April 2022. Ms. Wong is an Executive Director of a consultancy company engaging in provision
services of consultancy, accountancy, management and secretarial. She is also an
Executive Director of Carbon Xchange (Sarawak) Sdn.

[MDA_P037]
Bhd., a company involves in
provision of sustainable agriculture project management, training services and trading
of natural agriculture produce. During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, Ms. Wong attended all the two (2)
Board meetings held. She holds no share in CCK. Dato Sim Kheng Boon
Independent Director
AGE | 70
NATIONALITY | MALAYSIAN
GENDER | MALE
YBhg. Dato Sim Kheng Boon was appointed to the Board as an Independent Director
of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“CCK”) on 1 June 2023. He is the Chairman
of Nomination Committee and a member of Audit Committee and Remuneration
Committee. He holds a Bachelor of Commerce Degree (Honours) majoring in accounting from
University of Windsor, Canada in 1980. He has more than 30 years of investment
banking experience involved in public listing of companies, fund raising exercise, merger
and acquisition. YBhg. Dato Sim was the first Chief Executive Officer of Development Bank of Sarawak
Berhad from 2017 to 2023 during its formative years. Prior to this, he was attached with
Kenanga Investment Bank Berhad as Head of East Malaysia and with AmInvestment
Bank Berhad as Director of Sarawak Region.

[MDA_P038]
He is currently an Independent Director of Zecon Berhad and Kim Hin Industry
Berhad, both companies are listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad. During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, YBhg. Dato Sim attended
all the six (6) Board meetings held. He holds no share in CCK. DIRECTORS’ PROFILE (Cont’d)

[MDA_P039]
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD
16 |
Ethan Tiong Ing Hung
Deputy Chief Executive Officer
AGE | 29
NATIONALITY | MALAYSIAN
GENDER | MALE
Mr. Ethan Tiong Ing Hung was appointed as the Deputy Chief Executive Officer
of CCK Consolidated Holdings Berhad (“CCK”) and the Group on 1 March 2024. He graduated with a Bachelor in Commerce, with double major in Finance and
Management from University of Melbourne. Mr. Ethan Tiong was appointed as
Executive Director of CCK Fresh Mart Sdn. Bhd. (“CCKFM”), a wholly owned
subsidiary of CCK, on 1 July 2018. He is responsible for business operations and
strategic decision making for CCKFM and some other subsidiaries of CCK. He also
sits on the boards of various private limited companies. He holds no share in CCK. Additional information of Directors and Deputy Chief Executive Officer:
(i)
All the five (5) Executive Directors, namely Mr. Chong Shaw Fui, Mr. Tiong Chiong Hiiung, Mr. Tiong Chiong Soon,
Mr. Kueh Chung Peng and Mr.

[MDA_P040]
Lau Liong Kii, are also the Key Senior Management of CCK Group, who are primarily
responsible for the business operations of CCK Group;
(ii)
All the Directors have no family relationship with any Director or Major Shareholder of CCK, except for Mr. Tiong
Chiong Hiiung and Mr. Tiong Chiong Soon who are sons of YBhg. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk, and Mr. Ethan Tiong
Ing Hung, the Deputy Chief Executive Officer is son of Mr. Tiong Chiong Hiiung and grandson of YBhg. Tan Sri Datuk
Tiong Su Kouk;
(iii)
YBhg. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk, Mr. Tiong Chiong Hiiung and Mr. Tiong Chiong Soon are Directors of Central
Coldstorage Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. (“CCS”). They have substantial interest in CCS. Principal activity of CCS is trading
of coldstorage products.

[MDA_P041]
Save as disclosed above, none of the other Directors and Deputy Chief Executive Officer have any conflict of interest
with CCK Group;
(iv)
None of the Directors and Deputy Chief Executive Officer hold any directorship in other public companies, except for
YBhg. Tan Sri Datuk Tiong Su Kouk, YBhg. Dato Sim Kheng Boon and Ms. Wong Siaw Wei; and
(v)
None of the Directors and Deputy Chief Executive Officer have any conviction for offences within the past five (5)
years and there was no public sanction or penalty imposed on the Directors and Deputy Chief Executive Officer by
the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year under review.
PROFILE OF DEPUTY CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

[MDA_P042]
ANNUAL REPORT | 17
The Brandlaureate Best Brands Awards 2023-2024
Forbes Asia’s 200 Best Under A Billion Award
Occupational Safety and Health Coordinator Workshop

[MDA_P043]
CCK CONSOLIDATED HOLDINGS BERHAD
18 |
Job Analysis Workshop
Participation in Kuching Festival