[MDA_P001]
Management Discussion and Analysis
“By staying focused on what mattered, Nestlé
Malaysia has been able to manage the ongoing
challenges of the pandemic in 2021, accelerating
growth and improving year-on-year profitability,
while supporting the community in times of need and
accelerating our sustainability efforts.”
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Through 2021, the second and hopefully final year of the pandemic, we
remained focused around the three key priorities we had stated in 2020:
protecting our people, ensuring a steady supply of food and beverages to
Malaysians and support to the community in multiple ways. All this was to
be done while accelerating our efforts to mitigate the environmental impact
of our operations. We were able in the above context to accelerate growth to reach sales of RM5.7
billion, 5.9% increase from 2020. This was contributed by both domestic and
export sales, which grew by 6.2% and 5.0% respectively. OOH channels, in
spite of the long lockdown periods throughout the year, started their recovery
which accelerated in the fourth quarter as the MCO was lifted.

[MDA_P002]
Overall, solid
growth in combination with our disciplined approach to cost management
and the partial mitigation of the impact from commodity headwinds allowed
us to record a recovery in profit after tax of RM569.8 million for the year, up
by 3.1%, while profit before tax stood at RM751.8 million (+3.7% increase). BUSINESS & OPERATIONAL REVIEW
In navigating through the second year of the pandemic, we stayed focused
in protecting the business core, once again ensuring flawless commercial
execution across all channels and retailers. Indeed, through our sales and distributor network which allows us to cover
the full spectrum of channels and geographies across the country, our highly
capable and committed sales team was able to ensure the presence in-
store of all our brands, serving the needs of our customers and consumers. Amidst the many restrictions during the pandemic, this was key to ensure
the availability of our products across the nation.

[MDA_P003]
Ne s t l é ( Ma l a ys i a ) Berh a d
A nn ua l Re v ie w
Management Discussion and Analysis
Likewise, our industrial sites and supply chain operations allowed us to fulfil the solid demand for our brands, even in the most difficult moments of the lockdown, when only 60% of the
workforce was allowed to operate on-site. This constrained operational environment makes even more remarkable the progress achieved in executing major investments across our various sites
during 2021, reinforcing the foundations and our footprint to be able to support growth through the coming years. As we are now watching the light at the end of the pandemic tunnel, I would want to acknowledge the impressive participation of all our teams in the National Vaccination programme, as well
as our effort to encourage Malaysians to get vaccinated through our national communications campaign incentivising Malaysians to register for vaccination and offering e-wallet vouchers worth
a total of RM500,000 as rewards. We had also the privilege of supporting frontliners by providing meals at selected Vaccination Administration Centres.

[MDA_P004]
In addition to focused execution to ensure the steady supply of our core products, we also paid close attention to emerging consumer trends, and this allowed us to introduce a stream of new
products that contributed incremental sales and opened new avenues to ensure future growth. You can see many of them referred to in the individual business review section later in this report. Allow me to refer in particular to the new platforms we have launched to address the growing interest in healthier and more sustainable lifestyles, especially important for the new generations. This realisation is behind our entrance into the plant-based space, with the opening of our plant-based meal solution manufacturing facility in Shah Alam in March 2021, and the launch of
our HARVEST GOURMET brand. As Nestlé’s first facility of its kind in the ASEAN region, this enables us to capture, under the Harvest Gourmet brand, the rising demand for plant-based foods
in both our domestic and export markets, supplying Malaysian-made, high-quality, great-tasting Halal-certified plant-based meals.

[MDA_P005]
While still at an early stage, we have ramped up progressively
our presence to cover over 700 retail outlets and 150 restaurant chains in Malaysia, as well as a strong presence in main online platforms. With movement restrictions spurring rapid digital adoption, e-commerce continues to take on
greater relevance for consumers. In line with this, we worked towards heightening the availability
and visibility of our brands across all main e-commerce platforms, while digital consumer
engagement continued to gain good traction through the year. As an example, we were an anchor brand for the two-day launch of Shopee Supermarket Super
Brand Day. This allowed us to tap into the heightened traffic on the platform, offering convenient
bundles of essential Nestlé products to ease consumers’ shopping journey, leading to substantial
growth in sales via Shopee Supermarket during the campaign period. With a deep-rooted presence in the nation for over a century, Nestlé Malaysia’s portfolio of
brands has built a unique bond with Malaysian families, who make our products part of their
daily lives.

[MDA_P006]
It is our mission to keep building this bond that unites us, nurturing this love and
trust in our brands with an ever-responsive action to support the needs of our communities,
through multiple programmes. This year, our brands contributed a total of RM11.6 million towards
community relief efforts, making life better for many communities through impactful initiatives. MAGGI, MILO and NESTLÉ EVERYDAY were amongst the brands that led this effort, which also
saw a number of initiatives at Corporate level, such as our Nestlé Cares Back-to-School campaign,
donating school essentials to kids in need ahead of the start of the school year; or our decision,
in light of the unprecedented floods that hit Malaysia in December 2021, to donate close to
RM500,000 worth of products to over 10,000 flood victims. For further details about our PBMS brand, please refer to page 32 of this report. A R

[MDA_P007]
Ne s t l é ( Ma l a ys i a ) Berh a d
A nn ua l Re v ie w
Brand love and trust is a core foundation, but to ensure success in the market we also need to deliver products that resonate with consumers and shoppers, and deliver the right value,
taste and quality expectations. Leveraging our long-standing presence in Malaysia, we continuously adapt to local preferences to heighten the appeal of our offerings, across all brands and
businesses. This keen understanding of local tastebuds feeds constantly our innovation efforts and helps us to fine tune our product formulation and recipes to make our portfolio tastier,
healthier and better to continue building a competitive advantage for the long run. In moving towards this goal, we expanded our plant-based offerings to fulfil the needs of
consumers that are increasingly incorporating plant-based alternatives into their diets. Alongside the Harvest Gourmet range, we also launched our first dairy-free Ready-to-Drink
products pioneered by MILO and NESCAFÉ, offering plant-based versions of our most
loved brands, with great taste and made suitable for the many Malaysians suffering lactose
intolerance in any of its forms.

[MDA_P008]
Marking another first, we introduced our new LIVELY Tea range, which is lower in sugar and is
infused with plant extracts that make them a ‘better-for-you’ refreshment option within the tea
drinks segment. Further highlighting the nutritional benefits of our products, we refreshed our
NESPRAY brand to enhance its positioning as a wholesome milk powder that delivers the right
nutrition to children, and the only full cream milk in Malaysia with 15 essential vitamins and
minerals that are key to a child’s development. Through our research and development (R&D) expertise and product innovation efforts, we
continuously work towards ensuring that our products meet the strict requirements of the
Malaysian Ministry of Health’s Healthier Choice Logo (HCL) 2.0. As a result, we have successfully
obtained HCL 2.0 certification for 36 Nestlé products as of 2021, offering the largest portfolio
of HCL products in the country. Beyond our portfolio of great-tasting and nutritious products, we promoted healthier lifestyles
through strategic initiatives at the grassroots levels to elevate sports development, particularly
among youths.

[MDA_P009]
With a view towards building up Malaysia’s grassroots football ecosystem, we
collaborated with the Football Association of Malaysia, embarking on a five-year partnership
to nurture a new generation of football stars, and kicked off the MILO All Star Challenge to
showcase talented young players. “Ultimately, it is about delivering better-for-you products that play a positive role in the nutrition of Malaysian families and continue to deliver
consistently the high quality and 100% halal commitment behind each and everyone of our products. That’s what Nestlé, the Good Food, Good Life
company, is about: a constant strive to enhance the lives of Malaysians through products that support them in their health and wellness journey.”

[MDA_P010]
Ne s t l é ( Ma l a ys i a ) Berh a d
A nn ua l Re v ie w
Management Discussion and Analysis
We are deeply committed to shaping a more diverse and inclusive working environment and we are proud of the high level of participation of female colleagues in leadership roles across the
organisation. In 2021, we focused our actions to improve the more male-dominated areas such as Sales and Operations, starting from increased recruitment with women comprising 34% of new hires in our
Sales, Technical and Supply Chain divisions; as well as making available activities such as a forklift driving training academy specifically targeted to provide our interested female colleagues the
necessary skills and certification needed to take on these roles. Supporting gender balance is also about removing barriers and in 2021, we engaged three daycare centres in close proximity to our Head Office, while enhancing our Parental Support Policy
with increased paid maternity and paternity leave, primary caregiver leave and child adoption leave.

[MDA_P011]
An important change in 2021 was the move of our headquarters to a new purpose-built office that facilitates new ways of working, and primarily the adoption of a hybrid work model leveraging
the learnings of the past two years and maximising the use of technology and digital connectivity, in a very open, collaborative and idea-inspiring environment.

[MDA_P012]
Ne s t l é ( Ma l a ys i a ) Berh a d
A nn ua l Re v ie w
Nestlé Malaysia’s Net Zero Roadmap execution accelerated in 2021 and we are making
progress in our objectives to achieve Plastic Neutrality and bring down our CO2 emissions,
in line with the Group’s global commitments. Among our key initiatives for 2021 was the expansion of our Door-to-Door Collection and
Recycling Programme to more townships in Petaling Jaya and other areas including Subang
Jaya and Shah Alam. First launched in Petaling Jaya in October 2020, today nearly 30,000
households are participating and we aim to collect and separate over 2,000 tonnes of waste
in 2022. Beyond this, we embarked on a new initiative to reduce plastic waste in Malaysian
rivers and waterways, with six tonnes of PET collected as of 2021. On the packaging front, 74%
of the plastics used in our packaging is already designed for recycling, representing 90% of the
total packaging volume used for our products. The other big focus area in 2021 involved the reforestation efforts through Project RELeaf.

[MDA_P013]
Although pandemic lockdowns limited access to planting sites, we accelerated the planting of
seedlings in our nurseries, allowing us to have a significant stock of plantlets ready for planting
in 2022, putting us back on track with our commitment of planting 3 million trees across
Malaysia by 2023. Our sustainability progress in 2021 ended on a high note with the adoption of the green Energy
Tariff, which allowed us to move towards 100% renewable electricity across all our operations
in Malaysia, starting from January 2022. CONCLUSION
This review cannot conclude without thanking all my 5,200 colleagues who made possible our positive progress in 2021, standing firm against the very tough environment we had to confront. Our success is owed to all of them, who allowed us to ensure operation continuity against all odds and who embraced vaccination and SOP discipline as the only way to protect each other,
enabling us to fulfil our mission to bring their favourite food and beverage brands to the rakyat. As we move forward, 2022 will undoubtedly see further headwinds, mainly those derived from high commodity costs and an unsettling geopolitical context.

[MDA_P014]
However, I have all the confidence
on the collective wisdom, capabilities and ability of Nestlé Malaysia to overcome all these challenges and fulfil our purpose of enhancing quality of life for everyone, today and for the generations
to come. Scan the QR code to watch our educational Jom Kitar Semula Bersama Shiera video featuring
our Door-to-Door Collection and Recycling Programme.