THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
Registration No. 199901006659 (481559-M)
SEEKING OPPORTUNITIES
IN CHALLENGES
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
TABLE OF CONTENTS
About Us
Vision and Mission  1
Corporate Profile  2
Corporate Information  3
LEADERSHIP
Profile of Board of 
Directors and Key
Senior Management  4
PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
Management
Discussion and
Analysis  9
Five-Year Group
Financial Highlights  14
SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability
Statement  16
COVER RATIONALE
The Group continued to face adverse market conditions due to global and domestic economic
uncertainties stemming from escalating geopolitical tensions, high inflationary pressures,
and tight monetary policies. This has resulted in surging raw materials and operational costs
impacting our earnings.
As depicted on the report cover design, we focused on efforts to enhance our value chain
as a strategy for creating opportunities, sustainable value, and the resilience to strive and
achieve better profitability amid the elevated headwinds. By prioritising higher quality goods
and services, greater variety, and more innovation in our value chain, we aim to improve our
business processes, increase efficiency, and establish a competitive advantage moving forward.
21ST ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING
of Three-A Resources Berhad
Registration No. 199901006659
(481559-M)
Date:
26 May 2023 (Friday)
Time:
10.00 a.m.
Virtual basis through live
streaming and online Remote
Participation and Electronic
voting (“RPEV”) from the
Broadcast Venue:
Level 3A, Menara Symphony,
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13, 46200, Petaling Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan.
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement  31
Statement on Risk
Management and
Internal Control  48
Audit Committee
Report  52
Additional Compliance
Information  55
FINANCIAL
Report
Financial Statements  56
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
Particulars of Properties
Held by the Group  101
Analysis of
Shareholdings 105
Notice of 21st Annual
General Meeting  108
Proxy Form  •
VISION
To excel as one of the Global Market Leaders in the manufacture of Food & Beverage
ingredients
MISSION
To excel as one of the Global Quality Brands in the industries
2	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) ABOUT US
CORPORATE
PROFILE
OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
• Liquid Caramel, Caramel Colour
• Fermented Vinegar, Distilled Vinegar, Rice Vinegar
• Glucose Syrup, High Maltose Syrup, Liquid Maltodextrin
• Soya Protein Sauce (“SPS”)
• Hydrolysed Vegetable Protein (“HVP”) Powder
• Caramel Powder
• Soya Sauce Powder
• Maltodextrin
• Golden Syrup
SSSFI serves businesses of all sizes across a broad spectrum
of industries and sectors. Our versatile range of ingredients have
different functional properties and unique characteristics that
can be tailored to customer needs. All ingredients are Halal and
Kosher certified.
SSSFI offers diverse range of packaging options to accommodate
customer needs. There are various package sizes ranging from
bulk road tanker to small packing such as jerrycan and carton
box. Customised packaging can be arranged to accommodate
customer requirements.
OUR ACCREDITATION & RECOGNITION
FSSC 22000 Certification by
Intertek Certification International Sdn. Bhd.
HACCP Certification by
Ministry of Health Malaysia (“MOH”)
HALAL Certification by
Islamic Development Department of Malaysia (“JAKIM”)
KOSHER Certification by
Orthodox Union
ABOUT US
Three-A Resources Berhad (“3A”) is an investment
holding company that was listed since 2002 and has
ascended to the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia in
2008. Its wholly owned subsidiary, San Soon Seng Food
Industries Sdn Bhd (“SSSFI”) is one of the leading food
and beverage ingredients manufacturing companies
in the country, started as a caramel producer in 1977
and expanded its product portfolio that have made
strong footprints in many parts of the world. SSSFI has
remained focused in its core strength of manufacturing
food and beverage ingredients and firmly believes in
producing products of the highest quality and has
successfully expanded beyond Asian horizons and
making its mark in the international market.
ABOUT US									 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 3
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
Board of Directors
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Fang Siew Ping
Non-Independent Executive Director
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King
Managing Director
Liew Kuo Shin
Non-Independent Executive Director
Chew Eng Chai
Independent Non-Executive Director
Kee Thuan Chai
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
Independent Non-Executive Director
Lim Yee Mein
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
Independent Non-Executive Director
Auditors
BDO PLT
Chartered Accountants
Level 8, BDO @ Menara CenTARa
360 Jalan Tuanku Abdul Rahman,
50100 Kuala Lumpur
Tel no. : +603 2616 2888
Fax no. : +603 2616 3190
Registered Address
AL 308, Lot 590 & Lot 4196,
Jalan Industri U19
Kampung Baru Sungai Buloh,
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan.
Tel no : +603 6156 2655
Fax no : +603 6156 2657
E-mail : info@three-a.com.my
Share Registrar
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd
11th Floor, Menara Symphony,
No 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan.
Tel no. : +603 7890 4700
Fax no. : +603 7890 4670
Company No.
199901006659 (481559-M)
Website
www.three-a.com.my
Bankers
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd
OCBC Bank (Malaysia) Berhad
CIMB Bank Berhad
Hong Leong Bank Berhad
Stock Exchange
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Market
Main Market
Sector
Consumer Products & Services
Stock Name
3A
Stock Code
0012
Investor Relation
Fong Peng Fai, Group Financial
Controller
Jessica Fang, Senior Manager
Tel no. : +603 6156 2655
E-mail : info@three-a.com.my
Board Committee
Audit Committee
Chew Eng Chai (Chairman)
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
Remuneration Committee
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
(Chairperson)
Chew Eng Chai
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
Nomination Committee
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
(Chairman)
Chew Eng Chai
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
Risk Management Committee
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
(Chairperson)
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King
Fang Siew Ping
Company Secretaries
Wong Wai Foong MAICSA 7001358
(SSM PC No. 202008001472)
Tan Hsiao Yuen MAICSA 7056952
(SSM PC No. 201908002342)
4	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) LEADERSHIP
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
DATO’ JAGJIT SINGH A/L BANT SINGH
Independent Non-Executive Chairman Nationality Age
67
Gender
MR FONG CHU KING @ TONG CHU KING
Managing Director/Key Senior Management Nationality Age
78
Gender
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh (“Dato’ Jagjit”) was appointed to
the Board on 28 August 2019 and serves as an Independent Non-
Executive Chairman of the Company and a Director of its wholly
owned subsidiaries, San Soon Seng Food Industries Sdn Bhd
(“SSSFI”) and Three-A Food Industries (M) Sdn Bhd (“3A Food”).
Dato’ Jagjit holds a Bachelor of Law (LLB Hons) and Master of
Law (LLM) from the King’s College, University of London. He was
called to the Malaysian Bar in September 2011 and was awarded
Kesatria Mangku Negara (KMN) in 2008, Setia Mahkota Pahang
(SMP) in 2010 and Darjah Indera Mahkota Pahang (DIMP) in 2011.
Dato’ Jagjit was a former Judge and has served the Malaysian
Legal and Judicial Service for 28 years in various positions including
that of a Senior Federal Counsel, Deputy Treasury Solicitor, Legal
Advisor to the Ministry of Health, Deputy Public Prosecutor and
Mr Fong Chu King was re-designated to the Board on 28 August
2019 and serves as Managing Director of the Company and a
Director of its wholly owned subsidiaries, SSSFI and 3A Food.
He also serves as a member of Risk Management Committee,
Sustainability Committee and various Committees of the 3A
Group. Previously, he was a Non-Independent Executive
Director of the Company from May 2002 to August 2019.
Mr Fong Chu King holds a Bachelor of Science in Chemical
Engineering from the National Taiwan University. He is a
qualified Professional Engineer of Lembaga Jurutera Malaysia
and also a member of the Institution Engineers Malaysia. In his
past 20 years of service with the Lion Group of Companies, he
held a number of positions including Manager of Amsteel Mills
Sdn Bhd and General Manager of Megasteel Sdn Bhd.
Senior Assistant Parliamentary Draftsman.
Dato’JagjitcurrentlyservesasamemberoftheMalaysiaCompetition
Commission (MyCC) under the Ministry of Domestic Trade and
Consumer Affairs (KPDNHEP) and he practises as an Advocate
and Solicitor and is a Partner in Jagjit Ariff & Co.
Dato’ Jagjit attended all five (5) Board Meetings held during the
financial year ended 31 December 2022. He does not have any
family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder, nor
any conflict of interest with the Company. He has no convictions
for any offences within the past five (5) years (other than traffic
offences, if any), nor any public sanction or penalty imposed by
regulatory bodies during the fi­
nancial year.
Mr Fong Chu King is equipped with more than 40 years of
experience in manufacturing industry combining technical,
operational, as well as extensive knowledge in managerial
finance and business development. His strategic leadership
entails a more sustainable competitive advantage for the
Company in the food & beverage industry.
Mr Fong Chu King attended all five (5) Board Meetings held
during the financial year ended 31 December 2022. He is a
sibling of the major shareholder, Mr Fang Chew Ham. He has
no conflict of interest with the Company and has no convictions
for any offences within the past five (5) years (other than traffic
offences, if any), nor any public sanction or penalty imposed
by regulatory bodies during the fi­
nancial year.
LEADERSHIP									 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 5
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
MR CHEW ENG CHAI
Independent Non-Executive Director Nationality Age
73
Gender
DATO’ SHAMESH A/L JEEVARETNAM
Independent Non-Executive Director Nationality Age
47
Gender
Mr Chew Eng Chai was appointed to the Board on 17 June 2002
and serves as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the
Company. He also serves as a Chairman of Audit Committee
and a member of Nomination Committee and Remuneration
Committee of the Company.
Mr Chew Eng Chai is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales. He is also a member of
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants and Malaysian Institute
of Certified Public Accountants. He was formerly the Director
of Yeo Hiap Seng (Malaysia) Berhad, a company he had joined
Dato’Shamesha/lJeevaretnam(“Dato’Shamesh”)wasappointed
to the Board on 8 June 2022 and serves as an Independent
Non-Executive Director of the Company. He also serves as a
Chairman of Nomination Committee and is a member of Audit
Committee and Remuneration Committee of the Company.
Dato’ Shamesh holds a Bachelor of Law (“LLB Hons”) from
University of London. He has been in legal practice for more than
20 years and has vast experience in civil and commercial law
including handling of human resource and intellectual property
issues. He also currently serves as a President of the Housing
Tribunal.
since 1975. He has more than 27 years of experience in the
food & beverage industry.
Mr Chew Eng Chai attended all five (5) Board Meetings held
during the financial year ended 31 December 2022. He does
not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder, nor any conflict of interest with the Company. He
has no convictions for any offences within the past five (5) years
(other than traffic offences, if any), nor any public sanction or
penalty imposed by regulatory bodies during the fi­
nancial year.
Dato’ Shamesh attended two (2) Board Meetings held during the
financial year ended 31 December 2022 since his appointment as
Director on 8 June 2022. He does not have any family relationship
with any Director and/or major shareholder, nor any conflict
of interest with the Company. He has no convictions for any
offences within the past five (5) years (other than traffic offences,
if any), nor any public sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory
bodies during the fi­
nancial year.
6	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) LEADERSHIP
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
MS KARMJIT KAUR A/P SARBAN SINGH
Independent Non- Executive Director Nationality Age
61
Gender
MS FANG SIEW PING
Non-Independent Executive Director/Key Senior Management Nationality Age
41
Gender
Ms Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh (“Ms Karmjit”) was appointed
to the Board on 8 June 2022 and serves as an Independent
Non-Executive Director of the Company. She also serves as a
Chairperson of Remuneration Committee and Risk Management
Committee, and is a member of Audit Committee, Nomination
Committee of the Company.
Ms Karmjit holds a Bachelor of Arts (Economics) degree from
York University, Toronto, Canada. She has more than 30 years’
experience in the banking sector having worked in commercial and
investment banks and held various senior management positions
and leadership roles including Senior Director of Affin Hwang
Investment Bank (M) Berhad. She was also a member of asset and
Ms Fang Siew Ping was reappointed to the Board on 28 August
2019 and serves as a Non-Independent Executive Director of
the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, SSSFI. She
also serves as a member of Risk Management Committee,
Sustainability Committee and various Committees of the 3A
Group.
Ms Fang Siew Ping holds a Bachelor Degree in Chemistry from
the University of Kentucky, USA. She joined SSSFI in 2004 and
currently serves as Senior Manager of Business Development
cum R&D. She collaborates with the Sales & Marketing team
liability committee, compliance risk and oversight committee, and
early alert and watch list committee for the investment bank. She
is currently a member of Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia.
Ms Karmjit is also a Director of TSA Group Berhad.
Ms Karmjit attended two (2) Board Meetings held during the
financial year ended 31 December 2022 since her appointment as
Director on 8 June 2022. She does not have any family relationship
with any Director and/or major shareholder, nor any conflict of
interest with the Company. She has no convictions for any offences
within the past five (5) years (other than traffic offences, if any),
nor any public sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies
during the fi­
nancial year.
for new business opportunities and she is also Head of R&D
and Quality Assurance Department of SSSFI.
Ms Fang Siew Ping attended all five (5) Board Meetings held
during the financial year ended 31 December 2022. She is
the daughter of Mr Fang Chew Ham and a sibling of Ms Fang
Siew Yee, who both are major shareholders of the Company.
She has no conflict of interest with the Company and has no
convictions for any offences within the past five (5) years (other
than traffic offences, if any), nor any public sanction or penalty
imposed by regulatory bodies during the fi­
nancial year.
LEADERSHIP									 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 7
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
MR LIEW KUO SHIN
Non-Independent Executive Director/Key Senior Management Nationality Age
45
Gender
MR KEE THUAN CHAI
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director Nationality Age
53
Gender
Mr Liew Kuo Shin was reappointed to the Board on 28 August
2019 and serves as a Non-Independent Executive Director of
the Company. He also serves as Chief Sustainability Officer of
the Sustainability Committee, a member of Risk Management
Working Committee and various Committees of the 3A Group.
Mr Liew Kuo Shin graduated as a Mechanical Engineer and has
joined the Company in 2001. He currently holds the position of
General Factory Manager and oversees the daily operations and
overall co-ordination of all the manufacturing plants. He is also
Mr Kee Thuan Chai was appointed to the Board on 30 June
2020 and serves as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
of the Company.
Mr Kee Thuan Chai graduated with a Bachelor of Business
in Accountancy from Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology
(RMIT), Melbourne, Australia. He is a member of CPA, Australia
and Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA).
Mr Kee Thuan Chai started his career as Trainee Accountant
with Perlis Plantation Berhad (now known as PPB Group Berhad)
in 1993. He was transferred to the group’s oil palm plantation
subsidiary and based in Central Kalimantan in 2006. In 2009,
the Head of Logistic Department and Maintenance Department
of SSSFI.
Mr Liew Kuo Shin attended all five (5) Board Meetings held during
the financial year ended 31 December 2022. He is the spouse of
Ms Fang Siew Yee, a major shareholder of the Company. He has
no conflict of interest with the Company and has no convictions
for any offences within the past five (5) years (other than traffic
offences, if any), nor any public sanction or penalty imposed
by regulatory bodies during the fi­
nancial year.
he was transferred back to Kuala Lumpur, with PPB Oil Palms
Berhad, now known as Wilmar Plantation Sdn Bhd (WPSB), a
fully owned subsidiary of Wilmar International Limited. He now
heads WPSB Finance Department as Group Manager (FAA).
Mr Kee Thuan Chai attended all five (5) Board Meetings held
during the financial year ended 31 December 2022. He does
not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder, nor any conflict of interest with the Company. He
has no convictions for any offences within the past five (5) years
(other than traffic offences, if any), nor any public sanction or
penalty imposed by regulatory bodies during the fi­
nancial year.
8	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) LEADERSHIP
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
MS LIM YEE MEIN
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director Nationality Age
66
Gender
MR FONG PENG FAI
Group Financial Controller/Key Senior Management Nationality Age
46
Gender
Ms Lim Yee Mein was appointed to the Board on 30 June 2020
and serves as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director of
the Company.
Ms Lim Yee Mein graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce
from National Taiwan University. She joined PGEO Edible Oils
Sdn Bhd in 1981 and is presently the General Manager - Admin
& Finance of PGEO Group Sdn Bhd.
Mr Fong Peng Fai was appointed to the Company in 2013 and
currentlyservesastheGroupFinancialController.Hegraduatedwith
a Bachelor of Commerce majoring in Accounting from University
of Otago. He is a Chartered Global Management Accountant
of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA),
UK and American Institute of CPAs (AICPA) and a member of
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA).
Mr Fong Peng Fai also holds a Masters of Business Administration
from University of Strathclyde, UK. His professional working
experience started in external audit firms. Then he moved
Ms Lim Yee Mein attended all five (5) Board Meetings held
during the financial year ended 31 December 2022. She does
not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder, nor any conflict of interest with the Company.
She has no convictions for any offences within the past five
(5) years (other than traffic offences, if any), nor any public
sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies during the
financial year.
on to business recovery and consulting assignments in
PriceWaterhouseCoopers and later, he joined Digi as Head of
Accounting and Financial Reporting.
Mr Fong Peng Fai is the son of the Managing Director, Mr Fong
Chu King @ Tong Chu King. He has no conflict of interest with
the Company and has no convictions for any offences within
the past five (5) years (other than traffic offences, if any), nor
any public sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
PERFORMANCE REVIEW						 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 9
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW
As we reflected on the unparalleled pace
of change from the domino impact of
COVID-19, companies need to evolve to
overcome challenges in order to achieve
their business objectives and to shape a
better world for all. 3A Group continues to
forge ahead on production efficiency and
cost management with a focused mission
of fulfilling the pent-up demand of our
value chain partners and customers. The
disruptions brought about by COVID-19
brought realisation that our team need to
focusonplantmodernisationandautomation
and more importantly align the operations
and people in the quest of protecting the
planet.
According to Malaysia’s Economy Report
2022/2023 released by Bank Negara
Malaysia in February 2023, Malaysia’s
domestic economy is seen to be driven by
steady domestic demand, a vibrant service
sector, implementation of new and ongoing
high-multiplier infrastructure projects, and
sustained exports. Nevertheless, the pace
of economic recovery is also dependent
on other factors, including the efforts in
mitigating the downside risks, such as
geopolitical uncertainties, global inflation
as well as tightening financial conditions,
as stated in the report. These factors have
beendrivingfoodandoilpricestonewhighs.
Someimmediateshort-termmeasureshave
beentakenbygovernmentsaroundtheworld
which include imposing price controls and
traderestrictions.Asforconsumers,theprice
surge has certainly resulted in cutting back
consumption including changing behaviour
on food consumption.
The market and consumer data provider
Statista has reported that revenue in the
global food market amounted to US$46.78
billion (RM206.77 billion) in 2022 and is
expected to grow annually by 8.2%
(compound annual growth rate [CAGR] in
2022to2027).Themarket’slargestsegment
is confectionery and snacks with a volume
of US$9.2 billion in 2022. These statistics
augurswellforcompaniessuchas3Awhich
dependsonthetransformationofconsumer
behaviour on F&B consumption.
Given the price escalation trend as well
as keen competition, food ingredient
manufacturers have a lot more role to play.
When partnering with food manufacturers
and providers, 3A Group leverages on our
own R&D to produce tailor-made products
for specific customers. This has paved the
way for the expansion of 3A’s customer
base and strengthening earnings in recent
years. Backed by a strong local market
presence,ourGroupisconfidentofourability
to support the growth of the region, with our
solidmanufacturingcapabilitiesandaproven
reputation for product quality. The Group is
firm on its journey to unlock the potential
of new customers through a customised
Profit Before Tax
(PBT)
RM47.8
million
Profit After Tax
(PAT)
RM35.1
million
10	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) PERFORMANCE REVIEW
INDUSTRY OVERVIEW (CONTINUED)
portfolio,deploymentofresources,effective
communication, enhanced visibility, and
building consumer connect. 3A’s ongoing
investmentinimprovingproductionefficiency
is a confirmation of our confidence and
key presence in Malaysia and throughout
the region.
2022 BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL
PERFORMANCE
(I) PERFORMANCE OVERVIEW
3A Group is established to be widely
known as one of the country’s leading
food and beverage ingredients
manufacturingcompany.Ourproducts
have a strong presence locally and
are sold to many parts of the world. It
is imperative that the Group ensures
continued supply of these essential
products to the Malaysian society and
abroadthroughdetailedstrategiesand
planningaswellastoadaptwithagility
to the fast-changing environment.
Our company has delivered a resilient
performanceacrossourproductrange
for Financial Year 2022 (“FY 2022”).
This is a strong indication to our
financial discipline and flexibility in the
face of challenging market conditions.
The Group recorded close to 28%
increase in revenue of RM658.702
million in FY2022 as compared to
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
RM515.615 million in FY2021. This
is the highest revenue achieved thus
far in 3A Group’s history, contributed
predominantly by the higher Average
Selling Prices (ASP) and increase in
quantities of products sold across
the board. Three (3) products namely
Caramel, Maltodextrin and Glucose
represented more than 80% of the
Group’s sales for FY2022. Total
Sales and Domestic Sales for the
year increased by 28% and 30%
respectively. Growth in domestic
and export sales was largely driven
by higher ASP, higher volumes sold
and across all products.
(II) EXPORTS
	
Revenue from export of products
comprised 42% of the overall revenue
of the Group in FY2022.
	
DuringFY2022,exportsofourproducts
remainedstablewithanoverallincrease
of 25% mainly due to the following:
• 
continuousfocusonthedevelopment
of new markets
• 
newlaunchoftailoredmadeproducts
for selected customers
• 
continue to explore new markets
for other categories
Revenue By Geographical Location
(RM’000)
SINGAPORE
RM63,983
10%
MALAYSIA
RM379,950
58%
OTHERS
RM214,769
32%
PERFORMANCE REVIEW						 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 11
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
(III) EARNINGS
Despite the record high revenue
achieved, profit for the Group
have been impacted by higher raw
material costs, energy costs, labour,
transportation and other related
expenses in FY2022. The Group
profit before tax and profit after
tax had reduced to RM47.8 million
and RM35.1 million respectively in
FY2022 as compared with RM62.5
millionandRM46.5millionrespectively
in FY2021. Nonetheless, the Group
plans to continue to adjust product
selling prices and new formulation
of Marketing Strategies that involve
product target market, sales mix and
selling prices, in response to changes
in the industry.
The Group’s gross profit margin has
also beenaffectedascompared to the
previous year from 18.7% to 13.4%
in FY2022. The prices of major raw
materials of the Group, particularly
corn starch and tapioca starch had
increased significantly in FY2022 as
compared with FY2021.
(IV) ASSETS & LIABILITIES
Total borrowings have also increased
to RM20.247 million mainly in the form
of bankers’ acceptances to finance
higher inventories holdings in tandem
with current business requirements.
The inventory requirements have
been the main factor on the cash
and bank balances of the Group, as it
registered a reduction of almost 62%
ascomparedtopreviousyear’sfigures.
The Group required higher cash flow
needs for our inventory holding and
operational activities. Our major
raw materials are tapioca and corn
starch, sugar and soybean meal. The
commodity price volatility continues
to present challenges to the Group.
Nevertheless, the Group continues
to adopt a dynamic inventory holding
policy to mitigate this challenge and
also attempts to pass on significant
costsmovementtocustomersthrough
product selling price.
Totalassetsandshareholders’equityof
the Group grew to RM509.048 million
and RM420.107 million respectively
as at 31 December 2022. In addition,
the Group’s earnings per share for
the year was 7.2 sen and net asset
per share was at 85.8 sen as at the
end of 2022.
efficiency which will further generate
our cost savings.
(VI) 	MARKETINGANDCUSTOMERBASE
EXPANSION
In ensuring that 3A is ahead of its
competitive edge, we are working
closelywithourexistingcustomersand
potentialnewcustomerstostrengthen
thebusinessrelationshipforbothshort
and long terms. More significantly,
(V) PRODUCTION
Throughouttheyears,plantexpansions,
upgrading and modernisation
continued to be undertaken as part
of the long-term operational efficiency
initiatives. The Group had acquired
more advanced product packing
machines, monitoring apparatus to
improve efficiency such as flow meter
and hydro heater. Plant expansion
was also an important undertaking
to achieve economies of scale. The
outcome of ongoing improvements
will increase automation which will
enableustoreducethedependenceon
foreignlabouraswellasenhanceplant
we are striving to gain loyalty with our
customersthroughdeepunderstanding
and hands-on information sharing
regardingkeymatterssuchasvarieties
of business, food safety, formulas and
batches, regulatory compliance, sales
and profitability and critical success
factors.
We are also trying to expand our
business by reaching out to new
customers in existing and new
geographical areas either directly or
indirectlythroughourlocaldistributors.
Company recognises the need to
understand different markets and the
customers’ distinctive requirements
12	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) PERFORMANCE REVIEW
and try to adjust ourselves to cater for
those requirements in order to expand
and strengthen our sales position.
Concurrently, we are expanding our
R&D team and facilities to be ahead
on technical support and assistance
to our customer, should there be
any occurrence of issues on their
operations. ItiscriticalfortheGroupto
continuetoinnovateandcomeupwith
new ways of doing things. Maximising
the capacity of manufacturing and
enhancing our product innovation
capability are our top priority efforts
to deliver solutions that are cost-
competitive, flexible, secure, and
reliable to customers.
KEY BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES AND
RISKS
Exploring potential markets, plant efficiency
improvementandinnovationofnewproduct
offerings will indeed open-up new business
possibilities and provide cost savings for
3A but will also bring along with them
potential risks and challenges. The Board
and Management team have been working
hard to mitigate the potential threats that
may be disrupting the smooth running of
the business.
In reviewing new revenue stream, 3A
employsitsriskmanagementprocessonrisk
identification, impact assessment, profiling
matrix and the mitigation plans, based on
the general principles of the international
risk management framework. The Risk
Management Committee continues to
reviewitsstrategic,businessandoperational
risks in tandem with changes in the external
operating environment. Escalating energy
costs and any further changes to its
business model, business strategies and
processes will affect our risk profile. This
includes intensified competition because
of slower global economic growth, supply
chain disruptions, as well as changes in
countries’regulations.Thegeographicalrisks
havebeensomewhatlessenedwiththenew
Trans-PacificPartnership(“TPP”)agreement
whereby the import duty requirement for
certain countries will be reduced which will
in turn assist our cross-border expansion
plans in the years to come.
We have created a structured framework to
identify key risks factors within the group
and thus develop action plans to mitigate
them. At production level, plans are in
place to ensure the necessary activities
are carried out for the manufacturing plants
to avoid unscheduled plant breakdown and
lower plant utilisation rate. Apart from the
above, 3A is committed in ensuring the
implementation of its annual Safety, Health
and Environmental (“SHE”) programs to
managethenumberofreportableincidents,
implement corrective and preventive
actions, and raise employee health and
safety awareness.
Specific details on 3A’s risk management
areas are provided in the Statement on
Risk Management and Internal Control
(“SORMIC”) of this Annual Report.
OUTLOOK AND PROSPECTS
Malaysia is working to ensure a stronger
economic recovery and make life easier for
its people. The F&B industry is an important
pillar of this effort to change lifestyles and
ensure food security. Notably, Malaysia has
witnessed significant growth of this industry
in the recent years. As the world recovers
from the pandemic, the outlook for the F&B
sectors in the coming year appears to be
bright. Nonetheless, the growth for our
economy could be hampered by escalating
inflation,experiencedinthelargereconomies
such as Europe and the US.
FY2023 is expected to be as challenging
as FY2022 – as raw materials will remain
costly, while the security of supply chains
cannot be assured. Added to this, there is a
possibility of the world entering a recession.
Most economists and financial experts
believe that a rise in interest rates due to
inflationary pressures will make a recession
insomemajoreconomiesverylikely,andthe
groupexpectssimilarchallengesthroughout
fiscal 2023.
However, our results in 2022 make us
optimistic. We believe that the various
systems in place will put us in a stronger
operational and financial position as we
pursue our expansion plan and various
facility improvement projects.
The Group views the heightened prices
fluctuations in raw materials, prevailing
supply chain disruptions and competition in
the market as factors which will continue to
significantly impact ASP as well as volume
moving forward. Our immediate response
to these would be on our commitment to
pursueautomation,efficiencyimprovement,
sustainability, growth of existing business,
and new business development towards
achievingconsistentgrowth. Ourtargetisto
approach those market which are still new
or have low penetration and identify new
customersand/ornewagents/distributorsin
thenewmarket.Thiswillallowustodiversify
our market and also help us to develop
our brand in different parts of the world.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
PERFORMANCE REVIEW						 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 13
With continuous investments, product
innovation through research and
development, convergence capabilities,
pricing strategies and capturing of new
markets, the leadership team is optimistic
about prospects for 2023.
DIVIDENDS
The Group regularly pays dividends to our
shareholdersfortheircontinuedsupportand
confidence in the Company’s performance
overtheyears.Basedonthestronghistorical
performance, 3A Group’s management has
positive expectations of our future earnings
growth. The Board of Directors have always
taken the interests of the shareholders and
the economic situation of the Group into
account when making its decisions. Key
factors such as liquidity needs arising
from investing and operating activities and
situationsrelatedtorisingcommodityprices
inthefoodingredientssectorwouldcertainly
influence dividend payment decisions. After
considering the financial positions of the
Group, the Board of Directors had declared
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
an interim dividend per share of 2.5 sen
for FY2022, amounting to total dividend
payout of RM12.225 million and was paid
on 21 December 2022.
NOTE OF APPRECIATION
Reflecting on FY2022, it was certainly a
challenging year for the Group and we are
truly grateful for the unwavering support of
ourcustomersandsuppliersinensuringthat
we were able to minimise the impact of the
external challenges affecting our business
and operations. Our heartfelt appreciation
also goes out to our shareholders, who
provide us with their continued trust; our
consumers, who have demonstrated
unwavering loyalty in navigating through
the jittery market; as well as our business
partners who have worked with us to create
some amazing synergies.
Wewouldalsoliketoextendourappreciation
and gratitude to all the employees and
management team of 3A Group for the
full trust and conviction in embracing the
Group’s business strategies. These are the
strong men and women who have put in
tireless efforts to go above and beyond
expectation to meet the customers’ needs
and delivering the highest revenue for the
Group.Wewillcontinuetoofferemployment
opportunities, developmental programme
for talent and have welcomed people within
the localities and communities where we
operate through regular hiring.
Finally, we are truly grateful to our Chairman
and directors for their great wisdom and
foresight in leading the Group through our
boldest endeavours. With your full support
andfaithinus,theteamin3Alookforwardto
transforming the Group to be more resilient
and agile towards achieving sustainable
success.
14	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) PERFORMANCE REVIEW
FIVE-YEAR GROUP
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2018
RM’000
Revenue 658,702 515,615 436,166 436,066 437,977
Profit Before Tax 47,803 62,506 40,708 40,259 34,204
Profit After Tax 35,094 46,545 30,162 29,419 29,120
Total Assets 509,048 463,570 431,837 406,519 394,502
Total Liabilities 88,941 65,259 65,364 58,345 65,907
Share Capital 149,087 149,087 149,087 149,087 98,400
Shareholders' Equity 420,107 398,311 366,473 348,174 328,595
REVENUE
(RM’000)
PROFIT AFTER TAX
(RM’000)
0
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
700,000
FY2018
FY2019
FY2020
FY2021
FY2022
800,000
YEAR
2022
RM 658,702
RM 515,615
YEAR
2021
YEAR
2021
RM 46,545
RM 35,094
YEAR
2022
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
FY2018
FY2019
FY2020
FY2021
FY2022
PERFORMANCE REVIEW						 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 15
FIVE-YEAR GROUP
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (CONTINUED)
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2018
RM’000
Earnings per Share (sen) 7.2 9.5 6.2 6.0 5.9
Net Assets per Share (sen) 85.8 81.2 74.4 70.7 66.7
Net Dividend per Share (sen) 2.5 3.0 2.2 2.0 2.0
Return on Equity (%) 8.4 11.7 8.2 8.4 8.9
Return on Assets (%) 6.9 10.0 7.0 7.2 7.4
Dividend Payout Ratio (%) 34.9 31.6 35.7 33.3 33.9
EARNING PER SHARE (sen) NET ASSETS PER SHARE (sen)
YEAR
2021
RM 9.5
RM 7.2
YEAR
2022
FY2018
FY2019
FY2020
FY2021
FY2022
FY2018
FY2019
FY2020
FY2021
FY2022
0
2.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
10.0
0
20.0
40.0
60.0
80.0
100.0
YEAR
2022
RM 85.8
RM 81.2
YEAR
2021
16	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) SUSTAINABILITY
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
ABOUT THIS STATEMENT
INTRODUCTION
Three-A Resources Berhad (“3A’’ or “the Company”) and its
subsidiaries (collectively known as “3A Group” or “the Group”)
places great importance on its environmental, social, and
governance (“ESG”) performance in pursuit of its Vision and
Mission and presents its Sustainability Statement 2022 (“SS2022”)
for financial year ended 31 December 2022 (“FY2022”). As a
responsible corporate citizen, 3A Group is committed in preserving
the environment, promoting fair business practices, maintaining
high standards in manufacturing activities to deliver quality
products, and cultivating positive relationships with stakeholders.
3A Group recognises that achieving its goal of becoming a
globally recognised brand in the food and beverage industry with
excellent quality products requires a focus on ESG considerations.
By incorporating sustainable practices and social responsibility
into its operations, 3A Group aims to become a global market
leader that is known for its commitment to ESG principles.
The Group's sustainability strategy is anchored in its core values
and business principles, which guide the operations to drive a
more sustainable future. We firmly believe in upholding our values
across all aspects of our operations and remain committed to
this endeavour.
The following are the core values that are firmly ingrained in us:
Our ongoing sustainability journey has primarily driven the planning
and application of relevant policies, processes and solutions
that cement positive sustainability in all of our operations, while
continually improving its ESG performance. By prioritising ESG
considerations, 3A Group aims to achieve its long-term goals
while contributing to a sustainable future for all.
REPORTING SCOPE, PERIOD AND MATERIAL BOUNDARY
The scope of this report includes the operations of the Group
which covers the reporting period from January to December 2022.
3A Group’s sustainability reporting boundaries are governed
by the prioritisation of its identified materiality topics and Bursa
Malaysia’s Sustainability Reporting Guideline.
REPORT QUALITY AND DATA ASSURANCE
The report’s data has been internally sourced and verified by the
respective business units or information owners. 3A Group will
continue to strengthen its data collection and analysis procedures
to enhance the quality and accuracy of its data going forward.
The report’s content is based significantly on our stakeholders’
views and assessment of material topics and risk factors, as
well as emerging trends and opportunities within the Group’s
industry environment.
Excellence
Our Mission is
to excel as One
of the Global
Quality Brands
in the Industries
with our strong
commitment to
produce safe and
quality products
that exceed
our customers’
expectations.
Environmental
Responsibility
We value the
environment and
we always do our
best to protect
the environment
and conserve
resources in
our business
activities.
Community
Engagement
Our business
activities
impact our local
communities
and we include
community
considerations
as well as
values into our
decision-making
and business
practices.
Integrity
We commit to
maintain high
standards of
integrity and
corporate
governance
practices in
order to achieve
excellence in our
daily operations.
Sustainable
Growth
We are
committed to
deliver value to
our shareholders
through
responsible
and sustainable
business
practices.
SUSTAINABILITY								 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 17
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
LIMITATIONS
3A Group understands that data-gathering challenges remain for some indicators. Therefore, we are continually working towards
applying more robust data tracking and gathering mechanisms to improve our reporting in the future.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
The SS2022 contains forward-looking statements such as targets, plans and prospects that are reasonably formulated based
on expected future performance, current operating conditions and available data at present, all of which may change based on
unforeseen circumstances beyond the 3A Group’s control.
AVAILABILITY
The SS2022 is prepared as part of 3A’s Annual Report 2022 (“AR 2022”), which can be downloaded from the Group’s website at
http://www.three-a.com.my/annual-report.php.
FEEDBACK
To continue our engagement with stakeholders, we welcome feedback and concerns which can be directed to:
Ms. Jessica Fang, Senior Manager
Mr. Fong Peng Fai, Group Financial Controller
Investor Relations,
Three-A Resources Berhad,
AL 308, Lot 590 & Lot 4196
Jalan Industri U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel: +603 6156 2655
Email: info@three-a.com.my
STAKEHOLDER IDENTIFICATION AND ENGAGEMENT
At 3A, we recognise the importance of collaborating with our stakeholders to develop a comprehensive sustainability agenda that
aligns with their evolving needs and expectations. We have identified our key stakeholders based on their ability to influence 3A
Group's business operations and their interests in our organisation.
Engaging stakeholders support the Board and Management to establish a more extensive range of materiality in determining
material ESG topics for the Group by understanding of how these individuals or groups can impact 3A Group’s business model
in terms of its capital, brand reputation and value creation.
The perspectives of stakeholders as individuals, groups, and entities are crucial to ensuring the continued growth and success
of the Group. Undertaking stakeholder engagement initiatives can result in stronger economies, higher living standards, and
increased opportunities for individuals and groups by facilitating resource allocation and economic health.
18	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) SUSTAINABILITY
• 
Continued
profitability and
growth
• 
Product
innovation to
meet changing
demands
• 
3A’s positive
image and
reputation
• 
Company
performance
• 
Economic
(good
governance
practices)
• 
Food safety
and quality
• 
Compliances
to International
Quality
Standards
• 
Fair product
pricing
• 
Safe and
Quality
products
• 
Customer
privacy and
data protection
• 
Supply chains
responsibility
• 
Ethical
practices
• 
Clear contract
specifications
• 
Supply chain
management
• 
Transparent
procurement
practices
• 
Training,
guidance, and
support
• 
Workplace
safety and
health
• 
Welfare and
safety
• 
Talent attraction
• 
Job satisfaction
• 
Employees
(health and
safety)
• 
Training and
development
• 
Food safety
and quality
• 
Compliance of
specification/
allowable limit
• 
Regulatory
compliance
• 
Environmental
concerns
– water
usage, waste
management
• 
Corporate
Social and
Responsibility
(“CSR”)
activities
• 
Avoid adverse
impacts from
operations to
public safety,
security and the
environment
• 
Avoid quality of
life deterioration
• 
Participation
in community
programmes
• 
Timely and
responsive
communication
and actions
• 
Environmental
concerns
– water
usage, waste
management
• 
Social
infrastructure
Needs and Expectations
Relevant Material Matters
• 
Virtual
management
meetings
• 
Feedback and
surveys
• 
Face-to-face
meetings
• 
On-site
inspection
• 
Regular updates
and briefing by
regulators
• 
Communications
with
representatives
of
establishments
• 
Regular virtual
meetings
• 
Face-to-face
meetings
• 
Survey feedback
• 
Virtual meetings
• 
Online
correspondences
• 
Face-to-face
meetings
• 
Investor
relationship
feedback
• 
Company
website
Engagement Method
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT TABLE
Shareholders Customers Suppliers Employees Regulators Local
Communities
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
SUSTAINABILITY								 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 19
MATERIALITY MATTERS
3A Group conducted a materiality assessment to identify the material matters which are significant to the Group. These material
topics, which are considered to be of significant long-term importance for maintaining business resilience, are being strategically
managed, with a particular focus on economic performance, environmental management, transparent procurement practices,
product quality, and safety.
The materiality matrix, which reflects the identified material topics, was approved by both the Board and Sustainability Committee
(“SC”). Management commentary and opinions are evaluated throughout the Group for assessment and refinement purposes.
To further enhance our materiality processes, the Group aims to solicit feedback from a broader range of stakeholders. This
feedback will allow for a more comprehensive understanding of our material topics, as well as their relative priority to operations
across the value chain.
MATERIALITY MATRIX:
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Importance
to
stakeholders
 Company
Performance
 Economic
(good
governance
practices)
 Suppliers
(transparent
procurement
practices)
 Environmental
(water & waste)
 Employees
(health &
safety)
 Customers
(safe & quality
products)
 Customer
privacy & data
protection
 Training &
development
High
Importance to Company
Very low materiality
High
Low
 Social
Infrastructure
 Supply chain
management
20	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) SUSTAINABILITY
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
Effective corporate governance is essential in driving the organisation towards becoming an ESG-driven company. By practicing
good corporate governance, the entire organisation can maintain integrity, corporate responsibility, and accountability in all of
its operations.
To this end, the Group has implemented a comprehensive set of governance frameworks and policies to manage sustainability
at 3A and its subsidiaries. These frameworks and policies provide a solid foundation for ensuring that sustainability is embedded
within the Group's operations and decision-making processes.
3A adopted the following policies and Terms of References of the respective Board Committees:
Board Charter Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy Code of Conducts and Ethics
Directors Fit Proper Policy Remuneration Policy & Procedures Whitstleblowing Policy
Terms of Reference
- Audit Committe
Terms of Reference
- Nomination Committe
Terms of Reference
- Remuneration Committe
The terms of references and policies mentioned above are available for viewing on our Investor Relations portal at the Governance
and Sustainability section, which can be accessed at http://www.three-a.com.my/annual-report.php.
To ensure that our corporate governance policies remain relevant and up-to-date, they will be periodically reviewed by the Board.
Any updates or changes made to these policies will be in line with the evolving needs of the Group and any new regulatory
requirements that must be adhered to.
Board
of
Directors
Sustainability
Committee
Sustainability
Working Committee
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
The Board of Directors plays a key role in governing and
supervising the sustainability matters of the Group. To assist
the Board in this task, SC has been established and replacing
the Management Sustainability Committee in 2022. The SC is
comprised of an independent director and executive directors who
provide recommendations to the Board on significant economic,
environmental, and social (“EES”) sustainability matters.
In turn, a Sustainability Working Committee (“SWC”) has been
established to support the SC. The SWC is responsible for
identifying, implementing, assessing, monitoring, and reporting
on sustainability matters. By working closely with the SC, the
SWC helps to ensure that sustainability is integrated into the
Group's operations and decision-making processes at all levels.
SUSTAINABILITY								 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 21
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE (CONTINUED)
The Roles and Responsibilities of the SC include:
• 
Advise the Board on the strategies in the area of sustainability;
• 
Recommend to the Board for its approval on material
sustainability matters identified, sustainability-related
policies and its goals or targets;
• 
Monitor the implementation of sustainability strategies,
policies and initiatives as approved by the Board with
assistance from the SWC;
• 
Oversee the management of sustainability matters, with
particular focus on matters material to the organisation;
• 
Oversee stakeholder engagement to ensure that issues,
grievancesandsuggestionsraisedaretakenintoconsideration
in managing sustainability matters; and
• 
Oversee the preparation of Sustainability Statement and
recommending it for Board’s approval.
The Board has taken into consideration the relevant EES
sustainability matters and is pleased to present the Group's
Sustainability Statement for FY2022. The statement serves as
a testament to the Group's efforts in continuously improving
its sustainability practices and addressing the sustainability
challenges that it faces.
BOARD COMPOSITION
The 3A Group is committed to promoting diversity within its
Board of Directors by selecting individuals from a wide range
of professional backgrounds, experiences, and competencies.
By doing so, the Group aims to create a diverse range of skills,
talents, and capabilities that will contribute to a more inclusive
and effective decision-making process.
The Group recognises the importance of supporting the Malaysian
government's aspiration and Practice 5.9 of the Malaysia Code of
Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”), which aims to increase
the representation of women on the boards of public listed
companies to at least 30%.
At the end of FY2022, the Board meets the MCCG's recommended
target of at least 30% women representation on the Board.
In terms of board composition, four out of nine of the Board
members are independent directors to ensure that the Board
benefits from a diverse range of perspectives, expertise, and
experiences that are not tied to the Group's management or
operations.
Overall, the 3A Group's Board composition for FY2022 reflects its
commitment to diversity and inclusivity, with a focus on gender
and independence.
CODE OF CONDUCT AND ETHICS
The Code of Conduct and Ethics (“the Code”) developed by
3A since its establishment provides a comprehensive set of
guidelines and standards for ethical corporate conduct. It sets
out clear expectations for how the company's representatives
should interact with stakeholders, including vendors, suppliers,
contractors, and business partners. The Code establishes rules
for addressing conflicts of interest, corrupt or unethical practices,
and identifies unacceptable behaviour or practices that should
not be replicated by anyone in the Group.
The Code’s guiding principles including:
1. Duties of Good Faith, Diligence, and Integrity
2. Company Information, Records and Assets
3. Workplace Culture and Environment
As part of their induction process, all new employees receive a
thorough briefing on corporate integrity and ethical conduct. 3A's
Human Resource Department oversees compliance with the Code
and any non-compliance with its provisions is reported directly
to the Human Resources Department for disciplinary action.
In FY2022, there were zero cases of non-compliance or unethical
conduct. The Code is readily accessible to all employees via
the Investors Relation webpage at http://www.three-a.com.my/
investor-relations/policy/3A-Sec-Policy-Code-of-Conduct-and-
Ethics-CCE-REV01-20200529.pdf
ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION
Corruption has a detrimental impact on sustainable development,
society's well-being, and economic growth. Thus, eliminating
corruptionisacrucialcomponentofESG,anditrequiresimplementing
good practices, governance mechanisms, and policies to promote
sustainable and transparent business, community, and society.
An organisation lacking anti-corruption practices will result in its
employees being less aware of the consequences of committing
fraud, leading to a negative impact on the organisation through
the erosion of trust in its relationships with partners, suppliers,
and vendors.
Given the consequences, the Group practices a zero-tolerance
approach to any form of corruption and bribery within the Group
and its third-party partners. The Group has established and
implemented the Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Policy in
FY2021, pursuant to the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission
(“MACC”) Act 2009 and the MACC (Amendment) Act 2018. The
ABC Policy consists of procedures, compliance factors and
22	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) SUSTAINABILITY
ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION (CONTINUED)
monitoring protocols for the Group regarding anti-corruption.
The ABC Policy can be viewed at the Investor Relations portal
at our website: http://www.three-a.com.my/investor-relations/
policy/3A-Sec-Policy-Anti-Bribery-and-Corruption-Policy-
REV-20210503.pdf.
Our ABC Policy provides clear guidance to identify and deal
with bribery and corruption issues as well as set out the roles
and responsibilities in observing and upholding the position on
bribery and corruption.
The Policy covers a wide range of behaviours that constitute bribery
and corruption, including gifts and hospitality, entertainment,
political contributions and donations, gratifications, charitable
support, and other stipulated activities. However, the Policy also
allows for exceptional circumstances where certain types of
charitable donations, educational donations, and public welfare
sponsorships for legitimate reasons and as permitted by existing
laws and regulations.
The Board oversees the anti-corruption efforts of the Group and
is supported by the Risk Management Committee in ensuring
compliance with the Policy. All managers and employees are
required to be familiar with and comply with the Policy. The
Group commits to continue its anti-bribery and anti-corruption
efforts in order to maintain its reputation and standards. Audits
will be conducted to monitor, review, and assess the ongoing
effectiveness of these efforts, and any results will be reported
to the Audit Committee and acted upon accordingly.
The Group identifies Procurement, Sales, Production, HR,
Security, and Transportation departments as the most vulnerable
to corruption. However, in FY2022, there were no reported
cases of corruption within the Group. The ABC Policy will be
amended and revised as necessary to ensure its adequacy in
implementation and enforcement, with any changes reviewed
and endorsed by the Board.
Anti-Corruption Training and Communication
The Group conducts regular internal training sessions on anti-
corruption topics for both new and existing employees. To
ensure widespread awareness, anti-corruption messaging is
disseminated throughout the Group via various communication
channels on a regular basis.
All employees, including senior management and staff received
anti-corruption training in FY2021 and they have reviewed and
comprehended 3A Group's stance on anti-bribery and corruption.
Going forward, 3A Group is committed to conduct regular
awareness programmes and training on anti-bribery and anti-
corruption for all personnel to maintain a culture of transparency
and ethical conduct.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
WHISTLEBLOWING MECHANISM
3A Group has a comprehensive Whistleblowing Policy in place to
encourage stakeholders to report any misconduct, wrongdoings,
corruption, fraud, or abuse of power. The policy provides a
whistleblowing channel that can be accessed by both internal and
externalstakeholders,eitherthroughaWhistleblowerReportingform
or by sending an email to info@three-a.com.my. Stakeholders are
reminded of the existence of this channel periodically.
The Group recognises the importance of maintaining confidentiality
and protecting whistleblowers from victimisation, harassment or
disciplinary action. As such, the identity of the whistleblower will
remain confidential to the extent possible, as long as the disclosure
is made in good faith. Upon receipt of the report, an investigating
panel will be formed by the Audit Committee, which may consist of
the relevant business division or personnel best-placed to address
the reported issue.
Theinvestigatingpanelwillmakeafindingconcerningthecomplaint
anditsvalidity.Thisfindingwillbedetailedinawrittenreportcontaining
the findings of the investigations and conclusion. The report will be
passedtotherelevantManagingDirectororChairman,asappropriate,
who will then decide what action to take. If the complaint is found to
bevalid,disciplinaryorotherappropriateprocedureswillbeinvoked.
The whistleblower will be kept informed of the progress of the
investigation, if appropriate, and of the final outcome. If the
whistleblower is not satisfied that his/her concern is being properly
dealt with by the investigating panel, he/she has the right to raise it
in confidence with the Audit Committee or one of the designated
persons described above.
In FY2022, there were zero cases reported under the whistleblowing
channel.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST
Employees of 3A Group are strictly prohibited from engaging in
any other occupation, business, or activity that conflicts with their
position in the company. This applies to all roles, including but not
limitedtoemployee,agent,consultant,director,advisor,shareholder,
and partner. If an employee believes there is a potential conflict of
interest, they must report it to management through the Conflicts
of Interest Disclosure Form.
Private matters must not interfere with an employee's duties or the
interestsofthecompanyinanyway.Employeesarenotpermittedto
benefit financially or in any other way while performing their duties.
Additionally, they are prohibited from engaging in any activity that
competes with or creates a rival interest in the company's business.
SUSTAINABILITY								 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 23
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
CONFLICT OF INTEREST (CONTINUED)
If an employee is unsure about a situation of potential conflict
of interest, they are advised to consult the HR department or
the management of 3A Group.
UPHOLDING DATA PRIVACY
Being a food and beverage ingredient manufacturing company, 3A
Group handles significant amounts of personal data, particularly
customer data. In accordance with the Personal Data Protection
Act of 2010 (PDPA), the Group treats all data as confidential and
private and will not disclose it to third parties unless it has the
consent of the stakeholder, or mandated by law or enforcement
agencies.
All data has been collected with the consent of our stakeholders
and with their full understanding and awareness that such data
being collected by the Group may be used for internal purposes
or such purposes as agreed. The Group acknowledges that data
security is of utmost importance and the Group is committed
to safeguarding personal data of our stakeholders.
In FY2022, there have been zero cases of data breaches
throughout the Company’s operations.
ECONOMIC
3A Group recognises that implementing good governance
practices is crucial in achieving sustainable growth and
profitability. We firmly believe that upholding high ethical
standards and conducting business with strict adherence to
applicable laws and regulations in Malaysia and other countries
where our products are sold is crucial for maintaining the trust
and credibility with our stakeholders.
The Code of Ethics and Conduct of our Group defines the
values and behaviours that are expected of our employees
in the workplace and outlines the key principles that guide
our interactions with stakeholders. We firmly believe that our
commitment to ethical and responsible business practices is
critical to the success of our organization and the sustainability
of our business operations.
ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED
The Group understands that maintaining strong economic
performance is essential to sustain earnings and enhance
shareholder value. We believe that product innovation and driving
environmental and social performance are key components of our
strategy to achieve sustainable financial growth and improvement.
Our aim is to use resources efficiently to sustain and improve
financial performance, promoting long-term business growth.
As ESG goes hand-in-hand with robust and improving financial
performance, 3A Group intends to serve as a catalyst for socio-
economic development of local communities. This is achieved
through the creation of financial values for stakeholders as well
as other socio-economic multiplier effects.
In FY2022, the following is a snapshot of 3A’s economic
performance:
INDICATOR FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
Group revenue (RM'000) 436,166 515,615 658,702
Group profit before tax (RM'000) 40,708 62,506 47,803
Group profit after tax (RM'000) 30,162 46,545 35,094
Shareholders' equity (RM'000) 366,473 398,311 420,107
Total assets (RM'000) 431,837 463,570 509,048
Cash flow and bank balances (including cash and cash equivalents) (RM'000) 26,618 55,100 21,006
Earnings per share (sen) 6.2 9.49 7.17
Dividends (sen) 2.2 3.0 2.5
Dividend pay-out ratio to profits (%) 35.7 31.6 34.9
Specific details of the Group’s financial performance and direct economic values created are provided in the Management
Discussion and Analysis section of this Annual Report 2022.
24	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) SUSTAINABILITY
LOCAL PROCUREMENT AND SUPPLY CHAIN
3A Group supports local procurement wherever possible. This
is seen in its intentional preference to always select local goods
and service providers in order to heighten the multiplier effect on
the local economy. Exceptions would only be made in instances
where local providers are unable to provide such goods and
services at the required specifications, quality and in a timely
manner.
Local is defined as in local to where 3A Group operates.
The case for local procurement is made based on the many
socio-economic benefits generated for local supply chains,
local talent and local communities. 3A Group’s size and market
position provide the unique opportunity to generate employment
opportunities and develop many Malaysian small-medium
enterprise and industries, which are essential to the economic
growth of the nation.
Local procurement generally enables the reduction of carbon
footprint when compared to importing goods or services from
abroad. This is because local procurement typically involves
shorter transportation and delivery distances than importing
from abroad, resulting in fewer resources consumed, which
may include fuel and packaging material to produce and supply
goods or services.
The Group holds business partners, including suppliers, to the
same high ethical standards that we follow. We expect them to
adhere to ethical procurement practices and adopt best practices
in their standard operating and fair trading procedures. We
encourage our suppliers to comply with industry best practices
such as obtaining Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point
(HACCP) and FSSC 22000 Food Safety System certifications
wherever possible.
3A Group’s management regularly reviews our policies and
procedures and makes continuous improvements to our corporate
governance practices, including implementing policies such as
the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy in the Supplier Code
of Conduct and the Whistle-Blowing Policy to encourage the
reporting of improper conduct. Suppliers are being informed
about these policies periodically and obtain their signed
acknowledgment.
One of the key elements of our Supplier Code of Conduct is to
ensure transparent procurement practices when purchasing raw
materials and services. The Group has established a transparent
and fair tendering process that involves at least three members
from the procurement and management teams. Additionally, we
encourage the reporting of suspected bribery and other unethical
business practices by our business partners.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
To evaluate the performance of our suppliers in terms of product
and service quality and deliverables, we conduct Supplier Risk
Assessments. Through these assessments, we aim to ensure
that our suppliers meet our standards of excellence and that
we maintain a high level of transparency and integrity in our
procurement practices.
PRODUCT QUALITY AND FOOD SAFETY
As one of the leading food and beverage ingredients manufacturer
in the country, we are dedicated to providing safe and high-quality
products to our customers. Over the years, we have consistently
ensured compliance with Food Safety System certifications,
including HALAL and KOSHER certifications.
At 3A Group, we prioritise the quality of our manufacturing
processes, and food safety is of utmost importance. All of our
manufacturing facilities are certified with external food safety
programs such as Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP),
to ensure that we demonstrate compliance with food safety
control requirements while maintaining a system for food hygiene
and process control, including food safety assurance and food
traceability.
All of our products are HALAL certified, adhering to Islamic
Shariah requirements. The certification process involves stringent
quality control and hygienic conditions that must be met before
the Group can be accorded with this recognition.
We are committed to delivering quality and safe food products
for consumption. The Group continually explores different ways
to enhance food safety, such as through the use of machinery
automation to reduce human interaction and prevent product
contamination during the manufacturing process. Our dedication
to food safety and quality is unwavering, and we will continue
to prioritise these values in all of our operations.
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION
At the core of our business philosophy is our unwavering
commitment to meeting our customers' expectations. To that
end, 3A Group regularly engages with customers to foster long-
term relationships based on trust, integrity, and respect. By
truly understanding their needs and challenges, we can tailor
and innovate our product and service solutions to effectively
address their evolving needs.
The Group recognises that monitoring customer satisfaction is
essential to achieving the goal of providing exceptional service.
To this end, we provide our customers with a survey at least once
SUSTAINABILITY								 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 25
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
CUSTOMER SATISFACTION (CONTINUED)
a year, which is a primary way of measuring their satisfaction with
our products and services. The survey covers various aspects
such as product quality, delivery services, and sales services.
We take great pride in the fact that our efforts have consistently
resulted in high customer satisfaction rates throughout the years.
As a testament to our commitment to excellence, the average
customer satisfaction rate was 86.80% in FY2022. Going forward,
we remain committed to maintaining our high standards and aim
to achieve an 80% target for customer satisfaction.
FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
84.60% 87.20% 86.80%
Indicator FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
Customer satisfaction rate (%) 84.60 87.20 86.80
Target (%) 80.00 80.00 80.00
In FY2022, the Group received 9 cases of customer complaints,
all of which were resolved to the customer's satisfaction, resulting
in a 100% resolution performance. However, we understand that
customer satisfaction is not just about resolving complaints, but
also about preventing them in the first place. Going forward,
we plan to strengthen our customer satisfaction initiatives even
further and constantly strive to improve our processes and
services to exceed our customers' expectations.
ENVIRONMENTAL CONSCIOUSNESS
3A Group is committed to reducing negative environmental
impact and promoting sustainable practices. The Group remains
cognisant of how its business operations in particular, its food
and beverages ingredients manufacturing operations impact the
environment, through managing and reducing environmental
impacts based on good operating practices and adherence to
relevant international and local standards.
To achieve this, we prioritise eco-friendly work routines and
efficient use of resources to minimise waste and reduce our
carbon footprint. We also employ smart energy usage and
responsible waste management practices to further mitigate
our environmental impact.
Furthermore, we regularly conduct awareness sessions for all
our staff on environmental protection initiatives together with
posters and stickers in our premises.
CLIMATE CHANGE AND EMISSIONS
As a dynamic business entity, 3A Group recognises that our
manufacturing activities rely on commodities and natural
resources such as gas and petroleum products. However, we
understand that climate change poses a significant threat to the
supply chain and the sources of many of the products we need.
Therefore, we are committed to playing our part in promoting
sustainability and reducing our environmental impact.
As an example, the products we make rely heavily on tapioca
and corn starch as main raw materials. However, climate change-
related challenges like rising temperatures and water shortages
can significantly affect the production of these crops, leading to a
potential supply chain problem that could impact even 3A Group.
In addition to the urgent threat posed by climate change, the
Group acknowledges that the ecosystems in which we operate
are also vulnerable to its effects. These impacts can have direct
consequences on financial performance and the welfare of local
communities. Moreover, the rising demand for electricity is likely
to escalate consumption expenses and carbon emissions.
3A Group has SC dedicated to overseeing climate change as
a critical risk factor for the organisation. To mitigate this risk,
the SC has proposed several initiatives to reduce the group's
carbon emissions.
As solar power is a clean and renewable energy source that
does not rely on fossil fuels, one of these proposals involves
the implementation of a solar panel energy generation project,
which will reduce reliance on electricity from TNB and thereby
lower greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions. Additionally, a VRV
(Variable Refrigerant Volume) System was installed at the office
building to control refrigerant flow and uses heat pumps with
inverter technology to enhance efficiency and promote climate
solutions.
Moving forward, the Group is committed to have short and
long-term targets to reduce GHG emissions and is currently in
the planning phase.
26	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) SUSTAINABILITY
ENERGY CONSUMPTION
3A Group is committed to managing its energy consumption,
particularly where the use of fossil fuels is concerned. Generally,
the Group relies on fuel for powering a wide range of machinery
and equipment such as boilers, as well as diesel for its fleet of
company vehicles. Consumption of these fossil fuels contributes
to the emission of carbon, which, in turn, is a significant driver
of global warming and climate change.
The Group is also mindful of electricity consumption from the
national grid, with its manufacturing facilities and office operations
being the largest consumers of indirect energy sources. In
Peninsular Malaysia, such electricity is still mainly produced
through fossil fuel combustion, contributing to GHG emissions.
To manage its energy consumption, the Group has implemented
various measures and practices in its operations. These practices
include:
• 
Replacing old lighting systems with LED lightings
• 
Installation of gas flowmeters for boilers to optimise fuel
performance
• 
Installation of Inverters at boilers ID Fan to optimise energy
efficiency
• 
Installation of APV Evaporator and Hydroheaters to optimise
steam usage efficiency
• 
Implemented Smart Control System for electricity usage
(lighting and air conditioning)
• 
Installation of VRV (Variable Refrigerant Volume) System
at Office Building
WATER CONSUMPTION
3A Group understands the importance of water as a finite and vital
resource that needs to be managed by adhering to industry best
practices. Hence, the Group readily participates in the movement
to promote water resilience across all business operations and
ensure efficient water consumption.
The large amounts of water consumed during the Group’s
business operations are primarily sourced from municipal sources.
In order to optimise water usage, the Group has implemented
measures to recycle hot water from equipment such as the
evaporators and heat exchangers for operational use.
As a manufacturer of food and beverage ingredients, ensuring
high-quality water is crucial for maintaining the safety and quality
of our products, as well as ensuring a safe working environment.
To achieve this, we have implemented measures to regularly
test all incoming water on a monthly basis, to closely monitor
its quality.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
MATERIAL (PACKAGING)
At 3A Group, there is a consistent effort to promote the use of
reused materials while implementing resource efficiency measures
to minimise our environmental impact and also achieving cost-
effectiveness.
To contribute to the protection of the environment, we have
implementedastrategytorefurbishourplasticpackagingcontainers
and reused them for our products. This approach has resulted
in a significant reduction of plastic usage in our operations.
Below are the percentages of plastic packaging containers that
we have successfully reconditioned and reused by weight:
Indicator FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
Percentage of used plastic
packaging containers
reconditioned and reused by
weight yearly (%)
29 27 30
Target (%) 20 20 20
On a separate note, 3A Group is also committed to responsible
waste management practices, and as such, we have partnered
with approved contractors who specialise in managing waste
generated from our manufacturing activities.
SOCIAL
An organisation's strength, success, and durability heavily depend
on establishing a common organisational culture that inspires
and empowers workers to perform at their highest level using
their developed potential.
To achieve this objective, 3A Group is committed to investing
in its workforce by implementing cultural development and
communication programs that reinforce essential company values
and desirable behaviours. These programs are designed to cultivate
a workplace environment that values diversity, equality, safety,
and meritocracy. Additionally, we are committed to complying
with local labour laws and regulations as a group.
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY
3A Group is committed to creating a diverse and inclusive
workplace, where every employee has an equal opportunity to
succeed regardless of their age, gender, race, religion, sexual
orientation, disability, or nationality. This commitment ensures
that each individual is free from prejudice and discrimination,
enabling them to achieve their full potential.
SUSTAINABILITY								 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 27
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (CONTINUED)
At 3A, our approach to talent management is rooted in the principles of diversity and equal opportunity. We understand that
diversity brings different perspectives and experiences, which facilitate informed decision-making. We believe in championing
diversity to ensure that individuals from marginalised and underrepresented groups have equal access to employment opportunities.
Consistent with this view, 3A Group aims to build a dynamic high-performance work environment that supports the resilience
and wellbeing of our employees.
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
Male Female Total
Total Workforce by Gender
431
75
389
73
501
71
572
462
506
Total Workforce by Age Group
0
50
100
150
200
250
196 190
88
32
153
175
100
34
199
213
126
34
<=30 31-40 41-50 >50
FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
While the majority of our workforce is male, there is a more balanced gender representation among office-related employees.
The physical demands and intensive nature of work in our manufacturing and operational sites explain the overall male-dominant
composition of our workforce.
The Group ensures that basic salary and employee remuneration are based on the principle of equal opportunity, regardless of
gender. We maintain an equal distribution of salary ratios between male and female employees to ensure fairness and impartiality
in compensation.
A significant portion of our workforce comprises general workers, the majority of whom are foreign nationals. Given the high
demand for our manufacturing operations, we require a substantial number of foreign workers to ensure the smooth and efficient
operation of our production processes. Our recruitment of foreign workers is based on the need to maintain the productivity
and competitiveness of our business, while also complying with all relevant laws and regulations related to foreign employment.
28	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) SUSTAINABILITY
DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY (CONTINUED)
Most of the employees fall between the age group of below
30 to 40 years old, providing 3A Group with sufficient talent
to support succession planning initiatives across the Group.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
To upscale our employees' skills and knowledge, we conduct
various training programs. These initiatives aim to help our
employees adapt to the changing business environment, acquire
new skills, and enhance their performance. We recognise that
our workforce's continuous learning and development are vital
to the Group's growth and success.
At 3A Group, we comply with the Malaysian government's
minimum wage policy, ensuring that all our employees receive
a basic salary that meets or exceeds the national minimum
wage prescribed under the National Wages Consultative Council
Act 2011 [Act 732], Minimum Wages Order 2020. This policy
demonstrates our commitment to fair and equitable compensation
for all employees.
We also comply with the local laws and regulations concerning
working hours. The employment contract regulates our
employees' workweeks, and we ensure that they do not exceed
the maximum set by the Malaysia Employment Act 1955 and the
Employment (Limitation of Overtime Work) Regulations 1980.
Our commitment to following these laws and regulations ensures
that our employees have a healthy work-life balance and can
perform their jobs effectively.
3A Group recognise the importance of retaining skilled talent
as they form the knowledge foundation of our Group. However,
we are faced with the challenge of job mobility being a common
practice, particularly among the younger generation. Despite
this, we remain committed to reducing our employee turnover
rates. As a reference, the turnover rate of the Group has been
reported as follows:
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
3A Group is committed to providing fair and equal training opportunities to all employees at every level of the organisation. Our
objective is to facilitate ongoing professional development to promote high performance and productivity that drives both financial
and non-financial value creation for the company. We believe that attracting top talent and developing employee capabilities is
crucial for maintaining a competitive edge in the market, and we strive to keep our employees engaged by creating a psychologically
safe working environment.
Turnover rate
Hundreds
0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14
General worker
Supervisory
Executive
Managerial 0%
2%
1%
12%
Board of Directors by Gender
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
Male Female
20%
80% 80%
20%
67%
33%
TALENT MANAGEMENT
The professional expertise and experience of 3A Group's
workforce is a crucial aspect for the Group's success, and we
are committed to maintaining a small but dedicated team of skilled
professionals. Our organisational culture prioritises merit-based
hiring, retention, rewards, promotions, and training opportunities,
solely based on an individual's competence, skills, capabilities,
and experience. Our Human Resource department oversees
talent management to ensure that we nurture our employees'
development and progress.
SUSTAINABILITY								 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 29
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT (CONTINUED)
We are committed to providing our employees with ample learning
opportunities that facilitate their career development and help
them realise their goals. We recognise the collective knowledge
and talent of our employees, and thus, we consistently invest in
their training and development. Our training programs include
on-the-job training, refresher training, skills upgrading, and new
knowledge training. We also adopt mentoring, coaching, and
follow-up strategies to track employee performance and talent.
As part of our commitment to employee development, we ensure
that all staff receives training in food safety knowledge, technical
and soft skills, as per the yearly training planner. Our employees
devoted a significant amount of time to training in FY2022 as
outlined below:
Indicator FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
Average Training Hours/
Employee
11.75 15.15 13.10
Target (hours) 10 10 10
At 3A Group, we recognise that employee training and
development are critical components of our success, and we
are committed to providing our employees with the necessary
resources and opportunities to achieve their career aspirations.
EMPLOYEE REMUNERATION
The Group recognises that attracting top talents and retaining our
current workforce is essential for the success of our company.
To this end, we offer comprehensive workforce benefits and
competitive compensation packages to all employees. We also
provide performance based rewards like monetary bonuses to
encourage employees.
Compensation packages at 3A Group are based on industry
standards and are proportional to the employee’s job performance,
seniority, and tenure with the company. We provide financial and
non-financial rewards through a transparent 360-degree appraisal
process, which ensures that employees are compensated fairly
and that their contributions are recognised.
As a responsible employer, 3A Group is fully compliant with
all applicable laws and regulations on salary, hours of work,
overtime and benefits, as required by law in Malaysia.
Full-time employees are entitled to the following benefits:
Leave • 
Annual
•  Medical
•  Hospitalisation
•  Paternity
•  Maternity
Allowances •  Shift allowances
•  Hardmanship allowances
•  Increment and bonus
We believe that these benefits and rewards demonstrate our
commitment to our employees' well-being and professional
development.
The Group provides parental leave for male and female employees.
Beginning January 2023, married male employees are given
seven paid paternity days per annum while female employees
are given 98 days paid maternity leave for each confinement
period, in line with the Employment (Amendment) Act 2022.
PARENTAL LEAVE FY2022
Employees Who Took Paternity Leave 19
Employees Who Took Maternity Leave 16
Return to Work Rates
(return to work after parental leave period)
100%
To ensure that our employees' performance and development
are continuously assessed, we conduct annual appraisals for all
employees. Through this process, we evaluate their performance
against their KPIs and provide feedback on their strengths and
areas for improvement. The appraisal process also serves as an
opportunity to discuss career development plans and identify
training needs to help employees achieve their goals. We believe
that regular performance evaluations are crucial to maintaining
a high-performing workforce and promoting employee growth
and development.
Average Training Hours per Employee
11.75
15.15
13.1
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
30	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) SUSTAINABILITY
OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY
At 3A Group, we take our responsibility of providing a safe
and secure work environment for all stakeholders involved in
our business operations seriously. This includes employees,
suppliers, visitors, and others.
Our Safety and Health Policy guides us in reinforcing the
significance of occupational health and safety (OHS) to our
Group and outlines our management approach in maintaining
high OHS standards and complying with regulations.
The following are some key points that demonstrate our
commitment to this responsibility:
• 
Prevention of injury to our employees and promote work
life balance to keep our staff healthy;
• 
Ensure compliance to laws and regulations in relation to
occupational safety and health;
• 
Require contractors to meet our occupational safety and
health standards across all our operations; and
• 
Instil a culture where all employees share the commitment
to prevent harm to the safety and health of our employees,
contractors and general public.
Regular occupational health and safety (OHS) reports are
submitted to both the Board and Senior Management, providing
them with vital information on lost-time injuries (LTIs), fatalities,
injuries, near-misses, non-compliance issues, and other health
and safety key performance indicators (KPIs). These reports also
outline the root causes of any incidents and detail the remedial or
preventive measures taken to minimise or eradicate any potential
future occurrences. The Group's performance indicator is based
on the number of major accidents, with the target of zero major
accidents.
Furthermore, the Board and Senior Management have endorsed
the Health and Safety Guidelines, and a safety and health
committee, led by General Factory Manager, Mr. Derek Liew, has
been established. All Heads of Departments are held responsible
for ensuring the health and safety of their respective department's
staff. An Environmental, Safety, and Health Committee meeting
is held every three months to discuss safety and environmental
issues.
3A Group conducts safety and health risk assessments through
third-party audits in accordance with SMETA requirements.
Additionally, we perform monthly internal audits and assessments
to ensure a safe working environment. As a result of these
measures, there have been no identified high-incidence or
high-risk diseases.
Training remains a crucial aspect of OHS matters. A total of 91
employees participated in both internal and external safety-
related training.
Indicator FY2020 FY2021 FY2022
No. of Major Accidents 0 0 2
Target 0 0 0
In FY2022, there were no reported incidents of fatalities.
Nevertheless, two major accidents were recorded, resulting in
an average of four days of medical leave.
OUR COMMUNITY
As a socially responsible company, we prioritise our relationships
with the local community and are concerned about their well-
being and welfare. The Group is committed to carrying out
various initiatives and activities, including providing employment
opportunities to people from surrounding communities,
contributing to charitable causes, and sponsoring social events.
Due to the Covid-19 pandemic/endemic, physical CSR activities
were not encouraged in FY2022. However, we continued to
provide charitable donations to non-governmental organisations
to contribute positive outcomes for society and support the
community in any way possible.
We at 3A Group believe in encouraging our staff to engage in
various CSR activities and recognise their volunteerism efforts.
Furthermore, the Group has established a grievance mechanism
for customers and the community to voice their complaints and
concerns regarding our business operations, services, business
practices, or employee conduct. Our whistleblowing policy is
aimed at providing a safe and confidential platform for customers
and the community to raise any grievances they may have with
our operations or services.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 31
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Three-A Resources Berhad (“3A” or “the Company”) is
committed to the best practices and principles of good corporate governance as set out in the
Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“the Code”) as well as the Listing Requirements of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) for the Main Market.
Excellent corporate governance is essential to good business performance and the numerous past corporate governance awards
accorded to 3A testify that the Board, Management and staff of 3A remain steadfast and focused in ensuring the highest level of
corporate governance so that the interest of investors and all other stakeholders are well taken care of.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement, which highlights key focus areas on how the Company applied the principles,
practices and step-ups of the Code for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 (“financial year 2022”), is to be read in
conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report (“CG Report”) which contains a detailed application for each practice as
set out in the Code for the financial year 2022 and is made available on the corporate website: www.three-a.com.my.
The Board considers that the Company has adopted the CG practices and applied the main principles of the CG Code for the
financial year 2022 except:
• 
Practice 1.4 (The Chairman of the board should not be a member of the Audit Committee, Nomination Committee or
Remuneration Committee.)
• 
Practice 5.2 (At least half of the board comprises independent directors. For Large Companies, the board comprises a
majority independent directors.)
• 
Practice 5.6 (In identifying candidates for appointment of directors, the board does not solely rely on recommendations from
existing board members, management or major shareholders. The board utilises independent sources to identify suitably
qualified candidates. If the selection of candidates was based on recommendations made by existing directors, management
or major shareholders, the Nominating Committee should explain why these source(s) suffice and other sources were not
used.)
• 
Practice 5.10 (The board discloses in its annual report the company’s policy on gender diversity for the board and senior
management.)
A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
1.0 	Board’s Leadership on Governance and Objectives
The Board is responsible for the overall governance of the Group and discharges this responsibility through compliance
with relevant rules, laws, regulations, directives and guidelines in addition to adopting the best practices in the Code.
Collectively, the Directors combine their diverse experience and qualifications on commercial, regulatory, industry and
financial expertise to discharge their duties and responsibilities.
The Board’s main responsibility is to lead and manage the Group in an effective manner including developing strategic
directions and objectives in line with its vision and missions, implement plans and supervise the conduct of the Group’s
business as a whole. The Board’s role is to provide leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective
controls whilst ensuring risks are consistently assessed and controlled.
The Board conducts ongoing review and evaluation of the Group’s strategic plans to ensure the Group’s focus is in line
with the constantly evolving market conditions as well as identifying new businesses and opportunities. The Board
also ensures that an adequate system of internal controls is in place and adopts appropriate measuresto mitigate any
foreseeable and/or unexpected risks.
The Board members are attentive to applying high ethical standards in their decision-making, taking into account the
interests of all stakeholders.
32	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
1.0 	Board’s Leadership on Governance and Objectives (Continued)
Certain functions of the Board have been delegated to various Board Committees, which reviews and make recommendations
to the Board on specific areas. There are currently four (4) Board committees, namely:
• 
Audit Committee (“AC”);
• 
Nomination Committee (“NC”);
• 
Remuneration Committee (“RC”); and
• 
Risk Management Committee (“RMC”).
Each of the Board committee operates within approved Terms of Reference. These committees have authority to examine
particular issues and report to the Board with their findings and recommendations. The ultimate responsibility for the
final decision on all matters, however, lies with the entire Board.
1.1 Duties and Responsibilities of the Board
The Company acknowledges the importance of having an effective Board for the overall governance and management
of the Group. The core responsibilities of the Board include reviewing and approving the Company’s business strategies
and plans, significant policies and monitoring the Management’s performance in implementing them.
In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board exercises great care to ensure that high ethical standards are
upheld, and that the interest of stakeholders are not compromised. The Board Members are consistently mindful that
the interests of the Group’s stakeholders are always being protected.
The Board’s principal functions include the following responsibilities:
• 
Promotes good corporate governance culture within the Group which reinforces ethical, prudent and professional
behaviour;
• 
Reviews and approves the Group’s medium-term and long-term strategic business plans;
• 
Oversees the conduct of the Group’s business operations and financial performance against the approved strategic
business plans;
• 
Ensures that the operating infrastructure, systems of control, systems of risk management as well as financial and
operational controls are in place and properly implemented;
• 
Review the adequacy and the integrity of the internal control system and mitigation measures; and
• 
Undertakes various functions and responsibilities as specified in guidelines and directives issued by the regulatory
authorities from time to time.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors by virtue of their roles and responsibilities, in effect represent the minority
shareholders’ interest in the 3A Group. The Independent Non-Executive Directors engage proactively with the Management
and with both the external and internal auditors. The Independent Non-Executive Directors play a significant role in
bringing objectivity and scrutiny to the Board’s deliberations and decision-making. They also serve to inspire and
challenge the Management in an objective and constructive manner.
In enhancing the function of the Independent Non-Executive Directors, the Board has also defined their roles and
responsibilities to include the following:
• 
Provides relevant check and balances, focusing on shareholders’ and other stakeholders’ interests and  ensuring
high standards of corporate governance are applied;
• 
Scrutinises the performance of Management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitor the reporting of
performance;
• 
Constructively challenge and contribute to the development of the business strategies; and
• 
Ensure the financial information presented is accurate and that financial controls as well as system of risk management
is robust and defensible.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 33
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
1.1 Duties and Responsibilities of the Board (Continued)
The Independent Directors are at liberty to obtain advice from independent professionals if deemed necessary for the
proper discharge of their duties at the expense of the Group. The Independent Directors also have direct access to the
advice and services of internal and external auditors and the Company Secretarywho is responsible for ensuring that the
Board procedures are followed.
1.2	Board Meetings and Supply of Information to the Board
Board meetings for the following financial year are scheduled in advance before the end of the current financial year so
as to facilitate the Directors to plan ahead and organise the next year’s Board meetings into their respective schedules.
The Chairman of the respective Board Committees would inform the Directors at Board meetings, of any salient matters
noted by the committee and which require the Board’s notice or direction.
The Board members are provided with the agenda and board papers including status report, quarterly report, performance
and management report at least five (5) business days before each meeting so that the Directors have ample time
to review matters to be deliberated at the Board meeting and to facilitate informed decision making by the Directors.
The Chairman of all Board meetings ensures that each of the agenda items is adequately reviewed and thoroughly
deliberated within a reasonable timeframe.
The Board papers provide, amongst others, periodical financial and corporation information, significant operational,
financial and corporate issues, by the Group and management proposals that require Board’s approval.
At the Board meetings, the Board reviews the Group’s business operations by analysing the financial statementsand
its accompanying notes and disclosures as contained in the quarterly report of the Group as compared to the same
corresponding period. The Board also notes the decisions and salient issues deliberated by the AC that are tabled to
the Board.
The Board members are regularly updated by the Company Secretary on the new statutory as well as regulatory
requirements relating to Directors’ duties and responsibilities or the discharge of their duties as Director of theCompany.
TheCompanySecretaryattendsallBoardmeetingsandensuresthataccurateandadequaterecordsof the proceedings of
theBoardmeetingsanddecisionsmadeare properlykept. The external auditors update the Board on latest developments
on new accounting standards that are relevant to the Group.
All Board members have full and timely access to information on the Company’s businesses and affairs for thedischarge
of their duties and responsibilities. Where necessary, senior management staff as well as advisors and professionals
appointed to act for the Company on corporate proposal may be invited to attend the Board meeting to furnish the
Board with their comments and advice on the relevant proposal tabled.
1.3	Board Charter
The primary objective of the Company’s Board Charter (“Board Charter”) is to set out the roles and responsibilities of
the Board to achieve the vision and mission of the Company. The Board is guided by the Board Charter which provides
references for Directors in relation to the Board’s role, powers, duties and functions.
Apart from reflecting the current best practices and the applicable rules and regulations, the Board Charter also outlines
processes and procedures for the Board and their committees to be effective and efficient. The Board regularly review
the Board Charter to ensure it remains consistent with the Board’s objectives and responsibilities and all the relevant
standards of corporate governance. The Board Charter is made available on 3A’s website, www.three-a.com.my.
34	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
A. 	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED)
1.4 	Sustainability of Business
The Board governs the overall sustainability matters of the Group and takes responsibility for the setting of the Group’s
sustainability strategies, priorities and targets. The Sustainability Committee (“SC”) that comprises of members from
Management to provide support to the Board taking into sustainability considerations in the development and implementation
of major business strategies and plans.
The Board is mindful of the importance of business sustainability and its growing impact to the Group, whilst no less
emphasis been put into managing the social and environmental impact of its business operations. The Group also
embraces sustainability through collaboration and partnership with its suppliers, customers and other stakeholders.
The Group is committed to the continuous efforts in maintaining a delicate balance between the sustainability agenda
and the shareholders’ interests.
1.5 	Board Gender Diversity Policies and Targets and the Measures
Currently, the Board composes of six (6) males and three (3) females to ensure a good mix of gender as well.
Therefore, the composition of the Board fulfils Practice 5.9 of the Code of 30% composition of women on the Board. The
Board takes note of the need to establish a policy formalising the approach to gender diversity for the board and senior
management. The Board will consider gender diversity as part of its future selection to identify suitable candidates if
the need arises. If any, such candidates will be strictly assessed based on merit, their competencies, time commitment,
experience, gender diversity, age and cultural background, and competencies required for an effective Board.
The NC will oversee the overall composition of the Board and Board Committees, including succession planning
to maintain the appropriate size and skills, the balance between Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and
Independent Directors as well as the mixture of skills and other core competencies required on the Board.
1.6 Code of Conduct and Ethics
The Board will continue to adhere to the Code of Conduct and Ethics which is applicable to all directors, management
and employees of the Group. The Code of Conduct and Ethics as established by the Board that was published in the
Company’s website, www.three-a.com.my is based on the following principles:
• Uphold of human rights of workers and commitment to a safe and healthy work environment;
• Social responsibility and protection of the environment;
• Duty to act in the best interest of the Group;
• Protect and maintain the assets and confidentiality of sensitive information of the Group;
• Conduct of fair trade in business;
• Honesty and integrity;
• No conflict of interests and no bribery or unethical business practices;
• Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy; and
• Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and Group policies.
1.7 	
Whistle-Blowing Policy and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy
	
The Board acknowledges that misconduct such as violation of laws, rules, regulations, production fraud, fraud, health
and safety infringements or corruption are usually known first by people who work in or with the Group. An early warning
system such as a Whistle-Blowing Policy and Procedure can help the Group to detect wrongdoings and alert the Group
to take corrective action before a problem becomes a crisis. In order to promote ethical values and conduct throughout
the Group, the Board has put in place an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy to prevent conflict of interest, the risk of
bribery and corruption within the Group.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 35
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
A. 	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED)
1.7 	
Whistle-Blowing Policy and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (Continued)
The Board in its effort to enhance corporate governance has put in place a whistle blowing policy to provide an avenue
for employees, suppliers and stakeholders to report genuine concerns about malpractices, unethical behaviour or
misconduct without fear of reprisal. Any concerns raised will be received by the members of the AC, investigated and
outcome of such investigation will be reported to the Board. Appropriate action will be taken to resolve the issue. The
whistle-blower’s identity will be kept confidential. The Company will assign a senior officer from the Human Resources
(“HR”) Department as Whistle-blower protector who will keep in touch with the whistle-blower to monitor and assess
any signs of victimisation or stress.
The Whistle-Blowing Policy and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy are made available on 3A’s website,
www.three-a.com.my.
1.8 Promoting Sustainability
3A’s approach to governance is to drive business revenues and profits and manage risks prudently in order to deliver
long-term profitability and provide value to shareholders on a sustainable basis. This includes meeting expectations
of stakeholders such as customers, shareholders, regulators, bankers, joint-venture partners and the communities in
which 3A operates.
The Board and Management of 3A uphold Sustainability efforts in terms of achieving Economic, Environment and
Social sustainable objectives as part of its responsibility to its stakeholders and the communities in which it operates.
The Group is committed to the implementation of safe work practices and aims to provide an injury-free workplace
for all its employees. Besides, 3A is dedicated to do its part to protect the environment in its business activities
and support the local communities. More details of the Group’s efforts in incorporating sustainability in its business
operations can be found in the Sustainability Statement on pages 16 to 30 of the Annual Report.
1.9 Qualified and Competent Company Secretaries
The Company Secretaries are appointed by the Board. The appointments are based on criteria related to the
qualifications, experience and competence of the individual concerned to carry out their duties and responsibilities
having regard to the 3A’s business, size of operations and compliance with the Listing Requirements. The Company
Secretaries are MAICSA members and their role and responsibilities include the following:
• 
Preparation and submission of forms as required under the Companies Act 2016 to the Companies Commission
Malaysia;
• 
Ensure compliance of regulatory requirements, updates on new Bursa Securities Listing Requirements to the
Board;
• 
Submissions of corporate announcements electronically via Bursa LINK to Bursa Securities;
• 
Support the Board of Directors, by ensuring adherence to Board policies and procedures, rules, relevant laws and
best practices on Corporate Governance;
• 
Attendance at Annual General Meeting, AC, NC, RC and Board of Directors’ meetings and ensure minutes of
meetings are well documented; and
• 
Follow-up on matters arising from the meetings.
The Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company Secretaries in assisting them to
discharge their duties.
36	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
A. 	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED)
2.0 	Board Composition
Good governance principles require fairness, transparency, accountability and responsibility. The Board acknowledges
the importance of the Board structure.
The Board consists of nine (9) members; comprising two (2) Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors, three (3) Non-
Independent Executive Directors (including the Managing Director) and four (4) Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board comprises members with a wide range of business, financial and technical service background. The size
of the Board is optimum given the scope, size and complexity of the Group’s operations. The composition of the
Board complies with the Paragraph 15.02(1)(a) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities (“Listing
Requirements”) that requires a minimum of two (2) or one-third (1/3) of the Board, whichever is the higher, to be
Independent Directors.
There is a clearly accepted division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Managing Director to ensure
balance of the power and authority. The Executive Directors have primary responsibilities for managing the Group’s
day-to-day operations and together with the other Directors, to ensure that the strategies are fully discussed and
examined and to take into consideration the long-term interests of the various stakeholders including shareholders,
employees, customers, suppliers and the various communities in which the Group conducts its business.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors do not engage in the day-to-day management of the Group and do not
participate in any business dealings and are not involved in any other relationship with the Group. This ensures that
the Independent Non-Executive Directors remain free from conflict of interest and facilitate them to carry out their roles
and responsibilities as Independent Directors effectively. The Independent Directors are at liberty to seek independent
professional advice on matters relating to the discharge of their duties. The cost of securing such professional services
will be borne by 3A.
2.1 Appointment to the Board
Any proposed appointment of a new Member to the Board is deliberated by the full Board upon the recommendation
by the NC, of which NC will review based on the necessity for and qualification as well as experience of the proposed
new member.
The NC will also conduct the Fit and Proper assessment prior to the appointment of any additional Board member to
the Board to ensure the Board quality and integrity for the appointment to the Group.
The appointment of any additional member to the Board is made as and when it is deemed necessary by the Board
with due consideration given to the mix of expertise, skills, experience, gender diversity, age and cultural background
competencies required for an effective Board.
During the financial year 2022, the Board appointed two (2) Independent Non-Executive Directors on 8 June 2022 as
the replacement for the outgoing Directors. Furthermore, the NC had conducted the Fit and Proper assessment prior
to their appointment.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 37
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
A. 	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED)
2.2 Re-Election of Directors
Clause 76(3) of the Company’s Constitution provides that at every Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), at least one-third
(1/3) of the Directors for the time being, or if their number is not three (3) or a multiple of three (3), then the number
nearest to one-third (1/3), shall retire from office at the conclusion of the AGM and be eligible for re-election provided
always that all Directors shall retire from office once at least in each three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election.
The re-election of Directors at the AGM is subject to the assessment by the NC pursuant to the fit and proper policy
adopted by the Group on 21 April 2022. For the forthcoming AGM, the following Directors will be retiring by rotation
in accordance with Clause 76(3) of the Company’s Constitution, and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-
election:
• 
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh; and
• 
Ms Fang Siew Ping.
The following newly appointed Directors will be retiring by rotation in accordance with Clause 78 of the Company’s
Constitution, and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election:
• 
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam; and
• 
Ms Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh.
A brief description of the profile of the abovementioned Directors and their respective attendance in Board Meetings
are presented in this Annual Report. In determining whether to recommend a Director for re-election, the aforesaid
Directors’ time commitment such as attendance at meetings, participation, contribution to the activities of the Board,
character, integrity and experience had been considered by the NC.
The NC had on 23 February 2023 at its NC meeting conducted the assessment pursuant to the directors’ fit and proper
policy, was satisfied that the abovementioned Directors have met the requirements set out above and recommended
to the Board for their re-election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors of 3A are individuals of high calibre and integrity and their knowledge and expertise in their fields from
other businesses, have enhanced the effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees.
The Board is of the view that given the size of the Group and its business complexity, the current number of Directors
remains optimum and conducive for effective deliberations at Board meetings and for the efficient conduct of Board
meetings.
2.3 	The Board Committees
		
The Board delegates certain authorities to the Board Committees that operate under clearly defined written Terms of
Reference and operating procedures duly approved by the Board.
		
The functions and terms of reference of the Board Committees as well as authority delegated by the Board to these
Committees, have been approved by the Board and are reviewed from time to time to ensure that they are relevant and
up to date.
		
The various Committees report the outcome of their meetings to the Board which are then incorporated in the Board’s
minutes. The Board Committees are AC, NC, RC and RMC.
38	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
A. 	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED)
2.4 Nomination Committee (“NC”)
The Board has established a NC and its principal objectives are in line with the Terms of Reference of the NC which is
available on the Company’s website, www.three-a.com.my.
The NC shall meet as and when necessary and at such other time(s) as it deems necessary to fulfil its responsibilities.
The quorum for each meeting is two (2) members, of whom shall be an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Recommendations of the NC are submitted to the Board for approval.
To carry out the assessment of those Directors who are eligible to stand for re-election, the NC will base on formal
reviews of the performance of the Directors, their contribution to the Board through their skills, experience, strength
and qualities, their level of independence and abilities to exercise independent judgment, demonstrate objectivity,
clarity of thought during deliberations at meetings and ability to spend sufficient time and commitment to the Group.
An annual evaluation, in the form of self and peer evaluation, are conducted by the NC, on the effectiveness of the
Board as a whole, Board Committees, contribution of each individual Director, independence of Independent Directors
and assessment on Senior Management. A summary of the evaluations was furnished to the NC for discussion.
The NC had furnished the Board Evaluation Questionnaire in relation to Environmental, Social and Governance
(“ESG”) or Sustainability to the Board for the review of the ESG or Sustainability performance of the Board and Senior
Management in addressing the Company’s material sustainability risks and opportunities as recommended under
Practice 4.4 of the Code.
The NC had on 23 February 2023 conducted the annual assessment in respect of the financial year 2022 and was
satisfied with the existing Board composition and was of the view that all the Directors and Board Committee of
3A had discharged their responsibilities in a commendable manner and had performed competently and effectively.
The Board’s effectiveness is assessed in the areas of composition, administration and process, accountability and
responsibility, conduct and communication, decision-making and Boardroom activities, each Director’s skills and
competencies, as well as Board diversity.
For the Board diversity, the evaluation of the candidates’ suitability by the Board is solely based on their competence,
character, time commitment, integrity and experience in meeting the needs of the Group.
For the financial year 2022, the NC met once (1) and the composition of the NC and their attendance at meetings of
Committee are as follows:
Members of NC and Meeting Attendance during the financial year ended 2022
Membership Status Name Attendance
Chairman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah
(Resigned on 8 June 2022)
1/1
Chairman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
(Appointed on 7 September 2022)
-
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chew Eng Chai 1/1
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Khoo Wee Boon
(Resigned on 8 June 2022)
1/1
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh
(Resigned on 7 September 2022)
1/1
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
(Appointed on 7 September 2022)
-
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 39
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
A. 	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED)
2.4 Nomination Committee (“NC”) (Continued)
The NC had undertaken the following activities in respect of the financial year 2022:
• 
Reviewed the Self and Peer Assessment Forms of the Directors retiring pursuant to the Company’s Constitution
and re-election of Directors and submitted their recommendation for re-election at the AGM;
• 
Reviewed the yearly Self and Peer Assessment Forms of Board Members, the Board’s mix of skills and the
performance of Board committees;
• 
Reviewed the continuation in office of Mr Chew Eng Chai as the Independent Non-Executive Director, who had
served the Board for more than nine (9) years;
• 
Reviewed the independence of Independent Directors;
• 
Reviewed the Key Officer’s evaluation;
• 
Reviewed and recommended to the Board the adoption of the Fit and Proper Policy of the Group;
• 
Reviewed and recommended to the Board the adoption of updated Terms of Reference of NC;
• 
Reviewed and recommended to the Board the appointment of new directors and committee members of the
Company; and
• 
Reviewed and recommended to the Board the change in the composition of the Board Committees.
In 3A Group, all appointments and employments are based on merits and not determined by gender, ethnicity and age
bias. The current structure of gender, ethnicity and age of the employees of the Group as at 8 March 2023 are as follows:
Gender Age Ethnicity
Male 88% 18 – 30 35% Malaysian – Bumiputera 26.2%
Female 12% 31 – 40 38% Malaysian – Chinese 10.9%
100% 41 – 50 21% Malaysian – Indian 0.1%
Above 50 6% Foreigners 62.8%
100% 100%
2.5 Remuneration Committee (“RC”)
The RC has a formal and transparent procedure to review each Director’s remuneration package which takes into
consideration on corporate and individual performance; experience and level of responsibilities of the Directors
concerned. The RC is responsible for recommending the remuneration framework for Directors, the remuneration
packages of Executive Directors to the Board as well as to review and deliberate on the quantum of Directors’ fee.
None of the Executive Directors participate in any way in determining their individual remuneration.
The Board as a whole determines the level of remuneration of Non-Executive Directors with individual Directors
abstaining from decisions in respect of their individual remuneration. Directors’ fees and benefits, if any, are approved
at the AGM by the shareholders.
The policy practiced on Directors’ remuneration by the RC is to recommend the remuneration packages necessary
to attract, retain and motivate Directors of the quality required to manage the business of the Group and to align the
interest of the Directors with those of the shareholders.
Information prepared by independent consultants and survey data on the remuneration practices of comparable
companies are taken into consideration in determining the remuneration packages, where necessary.
The components of Directors’ remuneration are structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual performance
in the case of Executive Directors. In the case of Non-Executive Directors, the level of remuneration reflects the
experience and level of responsibilities undertaken by the individual Non-Executive Director concerned.
40	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
2.5 Remuneration Committee (“RC”) (Continued)
Meetings are held as and when necessary and at least once a year. The quorum for each meeting shall be two (2)
members, of whom shall be an Independent Non-Executive Director. Minutes of each meeting shall be kept by the
Secretary as evidence that the Committee has discharged its functions.
The RC held two (2) meetings during the financial year 2022 to review and recommend to the Board on the remuneration
of the Directors.
Members of RC and Meeting Attendance during the financial year 2022
Membership Status Name Attendance
Chairman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng
(Retired on 8 June 2022)
1/1
Chairman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
(Appointed on 7 September 2022)
1/1
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chew Eng Chai 2/2
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Khoo Wee Boon
(Resigned on 8 June 2022)
1/1
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh
(Resigned on 7 September 2022)
1/1
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
(Appointment on 7 September 2022)
1/1
2.6 Remuneration of Directors
The remuneration package for Directors comprises the following elements:
Directors’ Fees
The Directors’ fees are only payable to Non-Executive Directors. The RC recommends the framework of Directors’ fees
to the Board. The fees structure is determined after a study of comparable organisations’ practices as well as the level
of responsibilities involved.
Salaries and Bonuses
The basic salaries for the Executive Directors are recommended by the RC to the Board for the approval. In the
evaluation process, consideration is given to the salary scales for similar jobs in the industry.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 41
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
2.6 Remuneration of Directors (Continued)
Salaries and Bonuses (Continued)
The details of the remuneration Directors for the financial year 2022 are as follows:
Fees
(RM)
Salaries
(RM)
Allowance
(RM)
Bonus
(RM)
Other
Emoluments
(RM)
Total
(RM)
Received from the Company
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh 156,000 - - - - 156,000
Chew Eng Chai 92,000 - - - - 92,000
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng
(Retired on 8 June 2022)
21,000 - - - 70,000 91,000^
Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah
(Resigned on 8 June 2022)
21,000 - - - 70,000 91,000^
Khoo Wee Boon
(Resigned on 8 June 2022)
21,000 - - - 70,000 91,000^
Lim Yee Mein 30,000 - - - - 30,000
Kee Thuan Chai 30,000 - - - - 30,000
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
(Appointed on 8 June 2022)
35,000 - - - - 35,000
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
(Appointed on 8 June 2022)
35,000 - - - - 35,000
441,000 - - - 210,000 651,000
Received from Subsidiaries
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh 66,000 - - - - 66,000
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu
King
- 684,000 - 712,000 55,840 1,451,840
Fang Siew Ping - 480,000 60,000 420,000 115,200 1,075,200
Liew Kuo Shin - 480,000 60,000 420,000 115,200 1,075,200
66,000 1,644,000 120,000 1,552,000 286,240 3,668,240
Notes:
^ 
Directors’ remuneration in respect of financial year ended 31 December 2022 amounted to RM273,000.00 paid
to the outgoing directors had been approved by the shareholders at the Twentieth Annual General Meeting (“20th
AGM”) of the Company held on 8 June 2022. The aforementioned Directors’ remuneration had also been paid to the
outgoing directors following their retirement and resignation from the Company in 2022.
42	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
2.7 Independence of the Board
The Independent Non-Executive Directors with their extensive knowledge and experience contribute independent
views, advice and judgement on interests, not only of the Company but also of shareholders, employees, customers and
suppliers in which the Group conducts its business. Independent Non-Executive Directors are essential for protecting
the interests of shareholders and stakeholders and can make significant contributions to the Group’s decision making
by bringing in detached impartiality.
The roles of the Independent Non-Executive Chairman and Managing Director of the Company are distinct and
separate with individual responsibilities. Each of them has clear defined duties and authority thus ensures balance of
power and greater capacity for independent decision-making.
Where a potential conflict of interest may arise, it is mandatory practice for the Director concerned to declare his or her
interest and abstain from the decision-making process.
The Board through the NC assessed the independence of its Independent Non-Executive Directors based on criteria
set out in the Listing Requirements. The Board Charter provides a limit of a cumulative term of nine (9) years on
the tenure of an Independent Director. However, an Independent Director may continue to serve on the Board upon
reaching the nine (9) year limit subject to the designation of the said Independent Director as a Non-Independent
Director. In the event, the Board intends to retain the Director as an Independent Non-Executive Director who serves
beyond nine (9) years, the Company is required to seek shareholders’ approval at general meeting. In justifying the
decision, the Board is required to assess the candidate’s suitability to continue as an Independent Non-Executive
Director based on the criteria on independence assessment as adopted by the Board.
The Independent Non-Executive Director, namely Mr Chew Eng Chai who has served the Board for more than twelve
(12) years, has indicated that he will be stepping down as Independent Director after the conclusion of the forthcoming
AGM.
Upon the resignation of Mr Chew Eng Chai, the Company will not be in compliance with Paragraph 15.09(1) of the Listing
Requirements and must fill the vacancies within three (3) months from the date of his resignation. The Company will
source the replacement soonest possible and make the necessary announcements relating thereto Bursa Securities.
2.8 	Board Meetings
The Board meets every three (3) months in regular Board of Directors’ meetings during the year to approve the quarterly
results on a pre-scheduled basis. Additional meetings are convened when urgent and important decisions need to be
taken between scheduled meetings.
The Board met five (5) times during the financial year 2022. The dates of the Board Meetings are as follows:
• 24 February 2022
• 21 April 2022
• 20 May 2022
• 18 August 2022
• 24 November 2022
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 43
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
2.8 	Board Meetings (Continued)
Details of attendance of each Director at the Board meetings held under the financial year are set out as follows:
Director Number of Board
Meetings Held
Number of
Board Meetings
Attended
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh (Chairman) 5 5/5
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King 5 5/5
Chew Eng Chai 5 5/5
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng (Retired on 8 June 2022) 3 3/3
Mohd Zaki bin Hamzah (Resigned on 8 June 2022) 3 3/3
Khoo Wee Boon (Resigned on 8 June 2022) 3 3/3
Fang Siew Ping 5 5/5
Liew Kuo Shin 5 5/5
Kee Thuan Chai 5 5/5
Lim Yee Mein 5 5/5
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam (Appointed on 8 June 2022) 2 2/2
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh (Appointed on 8 June 2022) 2 2/2
All Directors are expected to notify the Board of their acceptance of any new directorship in other listed issuers.
Directors of the Company do not hold more than five (5) directorships in public listed companies and there is no
restriction on number of directorships in non-public listed companies, as stipulated in the Listing Requirements.
The listing of directorships held by Directors is disclosed by the respective Directors to the Board to ensure compliance
to the above Listing Requirements.
2.9 Directors’ Training
The Directors have continued to participate in relevant training programmes to keep abreast with the latest
developments in the security industry, in particularly in areas of corporate governance and regulatory changes so that
they would be able to discharge their duties as Directors effectively.
For the financial year 2022, the conferences, seminars and training programmes attended by each of the Directors
were in respect of the following areas:
Director Seminars/Training Programmes Attended Date
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l
Bant Singh
• 
Cybersecurity, Business Continuity, and Sustainability and
Environmental, Social and Governance
14 October 2022
Fong Chu King @ Tong
Chu King
• 
Cybersecurity, Business Continuity, and Sustainability and
Environmental, Social and Governance
14 October 2022
Chew Eng Chai • 
Cybersecurity, Business Continuity, and Sustainability and
Environmental, Social and Governance
14 October 2022
Fang Siew Ping • 
Cybersecurity, Business Continuity, and Sustainability and
Environmental, Social and Governance
14 October 2022
44	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Director Seminars/Training Programmes Attended Date
Liew Kuo Shin • 
Cybersecurity, Business Continuity, and Sustainability and
Environmental, Social and Governance
14 October 2022
Lim Yee Mein • 
Cybersecurity, Business Continuity, and Sustainability and
Environmental, Social and Governance
14 October 2022
Kee Thuan Chai • 
Cybersecurity, Business Continuity, and Sustainability and
Environmental, Social and Governance
14 October 2022
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban
Singh
• 
Cybersecurity, Business Continuity, and Sustainability and
Environmental, Social and Governance
14 October 2022
Dato’ Shamesh a/l
Jeevaretnam
• 
Cybersecurity, Business Continuity, and Sustainability and
Environmental, Social and Governance
14 October 2022
The Company Secretary regularly update the relevant guidelines on statutory and regulatory requirements from time to
time for the Board’s reference and briefs the Board quarterly on these updates, where applicable, at Board meetings.
The Directors will continue to undergo relevant training programmes to further enhance their skills and knowledge in
the discharge of their stewardship role.
B. EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
1.0 Audit Committee (“AC”)
The AC currently comprises three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors. The AC meets not less than four (4) times
a year and is governed by clearly defined Terms of Reference. In the financial year 2022, the Committee met five (5)
times. The main responsibilities of the AC are to ensure integrity of financial reporting, a sound internal control system
with effective risk monitoring procedures and adherence to compliance matters.
The Chairman of AC is not the Chairman of the Board. Details of the composition of the AC, attendance of Members at
meetings held during the financial year 2022 and the activities carried out by the AC during the year are set out under
the AC Report on pages 52 to 54 on this Annual Report.
1.1 Financial Reporting
In presenting the annual audited financial statements and quarterly announcements of results to shareholders, the
Directors take responsibility to provide a balanced, clear and comprehensive assessment of the financial performance
and prospects of the Company and the Group in all the disclosures made to the stakeholders and the regulatory
authorities. Following discussions with the External Auditors, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group
uses appropriate accounting policies that are consistently applied and supported by reasonable as well as prudent
judgments and estimates; and that financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable approved accounting
standards in Malaysia and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016. The Directors recognise the responsibility for
ensuring that accounting records are properly kept.
The AC who assists the Board in overseeing the financial reporting process of the Company and the Group, has
adopted a policy for the types of non-audit services permitted to be provided by the External Auditors, including the
need for the Audit Committee’s approval prior to such services can be provided by the External Auditors.
A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
2.9 Directors’ Training (Continued)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 45
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
B. EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued)
1.1 Financial Reporting (Continued)
In assessing the independence of External Auditors, the AC requires written assurance by the External Auditors,
confirming that they are and have been independent throughout the conduct of the audit engagement with the Group
in accordance with the independence criteria set out by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants and
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants.
Early announcements of the quarterly results and issuance of annual report to Bursa Securities reflect the Board’s
commitment to provide timely, transparent and up-to-date assessments on the Company’s and the Group’s
performance and prospects.
The Board is assisted by the AC to oversee the quality of the financial reporting of the Company and the Group. The
AC reviews and monitors the integrity of the Company’s and the Group’s annual and interim financial statements and
reviews the appropriateness of the Company’s and the Group’s accounting policies and changes to these policies as
well as ensures these financial statements comply with accounting and regulatory requirements.
AC had on 23 February 2023 conducted an assessment on the suitability and independence of the external auditors,
Messrs BDO PLT. Having considered their independence, competency, resources and the audit team assigned and
the tenure of the change of its audit engagement partner, the AC had recommended to the Board on their suitability
and independence and to re-appoint Messrs BDO PLT as Auditors of the Group for the ensuing year. The Board has
recommended Messrs BDO PLT for re-appointment as Auditors of the Group for the shareholders’ approval at the
forthcoming AGM.
The Board of Directors also have overall responsibilities for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to
safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and for the implementation and continued operation of adequate
accounting and internal control systems for the prevention of fraud and other irregularities.
1.2 	Statement on Directors’ Responsibility
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2016 to prepare financial statements for each year which give a true
and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the financial year and of their results
and cash flow for the financial year then ended. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have:
• adopted suitable accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• made judgments and estimates that are prudent and reasonable;
• ensured applicable accounting standards have been followed; and
• prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company and the Group keeps proper accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of Group which enable them
to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2016.
The Directors have overall responsibility for taking such steps that are reasonably open to them to safeguard the
assets of the Company and the Group to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
1.3 Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Board requires the Company and the Group to maintain a rigorous risk management framework for identifying,
evaluating, monitoring and managing the risks taken to achieve the Company’s and the Group’s business objectives.
This process is periodically reviewed by the Board.
46	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
B. EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued)
1.3 Risk Management and Internal Control Framework (Continued)
The Group’s Internal Audit function is outsourced to an independent consultant whose credentials and qualifications
had been reviewed and found to be competent by the Board and had adequate resources to carry out the scope of
activities as outlined in the internal audit plan of the Company. They report directly to the AC on the effectiveness
of the current system of internal controls from the perspectives of governance, risks and controls. The internal audit
function is independent of the activities it audits. The internal audit function carries out the internal audit reviews based
on internal audit plans approved by the AC and the Board. The findings/results of the audits are presented to the AC
at their quarterly meetings.
Follow-up reviews are also carried out to assess the status of implementation of management action plans, which
are based on internal audit recommendations. The results of these follow-up reviews are also highlighted to the AC at
their quarterly meetings.
On 23 February 2023, the AC performed an assessment and review of the adequacy and scope of the Internal Audit
Function and the backgrounds of Internal Auditors as part of ongoing effort to ensure an effective and sound internal
controls system. The areas covered are the competency and independence of Internal Auditors as well as the scope,
functions, resources and authority of the Internal Audit Function that is in place.
For further details on the focus areas for internal audit during the financial year, please refer to the Statement of Risk
Management and Internal Control on pages 48 to 51 on this Annual Report.
The Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control furnished in the Annual Report provide an overview of the
state of internal controls within the Group.
The cost incurred for the internal audit function in respect of the financial year 2022 was RM82,000.
C. INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING & RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
1.0 Communication with Stakeholders
The Company recognises the importance of maintaining accountability and transparency to its shareholders through
proper communication with its shareholders and stakeholders. The Company reaches out to its stakeholders through
its distribution of the annual reports, public announcements, company website, investor relations through telephone
or emails.
The Group also provides corporate information as well as highlights key financial information in order to facilitate
shareholders’ easy access to the information.
The Company maintained a website (www.three-a.com.my) to which shareholders can access information related to
the Group. The Group’s website is continuously updated to provide timely and accurate information to the users. The
notice of general meetings, proxy form, Annual Report, Circulars to shareholders, Questions and Answers from the
Minority Shareholders Watchdog Group and Summary of Key Matters Discussed at the AGM are also published on
the Company’s website.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 47
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
C. INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING & RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS (Continued)
1.0 Communication with Stakeholders (Continued)
Investors and the public who wish to assess corporate and financial information that is made public such as the
quarterly announcement of the financial results of the Group, announcements and disclosures made pursuant to the
disclosure requirement of Listing Requirements and other corporate information and events related to the Company
can channel their queries to the following personnel:
Name: Fong Peng Fai Jessica Fang Siew Yee
Designation: Group Financial Controller Senior Manager
Email: fong.pengfai@three-a.com.my jessica.fang@three-a.com.my
Tel: +603 6156 2655 +603 6156 2655
Website: www.three-a.com.my
While the Company endeavours to provide as much information as possible to its shareholders and stakeholders,
the Company is mindful of the legal and regulatory framework governing the release of material and price sensitive
information.
1.1 Conduct of General Meeting
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company’s Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) and to participate in
the proceedings. Shareholders’ suggestions received during AGM are reviewed and considered for implementation,
whenever possible. Every opportunity is given to the shareholders to ask questions and seek clarification on the
performance of the Company and the Group.
The 20th AGM of the Company held on 8 June 2022 was conducted through a virtual basis via Remote Participation
and Electronic voting (“RPEV”) facilities from the broadcast venue at Level 12, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof.
Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan. Shareholders were encouraged to participate
(including posting questions to the Board via real time submission of typed texts) and vote remotely at the 20th
AGM of the Company by using the RPEV facilities provided by the Company’s Share Registrar via https://meeting.
boardroomlimited/my.
In accordance with the Listing Requirements, the Board put all resolutions to vote by way of poll at the AGM and the
results of the polling were made to Bursa Securities on the same day.
At the 20th AGM, all Directors of the Company, along with the Group Financial Controller, Company Secretary and
the External Auditors were present to respond to the shareholders’ queries, where applicable and necessary. Further,
in line with good corporate governance practices, the Annual Report 2021 and notice of the last AGM were made
available to the shareholders of the Company at least twenty-eight (28) days prior to the AGM. The notice of AGM is
also published in a national newspaper. The notice would include explanatory statements for proposed resolutions to
facilitate understanding and evaluation of issues involving the shareholders.
48	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of Three-A Resources Berhad is pleased to present its Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control for the financial year ended 31 December 2022. The
disclosure in this Statement is presented pursuant to Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Main Market
Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”), the
relevant principles and practices of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”) and
is guided by the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors
of Listed Issuers.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The performance of the risk management processes covering risk identification, impact assessment, risk profiling, and
documentation are guided by the international risk management framework principles.
The Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) comprises of three (3) members: an Independent Non-Executive Director and two (2)
Executive Directors. The RMC assists the Board in overseeing the risk management framework and ensuring the management
implements appropriate measures to manage material risk exposure in the Group.
During the financial year 2022, the RMC conducted four (4) meetings. In these meetings, RMC deliberated the overall progress
and the status and effectiveness of the risk mitigation plans in each department reported by the Risk Management Working
Committee.
The Group continues to face challenges from the increase of volatility in raw materials costs stemming from the Covid-19
pandemic, the rise of energy and other costs arising from the ongoing Russia-Ukraine war, and the uncertainty in the global
economic landscape.
In facing these headwinds, the Group has undertaken the following initiatives to continue its ongoing efficiency, product quality
and productivity improvements and to optimise its economies of scale and cost:
• 
Inventory planning in managing the inventory costs of the raw materials, the margin of the selling price, and on-time and
adequate supplies of finished goods to the customers;
• Exploration of new and alternative supplies of raw materials and packaging materials;
• Expansion of the production plants and warehouses to support the increase in customer orders;
• Automation and enhancement of certain production lines; and
• 
Customer engagement and consultation for price improvement, order size differentiation, quality and service level.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 49
INTERNAL CONTROLS
In addition to the risk management processes, the Group has always put in place internal control systems covering the following:
i.	
Organisational structure with defined lines of responsibility, hierarchical reporting and delegation of authorities at the Senior
Management and the Heads of Department levels;
ii.	
Limit of authority and approval facilitating delegation of authority;
iii.	
The adoption, certification and compliance of Food Safety System 22000 version 5.1 consisting of ISO 22000: 2018 and
ISO/TS 22002-1:2009 for the products ensuring food safety;
iv.	
Continual implementation and compliance with Halal, Kosher, and HACCP Certifications, setting the fundamental of
management control in the Group;
v.	
Insurance program to protect the assets such as boiler and pressure vessel, goods in transit, money in transit and
safekeeping and collection of cash, and interests of the Group against the risks of public liability, general and product
liability, contaminated products, fire, fire consequential loss, and employee dishonestly;
vi.	
Guidelines for selection and hiring of staff, formal training programmes as well as annual performance appraisals to ensure
that staff are competent and adequately trained in carrying out their responsibilities; and
vii.	
The establishment and implementation of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Policy and Whistleblowing Policy.
In addition, various operational management review meetings are held to discuss operational issues; and monitor and review the
effectiveness of actions taken to ensure that the business performance objectives are met. These meetings include:
a. Food Safety Team Meeting
Quarterly Food Safety Team (“FST”) meetings are conducted to review the achievements of the Key Results Areas (“KRA”)
of respective departments, the root cause for not achieving the KRAs and the corrective action plans, updates for pest
control, results of audits undertaken by FST, customer audits and FST training. The key KRAs include production quality,
yield, downtime, customer goods returned, customer complaint, vendor corrective action requests and accident rate.
b. Credit Control Committee Meeting
Credit Control Committee conducts quarterly meetings to review the customer collection status, the proposed credit term
and limit, the number of new customers, the account receivable ageing and impairment, the related party transactions and
the annual credit review of credit risk.
c.	Sales Meeting
Regular sales meetings are held between Senior Management, Sales & Business Development Manager and the Sales team
to discuss the collection, orders and product prices.
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control (CONTINUED)
50	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control (CONTINUED)
BOARD RESPONSIBILITY
Under the Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance, the Board should:
• ensure there is a sound framework for internal controls and risk management;
• 
understand the principal risks of the company’s business and recognise that business decisions involve the taking of
appropriate risks; and
• 
set the risk appetite within which the Board expects Management to operate and ensure an appropriate risk management
framework to identify, analyse, evaluate, manage and monitor significant financial and non-financial risks.
The Board acknowledges the above responsibilities, understands the principal risks of the business that the Group involves and
accepts that business decisions require the incurrence and balancing of risk and return to generate reasonable returns to the
shareholders.
The followings are the Board’s oversight mechanisms to monitor the effectiveness and adequacy of the risk management and
internal control systems of the Group:
• 
The Audit Committee’s reviews of the quarterly financial results, annual report, and audited financial statements in
consultation with Management, the internal control issues reported by the External and Internal Auditors; and the status of
Management’s implementation for improvement;
• 
The Board deliberation on the External Audit Memorandum covering the risk and control issues noted in the annual statutory
audit;
• The RMC to oversee the risk management of the Group;
• 
The Internal Audit function to assist the Audit Committee and the Board in conducting independent assessments of the
governance practices, risk management and internal control systems of the Group;
• 
The periodic business, financial and operational performances briefings by the Managing Director, Executive Directors and
Group Financial Controller to the Board; and
• 
The discussions with Management during the board meetings on business and operational issues and the measures taken
by Management to mitigate and manage the business and operational challenges and risks.
MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES AND ASSURANCE
In accordance with the Bursa Securities Guidelines, Management is responsible for identifying risks, implementing and maintaining
sound systems of risk management and internal control, and monitoring and reporting to the Board the significant control
deficiencies and changes in risks that could significantly affect the Group’s achievement of its objectives and performance.
The Board has received assurance from the Managing Director, Group Financial Controller and also management that, to the
best of their knowledge, the Group’s risk management and internal control systems are operating adequately and effectively in
all material aspects.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 51
BOARD ASSURANCE AND LIMITATION
This Statement is prepared under paragraph 15.26(b) of the Main Market Listing Requirements and guided by the “Statement on
Risk Management and Internal Control – Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers” (“the Guidelines”), which was endorsed by
the Bursa Securities.
The Board is satisfied that there is an ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the
Group and that the existing internal control and risk management systems are adequate and effective to enable the Group to
achieve its business objectives. No material loss resulted from significant control weaknesses for the financial year under review.
The Board wishes to reiterate that risk management and internal control would be continuously improved in line with the evolving
business environment. However, it should be noted that risk management and internal control systems are only designed to
manage rather than eliminate risks of failure to achieve business objectives. Therefore, these systems can only provide reasonable
but not absolute assurance against material misstatements, fraud and losses.
REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS
As required by Paragraph 15.23 of the MMLR, the External Auditors have reviewed this Statement in accordance with the Audit
and Assurance Practice Guide 3 (“AAPG3”) issued by the Malaysia Institute of Accountants.
The External Auditors reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention that causes them to believe that this
Statement is inconsistent with their understanding of the process adopted by the Board and Management in reviewing the
adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems of the Group.
This Statement is made in accordance with the approval of the Board.
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control (CONTINUED)
52	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Audit Committee
Report
COMPOSITION AND ATTENDANCE
The Audit Committee (“AC”) of the Company comprises three (3) members who are all Independent Non-Executive Directors:
Chairman
Chew Eng Chai
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
Members
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
Independent Non-Executive Director
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr Chew Eng Chai, the Chairman of the AC, is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales as well
as a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants and Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants. Thus, Paragraph
15.09(1)(c)(i) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Listing Requirements”)(“Bursa
Securities”) has complied.
A total of five (5) meetings were held during the financial year ended 31 December 2022 (“FYE 2022”). The record of attendance
of each member at the AC Meetings held during the FYE 2022 is as follows:
Name of AC Members Number of AC Meeting Attended
Chew Eng Chai (Chairman) 5/5
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng (Retired on 8 June 2022) 3/3
Mohd Zaki bin Hamzah (Resigned on 8 June 2022) 3/3
Khoo Wee Boon (Resigned on 8 June 2022) 3/3
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh (Resigned on 7 September 2022) 4/4
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam (Appointed on 7 September 2022) 1/1
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh (Appointed on 7 September 2022) 1/1
Upon invitation by the AC, the Directors, Group Financial Controller, Internal Auditors, External Auditors and senior management
attended the meetings as and where required. The meetings were appropriately structured through the use of agendas, which
were distributed to members with sufficient notification.
TERMS OF REFERENCE (“TOR”)
The latest TOR of the AC is available for reference at the Company’s website, www.three-a.com.my.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 53
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES IN 2022
In line with the TOR of the AC, the following activities were carried out by the AC for the FYE 2022 under review in accordance
with its functions and duties:
1.	
At the meeting held in February 2022, the AC reviewed the Audit Completion Report in respect of the audit of the Company
and the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 from External Auditors, Messrs BDO PLT (“BDO”). A private
session with BDO without the presence of the Executive Directors and Management was carried out at the said meeting.
2.	
At the meeting held in April 2022, the AC reviewed and deliberated the following:
• 
Assessed the independence and suitability of external auditors and being satisfied with the performance of the External
Auditors, recommended the re-appointment of BDO to the Board for further recommendation to the shareholders for
approval at the Twentieth Annual General Meeting.
• 
Reviewed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of the outsourced Internal Auditors of the
Company and was satisfied with their performance and resources.
• 
Reviewed the draft Statement to Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy Back.
• 
Reviewed the draft Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”) and AC Report and recommended
the same to the Board for inclusion in the Annual Report 2021.
• 
Reviewed the draft Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 and recommended
the same to the Board for approval.
• 
Discussed and recommended to the Board the adoption of the updated Terms of Reference of AC and External
Auditors Assessment Policy of the Company.
3. At the meeting held in November 2022, the AC reviewed and deliberated the following:
• 
Audit Planning Memorandum (“APM”) for the FYE 2022 as prepared by BDO in relation to statutory audit services
as well as non-audit services. In the APM, BDO gave assurance that they have complied with the independence
requirement and further described BDO’s engagement and reporting responsibilities, audit scope and approach to
the statutory audit for FYE 2022. The non-audit services of BDO and its affiliate firm involve the annual review of the
SORMIC as well as tax compliance services for the Group.
• 
Report from the Risk Management Committee.
• 
Assessed the solvency of the Company and recommended the payment of interim dividend for the FYE 2022 to the
Board for consideration.
• 
Reviewed the proposed audit fees of BDO and recommend the same to the Board for consideration.
4.	
On financial reporting, the AC reviewed every quarterly financial report during the AC meetings and subsequently
recommended the reports to the Board for approval. The reviews of quarterly reports were conducted in Feb 2022, May
2022, August 2022 and November 2022 respectively. The AC also reviewed and discussed the recommendations from the
Credit Control Committee on matters in relation to the proposed reversal of impairment of trade receivables or any other
matters relating thereto.
5.	
The AC reviewed and discussed the Internal Audit Reports of the Group that were prepared and presented by the Internal
Auditors on a quarterly basis. The AC reviewed the findings of Internal Audit Reports and discussed recommendations and
updates on follow-up matters with the Internal Auditors as and when required.
6.	
The AC reviewed the recurrent related party transactions of a revenue nature within the Group and provided an opinion on
whether they are fair and reasonable and not detrimental to the interest of the minority shareholders of the Company on a
quarterly basis.
Audit Committee
Report (CONTINUED)
54	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Paragraph 15.27 of Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities provides that a listed issuer must establish an internal audit
function independent of the activities it audits and ensure it reports directly to the AC.
The Company has outsourced its internal audit function to an internal audit consulting firm. The primary responsibility of this
internal audit function is to assist the Board and the AC in reviewing and assessing the management systems of internal control
and to provide recommendations to strengthen these internal control procedures.
The internal audit function is headed by a director whom a manager and audit executives assist. The Director in charge is
Mr Chong Kian Soon, he is a member of Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand, the Malaysian Institute of Certified
Public Accountants and the Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia, while the team members are accounting graduates.
The Internal Auditors have carried out their work with reference to the principles of the International Professional Practice
Framework (“IPPF”) of the Institute of Internal Auditors (“IIA”). These principles include the audit planning, execution,
documentation, communication of findings and consultation with key stakeholders.
An Internal Audit Plan will be proposed and presented to the AC for deliberation and approval before internal audit reviews are
carried out. The Internal Audit Plan is developed in consultation with management and the AC, and after considering the significant
risk factors identified by the Risk Management Working Group, changes in the compliance landscape and requirements, the
audit emphasis of the External Auditor, the audit universe in the Group and past internal audit findings. Subsequent changes to
the approved Internal Audit Plan due to changes in business environment will be discussed with the AC and seek its approval
prior to the commencement of the audit.
The Internal Auditors report and present the Internal Audit reports to the AC on a periodic basis. These reports contained the
conclusion of control status, an overview of management performance, audit findings, management actions for improvement
and target completion dates. In addition, the Internal Auditors also conduct follow-up audits to ascertain the management action
status.
The costs incurred for the Internal Audit function in respect of the FYE 2022 was about RM82,000.
During the FYE 2022, the Internal Auditors attended four (4) AC meetings. The summary of work conducted and reported by the
Internal Auditors in the current financial year is as follows:
• 
Assessed the adequacy of the anti-corruption and bribery preventive measures;
• 
Conducted follow-up audit to ascertain the status of management actions;
• 
Prepared draft SORMIC prior to submission to the Board for consideration and approval for inclusion in the Annual Report;
• 
Evaluated the adequacy and effectiveness of management control procedures in the Glucose plant, Soya Protein Sauce
plant and Vinegar plant;
• 
Evaluated the adequacy and effectiveness of management control procedures in Warehouse and Stock Management; and
• 
Briefed AC on the New Bursa Sustainability Reporting Framework.
The AC and the Board are satisfied with the performance of the Internal Auditor and have the interest of greater independence
and continuity in the Internal Audit function, taking the decision to continue with the outsourcing of the Internal Audit Function.
Audit Committee
Report (CONTINUED)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 55
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
INFORMATION
The information set out below is disclosed in compliance with the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Bursa Securities”).
1. Audit and Non-Audit Fees
The amount of audit fees and non-audit fees paid or payable to the Company’s External Auditors and a firm affiliated to the
External Auditors’ by the Company and Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 are as follows:
Company
(RM’000)
Group
(RM’000)
Audit Fees 53 139
Non-Audit Fees 13 25
Total 66 164
2.	Material Contracts
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company or its subsidiaries which involve Directors’ and major
shareholders’ interest either still subsisting at the end of the financial year ended 31 December 2022 or entered into since
the end of the previous financial year that have been entered by the Company or its subsidiary involving the interests of the
Directors and major shareholders.
3.	Utilisation of Proceeds
There were no proceeds raised by the Company from any corporate proposal during the financial year ended
31 December 2022.
4. Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature (“RRPT”)
The Company did not seek any mandate from its shareholders pertaining to recurrent related party transactions of revenue
or trading nature during the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
5. Employee Share Scheme
The Companydid not establish anyemployee share scheme and does not have anysubsisting employee share scheme during
the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
56	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
FINANCIAL
Report
56
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
Directors’ Report  57
Statement By 
Directors  63
Statutory Declaration  63
Independent Auditors’ 
Report  64
Statements of  
Financial Position  68
Statements of Profit 
or Loss and Other 
Comprehensive Income  69
ConsolidatedStatement 
of Changes in Equity  70
Statement of Changes 
In Equity  71
Statements of  
Cash Flows  72
Notes to The  
Financial Statements  74
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 57
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for
the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
Principal Activities
The principal activity of the Company is investment holding. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are primarily involved in
manufacturing and sale of food and beverages ingredients and investment holding. The principal activities and the details of the
subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these
activities during the financial year.
Results
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Profit for the financial year, attributable to owners of the parent 35,094 12,587
Dividend
Dividend paid, declared or proposed since the end of the previous financial year were as follows:
RM’000
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2022:
  Interim single tier dividend of 2.5 sen per ordinary share, paid on 21 December 2022 12,225
The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
Reserves and Provisions
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.
Issue of Shares and Debentures
The Company did not issue any new shares or debentures during the financial year.
Options Granted Over Unissued Shares
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
58	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
REPURCHASE OF OWN SHARES
At the Annual General Meeting held on 8 June 2022, the shareholders of the Company by an ordinary resolution renewed the
mandate given to the Company to purchase its own shares up to 10% of existing issued and paid-up share capital of the
Company.
During the financial year, the Company repurchased 1,231,200 of its issued ordinary shares at a total cost of RM1,072,681 which
were held as treasury shares.
As at 31 December 2022, a total of 3,000,000 issued and fully paid ordinary shares at a total cost of RM2,150,920 are held as
treasury shares by the Company. The number of ordinary shares as at 31 December 2022 net of treasury shares is 489,000,010.
The details of the treasury shares are set out in Note 11 to the financial statements.
Directors
The Directors who have held office during the financial year and up to the date of this report are as follows:
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh*
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King*
Chew Eng Chai
Liew Kuo Shin
Fang Siew Ping*
Kee Thuan Chai
Lim Yee Mein
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam			 (Appointed on 8 June 2022)
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh			 (Appointed on 8 June 2022)
Khoo Wee Boon						 (Resigned on 8 June 2022)
Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah*					 (Resigned on 8 June 2022)
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng			 (Retired on 8 June 2022)
* These Directors of the Company are also the Directors of certain subsidiaries of the Company.
Directors’ Interests
The Directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company
and of its related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2022 as recorded in the Register of Directors’
Shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 (“CA2016”) in Malaysia were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
Balance
as at
1.1.2022 Bought Sold
Balance
as at
31.12.2022
Direct interests:
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King 13,745,500 - - 13,745,500
Chew Eng Chai 200,000 - - 200,000
Liew Kuo Shin 125,000 - - 125,000
DIRECTORS’
REPORT (CONTINUED)
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 59
DIRECTORS’
REPORT (CONTINUED)
Directors’ Interests (continued)
The Directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company
and of its related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2022 as recorded in the Register of Directors’
Shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the CA2016 in Malaysia were as follows (continued):
Number of ordinary shares
Balance
as at
1.1.2022 Bought Sold
Balance
as at
31.12.2022
Indirect interests:
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King a 1,714,975 - - 1,714,975
Chew Eng Chai b 8,750 - - 8,750
a 
Indirect interest via shareholdings of his son, Fong Peng Fai (137,375 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 59(11)(c) of CA2016
and Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn. Bhd. (1,577,600 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 8 of CA2016.
b 
Indirect interest via shareholdings of his spouse, Lim Tong Lean pursuant to Section 59(11)(c) of CA2016.
None of the other Directors holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in the ordinary shares of the Company
during the financial year.
Directors’ Benefits
Since the end of the previous financial year, none of the Directors have received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other
than those benefits included in the aggregate amount of remuneration received or due and receivable by the Directors as shown
in the financial statements) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a
firm of which the Directors is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest, other than
the following:
(a)	
certain Directors who may be deemed to derive benefits by virtue of trade transactions entered into in the ordinary course
of business with companies in which certain Directors have substantial financial interests; and
(b)	
certain Directors who received remuneration from a subsidiary as Directors of the subsidiary.
The details of the above transactions are disclosed in Note 26 to the financial statements.
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year, to which the Company is a party, which had the object
of enabling the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other
body corporate.
60	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
Directors’ REMUNERATION
The details of the Directors’ remuneration for the current financial year of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Executive Directors’ remuneration:
- Salaries and other emoluments 3,602 -
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration:
- Fees 507 441
- Retirement benefits 210 210
Total 4,319 651
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR OFFICERS, DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
The Group and the Company effected Directors and officers’ liability insurance during the financial year to protect the Directors
and the officers of the Group and of the Company against potential costs and liabilities arising from claims brought against the
Directors and officers. The insurance premium paid by the Group during the financial year amounted to RM11,500.
There were no indemnity given to or insurance effected for the auditors of the Group and of the Company during the financial
year.
Other Statutory Information Regarding the Group and the Company
(I) As at the End of the Financial Year
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the Directors took reasonable steps:
(i)	
to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
provision for doubtful debts and had satisfied themselves that there are no known bad debts to be written off and
that adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii)	
to ensure that any current assets other than debts, which were unlikely to realise their book values in the ordinary
course of business have been written down to their estimated realisable values.
(b)	
In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year
have not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.
DIRECTORS’
REPORT (CONTINUED)
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 61
Other Statutory Information Regarding the Group and the Company (continued)
(II) From the End of the Financial Year to the Date of This Report
(c) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i)	
which would necessitate the writing off of bad debts or render the amount of the provision for doubtful debts in
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any material extent;
(ii)	
which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company misleading; and
(iii)	
which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the
Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i)	
there has not arisen any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the
results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made; and
(ii)	
no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within the period of
twelve (12) months after the end of the financial year which would or may affect the ability of the Group or of the
Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due.
(III)	
As at the Date Of This Report
(e)	
There are no charges on the assets of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial
year to secure the liabilities of any other person.
(f)	
There are no contingent liabilities of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial
year.
(g)	
The Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements
which would render any amount stated in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
On 3 October 2022, a subsidiary of the Company, San Soon Seng Food Industries Sdn. Bhd. entered into a Sale and Purchase
Agreement with a third party for the acquisition of a piece of land with three (3) units of single-storey detached factory building
for a total consideration of RM5,250,000.
The transaction has not been completed as at the end of the reporting period.
DIRECTORS’
REPORT (CONTINUED)
62	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
Auditors
The auditors, BDO PLT (201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206), have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Auditors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 were as follows:
Group
RM
Company
RM
Statutory audit 138,600 52,500
Other services 8,000 8,000
146,600 60,500
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors (“Board”) in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King
Director
Kuala Lumpur
20 April 2023
Fang Siew Ping
Director
DIRECTORS’
REPORT (CONTINUED)
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 63
STATEMENT
BY DIRECTORS
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 68 to 100 have been drawn up in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the provisions of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December
2022 and of the financial performance and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended.
On behalf of the Board,
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King
Director
Kuala Lumpur
20 April 2023
Fang Siew Ping
Director
I, Fong Peng Fai (CA 23408), being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Three-A Resources Berhad,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 68 to 100 are, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions
of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by )
the abovenamed at					)
Kuala Lumpur, this 				 )
								)	 Fong Peng Fai
20 April 2023
Before me:
64	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Three-A Resources Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as
at 31 December 2022 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income,
statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended
and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 68 to 100.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the
Company as at 31 December 2022, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then ended in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of
the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial
Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a
basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and
Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’
International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the context of our
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do
not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Recoverability of trade receivables
As at 31 December 2022, trade receivables of the Group amounted to RM141,008,000. The details of trade receivables and their
credit risk have been disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
We determine this to be a key audit matter because it requires management to exercise significant judgements in determining
the probability of default by trade receivables and appropriate forward looking information.
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 65
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia) (CONTINUED)
Key Audit Matters (continued)
Audit response
Our audit procedures included the following:
(a)	
Recomputed the probability of default using historical data and forward-looking information adjustment applied by the
Group;
(b)	
Recomputed the correlation coefficient between the macroeconomic factors used by the Group and historical credit losses
to determine the appropriateness of the forward-looking information used by the Group; and
(c)	
Inquiries of management to assess the rationale underlying the relationship between the forward-looking information and
expected credit losses.
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our report in respect of the audit of the financial
statements of the Company.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included
in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our auditors’ report
thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of the
Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are
required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that
give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards
and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the
Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the ability of
the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
66	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia) (CONTINUED)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing, we
exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a)	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b)	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control of the Group
and of the Company.
(c)	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by the Directors.
(d)	
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on
the ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists,
we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the
Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e)	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the underlying
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f)	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within
the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction, supervision
and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence,
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence,
and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 67
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia) (CONTINUED)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe
these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely
rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences
of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.
BDO PLT
201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206
Chartered Accountants
Kuala Lumpur
20 April 2023
Ho Kok Khiaw
03412/02/2025 J
Chartered Accountant
68	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022
 Group  Company
Note
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
  Property, plant and equipment 5 175,238 162,622 - -
Right-of-use assets 6 62,722 62,761 - -
Investments in subsidiaries 7 - - 163,382 163,382
237,960 225,383 163,382 163,382
Current assets
Inventories 8 105,412 57,016 - -
Trade and other receivables 9 144,670 126,071 - -
Cash and bank balances 10 21,006 55,100 1,235 2,009
271,088 238,187 1,235 2,009
TOTAL ASSETS 509,048 463,570 164,617 165,391
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 11 149,087 149,087 149,087 149,087
Treasury shares 11 (2,151) (1,078) (2,151) (1,078)
Reserves 12 273,171 250,302 17,238 16,876
TOTAL EQUITY 420,107 398,311 164,174 164,885
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 14 5,012 2,720 - -
Deferred tax liabilities 13 20,223 16,068 - -
25,235 18,788 - -
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 15 46,573 34,823 442 500
Borrowings 14 15,235 5,294 - -
Current tax liabilities 1,898 6,354 1 6
63,706 46,471 443 506
TOTAL LIABILITIES 88,941 65,259 443 506
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 509,048 463,570 164,617 165,391
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 69
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2022
 Group  Company
Note
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Revenue 18 658,702 515,615 13,500 15,750
Cost of sales (570,497) (418,942) - -
Gross profit 88,205 96,673 13,500 15,750
Other income 19 5,676 3,714 14 17
Administrative expenses 20 (33,346) (29,441) (923) (737)
Other operating expenses 20 (12,301) (8,062) - -
Profit from operations 48,234 62,884 12,591 15,030
Finance costs 21 (431) (378) - -
Profit before tax 47,803 62,506 12,591 15,030
Tax expense 22 (12,709) (15,961) (4) (3)
Profit for the financial year 35,094 46,545 12,587 15,027
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - - - -
Total comprehensive income 35,094 46,545 12,587 15,027
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 35,094 46,545 12,587 15,027
Total comprehensive income attributable to
  owners of the parent 35,094 46,545 12,587 15,027
Earnings per share attributable to
  equity holders of the parent (sen):
Basic and diluted 23 7.2 9.5
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
70	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
Group Note
Share
capital
RM’000
Treasury
shares
RM’000
Distributable
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
equity
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 2021 149,087 (1,078) 218,464 366,473
Profit for the financial year - - 46,545 46,545
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - - - -
Total comprehensive income - - 46,545 46,545
Transaction with owners
Dividends paid 24 - - (14,707) (14,707)
Balance as at 31 December 2021 149,087 (1,078) 250,302 398,311
Profit for the financial year - - 35,094 35,094
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - - - -
Total comprehensive income - - 35,094 35,094
Transactions with owners
Dividend paid 24 - - (12,225) (12,225)
Purchase of treasury shares 11(b) - (1,073) - (1,073)
Balance as at 31 December 2022 149,087 (2,151) 273,171 420,107
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2022
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 71
STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2022
Company Note
Share
capital
RM’000
Treasury
shares
RM’000
Distributable
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
equity
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 2021 149,087 (1,078) 16,556 164,565
Profit for the financial year - - 15,027 15,027
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - - - -
Total comprehensive income - - 15,027 15,027
Transaction with owners
Dividends paid 24 - - (14,707) (14,707)
Balance as at 31 December 2021 149,087 (1,078) 16,876 164,885
Profit for the financial year - - 12,587 12,587
Other comprehensive income, net of tax - - - -
Total comprehensive income - - 12,587 12,587
Transactions with owners
Dividend paid 24 - - (12,225) (12,225)
Purchase of treasury shares 11(b) - (1,073) - (1,073)
Balance as at 31 December 2022 149,087 (2,151) 17,238 164,174
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
72	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
 Group  Company
Note
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax 47,803 62,506 12,591 15,030
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5 10,346 9,227 - -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 6 1,523 1,478 - -
Dividend income from a subsidiary 18 - - (13,500) (15,750)
Interest expense 21 431 378 - -
Interest income 19 (360) (523) (14) (17)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 19 (138) - - -
Property, plant and equipment written off 20 9 14 - -
Reversal of impairment losses on trade receivables 9(e) (13) (534) - -
Net unrealised loss/(gain) in foreign exchange 19, 20 1,643 (917) - -
Operating profit/(loss) before changes in working capital 61,244 71,629 (923) (737)
Changes in working capital:
Inventories (48,396) 18,094 - -
Trade and other receivables (20,225) (12,440) - 2
Trade and other payables 11,484 (1,109) (58) 4
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 4,107 76,174 (981) (731)
Tax refunded 25 - - -
Tax paid (13,035) (10,892) (9) (10)
Net cash (used in)/from operating activities (8,903) 65,282 (990) (741)
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2022
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 73
 Group  Company
Note
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Additions of right-of-use assets 6 (1,484) (3,393) - -
Dividend received from a subsidiary 18 - - 13,500 15,750
Interest received 19 360 523 14 17
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant
  and equipment 247 - - -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 5(b) (22,782) (14,186) - -
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (23,659) (17,056) 13,514 15,767
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Dividends paid 24 (12,225) (14,707) (12,225) (14,707)
Interest paid 21 (431) (378) - -
Net drawdown of bankers’ acceptances 14(h) 13,792 - - -
Repayments of term loans 14(h) (1,559) (4,664) - -
Purchase of treasury shares 11(b) (1,073) - (1,073) -
Net cash used in financing activities (1,496) (19,749) (13,298) (14,707)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash
  and cash equivalents (34,058) 28,477 (774) 319
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
  and cash equivalents (36) 5 - -
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of
  financial year 55,100 26,618 2,009 1,690
Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 10 21,006 55,100 1,235 2,009
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENT OF
Cash Flows
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
74	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
1. CORPORATE INFORMATION
Three-A Resources Berhad (“the Company”) is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia,
and listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The registered office and principal place of business of the Company is located at AL 308, Lot 590 & Lot 4196, Jalan
Industri, U19, Kampung Baru Sungai Buloh, 40160 Shah Alam, Selangor Darul Ehsan.
The consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 comprise the Company and its
subsidiaries. These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the functional currency of
the Company. All financial information presented in RM has been rounded to the nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on 20 April
2023.
2. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The principal activity of the Company is investment holding. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are primarily involved
in manufacturing and sale of food and beverages ingredients and investment holding. The principal activities and the details
of the subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements. There have been no significant changes in the nature
of these activities during the financial year.
3.	BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and the provisions of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the effects of adoption
of new MFRSs during the financial year. The new MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs adopted during the financial year are
disclosed in Note 28.1 to the financial statements.
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention except
as otherwise stated in the financial statements.
4. OPERATING SEGMENTS
Segmental information
Segment analysis has not been prepared as the business of the Group is focused only in manufacturing and trading of food
and beverage ingredients.
The Group does not have any non-current assets that are located in countries other than Malaysia.
The Board of Directors review the business performance of the Group as a whole and management monitors the operating
results of its business for the purpose of making decisions on resources allocation and performance assessment.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 75
4. OPERATING SEGMENTS (continued)
Geographical information
For the purpose of disclosing geographical information, revenue is based on the geographical location of customers from
which the sales transactions originated. The customers are based in Malaysia, Singapore and other foreign countries.
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Revenue:
Malaysia 379,950 292,110
Singapore 63,983 50,736
Other foreign countries 214,769 172,769
658,702 515,615
Major customers
There are no major customers with revenue equal or more than ten percent (10%) of the Group’s revenue. As such,
information on major customers is not presented.
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group
2022
Factory
and office
buildings
RM’000
Plant and
machinery,
tools and
implements
RM’000
Furniture
and fittings
and
equipment
RM’000
Renovations
and
electrical
installations
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Construction-
in-progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Cost
As at 1 January 2022 73,530 138,661 7,268 8,633 16,353 27,853 272,298
Additions 5,572 11,099 2,214 1,712 2,267 216 23,080
Transfers 11,470 14,447 - - - (25,917) -
Disposals - - - - (1,033) - (1,033)
Written off - (6) (30) - - - (36)
As at 31 December 2022 90,572 164,201 9,452 10,345 17,587 2,152 294,309
Accumulated depreciation
As at 1 January 2022 16,032 76,110 5,092 3,745 8,697 - 109,676
Charges for the financial year 1,714 6,259 460 652 1,261 - 10,346
Disposals - - - - (924) - (924)
Written off - (2) (25) - - - (27)
As at 31 December 2022 17,746 82,367 5,527 4,397 9,034 - 119,071
Carrying amount
As at 31 December 2022 72,826 81,834 3,925 5,948 8,553 2,152 175,238
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
76	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued)
Group
2021
Factory
and office
buildings
RM’000
Plant and
machinery,
tools and
implements
RM’000
Furniture
and fittings
and
equipment
RM’000
Renovations
and
electrical
installations
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Construction-
in-progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Cost
As at 1 January 2021 71,076 136,906 6,541 7,698 16,394 18,963 257,578
Additions 2,454 1,755 730 935 17 8,890 14,781
Written off - - (3) - (58) - (61)
As at 31 December 2021 73,530 138,661 7,268 8,633 16,353 27,853 272,298
Accumulated depreciation
As at 1 January 2021 14,569 70,262 4,767 3,367 7,531 - 100,496
Charges for the financial year 1,463 5,848 326 378 1,212 - 9,227
Written off - - (1) - (46) - (47)
As at 31 December 2021 16,032 76,110 5,092 3,745 8,697 - 109,676
Carrying amount
As at 31 December 2021 57,498 62,551 2,176 4,888 7,656 27,853 162,622
  Furniture and fittings
Company 2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Cost
At 1 January/31 December 5 5
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January/31 December (5) (5)
Carrying amount
At 31 December - -
(a)	
All items of property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. After initial recognition, property, plant and
equipment are stated at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
	
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives represent common life expectancies applied in the manufacturing
industry within which the Group operates.
Factory and office buildings 50 years
Plant and machinery, tools and implements 10 to 20 years
Furniture and fittings and equipment 10 years
Renovations and electrical installations 10 years
Motor vehicles 7 to 15 years
		
Construction-in-progress represents factory and plant and machinery under construction and is stated at cost.
Construction-in-progress is not depreciated until such time when the asset is available for use.
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 77
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued)
(b) During the financial year, the Group made the following cash payments to purchase property, plant and equipment:
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 23,080 14,781
Financed by credit purchase (Note 15(c)) (298) (595)
Cash payments on purchase of property, plant and equipment 22,782 14,186
(c)	
As at the end of the current financial year, certain factories and office buildings of the Group with a total carrying
amount of RM7,316,000 (2021: RM7,545,000) have been charged to a licensed bank for credit facilities granted to the
Group as disclosed in Note 14(b) to the financial statements.
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1.1.2022
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Depreciation
RM’000
Balance
as at
31.12.2022
RM’000
Long-term leasehold land 56,907 1,484 (856) 57,535
Short-term leasehold land 5,854 - (667) 5,187
62,761 1,484 (1,523) 62,722
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1.1.2021
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Depreciation
RM’000
Balance
as at
31.12.2021
RM’000
Long-term leasehold land 57,306 443 (842) 56,907
Short-term leasehold land 3,540 2,950 (636) 5,854
60,846 3,393 (1,478) 62,761
(a)	
The right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, which comprise the initial amount of the lease liabilities adjusted
for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date of the leases.
After initial recognition, right-of-use assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated
impairment losses, and adjusted for any re-measurement of the lease liabilities.
The right-of-use assets are depreciated on the straight-line basis over the earlier of the estimated useful lives of the
right-of-use assets or the end of the lease term. The lease terms of right-of-use assets are as follows:
Long-term leasehold land 60 to 99 years
Short-term leasehold land 60 years
(b)	
As at the end of the reporting period, certain leasehold land with a carrying amount of RM16,532,000 (2021:
RM16,815,000) were charged as securities for bank facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 14(b) to the
financial statements.
78	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (continued)
(c)	
The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets (included in administrative expenses) 1,523 1,478
Expense relating to short-term leases (included in administrative expenses) 845 404
2,368 1,882
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
 Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Unquoted shares - at cost 189,923 189,923
Less: Impairment losses (26,541) (26,541)
163,382 163,382
(a)	
Investments in subsidiaries are stated in the separate financial statements of the Company at cost less impairment
losses.
(b)	
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of companies
Country of
incorporation/
Principal place
of business
Effective interest
in equity
Principal activities
2022
%
2021
%
San Soon Seng Food Industries
  Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Manufacturing and sale of food and
 beverages ingredients
Three-A Food Industries (M)
 Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
All subsidiaries of the Company are audited by BDO PLT.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 79
8. INVENTORIES
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
At cost
Raw materials 67,739 29,127
Work-in-progress 10,107 6,150
Packing materials 2,967 2,518
Finished goods 24,599 19,221
105,412 57,016
(a)	
Cost of inventories is determined using the first-in first-out basis and stated at the lower of cost and net realisable
value. Cost incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for as follows:
(i)	
raw materials and packing materials: all purchase costs.
(ii)	
finished goods and work-in-progress: costs of direct materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing
overheads based on normal operating capacity.
(b)	
During the financial year, inventories of the Group recognised as cost of sales amounted to RM549,040,000 (2021:
RM397,464,000).
9.	TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Trade receivables
Third parties 143,713 113,252 - -
Related parties 216 188 - -
143,929 113,440 - -
Less: Impairment losses
    - third parties (2,921) (2,934) - -
141,008 110,506 - -
Other receivables
Other receivables 77 1 - -
Deposits 1,185 464 - -
1,262 465 - -
Total receivables 142,270 110,971 - -
Prepayments 2,400 15,100 - -
144,670 126,071 - -
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
80	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
9.	TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued)
(a)	
Trade receivables are classified as financial assets measured at amortised cost.
(b)	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted by the Group range from 30 to
150 days (2021: 30 to 150 days). They are recognised at their original invoice amounts which represent their fair values
on initial recognition.
(c)	
Amounts owing by related parties are due from Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn. Bhd. and Holistic Food Sdn.
Bhd., companies in which certain Directors have financial interests. Amounts owing by related parties are non-interest
bearing and credit terms range from 60 to 90 days (2021: 60 to 90 days) and 30 to 60 days (2021: Nil) respectively.
(d)	
Impairment for trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are recognised based on the
simplified approach by applying the provisional matrix using the flow-rate approach to calculate the lifetime expected
credit losses (“ECL”).
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the
expected life of the asset. The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum
contractual period over which the Group is exposed to credit risk.
The Group considers historical credit loss experience and observable data such as current changes and future forecasts
in economic conditions to estimate the amount of expected impairment loss. The methodology and assumptions
including any forecasts of future economic conditions are reviewed regularly.
During this process, the probabilities of non-payments by the trade receivables are adjusted by forward-looking
information based on macroeconomic factors such as unemployment rate, gross domestic product (“GDP”) and
inflation rate and multiplied by the amounts of the expected loss arising from defaults to determine the lifetime
expected credit losses for the trade receivables. For trade receivables, which are reported net, such impairments are
recorded in a separate impairment account with the loss being recognised within the statement of profit or loss and
other comprehensive income. On confirmation that the trade receivable would not be collectable, the gross carrying
value of the asset would be written off against the associated impairment.
It requires management to exercise significant judgement in determining the probability of default by trade receivables
and appropriate forward-looking information.
(e)	
Movements in the impairment allowance for trade receivables are as follows:
 Group
  Lifetime ECL
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
At the beginning of the year 2,934 3,468
Reversal of impairment losses (13) (534)
At the end of the year 2,921 2,934
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 81
9.	TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued)
(f)	
Lifetime expected credit loss provision for trade receivables are as follows:
Group
Gross
carrying
amount
RM’000
Lifetime
ECL
RM’000
Net
balance
RM’000
As at 31 December 2022
Not past due 138,349 - 138,349
Past due:
- 1 to 30 days 2,062 - 2,062
- 31 to 60 days 486 - 486
- 61 to 90 days 26 - 26
- 91 to 120 days 85 - 85
- more than 120 days 2,921 (2,921) -
5,580 (2,921) 2,659
143,929 (2,921) 141,008
As at 31 December 2021
Not past due 110,107 - 110,107
Past due:
- 1 to 30 days 253 - 253
- 31 to 60 days 109 - 109
- 61 to 90 days 37 - 37
- more than 120 days 2,934 (2,934) -
3,333 (2,934) 399
113,440 (2,934) 110,506
(g)	
Impairment for other receivables are recognised based on the general approach within MFRS 9 using the forward
looking expected credit loss model. The methodology used to determine the amount of the impairment is based on
whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of the financial asset. For those
in which the credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition of the financial asset, twelve-month
expected credit losses along with gross interest income are recognised. At the end of the reporting period, the Group
assesses whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk for financial assets by comparing the risk of default
occurring over the expected life with the risk of default since initial recognition. For those in which credit risk had
increased significantly, lifetime expected credit losses along with the gross interest income are recognised. For those
that are determined to be credit impaired, lifetime expected credit losses along with interest income on a net basis are
recognised.
	
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the
expected life of the asset, while 12-month expected credit losses are the portion of expected credit losses that result
from default events that are possible within the 12 months after the end of the reporting period. The maximum period
considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period over which the Group is
exposed to credit risk.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
82	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
9.	TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued)
(g)	(continued)
The Group defined significant increase in credit risk based on operating performance of the receivables, changes to
contractual terms, payment trends and past due information.
The Group considers a receivable as credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the
estimated future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.
The probability of non-payment by other receivables is adjusted by forward-looking information based on
macroeconomic factors such as unemployment rate, gross domestic product (“GDP”) and inflation rate and multiplied
by the amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine the twelve-month or lifetime expected credit
losses for other receivables.
No expected credit loss is recognised arising from other receivables as it is negligible.
(h) Credit risk concentration profile
At the end of each reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk of the Group is represented by the carrying
amount of each class of financial assets recognised in the statements of financial position.
The Group determines concentrations of credit risk by monitoring the country of its trade receivables on an ongoing
basis. The credit risk concentration profile of the trade receivables of the Group at the reporting date are as follows:
2022 2021
RM’000 % of total RM’000 % of total
By country:
Malaysia 96,321 69% 80,620 73%
Singapore 13,288 9% 10,955 10%
Other foreign countries 31,399 22% 18,931 17%
141,008 100% 110,506 100%
At the end of each reporting period, approximately 57% (2021: 58%) of the trade receivables of the Group were due
from 10 (2021: 10) major customers.
(i) The currency exposure profiles of trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) are as follows:
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Ringgit Malaysia 98,757 82,381 - -
Singapore Dollar 2,762 2,696 - -
United States Dollar 40,751 25,894 - -
142,270 110,971 - -
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 83
9.	TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued)
(j)	
Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other variables
remain constant, are as follows:
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Effects of 3% changes to RM against
  foreign currencies
Profit after tax
- United States Dollar 929 590 - -
- Singapore Dollar 63 61 - -
(k) 	
Included in deposits is an amount of RM525,000 (2021: Nil) representing deposit paid in relation to the acquisition of
land and factory buildings.
10. CASH AND BANK BALANCES
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Cash and bank balances 21,006 39,100 1,235 2,009
Fixed deposits with licensed banks - 16,000 - -
21,006 55,100 1,235 2,009
(a)	
The weighted average effective interest rates of the Group and of the Company at the reporting date were as follows:
 Group  Company
2022
%
2021
%
2022
%
2021
%
Fixed deposits with licensed banks
- Fixed rates - 1.74 - -
(b)	
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group if interest rates for fixed deposits with licensed
banks at the end of each reporting period changed by one hundred (100) basis points with all other variables held
constant:
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Profit after tax
Fixed deposits with licensed banks
- increase by 1% (2021: 1%) - 122
- decrease by 1% (2021: 1%) - (122)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
84	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
10. CASH AND BANK BALANCES (continued)
(c)	
The currency exposure profiles of cash and bank balances and fixed deposits with licensed banks are as follows:
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Ringgit Malaysia 17,201 53,876 1,235 2,009
United States Dollar 3,787 1,202 - -
Other foreign currencies 18 22 - -
21,006 55,100 1,235 2,009
(d)	
Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currency at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other variables
remain constant, is as follows:
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Effects of 3% changes to RM against foreign currency
Profit after tax
- United States Dollar 86 27
Sensitivity of other foreign currencies are not disclosed as they are not significant to the Group.
(e)	
No expected credit losses were recognised arising from bank balances and fixed deposits with licensed banks because
the probability of default by these financial institutions were negligible.
(f)	
For the purposes of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances and
fixed deposits with licensed banks.
11. SHARE CAPITAL AND TREASURY SHARES
  Group and Company
 2022  2021
Number
of shares
(’000) RM’000
Number
of shares
(’000) RM’000
Issued and fully paid with no par value
At beginning/end of financial year 492,000 149,087 492,000 149,087
(a)	
The owners of the parent are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company and are entitled
to one (1) vote per ordinary share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares rank pari passu with regard to the
residual assets of the Company.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 85
11. SHARE CAPITAL AND TREASURY SHARES (continued)
(b)	Treasury shares
At the Annual General Meeting held on 8 June 2022, the shareholders of the Company by an ordinary resolution
renewed the mandate given to the Company to repurchase up to 10% of existing issued and paid-up share capital of
the Company.
During the financial year, the Company repurchased 1,231,200 of its issued ordinary shares at a total cost of
RM1,072,681 which were held as treasury shares.
The Company did not repurchase any of its issued ordinary shares in the previous financial year.
As at 31 December 2022, a total of 3,000,000 (2021: 1,768,800) issued and fully paid ordinary shares at a total cost of
RM2,150,920 (2021: RM1,078,000) are held as treasury shares by the Company. The number of ordinary shares as at
31 December 2022 net of treasury shares is 489,000,010 (2021: 490,231,210).
The treasury shares have no rights to voting, dividends or participation in other distribution. None of the treasury shares
held were resold, distributed or cancelled during the financial year.
12. RESERVES
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Distributable
Retained earnings 273,171 250,302 17,238 16,876
13. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
(a)	
The deferred tax liabilities are made up of the following:
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 16,068 14,446
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 22) 4,155 1,622
Balance as at 31 December 20,223 16,068
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
86	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
13. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (continued)
(b)	
The components and movements of deferred tax assets and liabilities during the financial year prior to offsetting are as
follows:
Deferred tax assets of the Group
Provisions
RM’000
Offsetting
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 2021 (2,345) 2,345 -
Recognised in profit or loss 275 (275) -
Balance as at 31 December 2021 (2,070) 2,070 -
Recognised in profit or loss (371) 371 -
Balance as at 31 December 2022 (2,441) 2,441 -
Deferred tax liabilities of the Group
Property,
plant and
equipment
RM’000
Others
RM’000
Offsetting
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 2021 16,791 - (2,345) 14,446
Recognised in profit or loss 1,347 - 275 1,622
Balance as at 31 December 2021 18,138 - (2,070) 16,068
Recognised in profit or loss 4,920 (394) (371) 4,155
Balance as at 31 December 2022 23,058 (394) (2,441) 20,223
14. BORROWINGS
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Non-current liabilities
Secured:
Term loans 5,012 2,720
Current liabilities
Secured:
Bankers’ acceptances 13,792 -
Term loans 1,443 5,294
15,235 5,294
Total borrowings 20,247 8,014
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 87
14. BORROWINGS (continued)
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Secured:
Bankers’ acceptances 13,792 -
Term loans 6,455 8,014
20,247 8,014
(a) Borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(b) As at the end of the financial year, the bank borrowings of the Group are secured by the following:
(i)	
fixed charges over the long-term leasehold land, short-term leasehold land, factories and office buildings of a
subsidiary as disclosed in Note 5(c) and 6(b) to the financial statements respectively;
(ii)	
negative pledge on two adjoining pieces of leasehold land of a subsidiary; and
(iii)	
corporate guarantees by the Company.
(c)	
All borrowings are denominated in RM.
(d)	
At the end of the reporting period, the interest rate profiles of the borrowings were as follows:
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
- Fixed rates 13,792 -
- Floating rates 6,455 8,014
20,247 8,014
(e)	
Sensitivity analysis for fixed rates borrowings as at the end of the reporting period was not presented as fixed rate
instruments are not affected by changes in interest rates. Sensitivity analysis of interest rate for the floating rate
instruments at the end of the reporting period, assuming all other variables remain constant, is as follows:
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Profit after tax
Floating rate instrument
- increase by 1% (2021: 1%) (49) (61)
- decrease by 1% (2021: 1%) 49 61
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
88	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
14. BORROWINGS (continued)
(f)	
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the borrowings of the Group at the end of each reporting period
based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations:
Group
On demand
or within
one year
RM’000
One to
five years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
As at 31 December 2022
Bankers’ acceptances 13,963 - 13,963
Term loans 1,815 5,839 7,654
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 15,778 5,839 21,617
As at 31 December 2021
Term loans 5,525 2,977 8,502
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 5,525 2,977 8,502
(g)	
The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average effective interest rates (“WAEIR”) as at the
end of each reporting period and the remaining maturities of the financial instruments of the Group that are exposed to
interest rate risk:
WAEIR
%
Within
1 year
RM’000
1 - 2
years
RM’000
2 - 3
years
RM’000
3 - 4
years
RM’000
4 - 5
years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
As at 31 December 2022
Fixed rates
Bankers’ acceptances 3.14 13,792 - - - - 13,792
Floating rates
Term loans 4.31 1,443 1,483 1,671 992 866 6,455
As at 31 December 2021
Floating rates
Term loans 4.55 5,294 730 767 807 416 8,014
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 89
14. BORROWINGS (continued)
(h)	
Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
The table below details changes in borrowings of the Group arising from financing activities, including both cash and
non-cash changes. Borrowings arising from financing activities are those for which cash flows were, or future cash
flows will be, classified in the statements of cash flows of the Group as cash flows from financing activities.
 Group
Term loans
RM’000
Bankers’
acceptances
RM’000
2022
At 1 January 2022 8,014 -
Cash flows (1,559) 13,792
At 31 December 2022 6,455 13,792
2021
At 1 January 2021 12,678 -
Cash flows (4,664) -
At 31 December 2021 8,014 -
15. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Trade payables
Third parties 23,363 16,353 - -
Other payables
Other payables 7,411 5,160 - -
Deposit received 1,337 1,456 - -
Accruals 14,462 11,854 442 500
23,210 18,470 442 500
46,573 34,823 442 500
(a)	
Trade and other payables are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(b)	
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted to the Group range from 30 to 60
days (2021: 30 to 60 days).
(c)	
Included in other payables of the Group are credit purchase of property, plant and equipment amounting to RM298,000
(2021: RM595,000) as disclosed in Note 5(b) to the financial statements.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
90	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
15. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (continued)
(d) The currency exposure profiles of trade and other payables are as follows:
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Ringgit Malaysia 25,815 25,986 442 500
United States Dollar 19,521 7,738 - -
Other foreign currencies 1,237 1,099 - -
46,573 34,823 442 500
(e)	
Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currency at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other variables
remain constant, are as follows:
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Effects of 3% changes to RM against foreign currency
Profit after tax
- United States Dollar (445) (176)
Sensitivity analysis of other foreign currencies are not disclosed as they are not material to the Group.
(f)	
The maturity profile of trade and other payables of the Group and of the Company at the reporting date based on
contractual undiscounted repayment obligations is repayable on demand or within one (1) year.
16. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Capital expenditure in respect of purchase of property, plant and equipment:
Contracted but not provided for 7,717 5,147
17. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
 Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Corporate guarantees given to banks for credit facilities granted to a subsidiary 20,247 8,014
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 91
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
17. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES (continued)
The Company designates corporate guarantees given to banks for credit facilities granted to subsidiaries as insurance
contracts as defined in MFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. The Company recognises these insurance contracts as recognised
insurance liabilities when there is a present obligation, legal or constructive, as a result of a past event, when it is probable
that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits would be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate
can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The Directors have assessed the financial guarantee contracts and concluded that the guarantees are unlikely to be called
upon by the financial institutions as the loans are collateralised by fixed charges over certain properties, plant and equipment
and right-of-use assets of the Group as disclosed in Notes 5, 6 and 14 to the financial statements. Accordingly, the fair value
of the above corporate guarantees is negligible.
18. REVENUE
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Revenue from contracts with customers:
  Sale of goods 658,702 515,615 - -
Other revenue:
  Dividend income from a subsidiary - - 13,500 15,750
658,702 515,615 13,500 15,750
Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated by geographical market as disclosed in Note 4 to the financial
statements.
Revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated in the table below by timing of revenue recognition.
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Timing of revenue recognition
Transferred at a point in time 658,702 515,615
(i) Sale of goods
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised at a point in time when the goods has been transferred to the customer and
coincides with the delivery of products and acceptance by customers.
There is no right of return and warranty provided to the customers on the sale of goods.
92	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
18. REVENUE (continued)
(i) Sale of goods (continued)
There is no significant financing component in the revenue arising from sale of goods as the sales are made on the
normal credit terms not exceeding twelve months.
(ii) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
19. OTHER INCOME
Included in other operating income are:
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Gain on disposal of property plant and equipment 138 - - -
Interest income 360 523 14 17
Realised gain in foreign exchange 4,709 1,217 - -
Unrealised gain in foreign exchange - 917 - -
Reversal of impairment losses on trade receivables
  (Note 9(e)) 13 534 - -
Insurance claims 96 436 - -
Other income 360 87 - -
5,676 3,714 14 17
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
20. ADMINISTRATIVE AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES
Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, included in administrative and other operating expenses are:
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Auditors’ remuneration:
- statutory audit 139 132 53 50
- over-provision in prior year - (2) - -
- other services 8 8 8 8
Property, plant and equipment written off 9 14 - -
Rental of machineries 113 91 - -
Rental of hostel 276 241 - -
Rental of premises 456 72 - -
Unrealised loss in foreign exchange 1,643 - - -
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 93
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
20. ADMINISTRATIVE AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES (continued)
The Group and the Company do not present the net impairment losses/reversal of impairment losses on financial instruments
determined in accordance with MFRS 9 separately in the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income as
the amounts are not material.
21. FINANCE COSTS
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Interest expense on:
- term loans 256 368 - -
- bankers’ acceptances 163 4 - -
- others 12 6 - -
431 378 - -
22. TAX EXPENSE
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Current tax
 
Current tax expense based on profit for the financial year 8,636 15,405 - -
  (Over)/Under-provision in prior years (82) (1,066) 4 3
8,554 14,339 4 3
Deferred tax (Note 13):
 
Relating to origination and reversal of
  temporary differences 4,133 637 - -
  Under-provision in prior years 22 985 - -
4,155 1,622 - -
12,709 15,961 4 3
(a)	
Malaysian income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 24% (2021: 24%) of the estimated taxable profits for the
fiscal year.
94	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
22. TAX EXPENSE (continued)
(b)	
The numerical reconciliations between the average effective tax rates and the applicable tax rates of the Group and of
the Company are as follows:
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Profit before tax 47,803 62,506 12,591 15,030
Tax at Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24% (2021: 24%) 11,473 15,001 3,022 3,607
Tax effects in respect of:
Non-allowable expenses 1,299 1,166 221 177
Non-taxable income (3) (125) (3,243) (3,784)
12,769 16,042 - -
(Over)/Under-provision of tax expense in prior years (82) (1,066) 4 3
Under-provision of deferred tax in prior years 22 985 - -
12,709 15,961 4 3
23. EARNINGS PER SHARE
(a) Basic earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year
attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the
financial year after deducting treasury shares.
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 35,094 46,545
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (’000) 489,557 490,231
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen) 7.2 9.5
(b)	
The diluted earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is the same as the basic earnings per ordinary share for
the financial year as there were no dilutive potential ordinary shares.
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 95
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
24. DIVIDEND
  Group and Company
 2022  2021
Dividend
per share
Sen
Amount of
dividend
RM’000
Dividend
per share
Sen
Amount of
dividend
RM’000
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2021:
Interim single tier dividend - - 2.2 10,785
Special single tier dividend - - 0.8 3,922
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2022:
Interim single tier dividend 2.5 12,225 - -
2.5 12,225 3.0 14,707
The Directors do not recommend the payment of any final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
25. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 Group
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Salaries, wages, allowances and bonuses 36,065 30,602
Contributions to defined contribution plan 1,969 2,069
Social security contributions 302 252
Other employee benefits 50 41
38,386 32,964
Included in the employee benefits of the Group are Executive Directors’ remuneration amounting to RM3,602,000 (2021:
RM3,456,000).
26. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES
(a) Identities of related parties
Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party
or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where
the Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related parties may be
individuals or other entities.
96	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
26. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES (continued)
(a) Identities of related parties (continued)
The Group and the Company have controlling related party relationships with its subsidiaries, companies related to the
Directors and the significant corporate shareholder of the Company as follows:
Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn. Bhd. A company of which Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King and Fang
Siew Ping, who are Directors of the Company and Fang Chew
Ham Holdings Sdn. Bhd., a significant corporate shareholder of
the Company, have significant financial interests.
Excellent Chemicals Industrial Sdn. Bhd. A company of which Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King and Fang
Siew Ping, who are Directors of the Company, have significant
financial interests.
Holistic Food Sdn. Bhd A company of which Liew Kuo Shin, who is the Director of the
Company, have significant financial interests.
(b) Significant related party transactions
In addition to the transactions and balances detailed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the Company
had the following transactions with related parties during the financial year:
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Sale of goods
- Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn. Bhd. 1,008 931 - -
- Holistic Food Sdn. Bhd. 100 5 - -
Rental expenses
- Excellent Chemicals Industrial Sdn. Bhd. 77 45 - -
Dividend income from a subsidiary
- San Soon Seng Food Industries Sdn. Bhd. - - 13,500 15,750
The related party transactions described above were carried out on negotiated terms and conditions in the ordinary
course of business between the related parties and the Company.
Information regarding outstanding balances arising from related party transactions as at 31 December 2022 is disclosed
in Note 9 to the financial statements.
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 97
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
26. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES (continued)
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel are those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and
controlling the activities of the entity, directly and indirectly, including any Director of the Group and of the Company.
The remunerations of Directors and other key management personnel during the financial year were as follows:
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Short-term employee benefits 4,164 3,955 - -
Contributions to defined contribution plan 379 363 - -
Directors’ fees 507 529 441 460
Retirement benefits 210 - 210 -
5,260 4,847 651 460
27. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
(i)	Capital management
The primary objective of the capital management of the Group is to ensure that entities of the Group would be able to
continue as going concerns whilst maximising return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity
ratios. The overall strategy of the Group remains unchanged from that in the previous financial year.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in response to changes in economic conditions.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return
capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the
financial years ended 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021.
The Group monitors capital using a net debt-to-equity ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt.
The Group includes within net debt, loans and borrowings, trade and other payables, less cash and bank balances and
fixed deposits with licensed banks. Capital represents equity attributable to the owners of the parent.
98	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
27. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
(i)	
Capital management (continued)
 Group  Company
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Borrowings 20,247 8,014 - -
Trade and other payables 46,573 34,823 442 500
Total liabilities 66,820 42,837 442 500
Less:
Cash and bank balances (21,006) (39,100) (1,235) (2,009)
Fixed deposits with licensed banks - (16,000) - -
Net debt/(cash) 45,814 (12,263) (793) (1,509)
Total equity 420,107 398,311 164,174 164,885
Net debt/(cash) 45,814 (12,263) (793) (1,509)
465,921 386,048 163,381 163,376
Ratio (%) 10% -^ -^ -^
^ Gearing ratio is not presented as the Group and the Company are in net cash’s position.
Pursuant to the requirements of Practice Note No. 17/2005 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities, the Group is required to
maintain a consolidated shareholders’ equity of more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the issued and paid-up capital
(excluding treasury shares) and such shareholders’ equity is not less than RM40,000,000. The Group has complied
with this requirement during the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
The Group is not subject to any other external imposed capital requirements.
(ii)	
Financial risk management
The financial risk management objective of the Group is to optimise value creation for shareholders whilst minimising
the potential adverse impact arising from fluctuations in interest rates and the unpredictability of the financial markets.
The Group is exposed mainly to credit risk, liquidity and cash flow risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
Information on the management of the related exposures is detailed below:
(a)	Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails
to meet its contractual obligations. The exposure to credit risk of the Group arises principally from its receivables
from customers. The exposure to credit risk of the Group arises principally from trade and other receivables.
The credit risk concentration profiles have been disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
FINANCIAL REPORT							 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 99
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
27. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
(ii)	
Financial risk management (continued)
The Group is exposed mainly to credit risk, liquidity and cash flow risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
Information on the management of the related exposures is detailed below (continued):
(b)	
Liquidity and cash flow risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company would encounter difficulty in meeting financial obligations
due to shortage of funds. The exposure to liquidity and cash flow risk of the Group and of the Company arises
primarily from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities. The objective of the Group and of
the Company is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of stand-by
credit facilities.
The Group manages its debt maturity profile, operating cash flows and the availability of funding so as to ensure
that all refinancing, repayment and funding needs are met. As part of its overall liquidity management, the Group
maintains sufficient levels of cash or cash convertible investments to meet its working capital requirements. In
addition, the Group strives to maintain available banking facilities at a reasonable level to its overall debt position.
The analysis of financial instruments by remaining contractual maturities has been disclosed in Notes 14 and 15
to the financial statements.
(c)	
Interest rate risk
The variable rate borrowings of the Group are exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to changes in interest
rates. The short term receivables and payables are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk.
The income and operating cash flows of the Group are substantially independent of changes in market interest
rate. Interest rate exposure arises from the borrowings and deposits of the Group and is managed through the
use of fixed and floating rate borrowings and deposits. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments
to hedge its interest rate risk.
The interest rate profile and sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk have been disclosed in Notes 10 and 14 to the
financial statements.
(d)	
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument would fluctuate
because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk as a result of the
foreign currency denominated transactions entered into by the Group during the course of business. The foreign
currencies primarily involved are the United States Dollar and Singapore Dollar. In addition, the Group has a
natural hedge position of sales and purchases that are both denominated in a foreign currency. The Group also
holds cash and bank balances denominated in foreign currencies for working capital purposes.
The foreign currency exposure profile and sensitivity analysis of foreign currency risk have been disclosed in
Notes 9, 10 and 15 to the financial statements.
100	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) FINANCIAL REPORT
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2022 (CONTINUED)
28. ADOPTION OF NEW MFRSs AND AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs
28.1 New MFRSs adopted during the financial year
The Group and the Company adopted the following Amendments of the MFRS Framework that were issued by the
Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) during the financial year:
Title Effective Date
Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018 - 2020 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 3 Reference to the Conceptual Framework 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment - Proceeds before Intended Use 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 137 Onerous Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a Contract 1 January 2022
Adoption of the above Amendments did not have any material effect on the financial performance or position of the
Group and of the Company.
28.2 New MFRSs that have been issued, but only effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023
Title Effective Date
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Amendment to MFRS 17 Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 - Comparative Information 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 101 Disclosure of Accounting Policies 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 108 Definition of Accounting Estimates 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 112 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single
 Transaction 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 16 Lease liability in a sale and leaseback 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 101 Non-current Liabilities with Covenants 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor
  and its Associate or Joint Venture Deferred
The Group and the Company are in the process of assessing the impact of implementing these Standards and
Amendments, since the effects would only be observable for the future financial periods.
29.	SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
On 3 October 2022, a subsidiary of the Company, San Soon Seng Food Industries Sdn. Bhd. entered into a Sale and
Purchase Agreement with a third party for the acquisition of a piece of land with three (3) units of single-storey detached
factory building for a total consideration of RM5,250,000.
The transaction has not been completed as at the end of the reporting period.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 101
PARTICULARS OF PROPERTIES
HELD BY THE GROUP
Location Title No. PM 472
Lot 4196
Jalan Industri 1, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. PN 21710
Lot 47720 (Lot 590)
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. PN 57895
Lot 53150 (PT 585 & PT
586) Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing use Office Building
Production Factory
Warehouse
Office Building
Production Factory
Warehouse
Production Factory
Warehouse
Types of Land Industrial Land Industrial Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
47 years
(30 May 2070)
79 years
(03 Jul 2102)
79 years
(03 Jul 2102)
Age of Property 27 years 46 years 18 years
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 110,976 34,950 93,032
Cost (RM’000) 15,707 4,435 8,886
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2022 (RM’000)
10,268 2,666 6,271
Date of Acquisition 31 Jan 1996 24 Jan 1997 13 Jan 1998
Year of Last Revaluation 2003 2003 2003
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 4098
PT 2317
Jalan Middle, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 4651
PT 5938
Jalan Industri 1, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 3999
PT Lot 584
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing use Warehouse Warehouse Production Factory
Types of Land Residential Land Residential Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
60 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
19 years
(22 Jun 2042)
23 years
(26 Jun 2046)
18 years
(24 May 2041)
Age of Property 24 years 24 years 15 years
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 8,168 6,806 46,005
Cost (RM’000) 577 874 5,555
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2022 (RM’000)
303 459 3,773
Date of Acquisition 19 Dec 1997 25 Nov 1998 25 May 2005
Year of Last Revaluation 2003 2003 2010
102	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 11086
Lot 66
Jalan Industri 1, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(D) 264602
PT 12294 (PT 589)
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 9078
PT 669
Jalan Middle, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing use Warehouse Production Factory
Warehouse
Hostel
Types of Land Industrial Land Industrial Land Residential Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
60 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
47 years
(30 May 2070)
47 years
(25 Jul 2070)
31 years
(19 Jul 2054)
Age of Property 13 years 12 years 13 years
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 87,123 43,560 7,631
Cost (RM’000) 7,307 6,288 681
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2022 (RM’000)
5,510 4,730 495
Date of Acquisition 12 Sep 2006 18 Dec 2008 30 Sep 2009
Year of Last Revaluation 2009 2008 2009
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 9111
PT 27687
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. PN 67417
Lot 2306
Jalan Welfare, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 14513
PT 12493 (Lot 9107 & Lot
9108) Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing use Vacant Hostel Production Factory
Warehouse
Types of Land Industrial Land Residential Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
99 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
70 years
(22 Sep 2093)
42 years
(17 July 2065)
70 years
(22 Sep 2093)
Age of Property - 13 years 19 years (Lot 9108)
12 years (Lot 9107)
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 42,281 7,535 103,570
Cost (RM’000) 999 1,030 19,584
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2022 (RM’000)
861 786 15,641
Date of Acquisition 14 Apr 2010 28 Apr 2010 22 Jun 2010 (Lot 9108)
10 Mar 2010 (Lot 9107)
Year of Last Revaluation - - 2010
PARTICULARS OF PROPERTIES
HELD BY THE GROUP (CONTINUED)
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 103
PARTICULARS OF PROPERTIES
HELD BY THE GROUP (CONTINUED)
Location Title No. H.S.(D) 321305
PT 13116
(PT 847 & PT 848)
Jln Khalifah Zakaria 2,
U19 Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(D) 261056
PT 12202
Jalan Middle, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(D) 312040
PT 582
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing use Warehouse Hostel Warehouse
Types of Land Industrial Land Residential Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
89 years
(15 Jan 2112)
85 years
(21 Dec 2108)
91 years
(05 Oct 2114)
Age of Property 7 years (PT 847)
5 years (PT 848)
11 years 6 years
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 161,674 7,623 46,005
Cost (RM’000) 23,216 1,025 7,891
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2022 (RM’000)
19,730 840 7,299
Date of Acquisition 23 Aug 2010 (PT 847)
26 Apr 2013 (PT 848)
5 Sep 2011 2 Nov 2016
Year of Last Revaluation 2010 (PT 847)
2013 (PT 848)
- 2015
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 9109
PT 27685
Jalan Industri 1, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(D) 295891
PT 583
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 12526
PT 64
Jalan Industri 1, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing use Under Construction Production Factory Office Building
Production Factory
Types of Land Industrial Land Industrial Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
70 years
(22 Sep 2093)
89 years
(30 Dec 2112)
47 years
(30 May 2070)
Age of Property - 3 years 1 year
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 48,265 47,641 87,123
Cost (RM’000) 5,684 11,412 21,602
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2022 (RM’000)
5,375 10,774 20,400
Date of Acquisition 19 Oct 2016 7 Aug 2017 15 Jun 2017
Year of Last Revaluation 2015 2017 2017
104	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
PARTICULARS OF PROPERTIES
HELD BY THE GROUP (CONTINUED)
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 9110
PT 27684
Jalan Industri 1, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 4626
PT 587
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 2168
PT 63
Jalan Industri 1, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing use Under Construction Vacant Land Vacant Land
Types of Land Industrial Land - Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
99 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
70 years
(22 Sep 2093)
7 years
(20 Jan 2030)
49 years
(23 Feb 2072)
Age of Property 1 year 3 years -
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 43,637 49,826 84,066
Cost (RM’000) 6,452 2,404 6,054
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2022 (RM’000)
6,160 1,764 5,828
Date of Acquisition 06 Jun 2018 23 Jun 2020 17 Aug 2020
Year of Last Revaluation 2018 2020 2019
Location Title No. H.S.(D) 314676
PT 2313
Jalan Middle, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 9025
PT 591
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing use Under Construction Under Construction
Types of Land Residential Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
60 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
53 years
(12 Dec 2075)
6 years
(1 Mar 2029)
Age of Property - -
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 7,351 34,574
Cost (RM’000) 830 7,541
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2022 (RM’000)
794 6,760
Date of Acquisition 11 Aug 2020 25 Feb 2021
Year of Last Revaluation 2019 2020
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 105
Analysis of
Shareholdings
AS AT 31 MARCH 2023
Total Number of Issued Shares :  492,000,010 (including 3,000,000 treasury shares)
Class of Shares				 :  Ordinary Share
Voting Rights					 :  One (1) Voting Right per Ordinary Share
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS
Size of Shareholdings
No. of
Shareholders
Shareholders
(%)
No. of
Shares
Shareholdings
(%)
Less than 100 315 7.42 13,388 0.00
100 to 1,000 502 11.83 214,012 0.04
1,001 to 10,000 1,871 44.09 9,684,902 1.98
10,001 to 100,000 1,286 30.30 41,073,001 8.40
100,001 to 24,449,999(*) 267 6.29 234,939,707 48.05
24,450,000 and above(**) 3 0.07 203,075,000 41.53
Total 4,244 100.00 489,000,010 100.00
Note:  (*) Less than 5% of total issued shares
Note:  (**) 5% and above of total issued shares
Note:  Exclude treasury shares
List of Top Thirty (30) Shareholders
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares (%)
1. FANG CHEW HAM HOLDINGS SDN. BHD. 86,250,000 17.64
2. WILMAR INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 77,000,000 15.75
3. UOB KAY HIAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT
FOR TEO KWEE HOCK
39,825,000 8.14
4. UOB KAY HIAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT
FOR TEO SIEW LAI
23,965,400 4.90
5. DB (MALAYSIA) NOMINEE (TEMPATAN) SENDIRIAN BERHAD DEUTSCHE TRUSTEES
MALAYSIA BERHAD FOR EASTSPRING INVESTMENTSSMALL-CAP FUND
17,239,275 3.53
6. FOONG CHIEW FATT 16,218,825 3.32
7. CGS-CIMB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT
FOR FANG CHEW HAM HOLDINGS SDN. BHD. (MY3185)
14,500,000 2.97
8. FONG CHU KING @ TONG CHU KING 13,687,500 2.80
9. FONG CHIEW HEAN HOLDINGS SDN. BHD. 10,198,600 2.09
10. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN. BHD. CBNY FOR NORGES BANK (FI 17) 6,000,000 1.23
11. TEO KWEE HOCK 4,849,950 0.99
12. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. KUMPULAN WANG PERSARAAN
(DIPERBADANKAN) (ESPG IV SC E)
4,563,175 0.93
13. DB (MALAYSIA) NOMINEE (TEMPATAN) SENDIRIAN BERHAD LEMBAGA TABUNG
HAJI (AL-WARA’)
4,125,300 0.84
14. CGS-CIMB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT
FOR FONG PENG MAN (MY3238)
4,053,000 0.83
106	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Analysis of
Shareholdings (CONTINUED)
AS AT 31 MARCH 2023
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares (%)
15. ALLIANCEGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. PLEDGED SECURITIES
ACCOUNT FOR DATO' SRI TAN HOW YAP (7004055)
4,000,000 0.82
16. MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. PLEDGED SECURITIES
ACCOUNT FOR YOONG KAH YIN
3,230,000 0.66
17. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT
FOR DATO' SRI TAN HOW YAP
3,200,000 0.65
18. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. ETIQA LIFE INSURANCE BERHAD
(LIFE PAR)
2,747,100 0.56
19. CHONG CHEONG LEONG 2,620,000 0.54
20. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT
FOR NG FAAI @ NG YOKE PEI (SRB/PMS)
2,243,625 0.46
21. T.B.R SHOPPING CENTRE (M) SDN. BHD. 2,200,000 0.45
22. CHAN CHAI BEE 2,000,050 0.41
23. CGS-CIMB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT
FOR LOH CHOOI TENG (JLNKUNINGDUA-CL)
2,000,000 0.41
24. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND
BOARD (EASTSPRINGESG)
2,000,000 0.41
25. CHAN CHU WEI 1,978,750 0.40
26. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT
FOR TAN AH CHAI (E-SRB)
1,875,100 0.38
27. CHAN SEONG KUN 1,828,900 0.37
28. CHIN SWEE CHEW 1,823,000 0.37
29. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT
FOR TAN BOON SEONG (E-SRB)
1,774,850 0.36
30. CIMSECNOMINEES(TEMPATAN)SDN.BHD.CIMBFORKAWANFOODMANUFACTURING
SDN. BHD. (PB)
1,762,300 0.36
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
Name of Shareholders
  Direct Interest   Indirect Interest
No. of
Shares
Percentage of
Issued Shares
(%)
No. of
Shares
Percentage of
Issued Shares
(%)
Fang Chew Ham Holdings Sdn. Bhd. 100,750,000 20.60 1,577,600(1) 0.32
Wilmar International Limited 77,000,000 15.75 - -
Fang Chew Ham 100,000 0.02 102,327,600(2) 20.93
Fang Siew Yee - - 102,327,600(2) 20.93
Teo Kwee Hock 44,674,950 9.14 554,375(3) 0.11
Prudential Plc - - 28,367,750(4) 5.80
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 107
Analysis of
Shareholdings (CONTINUED)
AS AT 31 MARCH 2023
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
  Direct Interest   Indirect Interest
Name
No. of
Shares
Percentage of
Issued Shares (%)
No. of
Shares
Percentage of
Issued Shares (%)
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh - - - -
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King 13,745,500 2.81 1,714,975(5) 0.35
Chew Eng Chai 200,000 0.04 8,750(6) negligible
Liew Kuo Shin 125,000 0.03 - -
Fang Siew Ping - - - -
Kee Thuan Chai - - - -
Lim Yee Mein - - - -
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam - - - -
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh - - - -
Notes:
(1) 
Deemed interest through Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”).
(2) 
Indirect interest via shareholdings of Fang Chew Ham Holdings Sdn. Bhd. (100,750,000 ordinary shares) and Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff
Sdn. Bhd. (1,577,600 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
(3)  Deemed interest via shareholdings held by his family pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
(4) 
Deemed interest through Eastspring Investments Berhad’s Managed Funds and Eastspring Al-Wara’ Investments Berhad’s Managed Funds
pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
(5) 
Indirect interest via shareholdings of his son (137,375 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 59 (11) (c) of the Act, and Seong Chan Sauce &
Foodstuff Sdn. Bhd. (1,577,600 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
(6) 
Indirect interest via shareholdings of his spouse pursuant to Section 59 (11) (c) of the Act.
108	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
NOTICE OF TWENTY-FIRST
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Twenty-First Annual General Meeting (“21st AGM”) of the Company will be conducted on
a virtual basis through live streaming and online Remote Participation and Electronic voting (“RPEV”) from the Broadcast Venue
at Level 3A, Menara Symphony, No.5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200, Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan on
Friday, 26 May 2023 at 10.00 a.m. to transact the following business:
AGENDA
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2022
together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 1 on Ordinary Business)
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of RM444,000.00 for the financial year ended 31
December 2022.
(Ordinary Resolution 1)
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 2 on Ordinary Business)
3. To approve the payment of Director’s Remuneration of RM109,000.00 for the period from 1
January 2023 to 26 May 2023 payable to Mr Chew Eng Chai, the Independent Non-Executive
Director of the Company who will be stepping down after the conclusion of the 21st AGM.
(Ordinary Resolution 2)
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 2 on Ordinary Business)
4. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation pursuant to Clause 76(3) of the Company’s
Constitution:
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 3 on Ordinary Business)
(i)	
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh
(ii)	
Fang Siew Ping
(Ordinary Resolution 3)
(Ordinary Resolution 4)
5. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation pursuant to Clause 78 of the Company’s
Constitution:
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 4 on Ordinary Business)
(i)	
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
(ii)	
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
(Ordinary Resolution 5)
(Ordinary Resolution 6)
6. To re-appoint Messrs BDO PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to
fix their remuneration.
(Ordinary Resolution 7)
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 6 on Ordinary Business)
Special Business
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without modifications, the following resolutions:
7. SPECIAL RESOLUTION
WAIVER OF PRE-EMPTIVE RIGHTS PURSUANT TO SECTION 85 OF THE COMPANIES
ACT 2016
“THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”) read together with
Clause 12(3) of the Constitution of the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the
statutory pre-emptive rights of the shareholders of the Company to be offered new shares in
the Company ranking equally to the existing issued shares in the Company arising from any
issuance of new shares in the Company to the allottees subject to passing Ordinary Resolution
8 – Authority to Issue and Allot Shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act.
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 1 on Special Business)
(Special Resolution)
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 109
AND THAT the Directors be and are hereby authorised to issue any new shares (including
rights or options over subscription of such shares) and with such preferred, deferred, or other
special rights or such restrictions, whether with regard to dividend, voting, return of capital, or
otherwise, for such consideration and to any person as the Directors may determine subject to
passing Ordinary Resolution 8 – Authority to Issue and Allot Shares of the Company pursuant
to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act.”
8. ORDINARY RESOLUTION
AUTHORITY TO ISSUE AND ALLOT SHARES PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 75 AND 76 OF
THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 2 on Special Business)
(Ordinary Resolution 8)
“THAT contingent upon the passing of the Special Resolution on waiver of pre-emptive rights
pursuant to Section 85 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”) and subject always to the Act,
the Constitution of the Company, the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and the approvals of the relevant governmental/
regulatory authorities, the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to issue and
allot shares in the Company from time to time at such price, upon such terms and conditions,
and for such purposes and to such person or persons whomsoever as the Directors may in
their absolute discretion deem fit provided that the aggregate number of shares to be issued
pursuant to this Resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued
shares (excluding treasury shares) of the Company for the time being (“Proposed General
Mandate”) and THAT the Directors be and are hereby also authorised to obtain the approval
from Bursa Securities for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so issued on the
Bursa Securities AND THAT such authority shall continue to be in force until the conclusion
of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the approval was given or at the
expiry of the period within which the next Annual General Meeting is required to be held after
the approval was given, whichever is earlier, unless such approval is revoked or varied by the
Company at a general meeting.
THAT authority be and is hereby given to the Directors of the Company, to give effect to
the Proposed General Mandate with full powers to assent to any conditions, modifications,
variations and/or amendments as they may deem fit in the best interest of the Company and/
or as may be imposed by the relevant authorities.
AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company, be and are hereby authorised to implement,
finalise, complete and take all necessary steps and to do all acts (including execute such
documents as may be required), deeds and things in relation to the Proposed General Mandate.”
9. ORDINARY RESOLUTION
PROPOSED RENEWAL OF SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR THE AUTHORITY TO THE
COMPANY TO PURCHASE ITS OWN SHARES UP TO TEN PER CENTUM (10%) OF THE
TOTAL NUMBER OF ISSUED SHARES
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 3 on Special Business)
(Ordinary Resolution 9)
“THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the Company,
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements
(“Listing Requirements”) and all other applicable laws, guidelines, rules and regulations,
the Company be and is hereby authorised, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to purchase
such number of issued shares in the Company as may be determined by the Directors of the
Company from time to time through Bursa Securities upon such terms and conditions as
the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company provided that:
(i)	
the aggregate number of issued shares in the Company (“Shares”) purchased (“Purchased
Shares”) and/or held as treasury shares pursuant to this ordinary resolution does not
exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company as
quoted on Bursa Securities as at point of purchase; and
NOTICE OF TWENTY-FIRST
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (CONTINUED)
110	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
(ii)	
the maximum fund to be allocated by the Company for the purpose of purchasing the
shares shall not exceed the aggregate of the retained profits of the Company based on
the latest audited financial statements and/or the latest management accounts (where
applicable) available at the time of the purchase.
(“Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Mandate”).
AND THAT the authority to facilitate the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Mandate will
commence immediately upon passing of this Ordinary Resolution and will continue to be in
force until:
(a)	
the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company following at which
time the authority shall lapse unless by ordinary resolution passed at the meeting, the
authority is renewed, either unconditionally or subject to conditions;
(b)	
the expiration of the period within which the next Annual General Meeting of the Company
is required by law to be held; or
(c)	
revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the Company at
a general meeting,
whichever occurs first, but shall not prejudice the completion of purchase(s) by the Company
of its own Shares before the aforesaid expiry date and, in any event, in accordance with
the Listing Requirements and any applicable laws, rules, regulations, orders, guidelines and
requirements issued by any relevant authorities.
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised, at their discretion,
to deal with the Purchased Shares until all the Purchased Shares have been dealt with by
the Directors in the following manner as may be permitted by the Act, Listing Requirements,
applicable laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, requirements and/or orders of any relevant
authorities for the time being in force:
i.	
To cancel all or part of the Purchased Shares;
ii.	
To retain all or part of the Purchased Shares as treasury shares as defined in Section 127
of the Act;
iii.	
To distribute all or part of the treasury shares as dividends to the shareholders of the
Company;
iv.	
To resell all or part of the treasury shares;
v.	
To transfer all or part of the treasury shares for the purposes of or under the employees’
share scheme established by the Company and/or its subsidiaries;
vi.	
To transfer all or part of the treasury shares as purchase consideration;
vii.	
To sell, transfer or otherwise use the shares for such other purposes as the Minister
charged with the responsibility for companies may by order prescribe; and/or
viii.	
To deal with the treasury shares in the manners as allowed by the Act, Listing Requirements,
applicable laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, requirements and/or orders of any relevant
authorities for the time being in force.
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are authorised to take all such steps as are
necessary or expedient [including without limitation, the opening and maintaining of central
depository account(s) under Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, and the
entering into all other agreements, arrangements and guarantee with any party or parties] to
implement, finalise and give full effect to the Proposed Renewal of Share Buy-Back Mandate
with full powers to assent to any conditions, modifications, variations and/or amendments (if
any) as may be imposed by the relevant authorities.”
NOTICE OF TWENTY-FIRST
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (CONTINUED)
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 111
10. To consider any other business of which due notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board,
Wong Wai Foong [SSM PC NO. 202008001472 (MAICSA 7001358)]
TAN HSIAO YUEN [SSM PC NO. 201908002342 (MAICSA 7056952)]
Company Secretaries
Kuala Lumpur
27 April 2023
Notes:
IMPORTANT NOTES
The broadcast venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires
the Chairman of the meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting.
Shareholders will not be allowed to attend this Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) in person at the main venue on the day of the
meeting. Therefore, shareholders are strongly advised to participate and vote remotely at this AGM through live streaming and
online remote voting using the RPEV facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd. (“Boardroom”) via https://
meeting.boardroomlimited.my.
Please read these notes carefully and follow the procedures in the Administrative Guide for the AGM in order to participate
remotely via the RPEV
APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
(a)	
For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa
Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the Company, a Record of Depositors as at 19 May 2023. Only a member
whose name appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM.
(b)	
A member who is entitled to participate in this AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation,
to appoint a duly authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the
Company.
(c)	
A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at a General Meeting of the Company may appoint not more
than two (2) proxies to participate instead of the member at the General Meeting.
(d)	
Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined in the Securities Industries (Central Depositories)
Act 1991 (“Central Depository Act”), it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies in respect of each securities account it
holds in ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
(e)	
Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which
the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee
refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with the
provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
(f)	
Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of shareholdings to be represented by each proxy must
be specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
(g)	
The appointment of a proxy may be made in hard copy form or by electronic form. In the case of an appointment made in
hard copy form, the proxy form must be deposited with the Share Registrar of the Company at Ground Floor or 11th Floor,
Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan. In the case
of the appointment of a proxy made in electronic form, the proxy form must be deposited through the Share Registrar’s
website, Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. Please refer to the procedures as set
out in the Administrative Guide for the electronic lodgement of proxy form. All proxy forms submitted must be received by
NOTICE OF TWENTY-FIRST
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (CONTINUED)
112	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned
General Meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
(h)	
Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited at the Share
Registrar of the Company at Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13,
46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the
General Meeting or adjourned General Meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of
the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal
requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
(i)	
Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in this proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
(j)	
Last date and time for lodging this proxy form is Wednesday, 24 May 2023 at 10:00 a.m.
(k)	
For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative instead of a proxy to attend this meeting, please
deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment executed in the manner as stated in this proxy form if this has not been
lodged at the Company’s registered office earlier.
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. Item 1 of the Agenda – Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2022
The Audited Financial Statements is meant for discussion only as an approval from shareholders is not required pursuant to
the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act 2016. Hence, this item on the Agenda is not being put forward for
voting by shareholders of the Company.
2. Ordinary Resolutions 1 and 2 – Payment of Directors’ Fees and Remuneration
Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016, the fees of the Directors and any benefits payable to the Directors
of a listed company and its subsidiaries shall be approved at a general meeting. The proposed Ordinary Resolution 1 is to
facilitate the payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 2 for the payment of Director’s Remuneration of RM109,000.00, which consists of
Director’s fee of RM39,000 and retirement benefits of RM70,000, if approved, shall be paid to Mr Chew Eng Chai, for his
services rendered from 1 January 2023 to 26 May 2023. The Director’s Remuneration had taken into account the tenure
of the services of Mr Chew Eng Chai for the financial year ending 31 December 2023 and is a token of appreciation for his
long service tenure with the Company.
3. Ordinary Resolutions 3 and 4 – Re-election of Directors pursuant to Clause 76(3) of the Company’s Constitution
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh (“Dato’ Jagjit”) and Ms Fang Siew Ping (“Ms Fang”) are standing for re-election as
Directors of the Company and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election at the 21st AGM.
NOTICE OF TWENTY-FIRST
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (CONTINUED)
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION					 ANNUAL REPORT 2022 113
Pursuant to Practice 5.7 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”), the profiles of both Directors are
set out in the Directors’ profile of the Annual Report 2022. The Board has through the Nomination Committee (“NC”),
considered the assessment of the said Directors pursuant to the Fit and Proper Policy adopted by the Company and
agreed that they meet the criteria as prescribed by Paragraph 2.20A of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing
Requirements”) of Bursa Securities on character, experience, integrity, competence and time commitment to effectively
discharge their roles as Directors. The justifications to support the Board’s recommendation to re-elect the aforementioned
Directors are as follows:
(a)	
Dato’ Jagjit, the Independent Non-Executive Chairman of the Company, has remained objective and independent in
expressing his view and participating in Board deliberations and decision-making. He has vast experience in the legal
and judicial service industry and is able to provide the Board with a diverse set of expertise and perspective. Dato’
Jagjit has exercised his due care and carried out his professional duties proficiently during his tenure as Independent
Non-Executive Chairman of the Company
(b)	
Ms Fang, the Executive Director of the Company, has an extensive career and vast experience in the food chemical
industry. Ms Fang is primarily responsible for new business opportunities and collaborates with the Sales and Marketing
team. She is familiar with the Group’s business operation and is able to provide valuable input to boost the Group’s
performance.
Based on the above, the Board collectively agreed that both Directors had met the criteria as prescribed under Paragraph
2.20A of the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities on character, experience, integrity, competence and time commitment
to effectively discharge their roles as Directors and recommended the said Directors be re-elected as Directors of the
Company.
4. Ordinary Resolutions 5 and 6 – Re-election of Directors pursuant to Clause 78 of the Company’s Constitution
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam (“Dato’ Shamesh”) and Ms Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh (“Ms Karmjit”) are standing for
re-election as Directors of the Company and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election at the 21st AGM.
Pursuant to Practice 5.7 of the MCCG, the profiles of both Directors are set out in the Directors’ profile of the Annual Report
2022. The Board has through the NC considered the assessment of the said Directors pursuant to the Fit and Proper
Policy adopted by the Company and agreed that they meet the criteria as prescribed by Paragraph 2.20A of the Listing
Requirements of Bursa Securities on character, experience, integrity, competence and time commitment to effectively
discharge their roles as Directors. The justifications to support the Board’s recommendation to re-elect the aforementioned
Directors are as follows:
(a)	
Dato’ Shamesh, an Independent Non-Executive Director, has demonstrated his independence through his engagement
with the Board, Board Committees and Management by providing his professional feedback on the Company’s policy
and procedures and annual performance review for the board and committees. He also exercised due care and carried
out his duties during his tenure as an Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of the NC of the Company.
(b)	
Ms Karmjit fulfills the requirements of independence set out in the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities. She has
remained objective and independent in expressing her view and participating in Board deliberations and decision-
making. Ms Karmjit has exercised her due care and carried out her professional duties proficiently during her tenure as
Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairperson of the Remuneration Committee of the Company.
NOTICE OF TWENTY-FIRST
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (CONTINUED)
114	THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M) ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
5. Cessation as Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr Chew Eng Chai, the Independent Non-Executive Director who has served the Board for more than twelve (12) years, has
indicated to the Company that he will be stepping down upon the conclusion of this AGM.
Upon the resignation of Mr Chew Eng Chai, the Company will not be in compliance with Paragraph 15.09(1) of the Listing
Requirements of Bursa Securities and must fill in the vacancy within three (3) months from the date of his resignation. The
Company will source the replacement soonest possible and make the necessary announcements relating thereto to Bursa
Securities.
6. Ordinary Resolution 7 – Re-appointment of Auditors
The Audit Committee had at its meeting held on 23 February 2023 assessed the suitability and independence of the External
Auditors and recommended the re-appointment of Messrs BDO PLT as External Auditors of the Company for the financial
year ending 31 December 2023. The Board had reviewed the recommendation of the Audit Committee and recommended
to table the same to the shareholders for approval at this AGM of the Company under Ordinary Resolution 7.
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON SPECIAL BUSINESS
1. Special Resolution – Waiver of Pre-emptive Rights
The Special Resolution is pertaining to the waiver of pre-emptive rights pursuant to Section 85 of the Act. By voting in favour
of the Special Resolution, the shareholders of the Company would be waiving their statutory pre-emptive right. The Special
Resolution if passed, would allow the Directors to issue new shares to any person without having to offer the new Company
shares to be issued equally to all existing shareholders of the Company prior to issuance.
2. Ordinary Resolution 8 – Authority to issue and allot shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act
Subject to the passing of the Special Resolution on waiver of pre-emptive rights pursuant to Section 85 of the Act, the
proposed Ordinary Resolution 8, if passed, would renew the mandate granted to the Directors at the 20th AGM held on 8
June 2022 and provide flexibility to the Directors to undertake fundraising activities including but not limited to placement
of shares for the purpose of funding the Company’s future investment project(s), business expansion, working capital and/
or acquisition(s) at any time as the Directors may deem fit provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to
the mandate does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) of the
Company for the time being, without having to convene a general meeting. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the
Company in a general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or at the expiry of the period
within which the next AGM is required to be held after the approval was given, whichever is earlier.
As at the date of this Notice, the Company did not allot any shares pursuant to the shareholders’ mandate granted to the
Directors at the 20th AGM as there were no requirements for such fundraising activities.
3. Ordinary Resolution 9 – Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Authority to the Company to purchase
its own shares up to ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 9, if passed, will allow the Company to purchase its own shares through Bursa
Securities up to ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company. Please refer to the Statement
to Shareholders dated 27 April 2023 in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the Authority to the
Company to purchase its own shares up to ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares for further details.
NOTICE OF TWENTY-FIRST
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (CONTINUED)
Proxy
Form
I/We,                                  Tel.:                                 
      (Full name in block, NRIC/Passport/Company No.)
of  
 (Address)
being a member of THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD, hereby appoint:
Full Name (in Block) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address Email Address/Tel No.
and/or^
Full Name (in Block) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address Email Address/Tel No.
or failing him/her, the Chairman of the Meeting as ^my/our proxy(ies) to vote for ^me/us and on ^my/our behalf, at the Twenty-
First Annual General Meeting (“21st AGM”) of the Company to be conducted on a virtual basis through live streaming and online
Remote Participation and Electronic voting (“RPEV”) from the Broadcast Venue at Level 3A, Menara Symphony, No.5, Jalan
Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200, Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan on Friday, 26 May 2023 at 10.00 a.m. and at any
adjournment thereof:-
^my/our proxy(ies) shall vote as indicated follows:
ITEM AGENDA RESOLUTION FOR AGAINST
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To approve the payment of Directors’ Fees for the financial year ended
31 December 2022.
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 1
2. To approve the payment of Director’s Remuneration for the period from 1
January 2023 to 26 May 2023 payable to Mr Chew Eng Chai.
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 2
3. To re-elect Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh as Director. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 3
4. To re-elect Ms Fang Siew Ping as Director. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 4
5. To re-elect Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam as Director. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 5
6. To re-elect Ms Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh as Director. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 6
7. Tore-appointMessrsBDOPLTasAuditorsoftheCompanyandtoauthorise
the Directors to fix their remuneration.
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 7
SPECIAL BUSINESS
8. To waive pre-emptive rights. SPECIAL RESOLUTION
9. To grant authority to issue and allot shares pursuant to Sections 75 and
76 of the Companies Act 2016.
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 8
10. To approve the Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for the
Authority to the Company to purchase its own shares up to ten per centum
(10%) of the total number of issued shares.
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 9
Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions. In the
absence of specific direction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he thinks fit.
Signed this        day of        2023                                  	
                                              
Signature*
                                              
Member
CDS Account No.
No. of Shares Held
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
199901006659 (481559-M)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
^Delete whichever is inapplicable
*Manner of execution:
(a)	
If you are an individual member, please sign where indicated.
(b)	
If you are a corporate member which has a common seal, this proxy form should be executed under seal in accordance with
the constitution of your corporation.
(c)	
If you are a corporate member which does not have a common seal, this proxy form should be affixed with the rubber stamp
of your company (if any) and executed by:
(i)	
at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii)	
any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which your corporation is
incorporated.
Notes:
IMPORTANT NOTES
The broadcast venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires
the Chairman of the meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting.
Shareholders will not be allowed to attend this Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) in person at the main venue on the day of the
meeting. Therefore, shareholders are strongly advised to participate and vote remotely at this AGM through live streaming and
online remote voting using the RPEV facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd. (“Boardroom”) via https://
meeting.boardroomlimited.my.
Please read these notes carefully and follow the procedures in the Administrative Guide for the AGM in order to participate
remotely via the RPEV.
APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
(a)	
For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa
Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the Company, a Record of Depositors as at 19 May 2023. Only a member
whose name appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM.
(b)	
A member who is entitled to participate in this AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation,
to appoint a duly authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the
Company.
(c)	
A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at a General Meeting of the Company may appoint not more
than two (2) proxies to participate instead of the member at the General Meeting.
(d)	
Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined in the Securities Industries (Central Depositories)
Act 1991 (“Central Depository Act”), it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies in respect of each securities account it
holds in ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
(e)	
Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple
beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt
authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an
authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of
Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
(f)	
Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of shareholdings to be represented by each proxy must
be specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
(g)	
The appointment of a proxy may be made in hard copy form or by electronic form. In the case of an appointment made in
hard copy form, the proxy form must be deposited with the Share Registrar of the Company at Ground Floor or 11th Floor,
Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan. In the case
of the appointment of a proxy made in electronic form, the proxy form must be deposited through the Share Registrar’s
website, Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. Please refer to the procedures as set
out in the Administrative Guide for the electronic lodgement of proxy form. All proxy form submitted must be received by
the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned
General Meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
(h)	
Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited at the Share
Registrar of the Company at Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13,
46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the
General Meeting or adjourned General Meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of
the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal
requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
(i)	
Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in this proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
(j)	
Last date and time for lodging this proxy form is Wednesday, 24 May 2023 at 10:00 a.m.
(k)	
For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative instead of a proxy to attend this meeting, please
deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment executed in the manner as stated in this proxy form if this has not been
lodged at the Company’s registered office earlier.
Please fold here
Please fold here
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
C/O BOARDROOM SHARE REGISTRARS SDN BHD
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan
STAMP/SETEM
w w w . t h r e e - a . c o m . m y
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
199901006659 (481559-M)
AI 308, Lot 590 & Lot 4196,
Jalan Industri U19,
Kampung Baru Sungai Buloh,
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan,
Malaysia
T: +603-6156 2655 F: +603-6156 2657
