THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
STRIVING
TOWARDS
SUSTAINABLE
COMPETITIVENESS
INSIDE THIS
REPORT
ABOUT US
001 Vision and Mission
002 Corporate Information
Leadership
003	
Profile of Board of
Directors and Key Senior
Management
Performance
Review
009	Management Discussion
and Analysis
014	
Five-Year Group Financial
Highlights
Sustainability
016 Sustainability Statement
Corporate
Governance
021	Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
040	
Statement on Risk
Management and Internal
Control
043 Audit Committee Report
046	Additional Compliance
Information
COVER RATIONALE
The geometric triangular shapes and its dynamic arrangements are
featured on this year’s annual report cover to symbolise the development
and expansion of our product range that has remained the core strength
of our focus on business advancement beyond Asian horizons into
the international market. The images of end-products made from our
quality ingredients and the use of our corporate colours in the design
are visualised to showcase our strive for operational excellence and
sustainable efficiency in achieving competitivity for business value
growth moving forward.
Financial
Statements
047 Financial Statements
Additional
Information
094	
Particulars of Properties
Held by the Group
098 Analysis of Shareholdings
101	
Notice of General Annual
Meeting
Proxy Form
VISION
MISSION
To excel as one of the Global Market Leaders in
the manufacture of Food & Beverage ingredients
To excel as one of the Global Quality Brands in
the industries
1
LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
ABOUT US
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
Board of Directors
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King Managing Director
Chew Eng Chai Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng Independent Non-Executive Director
Khoo Wee Boon Independent Non-Executive Director
Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah Independent Non-Executive Director
Liew Kuo Shin Non-Independent Executive Director
Fang Siew Ping Non-Independent Executive Director
Kee Thuan Chai Non-Independent Non-Executive Director		
(Appointed on 30 June 2020)
Lim Yee Mein Non-Independent Non-Executive Director			
(Appointed on 30 June 2020)
Loo Cheau Leong Non-Independent Non-Executive Director		
(Retired on 29 June 2020)
Gurpreet Singh Vohra Non-Independent Non-Executive Director		
(Resigned on 30 June 2020)
BOARD COMMITTEES
Audit Committee
Chew Eng Chai Chairman
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng
Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah
Khoo Wee Boon
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh
Remuneration Committee
TanChonSing@TanKimTiengChairman
Chew Eng Chai
Khoo Wee Boon
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh
Nomination Committee
Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah Chairman
Chew Eng Chai
Khoo Wee Boon
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh
RiskManagementCommittee
Dato’JagjitSingha/lBantSinghChairman
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King
Fang Siew Ping
Company Secretaries
Ng Bee Lian MAICSA 7041392
(SSM PC No 201908003459)
Yap Sit Lee MAICSA 7028098
(SSM PC No 202008001865)
Wong Wai Foong MAICSA 7001358
(SSM PC No 202008001472)
Auditors
BDO PLT
Chartered Accountants
BDO @ Menara CenTARa
Level 8, 360 Jalan Tuanku Abdul Rahman
50100 Kuala Lumpur
Tel no. : +603 2616 2888
Fax no. : +603 2616 3190
Registered Address
AL 308, Lot 590 & Lot 4196
Jalan Industri U19
Kampung Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
Tel no : +603 6156 2655
Fax no : +603 6156 2657
E-mail : info@three-a.com.my
Share Registrar
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No.5, Jalan Prof Khoo Kay Kim
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel no. : +603 7890 4700
Fax no. : +603 7890 4670
Company No.
199901006659 (481559-M)
Website
www.three-a.com.my
Bankers
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd
OCBC Bank (Malaysia) Berhad
CIMB Bank Berhad
Hong Leong Bank Berhad
Stock Exchange
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Market
Main Market
Sector
Consumer Products & Services
Stock Name
3A
Stock Code
0012
Investor Relation
Mr. Fong Peng Fai, Group Financial Controller
Ms. Jessica Fang, Senior Manager
Tel no. : +603 6156 2655
E-mail : info@three-a.com.my
2 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
DATO’ JAGJIT SINGH
a/l BANT SINGH
Independent Non-Executive
Chairman
Male | 65 | Malaysian
MR.FONGCHUKING
@ TONG CHU KING
Managing Director/Key Senior
Management
Male | 76 | Malaysian
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh was appointed to the Board on 28 August 2019 and
serves as an Independent Non-Executive Chairman of the Company and a Director
of its wholly owned subsidiaries, San Soon Seng Food Industries Sdn Bhd (“SSSFI”)
and Three-A Food Industries (M) Sdn Bhd (“3A Food”). He also serves as Chairman
of Risk Management Committee and is a member of Audit Committee, Remuneration
Committee, Nomination Committee and various Committees of the 3A Group.
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh holds a Bachelor of Law (LLB Hons) and Master of Law
(“LLM”) from the King’s College, University of London. He was called to the Malaysian Bar
in September 2011 and was awarded Kesatria Mangku Negara (“KMN”) in 2008, Setia
Mahkota Pahang (“SMP”) in 2010 and Darjah Indera Mahkota Pahang (“DIMP”) in 2011.
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh was a former Judge and has served the Malaysian
Legal and Judicial Service for 28 years in various positions including that of a Senior
Federal Counsel, Deputy Treasury Solicitor, Legal Advisor to the Ministry of Health,
Deputy Public Prosecutor and Senior Assistant Parliamentary Draftsman. He was also
formerly an Independent Director and member of various Board Committee in Tokio
Marine Insurans (Malaysia) Berhad.
Dato’JagjitSingha/lBantSinghcurrentlyservesasamemberoftheMalaysiaCompetition
Commission(“MyCC”)undertheMinistryofDomesticTradeandConsumerAffairs(“KPDNHEP”)
and he practises as an Advocate and Solicitor and is a Partner in Jagjit Ariff & Co.
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh attended all (4) Board Meetings held during the
financial year ended 31 December 2020. He does not have any family relationship with
any Director and/or major shareholder, nor any conflict of interest with the Company.
He has no convictions for any offences within the past five years (other than traffic
offences if any), nor any public sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
Mr. Fong Chu King was re-desginated to the Board on 28 August 2019 and serves as
Managing Director of the Company and a Director of its wholly owned subsidiaries,
SSSFI and 3A Food. He also serves as a member of Risk Management Committee,
Sustainability Committee and various Committees of the 3A Group. Previously, he was
a Non-Independent Executive Director of the Company from May 2002 to August 2019.
Mr. Fong Chu King holds a Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering from the
National Taiwan University. He is a qualified Professional Engineer of Lembaga Jurutera
Malaysia and also a member of the Institution Engineers Malaysia. In his past 20 years
of service with the Lion Group of Companies, he held a number of positions including
Manager of Amsteel Mills Sdn Bhd and General Manager of Megasteel Sdn Bhd.
Mr Fong Chu King is equipped with more than 40 years of experience in manufacturing
industry combining technical, operational, as well as extensive knowledge in managerial
finance and business development. His strategic leadership entails a more sustainable
competitive advantage for the Company in the food & beverage industry.
Mr. Fong Chu King attended all four (4) Board Meetings held during the financial year
ended 31 December 2020. He is a sibling of the major shareholder, Mr Fang Chew
Ham. He has no conflict of interest with the Company and has no convictions for any
offences within the past five years (other than traffic offences, if any), nor any public
sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies during the financial year.
3
ABOUT US PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
LEADERSHIP
MR.CHEWENGCHAI
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Male | 71 | Malaysian
MR.TANCHONSING
@ TAN KIM TIENG
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Male | 82 | Malaysian
Mr. Chew Eng Chai was appointed to the Board on 17 June 2002 and serves
as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company. He also serves as
a Chairman of Audit Committee and a member of Nomination Committee and
Remuneration Committee of the Company.
Mr. Chew Eng Chai is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England
and Wales. He is also a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants and
Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
Mr. Chew Eng Chai was formerly the Director of Yeo Hiap Seng (Malaysia) Berhad,
a company he had joined since 1975. He has more than 27 years of experience in
the food & beverage industry.
Mr. Chew Eng Chai attended all four (4) Board Meetings held during the financial
year ended 31 December 2020. He does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder, nor any conflict of interest with the Company.
He has no convictions for any offences within the past five years (other than traffic
offences, if any), nor any public sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
Mr. Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng was appointed to the Board on 17 June 2002
and serves as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company. He also
serves as a Chairman of Remuneration Committee and member of Audit Committee
of the Company.
Mr. Tan Chon Sing graduated in 1963 with a Bachelor of Commerce in Accounting
from Nanyang University, Singapore. He was a banker for eleven years before
joining the securities industry in 1976 and was admitted as a member of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad in 1987.
Mr. Tan Chon Sing was appointed as Executive Director of Seremban Securities
Sdn Bhd, now known as Malpac Management Sdn Bhd till November 2001. He
is currently a Director of Malpac Holdings Berhad and also serves as Director of
several private limited companies.
Mr. Tan Chon Sing attended all four (4) Board Meetings held during the financial
year ended 31 December 2020. He does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder, nor any conflict of interest with the Company.
He has no convictions for any offences within the past five years (other than traffic
offences, if any), nor any public sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND KEY
SENIOR MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
4 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
MR.KHOOWEEBOON
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Male | 72 | Malaysian
MR. MOHD ZAKI BIN
HAMZAH
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Male | 63 | Malaysian
Mr. Khoo Wee Boon was appointed to the Board on 27 September 2004 and serves
as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company. He also serves as a
member of Nomination Committee, Audit Committee and Remuneration Committee
of the Company.
Mr. Khoo Wee Boon had completed GCE in 1966 from University of Cambridge and
completed Advance Bank Management Program from Asia Institute of Management,
Eugenio Lopez Foundation - an affiliate of Ateneo De Manila University and La Salle
University, Manila in 1989.
Mr. Khoo Wee Boon began his career as an Internal Auditor in Malayan Banking Berhad
from 1973 to 1979, and as a Credit Officer in Maybank from 1979 to 1982. From 1984
to 1995, he was a Manager in Affin Bank Berhad and as a Dealer Representative in
Omega Securities Berhad from 1995 to 1998. He is currently attached as a Dealer
Representative with Hwang-DBS Investment Bank Berhad.
Mr. Khoo Wee Boon attended all four (4) Board Meetings held during the financial
year ended 31 December 2020. He does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder, nor any conflict of interest with the Company.
He has no convictions for any offences within the past five years (other than traffic
offences, if any), nor any public sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
Mr. Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah was appointed to the Board on 9 January 2007 and serves
as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company and its wholly-owned
subsidiary, SSSFI. He also serves as a Chairman of the Nomination Committee and
a member of Audit Committee of the Company.
Mr. Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah graduated from the State University of New York, Binghamton
with a Bachelor of Science in Accounting and has a Master Degree in Business
Administration majoring in Management Information System and Finance.
Mr. Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah was a consultant with Arthur Andersen & Co. prior to
joining Bank Bumiputera Malaysia Berhad as an EDP Audit Manager in 1986. He
subsequently assumed the role of Chief Internal Auditor of the banking group until
his resignation in 1998.
Mr. Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah attended all four (4) Board Meetings held during the
financial year ended 31 December 2020. He does not have any family relationship
with any Director and/or major shareholder, nor any conflict of interest with the
Company. He has no convictions for any offences within the past five years (other
than traffic offences, if any), nor any public sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory
bodies during the financial year.
5
ABOUT US PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
LEADERSHIP
MR. LIEW KUO SHIN
Non-Independent Executive
Director/Key Senior Management
Male | 43 | Malaysian
MS. FANG SIEW
PING
Non-Independent Executive
Director/Key Senior Management
Female | 39 | Malaysian
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND KEY
SENIOR MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
Mr. Liew Kuo Shin was reappointed to the Board on 28 August 2019 and serves
as a Non-Independent Executive Director of the Company. He also serves as
Chief Sustainability Officer of the Sustainability Committee, a member of Risk
Management Working Committee and various Committees of the 3A Group.
Previously, he was an Alternate Director to Executive Director, Mr. Fong Chu King
from Feb 2012 to August 2019.
Mr. Liew Kuo Shin graduated as a Mechanical Engineer and has joined the Company
in 2001. He currently holds the position of General Factory Manager and oversees
the daily operations and overall co-ordination of all the manufacturing plants. He
is also the Head of Logistic Department and Maintenance Department of SSSFI.
Mr. Liew Kuo Shin attended all four (4) Board Meetings held during the financial
year ended 31 December 2020. He is the spouse of Ms Fang Siew Yee, a major
shareholder of the Company. He has no conflict of interest with the Company and
has no convictions for any offences within the past five years (other than traffic
offences, if any), nor any public sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
Ms. Fang Siew Ping was reappointed to the Board of the Company on 28 August
2019 and serves as a Non-Independent Executive Director of the Company and its
wholly-owned subsidiary, SSSFI. She also serves as a member of Risk Management
Committee, Sustainability Committee and various Committees of the 3A Group.
Previously, she was an Alternate Director to Executive Director, Ms. Fang Siew Yee
from February 2012 to August 2019.
Ms. Fang Siew Ping holds a Bachelor Degree in Chemistry from the University of
Kentucky, USA. She joined SSSFI in 2004 and currently serves as Senior Manager
of Business Development cum R&D. She collaborates with the Sales & Marketing
team for new business opportunities and she is also Head of R&D and Quality
Assurance Department of SSSFI.
Ms. Fang Siew Ping attended all four (4) Board Meetings held during the financial
year ended 31 December 2020. She is the daughter of Mr. Fang Chew Ham and
a sibling of Ms Fang Siew Yee, who both are major shareholders of the Company.
She has no conflict of interest with the Company and has no convictions for any
offences within the past five years (other than traffic offences, if any), nor any public
sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies during the financial year.
6 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
MR. KEE THUAN
CHAI
Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director
Male | 51 | Malaysian
MS. LIM YEE MEIN
Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director
Female | 64 | Malaysian
Mr. Kee Thuan Chai was appointed to the Board of the Company on 30 June 2020
and serves as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Mr. Kee Thuan Chai graduated with a Bachelor of Business in Accountancy from
Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (“RMIT”), Melbourne, Australia. He is a
member of CPA, Australia and Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”).
Mr. Kee Thuan Chai started his career as Trainee Accountant with Perlis Plantation
Berhad (now known as PPB Group Berhad) in 1993. He was transferred to the
group’s oil palm plantation subsidiary, PT. Mentaya Sawit Mas, and based in Central
Kalimantan in 2006. In 2009, he was transferred back to Kuala Lumpur, with PPB
Oil Palms Berhad (“PPBOP”), now a fully owned subsidiary of Wilmar International
Limited. He now heads PPBOP Finance Department as Group Manager (“FAA”).
Mr. Kee Thuan Chai attended two (2) Board Meetings held during the financial year
ended 31 December 2020 since his appointment as Director on 30 June 2020. He
does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder,
nor any conflict of interest with the Company. He has no convictions for any
offences within the past five years (other than traffic offences, if any), nor any public
sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Ms. Lim Yee Mein was appointed to the Board of the Company on 30 June 2020
and serves as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Ms. Lim Yee Mein graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce from National Taiwan
University. She joined PGEO Edible Oils Sdn Bhd in 1981 and is presently the General
Manager – Admin & Finance of PGEO Group Sdn Bhd.
Ms. Lim Yee Mein attended two (2) Board Meetings held during the financial year
ended 31 December 2020 since her appointment as Director on 30 June 2020. She
does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder, nor
any conflict of interest with the Company. She has no convictions for any offences
within the past five years (other than traffic offences, if any), nor any public sanction
or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies during the financial year.
7
ABOUT US PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
LEADERSHIP
MR. FONG PENG FAI
Group Financial Controller/Key
Senior Management
Male | 44 | Malaysian
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND KEY
SENIOR MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
Mr. Fong Peng Fai was appointed to the Company as the Group Financial Controller
on 16 July 2013. He graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce majoring in Accounting
from University of Otago, New Zealand. He is a Chartered Global Management
Accountant of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (“CIMA”), UK
and American Institute of CPAs (“AICPA”) and a member of the Malaysian Institute
of Accountants (“MIA”).
Mr. Fong Peng Fai also holds a Masters of Business Administration from University
of Strathclyde, UK. His professional working experience started in external audit
firms. Then he moved on to business recovery and consulting assignments in
PriceWaterhouseCoopers and later, he joined Digi as Head of Accounting and
Financial Reporting.
Mr. Fong Peng Fai is the son of Managing Director, Mr. Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu
King. He has no conflict of interest with the Company and has no convictions for
any offences within the past five years (other than traffic offences, if any), nor any
public sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies during the financial year.
8 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO
• 
Liquid Caramel, Caramel Colour
• 
Vinegar
• 
Glucose Syrup, High Maltose Syrup
• Soya Protein Sauce (“HVP”)
• 
Hydrolysed Vegetable Protein (“HVP”) Powder
• 
Maltodextrin
The Group serves businesses of all sizes across a broad
spectrum of industries and sectors. Our versatile range of
ingredients have different functional properties and unique
characteristics that can be tailored to customer needs. All
ingredients are Halal and Kosher certified.
The Group offers diverse range of packaging options to
accommodate customer needs. There are various package
sizes ranging from bulk road tanker to small packing such
as jerrycan and carton box. Customised packaging can be
arranged to accommodate customer requirements.
OUR ACCREDITATION & RECOGNITION
FSSC 22000 Certification by Intertek Certification International
Sdn Bhd
HACCP Certification by Ministry of Health Malaysia (“MOH”)
HALALCertificationbyIslamicDevelopmentDepartmentofMalaysia
(“JAKIM”)
KOSHER Certification by Orthodox Union
Rgn : 402283
ABOUT US
Three-A Resources Berhad (“3A”) is an investment
holding company which was listed since 2002 and
transferred to the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia in
2008. Its wholly owned subsidiary San Soon Seng
Food Industries Sdn Bhd (“SSSFI”) is one of the
leading food and beverage ingredient manufacturing
company, started as a caramel producer in 1977 and
expanded its product portfolio that have made strong
footprints in many parts of the world. 3A and SSSFI
(“the Group”) remained focused in its core strength
of manufacturing food and beverage ingredients.
The Group ﬁrmly believes in producing products of
the highest quality and has successfully expanded
beyond Asian horizons and making its mark in the
international market.
9
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
investments on production facilities to
improve capacity and efficiency. These
business plans were carried out after
the Group had carefully conducted
comprehensive evaluation and planning
involving suitable marketing strategies
for our products and also investment
decisions.
FINANCIAL REVIEW
The Group recorded slightly better
revenue of RM436.16 million in FY2020
as compared to RM436.06 million in
FY2019. Meanwhile, profit before tax
and profit after tax were slightly better at
RM40.7 million and RM30.1 million
respectively in FY2020 as compared
with RM40.2 million and RM29.4 million
respectively in FY2019.
Albeit the uncertain economic conditions,
the Group recorded better financial
performance that was attributed to
relatively stable raw materials costs and
effective products sales mix in FY2020.
From the positive results of our marketing
efforts, export revenue of the Group in
FY2020 continued to grow to 48% of our
total revenue as compared with 39% in
FY2019.
Revenue by Geographical Locations for
FY2020
Revenue
Other Foreign
Countries
Singapore
Malaysia
%
%
%
During the FY2020, the Group registered
impairment losses on trade receivables
amounting to RM0.57 million but the
Group successfully made recoveries of
RM0.29 million from impairment losses
during the year.
The Group continued with its carefully
crafted business strategies to research
and develop good quality products in
order to meet as well as exceed the
expectations of our valued customers.
Besides, the Group also continued with
initiativestoachieveimprovedoperational
efficiency in our manufacturing plants
from upgrading and modernization plans
which were carried out in FY2020. These
long-term plans are also meant to enable
us to reduce reliance on foreign labor and
to improve our manufacturing facilities in
order to be more efficient to produce
more as well as achieve cost savings.
THE YEAR 2020
During the year 2020, the COVID-19
pandemic had brought dramatic changes
to the lives of the people and businesses
all over the world. With the introduction
of the Movement Control Order (“MCO”)
to fight the pandemic, local consumers
were cautious in spending during the
year. Although the Group was allowed
to operate during the MCO period, we
were also impacted as we witnessed
lower revenue from local customers
in the country. However, our export
revenue to overseas markets were able
to offset such weaknesses through our
mix of marketing strategies and agility in
meeting new buying trends.
The Group stays true to our strong
business philosophy of producing
products of exceptional quality at
competitive prices and also continuous
10 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
At the end of financial year 2020, cash
and bank balances of the Group was at
RM26.6 million whereas total borrowings
remain manageable at RM12.7 million.
Therefore, the Group expects to have
adequate financial resources to continue
with the implementation of business plans
to make our vision a reality.
As at 31 December 2020, total assets
and shareholders’ equity of the Group
continued to grow to RM431.8 million and
RM366.4 million respectively. The Group’s
net asset per share stood at 74.4 sen as at
the end of 2020 and earnings per share
for the year was 6.2 sen.
OUTLOOK AND PROSPECTS
The Group is continuing with automation
plans for selected production plants with
the objective to improve production
plant efficiency and achieve savings in
operationalandmanpowercosts.Besides,
the Group expects that these plans can
continue to bring major improvements
to products’ quality in our quest to meet
the evolving and untapped customers’
stringent requirements.
On an encouraging note, the Group
is pleased to report that the utilisation
of maltodextrin production plant no. 3
had improved at the end of year 2020.
Moreover,theGroupexpectstheutilisation
to continue to increase in 2021 with
encouraging interests from a few major
customers. Maltodextrin plant no. 3 was
designed to produce certain grades
of maltodextrin, thereby the intention
is to capture customers with specific
applications.
The upgrading of Maltodextrin plant
2 to increase its plant efficiency is still
on-going. In view of increasing demand
for maltodextrin products, the Group had
deferred earlier plans to convert our first-
generation maltodextrin plant 1 to produce
caramel powder products and other
powder products to a later stage.
In addition, the expansion and upgrading
of the latest glucose production plant
was completed in year 2019 and has yet
to achieve optimum utilisation as at the
end of year 2020. In view thereof, the
Group decided to defer initial plans for
constructionofanotherglucoseproduction
plant to a later stage. Moreover, the
production plant capacity expansion plans
for HVP and Caramel products together
with the relocation of Vinegar production
plantthatwerelaunchedin2019hadbeen
delayedinlightoftheCOVID-19pandemic.
Our products continue to gain wide
acceptance globally as shown by the
increase in our export sales to overseas
markets. The Group will continue to
leverage on our core competency to
continue develop products in order to
meet the constantly evolving customers’
requirements everywhere. Besides, it
is important for the Group to continue
investing in research and development
initiativestobroadentherangeandappeal
of our products. Therefore, the Group
continues to be committed to allocate
adequate resources to acquire up-to-date
and modern laboratory facilities as well as
recruit suitably qualified skilled personnel.
11
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
REVENUE
RM436.1 million
2019: RM436.0 million
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
RM40.7 million
2019: RM40.2 million
As we enter 2021, COVID-19 risks still linger around us. Although the Group is confident
of our future prospects, we are cognisant of challenges, amongst others, volatility in raw
materials prices brought by market uncertainties and fierce competition in our industry.
In order to address risks of volatility in raw materials prices, expansion plans of
warehousing facilities are still on-going. Besides, the Group is carefully adapting to
current market conditions with our core competency to develop new products with
excellent quality for customers. In addition the Group will continue to come up with
targeted marketing strategies with our unique ability to change the sales mix to face
intense market competition.
Although the Group is cautious in our business approaches, the Group is continuing
its business plans to commit adequate resources to expand and upgrade production
plants. The Group strongly believes that we are on the right track to accomplish our
vision to be a recognised global leader in the food and beverage ingredients industry
known with products of exceptional quality.
12 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
DIVIDENDS
The Board of Directors always take
shareholders’ interests as well as financial
positions of the Group into consideration
before making any decisions with regards
to the payment of dividend. The Group
always consider factors that are critical
such as cash flow requirements for
operating and investment activities and
current market conditions before making
decision.
For the financial year ended 31 December
2020,theBoardofDirectorshaddeclared
an interim dividend per share of 2.2 sen
for FY2020, amounting to a total dividend
payout of RM10.785 million that was paid
on 3 December 2020.
NOTE OF APPRECIATION
We would like to express our appreciation
to Mr. Gurpreet Singh Vohra and Mr. Loo
Cheau Leong who resigned and retired
from the Board respectively during
the year for their invaluable effort and
contribution to the success of the Group.
Then we would like to welcome Ms.
Lim Yee Mein and Mr. Kee Thuan Chai
to the Board. We have full confidence
that with their vast experiences, they can
contribute immensely in our mission to
elevate the Group to greater heights.
On behalf of the Board, we would like
to thank all devoted employees of the
Group for their invaluable commitment
and contribution to again produce a
praiseworthy set of results in 2020 in
spite of challenging market conditions.
We strongly believe that our people
will be able to overcome all prevailing
uncertainties in the business environment
andcontinuetodelivergoodperformance
for the Group into the future.
We also take this opportunity to thank our
loyal shareholders, customers, vendors,
bankers and business associates for all
the trust and confidence in the Group.
Last but not least, we are thankful to all
Board members who have contributed
to the success of the Group with their
extraordinary leadership, guidance and
commitment.
Thank you.
13
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
FIVE-YEAR GROUP
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2018
RM'000
2017
RM’000
2016
RM'000
Revenue 436,166 436,066 437,977 411,485 387,718
Profit Before Tax 40,708 40,259 34,204 55,790 53,448
Profit After Tax 30,162 29,419 29,120 41,647 38,921
Total Assets 431,837 406,519 394,502 372,415 339,577
TotalLiabilities 65,364 58,345 65,907 63,100 60,142
Share Capital 149,087 149,087 98,400 98,400 78,720
Shareholders' Equity 366,473 348,174 328,595 309,315 279,435
Earnings per Share(sen) 6.2 6.0 5.9 9.2 8.6
Net Assets per Share (sen) 74.4 70.7 66.7 62.9 71.0
Net Dividend per Share (sen) 2.2 2.0 2.0 1.8 1.8
Return on Equity 8.2 8.4 8.9 13.4 13.9
Return on Assets 7.0 7.2 7.4 11.1 11.5
DividendPayoutRatio 35.7 33.3 33.9 21.3 18.2
14 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
,
,
,
,
,
.
.
.
.
.
,
,
,
,
,
.
.
.
.
.
REVENUE
(RM’000)
2020:
RM436,166
2019: RM436,066
Earning Per
Share (sen)
2020:
6.2 sen
2019: 6.0sen
PROFIT AFTER
TAX (RM’000)
2020:
RM30,162
2019: RM29,419
Net Asset Per
Share (sen)
2020:
74.4 sen
2019: 70.7sen
15
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
CORE VALUES AND BUSINESS PRINCIPLES IN SUPPORT
OF SUSTAINABILITY
Sustainability is a key aspect in our conduct of business and
the following are our core values that are firmly ingrained in us:
•  
Our Mission is to excel as One of the Global Quality Brands
in the Industries with our strong commitment to produce
safe and quality products that exceed our customers’
expectations;
•  
We value the environment and we always do our best
to protect the environment and conserve resources in
our business activities;
•  
We commit to maintain high standards of integrity and
corporate governance practices in order to achieve
excellence in our daily operations;
•  
Our business activities impact our local communities and
we include community considerations and values into
our decision-making and business practices; and
•  
For our shareholders, we work to achieve sustainable
long term growth.
Scope of Sustainability Report
This report covers the reporting period between January and
December 2020. It encompasses the operations of Three-A
Resources Berhad (199901006659) (481559-M) (Company) and
its subsidiaries (Group).
Governance Structure in Place
Board of Director
Management Sustainability Committee
Sustainability Working Committee
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) governs and supervise the
sustainability matters of the Group. They are supported by the
Management Sustainability Committee (“MSC”) that comprises
of members of the Management who makes recommendations
to the Board on significant economic, environmental and social
(“EES”) sustainability matters. In turn, a Sustainability Working
Committee (“SWC”) assists the MSC and is responsible for
the identification, implementation, assessment, monitoring and
reporting of sustainability matters.
Amongst the Roles and Responsibilities of the Management
Sustainability Committee include:
• 
AdvisetheBoardonthestrategiesintheareaofsustainability;
• 
Recommend to the Board for its approval on material
sustainabilitymattersidentified,sustainability-relatedpolicies
and its goals or targets;
• 
Monitor the implementation of sustainability strategies,
policies and initiatives as approved by the Board with
assistance from the SWC;
• 
Oversee the management of sustainability matters, with
particular focus on matters material to the organisation;
• 
Oversee stakeholder engagement to ensure that issues,
grievanceandsuggestionsraisedaretakenintoconsideration
in managing sustainability matters; and
• 
Oversee the preparation of Sustainability Statement and
recommending it for Board’s approval.
The Board had considered and incorporated those EES matters
relevant to us and is proud to present the Group’s Sustainability
Report for the year 2020.
Determination of Material Sustainability Matters
We have reviewed and identified the following stakeholders
who wield significant impact and particular influence in our
business as below:
• Shareholders
• Customers
• Suppliers
• Employees
• Local communities
• Government/regulators
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
16 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
• Regular virtual meetings
• Online communication modes
• Online survey feedback
• Investors/analysts briefings
• 
Investor relationship feedback
• Website
• Virtual meetings
• Online
• Correspondences
• Virtual Management meetings
• Feedback and survey
• 
Implementation of work from home
policy
• On-site inspection
• 
Regular updates and briefing by
regulators
• 
Face masks and face shields were
distributed to frontliners in our local
communities
• Safe and Quality products
• 
Compliances to International Quality
Standards
• Company performance
• Corporate governance
• Suppliers chain responsibility
• 
Transparent procurement practices
• Ethical practices
• Welfare and safety
• Talent attraction and development
• Environment responsibilities
• Regulatory compliance
• 
Environmental concerns – water usage,
waste management
• CSR activities
• 
Air or water pollution at manufacturing
plant
STAKEHOLDER
GROUP
TYPE OF ENGAGEMENT
Sustainability MATTERS DISCUSSED
Employees
Regulators
Customers
Suppliers
Shareholders
Local Communities
Key Stakeholder Groups and Types of Engagement Conducted
17
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
SUSTAINABILITY
MATERIALITY MATRIX
Importance
to
stakeholders
Company
Performance
Economic
(good
governance
practices)
Suppliers
(transparent
procurement
practices)
Environmental
(water & waste)
Employees
(health &
safety)
Customers (safe & quality
products)
Supply chain
management
Customer privacy
& data protection
Training &
development
Social Infrastructure
High
Importance to Company
Very low materiality
High
Low
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
18 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
SIGNIFICANT SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS
(ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL)
Economic
The Group believes that adopting good governance practices
provide long-term benefits and value creation towards sustainable
growth and profitability. We uphold high standards of ethics and
behaviours in the conduct of business with strict compliance
with the laws and regulations of Malaysia and of those countries
within the reach of our products.
The Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct (“the Code”) describes
the values and behaviours expected of our employees at the
workplace and key principles by which business should be
carried out with our stakeholders. In order to demonstrate our
commitment, we make known the Code in our Group’s website
as awareness to all our stakeholders.
Similarly, we expect our business partners such as suppliers
adhere to ethical procurement practices and follows best
practices in standard operating and fair trading procedures.
Whenever possible, we also encourage them to comply with
industry best practices such as attaining the Hazard Analysis
and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”) and FSSC 22000 Food
Safety System certifications.
Besides, the Group regularly review our policies and
procedures and continuously enhance our corporate
governance practices including put into place policies such as
“No Bribery and Corruption Policy” in the Supplier Code of
Conduct as well as “Whistle-Blowing Policy” to encourage the
reporting of improper conduct.
A key element of the Supplier Code of Conduct is to ensure
transparent procurement practices when procuring of raw
materials and services.
As one of the leading food and beverage ingredients
manufacturers in the country, we are committed to provide
safe and quality products to our customers. Throughout the
years, we have consistently ensure compliances to Food
Safety System certifications including HALAL and KOSHER
certifications.
As part of our commitment to meet our customers’ expectations,
we always gather feedback and suggestions to continuously
improve our products and services. We are proud to inform
that we have consistently received high customer satisfaction
rates throughout the years as a testament of our efforts.
Environmental
Organisations are increasingly aware of the need to conduct
businesses sustainably. One of the ways we do our part to
protect the environment is through efforts to recondition our
used plastic packaging containers and repackage them with
our products. In this way, we drastically reduce the amount of
plastic usage in our business.
Indicator FY18 FY19 FY20
Percentage of used plastic
packaging containers
reconditioned and reused by
weight yearly (%)
30% 28% 29%
Besides, we advocate practices in conservation of energy
including replacing old lighting systems with LED lighting
systems in our facilities. We also tailor our work instructions,
in particular to our production workers to ensure efficient use
of energy, water and raw materials in all our operations. We
also set limits to paper printing per user and we encourage
our staff to go digital wherever possible.
We regularly conduct awareness sessions for all our staff on
environmental protection initiatives together with posters and
stickers in our premises.
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
FY2018 FY2019 FY2020
Indicator FY18 FY19 FY20
Customer satisfaction rate (%) 83.93 86.20 84.60
Customer Satisfaction Rate (%)
19
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
SIGNIFICANT SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS (ECONOMIC,
ENVIRONMENT AND SOCIAL) (CONTINUED)
Social
Our employees are most valuable to the Group and they give
us strength to continue charging ahead. As a Group, we ensure
we comply with the local labour laws and regulations.
The Group also believes that diversity and equal opportunity
in workplace enable us to be more progressive, creative and
resilient in meeting challenges. With this in mind, we have
policies to protect our employees, such as no discrimination
on gender and ethnicity when assessing remuneration and
promotion.
We look after our employee welfare by providing employee
benefits such as insurance and medical. In order to instil a
positive work environment, the Group had organised social
activities such as annual dinner, sponsored sport activities and
get-together events.
At 3A, we believe human capital development is a key factor for
us to have sustainable long-term success. Therefore, we place
utmost emphasis on talent management and development for
our employees. We conduct a variety of training programmes
to upscale our employees.
The Group has consistently invested in the training of our staff
and officers. Our employees attend trainings that are required
to them and the amount of time they spent on trainings for FYE
2020 is as follows:
We promote safe working environment for our staff by making
sure our employees attend comprehensive online safety training
and awareness programs.
In addition, we also have an occupational safety and health
policy that highlights our commitment in the following:
• 
prevention of injury to our employees and promote work
life balance to keep our staff healthy;
• 
ensure compliance to laws and regulations in relation to
occupational safety and health;
• 
require contractors to meet our occupational safety and
health standards across all our operations; and
• 
instil a culture where all employees share the commitment
to prevent harm to the safety and health of our employees,
contractors and general public.
Our Community
As a responsible corporate citizen, we value our relationships
with the local community and are concerned with its well-being
and welfare. The Group continues to carry out various initiatives
and activities such as to provide employment to people from
the surrounding communities, contributions to various charitable
causes and sponsorships of various social events.
Indicator FY18 FY19 FY20
Average Training Hours/
Employee
17.25 18.17 11.75
Indicator FY18 FY19 FY20
No of Accidents 3 2 0
0
5
10
15
20
FY2018 FY2019 FY2020
0
1
2
3
FY2018 FY2019 FY2020
Training & Talent Development Year 2018 to 2020
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Workplace Health & Safety Year 2018 to 2020
20 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
TheBoardofDirectors(“theBoard”)ofThree-AResourcesBerhad(“3A”or“theCompany”)
are committed to the best practices and principles of good corporate governance as set
out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“the Code”) as well as the Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Malaysia”) for the Main Market.
Excellent corporate governance is essential to good business performance and the numerous past corporate governance
awards accorded to 3A testify that the Board, Management and staff of 3A remain steadfast and focused in ensuring the
highest level of corporate governance so that the interest of investors and all other stakeholders are well taken care of.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement is to be read in conjunction with the Corporate Governance Report
(“CG Report”) which contains detailed application for each practice as set out in the Code for the financial year 2020 and is
made available on the corporate website; www.three-a.com.my.
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
1.0 Board’s Leadership on Governance and Objectives
The Board is responsible for the overall governance of the Group and discharges this responsibility through
compliance with relevant rules, laws, regulations, directives and guidelines in addition to adopting the best practices
in the Code. Collectively, the Directors combine their diverse experience and qualifications on commercial,
regulatory, industry and financial expertise to discharge their duties and responsibilities.
The Board’s main responsibility is to lead and manage the Group in an effective manner including to develop
strategic directions and objectives in line with its vision and missions, implement plans and supervise the conduct
of the Group’s business as a whole. The Board’s role is to provide leadership of the Group within a framework of
prudent and effective controls whilst ensuring risks are consistently assessed and controlled.
The Board conducts ongoing review and evaluation of the Group’s strategic plans to ensure the Group’s focus is
in line with the constantly evolving market conditions as well as identifying new businesses and opportunities. The
Board also ensures that an adequate system of internal controls is in place and adopts appropriate measures to
mitigate any foreseeable and/or unexpected risks.
The Board Members are attentive to applying high ethical standards in their decision-making, taking into account
the interests of all stakeholders.
Certain functions of the Board have been delegated to various Board Committees, which reviews and make
recommendations to the Board on specific areas. There are currently four Board Committees, namely: -
• 
Audit Committee (“AC”);
• 
Nomination Committee (“NC”);
• 
Remuneration Committee (“RC”); and
• 
Risk Management Committee (“RMC”).
21
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
1.1 Duties and Responsibilities of the Board
The Company acknowledges the importance of having an effective Board for the overall governance and
management of the Group. The core responsibilities of the Board include reviewing and approving the Company’s
business strategies and plans, significant polices and monitoring the Management’s performance in implementing
them.
In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board exercises great care to ensure that high ethical standards
are upheld, and that the interest of stakeholders are not compromised. The Board Members are consistently mindful
that the interests of the Group’s stakeholders are always being protected.
The Board’s principle functions include the following responsibilities:
• 
Promotes good corporate governance culture within the Group which reinforces ethical, prudent and
professional behaviour;
• Reviews and 
approves the Group’s medium-term and long-term strategic business plans;
• 
Oversees the conduct of the Group’s business operations and financial performance against the approved
strategic business plans;
• 
Ensures that the operating infrastructure, systems of control, systems of risk management as well as financial
and operational controls are in place and properly implemented;
• 
Review the adequacy and the integrity of the internal control system and mitigation measures; and
• 
Undertakes various functions and responsibilities as specified in guidelines and directives issued by the
regulatory authorities from time to time.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors by virtue of their roles and responsibilities, in effect represent the
minority shareholders’ interest of the 3A Group. The Independent Non-Executive Directors engage proactively with
the Management and with both the external and internal auditors. The Independent Non-Executive Directors play a
significant role in bringing objectivity and scrutiny to the Board’s deliberations and decision-making. They also serve
to inspire and challenge the Management in an objective and constructive manner.
In enhancing the function of the Independent Non-Executive Directors, the Board has also defined their roles and
responsibilities to include the following:
• 
Provides relevant check and balance, focusing on shareholders’ and other stakeholders’ interests and ensuring
high standards of corporate governance are applied;
• 
Scrutinises the performance of Management in meeting agreed goals and monitor the reporting of performance;
• 
Constructively challenge and contribute to the development of the business strategies; and
• 
Ensure the financial information presented is accurate and that financial controls as well as system of risk
management are robust.
The Independent Directors are at liberty to obtain advice from independent professionals if deemed necessary
for the proper discharge of their duties at the expense of the Group. The Independent Directors also have direct
access to the advice and services of internal and external auditors and the Company Secretary who is responsible
for ensuring that the Board procedures are followed.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
22 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
1.2 Board Meetings and Supply of Information to the Board
Board meetings for the following financial year are scheduled in advance before the end of the current financial
year so as to facilitate the Directors to plan ahead and organise the next year’s Board meetings into their respective
schedules.
The Chairman of the respective committees would inform the Directors at Board meetings, of any salient matters
noted by the committee and which require the Board’s notice or direction.
The members of the Board are provided with the agenda and board papers including status report, quarterly report,
performance and management report at least five (5) business days before each meeting so that the Directors have
ample time to review matters to be deliberated at the Board meeting and to facilitate informed decision making by
the Directors. The Chairman of all Board meetings ensured that each of the agenda items is adequately reviewed
and thoroughly deliberated within a reasonable timeframe.
The board papers provide, amongst others, periodical financial and corporation information, significant operational,
financial and corporate issues, by the Group and management proposals that requires Board’s approval.
At the Board meetings, the Board reviews the Group’s business operations by analysing the financial statements
and its accompanying notes and disclosures as contained in the quarterly report of the Group as compared to
the same corresponding period. The Board also notes the decisions and salient issues deliberated by the Audit
Committee which are tabled to the Board.
The Directors are regularly updated by the Company Secretary on the new statutory as well as regulatory
requirements relating to Directors’ duties and responsibilities or the discharge of their duties as Director of the
Company. The Company Secretary attends all Board meetings and ensures that accurate and adequate records of
the proceedings of the Board meetings and decisions made are properly kept.
All Board members have full and timely access to information on the Company’s businesses and affairs for the
discharge of their duties and responsibilities. Where necessary, senior management staff as well as advisors and
professionals appointed to act for the Company on corporate proposal may be invited to attend the Board meeting
to furnish the Board with their comments and advice on the relevant proposal tabled.
1.3 Board Charter
The primary objective of the Company’s Board Charter (“Board Charter”) is to set out the roles and responsibilities
of the Board to achieve the vision and mission of the Company. The Board is guided by the Board Charter which
provides reference for Directors in relation to the Board’s role, powers, duties and functions.
Apart from reflecting the current best practices and the applicable rules and regulations, the Board Charter also
outlines processes and procedures for the Board and their committees to be effective and efficient. The Board will
regularly review the Board Charter to ensure it remains consistent with the Board’s objectives and responsibilities
and all the relevant standards of corporate governance. The latest review was conducted in February 2021. The
Board Charter is made available on 3A’s website, www.three-a.com.my.
23
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
1.4 Sustainability of Business
The Board is mindful of the importance of business sustainability and its growing impact to the Group, whilst no less
emphasis been put into managing the social and environmental impact of its business operations. The Group also
embraces sustainability through collaboration and partnership with its suppliers, customers and other stakeholders.
The Group is committed to the continuous efforts in maintaining a delicate balance between the sustainability agenda
and the shareholders’ interests.
1.5 Board Gender Diversity Policies and Targets and the Measures
The Board takes note of the need to establish a policy formalising the approach to boardroom diversity and to set
targets and measures for the adoption of the Practice 4.5 of the Code. However, the Board has no immediate plans
to implement a diversity policy or target but will continue to identify suitable candidates for appointment to the Board
as and when vacancies arise. Such candidates will be strictly assessed based on merit, their competencies, time
commitment, experience, gender diversity, age and cultural background competencies required for an effective Board.
A NC will oversee the overall composition of the Board and Board Committees, including succession planning to
maintain the appropriate size and skills, the balance between Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and
Independent Directors as well as the mixture of skills and other core competencies required on the Board.
1.6 Code of Conduct and Ethics
The Board will continue to adhere to the Code of Conduct and Ethics which is applicable to all directors, management
and employees of the Group. The Code of Conduct and Ethics as established by the Board which was published in
the Company’s website, www.three-a.com.my is based on the following principles:
• 
Uphold of human rights of workers and commitment to a safe and healthy work environment;
• 
Social responsibility and protection of the environment;
• 
Duty to act in the best interest of the Group;
• 
Protect and maintain the assets and confidentiality of sensitive information of the Group;
• 
Conduct of fair trade in business;
• 
Honesty and integrity;
• 
No conflict of interests and no bribery or unethical business practices;
• 
Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy; and
• 
Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and Group policies.
1.7 Whistle-Blowing Policy and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy
The Board acknowledges that misconduct such as violation of laws, rules, regulations, production fraud, fraud, health
and safety infringements or corruption are usually known first by people who work in or with the Group. An early
warning system such as a whistle-blowing policy and procedure can help the Group to detect wrongdoings and
alert the Group to take corrective action before a problem becomes a crisis. In order to promote ethical values and
conduct throughout the Group, the Board had put in place an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy on 3 November
2020 to prevent conflict of interest, the risk of bribery and corruption within the Group.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
24 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
1.7 Whistle-Blowing Policy and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (Continued)
The Board in its effort to enhance corporate governance has put in place a whistle blowing policy to provide an avenue
for employees, suppliers and stakeholders to report genuine concerns about malpractices, unethical behaviour or
misconduct without fear of reprisal. Any concerns raised will be received by the members of the Whistle-blowing
Committee, investigated and outcome of such investigation will be reported to the Board. Appropriate action will be
taken to resolve the issue. The whistle-blower’s identity will be kept confidential. 3A will assign a senior officer from
the Human Resources (“HR”) Department as Whistle-blower protector who will keep in touch with the whistle- blower
to monitor and assess any signs of victimisation or stress.
The Whistle-Blowing Policy and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy are made available on 3A’s website,
www.three-a.com.my.
1.8 Promoting Sustainability
3A’s approach to governance is to drive business revenues and profits and manage risks prudently in order to
deliver long-term profitability and provide value to shareholders on a sustainable basis. This includes meeting
expectations of stakeholders such as customers, shareholders, regulators, bankers, joint-venture partners and the
communities in which 3A operates.
The Board and Management of 3A uphold Sustainability efforts in terms of achieving Economic, Environment and
Social sustainable objectives as part of its responsibility to its stakeholders and the communities in which it operates.
3A is committed to the implementation of safe work practices and aims to provide an injury-free workplace for all its
employees. Besides, 3A is dedicated to do its part to protect the environment in its business activities and support
the local communities.
1.9 Qualified and Competent Company Secretaries
The Company Secretaries are appointed by the Board. The appointments are based on criteria related to the
qualifications, experience and competence of the individual concerned to carry out their duties and responsibilities
having regard to the 3A’s business, size of operations and compliance with the Listing Requirements. The Company
Secretaries are MAICSA members and their role and responsibilities includes the following:
• 
Preparation and submission of forms as required under the Companies Act 2016 to the Companies Commission
Malaysia;
• 
Ensure compliance of regulatory requirements, updates on new Bursa Malaysia Listing Requirements to the
Board;
• 
Submissions of corporate announcements electronically via LINK to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad;
• 
Support the Board of Directors, by ensuring adherence to Board policies and procedures, rules, relevant laws
and best practices on Corporate Governance;
• 
Attendance at Annual General Meeting, Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee
meetings and ensure minutes of meetings are well documented; and
• 
Follow-up on matters arising.
The Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company Secretaries in assisting them to
discharge their duties.
25
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
2.0 Board Composition
Good governance principles require fairness, transparency, accountability and responsibility. The Board acknowledges
the importance of the Board structure.
The Board consists of ten (10) members; comprising two (2) Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors, three (3)
Non-Independent Executive Directors (including the Managing Director) and five (5) Independent Non-Executive
Directors. Half of the Board members are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board comprises members with a wide range of business, financial and technical service background. The
size of the Board is optimum given the scope, size and complexity of the Group’s operations. The composition of
the Board complies with the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad/Main Board Listing Requirements that requires a
minimum of two (2) or one-third (1/3) of the Board to be Independent Directors. With this existing composition, the
Board has further fulfilled Practice 4.1 of the Code whereby at least half of the Board Composition comprises of
Independent Directors.
There is a clearly accepted division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Managing Director to ensure
balance of power and authority. The Executive Directors have primary responsibilities for managing the Group’s
day-to-day operations and together with the other Directors, to ensure that the strategies are fully discussed and
examined and to take into consideration the long term interests of the various stakeholders including shareholders,
employees, customers, suppliers and the various communities in which the Group conducts its business.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors do not engage in the day-to-day management of the Group and do not
participate in any business dealings and are not involved in any other relationship with the Group. This ensures that
the Independent Non-Executive Directors remain free from conflict of interest and facilitate them to carry out their
roles and responsibilities as Independent Directors effectively. The Independent Directors are at liberty to seek
independent professional advice on matters relating to the discharge of their duties. The cost of securing such
professional services will be borne by 3A.
2.1 Appointment to the Board
The proposed appointment of a new Member to the Board will be deliberated on by the full Board based upon the
recommendation by the Nomination Committee which will review based on the necessity for and qualification and
experience of the proposed Director.
The appointment of any additional Director is made as and when it is deemed necessary by the Board with due
consideration given to the mix of expertise, skills, experience, gender diversity, age and cultural background
competencies required for an effective Board.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2020, Mr Loo Cheau Leong, a Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director retired at the Eighteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 29 June 2020 while Mr Gurpreet
Singh Vohra resigned on 30 June 2020. They were replaced by two (2) suitably qualified Non-Independent Non-
Executive Directors, namely, Mr Kee Thuan Chai and Ms Lim Yee Mein who were appointed on 30 June 2020.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
26 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
2.2 Re-Election of Directors
In accordance with the Company’s Constitution, it provides that at every Annual General Meeting, at least one-third (1/3)
of the Directors for the time being shall retire from office and be eligible for re- election provided always that all Directors
shall retire from office once at least in each three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election.
The re-election of Directors at the Annual General Meeting is subject to the prior assessment by the Nomination Committee.
The Directors, namely, Mr Chew Eng Chai (Independent Non-Executive Director), Mr Khoo Wee Boon (Independent Non-
Executive Director) and Encik Mohd Zaki bin Hamzah (Independent Non-Executive Director) are due to retire pursuant
to Clause 76(3) of the Company’s Constitution while Mr Kee Thuan Chai (Non-Independent Non-Executive Director) and
Ms Lim Yee Mein (Non-Independent Non-Executive Director) are due to retire pursuant to Clause 78 of the Company’s
Constitution at the forthcoming Nineteenth Annual General Meeting.
In determining whether to recommend a Director for re-election, the aforesaid Director’s time commitment such as
attendance at meetings, participation, contribution to the activities of the Board, character, integrity and experience will
be duly considered by the Nomination Committee.
The Nomination Committee at its meeting held on 23 February 2021 conducted assessment and was satisfied that the
abovementioned Directors have met the requirements set out above and recommended to the Board of Directors for
their re-election at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting. All the above-mentioned Directors have consented to serve
as Directors, if re- elected by the shareholders at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The Directors of 3A are individuals of high calibre and integrity and their knowledge and expertise in their respective
fields bring perspectives from other businesses, thereby enhancing the effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees.
The Board is of the view that given the size of the Group and its business complexity, the current number of Directors
remains optimum and conducive for effective deliberations at Board meetings and for efficient conduct of Board meetings.
The profile of the above Directors is set out in the section entitled “Profile of Directors” on pages 3 to 8 of 2020 Annual
Report.
2.3 The Board Committees
The Board delegates certain authorities to the Board Committees that operate under clearly defined written terms of
reference and operating procedures duly approved by the Board.
The functions and terms of reference of the Board Committees as well as authority delegated by the Board to these
Committees, have been approved by the Board and are reviewed from time to time to ensure that they are relevant
and up-to-date.
The various Committees report the outcome of their meetings to the Board which are then incorporated in the Board’s
minutes. The Board Committees are as follows:
• 
Audit Committee;
• 
Nomination Committee;
• 
Remuneration Committee; and
• 
Risk Management Committee.
27
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
2.4 Nomination Committee
The Board has established a Nomination Committee (“NC”) and its principal objectives are in line with the term of
reference of the NC which is available in the Company’s website, www.three-a.com.my.
The NC shall meet as and when necessary and at such other time(s) as it deems necessary to fulfil its responsibilities.
The quorum for each meeting is two (2) members, of whom shall be an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Recommendations of the Committee are submitted to the Board for approval.
To carry out the assessment of those Directors who are eligible to stand for re-election, the NC will base on formal
reviews of the performance of the Directors, their contribution to the Board through their skills, experience, strength
and qualities, their level of independence and abilities to exercise independent judgment, demonstrate objectivity,
clarity of thought during deliberations at meetings and ability to spend sufficient time and commitment to the Group.
An annual evaluation, in the form of self and peer evaluation, are conducted by the NC, on the effectiveness of
the Board as a whole, Board Committees, contribution of each individual Director, independence of Independent
Directors and assessment on Senior Management. A summary of the evaluations was furnished to the NC for
discussion.
The NC had on 23 February 2021 conducted the annual assessment in respect of financial year ended 31 December
2020 and was satisfied with the existing Board composition and was of the view that all the Directors and Board
Committee of 3A had discharged their responsibilities in a commendable manner and had performed competently
and effectively. The Board’s effectiveness is assessed in the areas of composition, administration and process,
accountability and responsibility, conduct and communication, decision-making and Boardroom activities, each
Director’s skills and competencies, as well as Board diversity.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
28 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
2.4	
Nomination Committee (Continued)
For the Board diversity, the evaluation of the candidates’ suitability by the Board is solely based on their competence,
character, time commitment, integrity and experience in meeting the needs of the Group.
For the financial year ended 31 December 2020, the Committee met two (2) times and the composition of the NC
and their attendance at meetings of Committee are as follows:
Members of Nomination Committee and Meeting Attendance during the financial year 2020
Membership Status Name Attendance
Chairman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah 2/2
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chew Eng Chai 2/2
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Khoo Wee Boon 2/2
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh 2/2
The NC had undertaken the following activities in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2020:
• 
Reviewed and recommended the appointment of new directors as described under item 2.1 above;
• 
Reviewed the Self and Peer Assessment Forms of the Directors retiring pursuant to the Company’s Constitution
and re-election of Directors and submitted their recommendation for re-election at the Annual General Meeting;
• 
Reviewed the yearly Self and Peer Assessment Forms of Board Members, Board’s mix of skills and performance
of committees;
• 
Reviewed the continuation in office of Independent Non-Executive Directors who have served the Board
for more than nine (9) years and submitted their recommendation for retaining them as Independent Non-
Executive Directors of the Company;
• 
Reviewed the independence of Independent Directors; and
• 
Key officer evaluation.
In 3A Group, all appointments and employments are based on merits and not determined by gender, ethnicity and
age bias. The current structure of gender, ethnicity and age of the employees of the Group are as follows:
Gender Age Ethnicity
Male 85% 18–30 39% Malaysian –Bumiputera 31.9%
Female 15% 31–40 38% Malaysian–Chinese 10.9%
41–50 18% Malaysian–Indian 0.2%
Above51 5% Foreigners 57.0%
29
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
2.5 Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee has a formal and transparent procedure to review each Director’s remuneration
package which takes into consideration on corporate and individual performance; experience and level of
responsibilities of the Directors concerned. The Remuneration Committee is responsible for recommending the
remuneration framework for Directors, the remuneration packages of Executive Directors to the Board as well as to
review and deliberate on the quantum of Directors’ fee.
None of the Executive Directors participate in any way in determining their individual remuneration.
The Board as a whole determines the level of remuneration of Non-Executive Directors with individual Directors
abstaining from decisions in respect of their individual remuneration. Directors’ fees and benefits, if any, are
approved at the Annual General Meeting by the shareholders.
The policy practiced on Directors’ remuneration by the Remuneration Committee is to recommend the remuneration
packages necessary to attract, retain and motivate Directors of the quality required to manage the business of the
Group and to align the interest of the Directors with those of the shareholders.
Information prepared by independent consultants and survey data on the remuneration practices of comparable
companies are taken into consideration in determining the remuneration packages, where necessary.
The components of Directors’ remuneration are structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual
performance in the case of Executive Directors. In the case of Non-Executive Directors, the level of remuneration
reflects the experience and level of responsibilities undertaken by the individual Non-Executive Director concerned.
Meetings are held as and when necessary and at least once a year. The quorum for each meeting shall be two (2)
members. Minutes of each meeting shall be kept by the Secretary as evidence that the Committee has discharged
its functions.
The Remuneration Committee held one (1) meeting which were attended by all members during the financial year to
review and recommend to the Board on the remuneration of the Directors.
Members of Remuneration Committee and Meeting Attendance during the financial year 2020
Membership Status Name Attendance
Chairman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng 1/1
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chew Eng Chai 1/1
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Khoo Wee Boon 1/1
Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh 1/1
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
30 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
2.6 Remuneration of Directors
The remuneration package for Directors comprise the following elements:
• 
Directors’ Fees
The Directors’ fees are only payable to Non-Executive Directors. The Remuneration Committee recommends
the framework of Directors’ fees to the Board. The fees structure is determined after a study of comparable
organisations’ practices as well as the level of responsibilities involved.
• 
Salaries and Bonuses
The basic salaries for the Executive Directors are recommended by the Remuneration Committee to the Board
for the approval of the Board. In the evaluation process, consideration is given to the salary scales for similar
jobs in the industry.
The details of the remuneration Directors for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 are as follows:
Fees
(RM)
Salaries
(RM)
Allowance
(RM)
Bonus
(RM)
Other
Emoluments
(RM)
Total
(RM)
Received from the Company
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh 137,000 - - - - 137,000
Chew Eng Chai 82,000 - - - - 82,000
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng 57,000 - - - - 57,000
Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah 57,000 - - - - 57,000
Khoo Wee Boon 57,000 - - - - 57,000
Lim Yee Mein
  (appointed on 30 June 2020)
20,000 - - - - 20,000
Kee Thuan Chai
 
(appointed on 30 June 2020)
20,000 - - - - 20,000
Loo Cheau Leong
  (retired on 29 June 2020)
- - - - - -
Gurpreet Singh Vohra
  (resigned on 30 June 2020)
- - - - - -
430,000 - - - - 430,000
Received from Subsidiaries
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh 64,000 - - - - 64,000
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King - 636,000 240,000 475,000 54,040 1,405,040
Fang Siew Ping - 432,000 120,000 289,000 100,920 941,920
Liew Kuo Shin - 432,000 120,000 289,000 100,920 941,920
Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah 5,000 - - - - 5,000
69,000 1,500,00 480,000 1,053,000 255,880 3,357,880
31
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
2.7 Remuneration of Key Senior Management
The remuneration of Key Senior Management Team of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2020
is as follows:
Range of Remuneration (RM) No. of Key Senior Management
RM750,000 - RM800,000 1
RM900,000 - RM950,000 2
RM1,400,000 - RM1,450,000 1
Total 4
2.8 Independence of the Board
The Independent Non-Executive Directors with their extensive knowledge and experience contribute independent
views, advice and judgement on interests, not only of the Company but also of shareholders, employees, customers
and suppliers in which the Group conducts its business. Independent Non-Executive Directors are essential for
protecting the interests of shareholders and stakeholders and can make significant contributions to the Group’s
decision making by bringing in detached impartiality.
The roles of the Independent Non-Executive Chairman and Managing Director of the Company are distinct and
separate with individual responsibilities. Each of them has clearly defined duties and authority thus ensuring balance
of power and greater capacity for independent decision-making.
Where a potential conflict of interest may arise, it is mandatory practice for the or the Director concerned to declare
his or her interest and abstain from the decision-making process.
During the financial year, the Board through the Nomination Committee assessed the independence of its
Independent Non-Executive Directors based on criteria set out in the Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad. The Board Charter provides a limit of a cumulative term of nine (9) years on the tenure of an
Independent Director. However, an Independent Director may continue to serve on the Board upon reaching
the nine (9) year limit subject to the Independent Director’s re-designated as a Non-Independent Director. In the
event, the Board intends to retain the Director and seek shareholders’ approval at general meeting. In justifying the
decision, the Board is required to assess the candidate’s suitability to continue as an Independent Non-Executive
Director based on the criteria on independence as adopted by the Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
32 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
2.8 Independence of the Board (Continued)
Following an assessment by the Nomination Committee, Independent Non-Executive Directors, namely Mr. Chew
Eng Chai and Mr. Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng, Mr. Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah and Mr. Khoo Wee Boon who have
served as Independent Non-Executive Directors for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years as at the end of
the financial year under review, have been recommended by the Board to continue to act as Independent Non-
Executive Director, subject to shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming Nineteenth Annual General Meeting of the
Company. The Board recommends retaining their designation as Independent Non-Executive Directors based on
the following justifications:
• 
They have fulfilled the criteria under the definition on Independent Director as stated in the Main Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Securities and therefore, are able to bring independent and objective judgement to the
Board;
• 
They have an acute understanding of the Group’s business operation, and have continued to critically and
constructively challenge and contribute to the development of effective business strategy and direction of the
Group during Board and Board Committees’ meetings;
• 
Their long tenure of services on the Board and Board Committees have neither impaired nor compromised
their exercise of independent judgement, and they are free from any business or relationships which could
interfere with their exercise of independent judgement;
• 
They have remained objective and independent in expressing their views and participating in deliberation and
decision making of the Board and Board Committees in the best interest of the Group;
• 
Their vast experience and exposure in the fields of food manufacturing, auditing, accountancy, corporate
finance and financial market provide diverse set of expertise which bring valuable contribution to the Board;
• 
They have ensured effective checks and balances in Board proceedings and have exercised due care during
their tenure as Independent Non-Executive Director to carry out their duties in the best interest of the Company
and shareholders; and
• 
They have exhibited high commitment and devoted sufficient time and attention to their responsibilities as
Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
And since Mr. Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah, Mr. Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng, Mr. Chew Eng Chai and Mr. Khoo Wee
Boon had served the Company for a cumulative term of more than than twelve (12) years respectively, approval
from the Company’s shareholders to retain them as Independent Director through a two-tier voting process at the
forthcoming Nineteenth Annual General Meeting shall be sought.
2.9 Board Meetings
The Board meets every three (3) months in regular Board of Directors’ meetings during the year to approve the
quarterly results on a pre-scheduled basis. Additional meetings are convened when urgent and important decisions
need to be taken between scheduled meetings.
The Board met four (4) times during the financial year ended 31 December 2020. The dates of the Board Meetings
are as follows:
• 
25 February 2020
• 28 May 2020
• 
24 August 2020
• 
3 November 2020
33
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
2.9 Board Meetings (Continued)
Details of attendance of each Director at the Board meetings held under the financial year are set out as follows:
Director
Number of Board
Meetings Held
Number of Board
Meetings Attended
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh 4 4/4
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King 4 4/4
Chew Eng Chai 4 4/4
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng 4 4/4
Mohd Zaki bin Hamzah 4 4/4
Khoo Wee Boon 4 4/4
Fang Siew Ping 4 4/4
Liew Kuo Shin 4 4/4
Lim Yee Mein
  (appointed on 30 June 2020)
2 2/2
Kee Thuan Chai
  (appointed on 30 June 2020)
2 2/2
Gurpreet Singh Vohra
  (resigned on 30 June 2020)
2 0/2
Loo Cheau Leong
  (retired on 29 June 2020)
2 2/2
All Directors are expected to notify the Board of their acceptance of any new directorship in other listed issuers.
Directors of the Company do not hold more than five (5) directorships in public listed companies and there is no
restriction on number of directorships in non-public listed companies, as stipulated in the Listing Requirements.
The listing of directorships held by Directors is disclosed by the respective Directors to the Board to ensure
compliance to the above Listing Requirements.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
34 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
3.0 Directors’ Training
The Directors have continued to participate in relevant training programmes to keep abreast with the latest
developments in the security industry, in particularly in areas of corporate governance and regulatory changes so
that they would be able to discharge their duties as Directors effectively.
For the year ended 31 December 2020, the conferences, seminars and training programmes attended by each of
the Directors were in respect of the following areas:
Director Seminars/Training Programmes
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh • 
Related Party Transactions (“RPT”) and Recurrent Related
Party Transactions (“RRPT”)
•  Detecting Financial Frauds
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King • 
Related Party Transactions (“RPT”) and Recurrent Related
Party Transactions (“RRPT”)
•  Detecting Financial Frauds
•  Code of Conduct Ethical and Business Practices
•  Training of COVID-19 SOP/Response Team & Responsibility
Chew Eng Chai • 
Related Party Transactions (“RPT”) and Recurrent Related
Party Transactions (“RRPT”)
•  Detecting Financial Fraud
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng • 
Related Party Transactions (“RPT”) and Recurrent Related
Party Transactions (“RRPT”)
•  Detecting Financial Frauds
Khoo Wee Boon • 
Related Party Transactions (“RPT”) and Recurrent Related
Party Transactions (“RRPT”)
•  Detecting Financial Frauds
•  KSY887: Industry 4.0 and It’s Impact of Malaysian Capital Market
Mohd Zaki bin Hamzah • 
Related Party Transactions (“RPT”) and Recurrent Related
Party Transactions (“RRPT”)
•  Detecting Financial Frauds
Liew Kuo Shin • 
Related Party Transactions (“RPT”) and Recurrent Related
Party Transactions (“RRPT”)
•  Detecting Financial Frauds
•  Code of Conduct Ethical and Business Practices
•  Training of COVID-19 SOP/Response Team & Responsibility
•  FSSC 22000 (v5) Awareness Remote Online Training
• 
FMM Best Practice Webinar: Effective Management of
Electronic, Food and Schedule Waste
35
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
Director Seminars/Training Programmes
Fang Siew Ping • 
Related Party Transactions (“RPT”) and Recurrent Related
Party Transactions (“RRPT”)
•  Detecting Financial Frauds
•  MS ISO/IEC 17025:2017 Internal Audit
•  Code of Conduct Ethical and Business Practices
•  Training of COVID-19 SOP / Response Team & Responsibility
•  FSSC 22000 (v5) Awareness Remote Online Training
Lim Yee Mein • 
Related Party Transactions (“RPT”) and Recurrent Related
Party Transactions (“RRPT”)
•  Detecting Financial Frauds
•  Mandatory Accreditation Program
Kee Thuan Chai • 
Related Party Transactions (“RPT”) and Recurrent Related
Party Transactions (“RRPT”)
•  Detecting Financial Frauds
•  Mandatory Accreditation Program
The Company Secretary regularly update the relevant guidelines on statutory and regulatory requirements from
time to time for the Board’s reference and briefs the Board quarterly on these updates, where applicable, at Board
meetings. The External Auditors also briefed the Board members on any changes to the Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards that would affect the Group’s financial statement during the financial year under review. The
Directors will continue to undergo relevant training programmes to further enhance their skills and knowledge in
the discharge of their stewardship role.
B. EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
1.0 Audit Committee
The Audit Committee currently comprises five (5) Independent Non-Executive Directors. The Committee meets not
less than four (4) times a year and is governed by clearly defined terms of reference. In the financial year ended
31 December 2020, the Committee met four (4) times. The main responsibilities of the Audit Committee are to
ensure integrity of financial reporting, a sound internal control system with effective risk monitoring procedures and
adherence to compliance matters. The Chairman of Audit Committee is not the Chairman of the Board. Details of
the composition of the Audit Committee, attendance of Members at Meetings held in 2020 and the activities carried
out by the Audit Committee during the year are set out under the Audit Committee Report on pages 43 to 45 on
this Annual Report.
A. BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (Continued)
3.0 Directors’ Training (Continued)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
36 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
B. EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued)
1.1 Financial Reporting
In presenting the annual audited financial statements and quarterly announcements of results to shareholders,
the Directors take responsibility to provide a balanced, clear and comprehensive assessment of the financial
performance and prospects of the Company and the Group in all the disclosures made to the stakeholders and the
regulatory authorities. Following discussions with the External Auditors, the Directors consider that the Company
and the Group uses appropriate accounting policies that are consistently applied and supported by reasonable as
well as prudent judgments and estimates; and that financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable
approved accounting standards in Malaysia and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016. The Directors recognise
the responsibility for ensuring that accounting records are properly kept.
The Audit Committee who assist the Board in overseeing the financial reporting process of the Company’s and the
Group, has adopted a policy for the types of non-audit services permitted to be provided by the External Auditors,
including the need for the Audit Committee’s approval prior to such services can be provided by the External
Auditors. The procedure included in the policy requires the engagement team conducting the non-audit services to
be different from the External Audit team.
In assessing the independence of External Auditors, the Audit Committee requires written assurance by the External
Auditors, confirming that they are and have been independent throughout the conduct of the audit engagement
with the Group in accordance with the independence criteria set out by the International Federation of Accountants
and the Malaysian Institute of Accountants.
Early announcements of the quarterly results and issuance of annual report to Bursa Securities reflect the Board’s
commitment to provide timely, transparent and up-to-date assessments on the Company’s and the Group’s
performance and prospects.
The Board is assisted by the Audit Committee to oversee the quality of the financial reporting of the Company and
the Group. The Audit Committee reviews and monitors the integrity of the Company’s and the Group’s annual and
interim financial statements and reviews the appropriateness of the Company’s and the Group’s accounting policies
and changes to these policies as well as ensures these financial statements comply with accounting and regulatory
requirements.
Audit Committee had on 23 February 2021 conducted an assessment on the suitability and independence of the
external auditors, Messrs BDO PLT. Having considered their independence, competency, resources and the audit
team assigned and the tenure of the change of its audit engagement partner, the Audit Committee had recommended
to the Board on their suitability and independence and to re-appoint Messrs BDO PLT as Auditors of the Group for
the ensuing year. The Board has recommended Messrs BDO PLT for re-appointment as Auditors of the Group for the
shareholders’ approval at the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting.
The Board of Directors also have overall responsibilities for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them
to safeguard the assets of the Company and the Group and for the implementation and continued operation of
adequate accounting and internal control systems for the prevention of fraud and other irregularities.
37
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
B. EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued)
1.2 Statement on Directors’ Responsibility
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2016 to prepare financial statements for each year which give a
true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the financial year and of their
results and cash flow for the financial year then ended. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have:
• 
Adopted suitable accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• 
Made judgments and estimates that are prudent and reasonable;
• 
Ensured applicable accounting standards have been followed; and
• 
Prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company and the Group keeps proper accounting records
which disclose with reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of Group which
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2016.
The Directors have overall responsibility for taking such steps that are reasonably open to them to safeguard the
assets of the Company and the Group to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
1.3 Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Board requires the Company and the Group to maintain a rigorous risk management framework for identifying,
evaluating, monitoring and managing the risks taken to achieve the Company’s and the Group’s business objectives.
This process is periodically reviewed by the Board.
The Group’s Internal Audit function is outsourced to an independent consultant whose credentials and qualifications
had been reviewed and found to be competent by the Board and had adequate resources to carry out the scope
of activities as outlined in the internal audit plan of the Company. They report directly to the Audit Committee on
the effectiveness of the current system of internal controls from the perspectives of governance, risks and controls.
The internal audit function is independent of the activities it audits. The internal audit function carries out the internal
audit reviews based on internal audit plans approved by the Audit Committees and the Board of Directors. The
results of the audits are presented to the Audit Committee at their quarterly meetings.
Follow-up reviews are also carried out to assess the status of implementation of management action plans, which
are based on internal audit recommendations. The results of these follow-up reviews are also highlighted to the
Audit Committee at their quarterly meetings.
On 23 February 2021, the Audit Committee performed an assessment and review of the adequacy and scope of the
Internal Audit Function and the backgrounds of Internal Auditors as part of ongoing effort to ensure an effective and
sound internal controls system. The areas covered are the competency and independence of Internal Auditors as
well as the scope, functions, resources and authority of the Internal Audit Function that is in place.
For further details on the focus areas for internal audit during the financial year, please refer to the Statement of Risk
Management and Internal Control on page 40 to 42.
The Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control furnished in the annual report provide an overview of the
state of internal controls within the Group.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
38 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
C. INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING & RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
1.0 Communication with Stakeholders
The Company recognises the importance of maintaining accountability and transparency to its shareholders through
proper communication with its shareholders and stakeholders. The Company reaches out to its stakeholders
through its distribution of the annual reports, public announcements, company website, investor relations through
telephone or emails.
The Group also provides corporate information as well as highlighting key financial information in order to facilitate
shareholders’ easy access to the information.
The Company maintained a website (www.three-a.com.my) to which shareholders can access information related to
the Group. Investors and members of the public who wish to assess corporate and financial information that is made
public such as the quarterly announcement of the financial results of the Group, announcements and disclosures
made pursuant to the disclosure requirement of Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements and other
corporate information and events related to the Company can channel their queries to the following personnel:
Fong Peng Fai
Group Financial Controller
E-mail :  fong.pengfai@three-a.com.my
Jessica Fang Siew Yee
Senior Manager
E-mail :  jessica.fang@three-a.com.my
Tel No. :  +603 6156 2655
Website :  www.three-a.com.my
While the Company endeavours to provide as much information as possible to its shareholders and stakeholders,
the Company is mindful of the legal and regulatory framework governing the release of material and price sensitive
information.
1.1 Conduct of General Meeting
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company’s Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) and to participate in the
proceedings. Shareholders’ suggestions received during Annual General Meeting are reviewed and considered
for implementation, whenever possible. Every opportunity is given to the shareholders to ask questions and seek
clarification on the performance of the Company and the Group.
The Eighteenth AGM (“18th AGM”) of the Company held on 29 June 2020 was conducted through live streaming
and online remote participation using Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) Facilities as a fully virtual general
meeting. Shareholders were encouraged to participate (including posting questions to the Board via real time
submission of typed texts) and vote remotely at the 18th AGM of the Company by using the RPV Facilities provided
by the Company’s Share Registrar.
At the 18th AGM, eight out of ten Directors of the Company, along with the Group Financial Controller and the
External Auditors were present to respond to the shareholders’ queries, where applicable and necessary. Further,
in line with good corporate governance practices, at least twenty eight days’ notice was given to the shareholders
prior to the AGM.
39
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board of Directors (“Board”) is pleased to present this statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“Statement”)
for the financial year ended 31 December 2020. This statement is prepared pursuant to paragraph 15.26(b) of the Main Market
Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) and guided by the “Statement on Risk Management & Internal Control - Guidelines for Directors
of Listed Issuers” which was endorsed by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”).
BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
In accordance with the Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance, the Board being responsible for the Group’s risk management
and internal control systems, formulated policies on risk management and internal control and sought assurance that the
systems are functioning effectively.
The Board understands the principal risks of the business that the Group involves and accepts that business decisions require
the incurrence and balancing of risk and return to generate reasonable returns to the shareholders.
The Board continues to derive its comfort through the following processes in obtaining the relevant and key information on
the state of internal control and risk management of the Group:
• 
Audit Committee’s review and consultation with management on the interim financial results, annual report and audited
financial statements in order to assess the integrity of the financial information and performance;
• 
Board discussions with management during the board meetings on business and operational issues as well as the measures
taken by management to mitigate and manage the business and operational issues;
• 
Annually, upon completion of audit, the External Auditors will report to the Audit Committee on their key audit findings. As
part of this review, Audit Committee will obtain feedback from the External Auditors on risk and their control issues noted
by them in the course of their statutory audit;
• 
The Audit Committee assesses the adequacy and effectiveness of internal control based on the internal audit findings
presented by the Internal Auditors. These reviews were done quarterly where the Internal Auditors will present their internal
audit report to the Audit Committee and audit issues and action taken by management to address control deficiencies will
be deliberated. Review reports from the Risk Management Committee and follow up action plans to assess effectiveness
of the risk management system; and
• 
Management assurance that the Group’s risk management and internal control systems are adequate and effective, in all
material respects.
RISK MANAGEMENT
The risk management framework adopted by the Group is based on the general principles of the international risk management
framework. This risk management framework consists of risk identification, impact assessment, profiling matrix as well as the
management action plans.
The Board maintains its Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) to oversee the risk management framework and ensuring the
implementation of appropriate systems by the management to manage material risk exposure in the Group.
During the financial year, RMC conducted two (2) meetings to deliberate the overall progress, status of mitigation plans and
effectiveness of risk management in each management department.
40 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
RISK MANAGEMENT (Continued)
At Management level, Risk Management Working Committee (“RMWC”) continues to identify and manage risks and report the
progress of risk management status to RMC.
There was no significant risk identified in the Group. The on-going mitigation plans in place to manage the challenges in the
operations are:
• 
Negotiations with customers on matters such as price and size of order as well as continual improvements on product
quality and services;
• 
Effective inventory policy aligns with sales forecast, customer orders and also fluctuations of raw materials price;
• 
Identification of substitutes for existing raw materials;
• 
Expansion plans for production plants and warehousing facilities in line with the increase in customers’ orders; and
• 
Automation and enhancement of the efficiency of production lines.
On the other hand, in order to minimise the risks arising from the COVID-19 Pandemic, the Group implemented prevention
measures at workplace by regularly monitoring, updating and observing the SOPs issued by the authorities, and leveraging on
the use of electronic communication and virtual meeting technology to minimise physical contact among staff.
KEY ELEMENTS OF INTERNAL CONTROL
The Group has established and maintained the following internal controls and management systems:
i. 
Management organisation structure defining the management responsibilities and hierarchical structure for planning,
executing, controlling and monitoring the business operations;
ii. 
Limit of authority and approval facilitating delegation of authority;
iii. 
The adoption, certification and compliance of Food Safety System 22000 version 4.1 consisting of ISO 22000: 2005 and
ISO/ TS 22002-1:2009 for the products ensuring safety of food;
iv. 
Management meeting and Credit Control Committee meeting for identifying operational issues; and monitoring and
reviewing actions taken to address the issues in order to ensure that the business performance objectives of the Group
are met;
v. 
Continual implementation and compliance with Halal, Kosher, and HACCP Certifications setting the fundamental of
management control in the Group;
vi. 
Job descriptions providing understanding to employees of the actions needed in discharging their responsibilities;
vii. 
Implementation of Whistle-blowing Policy for encouraging all personnel and business associates to raise genuine
concerns and complaints on suspicious circumstances as early as possible in the knowledge that their concerns will be
taken seriously and investigated as appropriate and that their confidentiality will be respected;
viii. 
Implementation of Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Policy which provide guidance to identify and deal with bribery and
corruption issue. This policy also set out the roles and responsibilities in observing and upholding the position on bribery
and corruption;
ix. 
The Audit Committee:
a. 
reviews and discusses with the management on Group’s unaudited quarterly financial results and year-end financial
statements before presenting these results and statements to the Board for approval;
b. 
reviews internal control issues identified by the External and Internal Auditors and action taken by Management in
respect of the findings arising therefrom; and
c. reviews internal audit plan prepared on a risk-based approach by Internal Auditors.
41
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES AND ASSURANCE
In accordance with the Bursa Securities Guidelines, management is responsible to identify risks; implementing and maintaining
sound systems of risk management and internal control; and monitoring and reporting to the Board of significant control
deficiencies and changes in risks that could significantly affect the Group achievement of its objectives and performance.
The Board has received assurance from the Managing Director and the Group Financial Controller that, to the best of their
knowledge that the Group’s risk management and internal control systems are operating adequately and effectively, in all
material aspects.
BOARD ASSURANCE AND LIMITATION
The Board is satisfied that there is ongoing process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced by the
Group and the existing level of systems of internal control and risk management is effective to enable the Group to achieve
its business objectives. During the current financial year, there were no material losses resulted from significant control
weaknesses that would require separate disclosure in this Annual Report.
Despite the above, it should be noted that all risk management and internal control systems could only manage rather than
eliminate risks of failure to achieve business objectives. Therefore, the systems of risk management and internal control in the
Group can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against material misstatements, frauds and losses.
REVIEW OF STATEMENT ON INTERNAL CONTROL BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS
Pursuant to Paragraph 15.23 of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, the External Auditors
have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control in accordance with the Audit and Assurance Practice
Guide 3 (“AAPG3”): Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the Statements on Risk Management in and Internal
Control included in the Annual Report.
The External Auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control for inclusion in this Annual
Report and have reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention that causes them to believe that this Statement
is inconsistent with their understanding of the process adopted by the Board and management in reviewing the adequacy
and integrity of the risk management and effectiveness of the systems of risk management and internal control systems of the
Group.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL (CONTINUED)
42 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
COMPOSITION AND ATTENDANCE
The Audit Committee of the Company comprises five (5) members who are all Independent Non-Executive Directors:
Chairman
Chew Eng Chai
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
Members
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah
Independent Non-Executive Director
Khoo Wee Boon
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr Chew Eng Chai, the Chairman of the Audit Committee, is a fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and
Wales as well as a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants and Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
Thus, Paragraph 15.09(1)(c)(i) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad is complied.
A total of four (4) meetings were held during the financial year. The record of attendance of each member at the Audit
Committee meetings held during the financial year ended 31 December 2020 are as follows:
Numbers of Audit Committee Meetings
Composition of Audit Committee Held Attendance
Chew Eng Chai
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
4 4
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
4 4
Mohd Zaki bin Hamzah
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
4 4
Khoo Wee Boon
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
4 4
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
4 4
Upon invitation by the Audit Committee, the Directors, Group Financial Controller, Internal Auditors, External Auditors and
other members of senior management attended all the meetings as and where required. The meetings were appropriately
structured through the use of agendas, which were distributed to members with sufficient notification.
43
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The Terms of Reference of the Audit Committee is available for reference at the Company’s website, www.three-a.com.my.
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES IN YEAR 2020
In line with the terms of reference of the Audit Committee, the following activities were carried out by the Audit Committee for
the financial year ended 31 December 2020 (“FYE 2020”) under review in accordance with its functions and duties.
1 
At the meeting held in February 2020, the AC reviewed the Audit Completion Report in respect of the audit of the Company
and the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2019 from External Auditors, Messrs BDO PLT (“BDO”). The AC
evaluated and reviewed the performance, independence and competence of external auditors and being satisfied with
the performance of the BDO, recommended the re-appointment of BDO to the Board for further recommendation to the
Shareholders for approval. At the same meeting, the AC also reviewed and assessed the suitability and resources of the
Internal Auditors of the Company, i.e. Messrs. IA Essential Sdn Bhd (“IA”) and was satisfied with their performance and
resources.
2. 
At the meeting held in November 2020, the AC:
• 
Reviewed the Audit Planning Memorandum (“APM”) for the FYE 2020 as prepared by BDO in relation to statutory
audit services as well as non-audit services. In the APM, BDO gave assurance that they have complied with the
independence requirement and further described BDO’s engagement and reporting responsibilities, audit scope
and approach on the statutory audit for FYE 2020. The non-audit services of BDO involve the annual review of the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control.
• 
Reviewed and discussed the report from the Risk Management Committee.
• 
Reviewed and recommended to the Board on the payment of interim dividend for the FYE 2020.
3. 
On financial reporting, the AC reviewed every quarterly financial report during the AC meetings and subsequently
recommended the reports to the Board for approval. The reviews of quarterly reports were conducted in Feb 2020, May
2020, August 2020 and November 2020 respectively. The AC also reviewed and discussed the recommendation from
the Credit Control Committee on matters in relation to proposed impairment of trade receivables.
4. 
The AC reviewed and discussed the Internal Audit Reports that were prepared and presented by the IA of the Group in
every meeting held. The AC reviewed the major findings of Internal Audit Reports and discussed recommendations and
updates on follow up of matters with the Internal Auditors.
5. 
The AC reviewed the recurrent related party transactions of a revenue nature within the Group and provided opinion on
whether they are fair and reasonable and not detrimental to the interest of the minority shareholders of the Company in
every meeting held.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT (CONTINUED)
44 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Committee acknowledges the need for an effective system of internal control covering all aspects of the Group’s activities
including the mapping and management of risks which the Group may be exposed to.
The Group’s Internal Audit function is outsourced to an independent consultant to assist the Audit Committee and the costs
incurred for the Internal Audit function in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2020 was about RM75,000. The
function, which is independent of the activities and operations conducts independent, regular and systematic reviews of the
key controls and processes in the operating units and assess compliance with the established policies and procedures. This
provides reasonable assurance that such system would continue to operate satisfactorily and effectively in the Company and
the Group. The Internal Audit function reports directly to the Audit Committee and assists the Board in monitoring the internal
controls to mitigate the risks.
The scope of internal audit plan covers the risk management, control and governing processes, and audit of the Group’s
operations. The activities of the Internal Audit for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 under review include the
following:
• 
Ascertained the extent of compliance with established policies, procedures and statutory requirements;
• 
Undertook special reviews requested by the Audit Committee and/or management;
• 
Assessed the means of safeguarding assets and verified their existence; and
• 
Approved the Internal Audit Plan each year. Present internal audit findings and makes appropriate recommendations on
any areas of concern within the Company and the Group for the Committee’s deliberation and to enhance efficiencies
to the appropriate level of management capable of achieving satisfactory results and ensured corrective actions were
taken.
In determining the audit scope for the year 2021, a risk-based approach in determining and proposing the audit plan. The
application of this approach is demonstrated in consideration of very significant and high risk factors identified by management,
new compliance requirements, audit emphasis of external Auditor and past audit history in evaluating, selecting, determining
and prioritising the proposed areas
In year 2020, a total of five (5) audit reports were issued and presented to the Audit Committee with the recommended
corrective actions acted upon.
The Audit Committee and the Board of Directors are satisfied with the performance of the Internal Auditor
and have the interest of greater independence and continuity in the Internal Audit function, taken the decision to continue with
the outsource of the Internal Audit Function.
45
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
INFORMATION
The information set out below is disclosed in compliance with the Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”).
1.	
Audit and Non-Audit Fees
The amount of audit fees and non-audit fees paid or payable to the Company’s External Auditors and a firm affiliated to
the External Auditors’ by the Company and Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 are as follows:
Company
(RM’000)
Group
(RM’000)
Audit Fees 48 126
Non-Audit Fees 8 8
Total 56 134
2.	Material Contracts
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company or its subsidiaries which involve Directors’ and major
shareholders’ interest either still subsisting at the end of the financial year ended 31 December 2020 or entered into
since the end of the previous financial year that have been entered by the Company or its subsidiary involving the
interests of the Directors and major shareholders.
46 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
048
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
053
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
053
STATUTORY DECLARATION
054
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
058
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL
POSITION
059
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME
060
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
061
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN
EQUITY
062
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
065
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
47
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year ended 31 December 2020.
Principal Activities
The principal activity of the Company is investment holding. The principal activities and the details of the subsidiaries are disclosed in
Note 7 to the financial statements. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
Results
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Profit for the financial year, attributable to owners of the parent 30,162 12,722
Dividend
Dividend paid, declared or proposed since the end of the previous financial year was as follows:
RM’000
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2020:
  Interim single tier dividend of 2.2 sen per ordinary share, paid on 3 December 2020 10,785
The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
Reserves and Provisions
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.
Issue of Shares and Debentures
The Company did not issue any new shares or debentures during the financial year.
Options Granted Over Unissued Shares
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
48 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
REPURCHASE OF OWN SHARES
At the Annual General Meeting held on 29 June 2020, the shareholders of the Company by an ordinary resolution renewed the
mandate given to the Company to repurchase its own shares based, amongst others, on the following terms:
(i)	
The number of shares to be repurchased and/or held as treasury shares shall not exceed 10% of its existing issued and paid-up
share capital of the Company;
(ii)	
The amount to be utilised for the repurchase of own shares by the Company shall not exceed the total retained earnings of the
Company at the time of purchase; and
(iii)	
The Directors may retain the shares so repurchased as treasury shares and may resell the treasury shares and/or distribute them
as share dividend and/or cancel them in a manner they deem fit in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2016
in Malaysia and listing requirements and applicable guidelines of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The Company has the rights to retain, cancel, resell and/or distribute these shares as dividends. As treasury shares, the rights attached
to them as to voting, dividends and participation in any other distributions or otherwise are suspended. Of the total 492,000,010 issued
and fully paid ordinary shares as at 31 December 2020, 1,768,800 ordinary shares purchased for RM1,078,000 are held as treasury
shares by the Company. The number of outstanding ordinary shares in issue after deducting the treasury shares is 490,231,210.
Directors
The Directors who have held office during the financial year and up to the date of this report are as follows:
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King*
Chew Eng Chai
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng
Khoo Wee Boon
Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah*
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh*
Liew Kuo Shin
Fang Siew Ping*
Kee Thuan Chai            (Appointed on 30 June 2020)
Lim Yee Mein             (Appointed on 30 June 2020)
Gurpreet Singh Vohra          
(Resigned on 30 June 2020)
Loo Cheau Leong            
(Retired on 29 June 2020)
* These Directors of the Company are also the Directors of certain subsidiaries of the Company.
49
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
DIRECTORS’
REPORT (CONTINUED)
Directors’ Interests
The Directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company and of its
related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2020 as recorded in the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings kept
by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
Balance
as at
1.1.2020 Bought Sold
Balance
as at
31.12.2020
Direct interests:
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King 13,687,500 58,000 - 13,745,500
Chew Eng Chai 200,000 - - 200,000
Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah 625,000 - - 625,000
Liew Kuo Shin 125,000 - - 125,000
Indirect interests:
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King a 1,714,975 - - 1,714,975
Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng b 2,793,625 - (550,000) 2,243,625
Chew Eng Chai c 8,750 - - 8,750
a 	
Indirect interest via shareholdings of his son, Fong Peng Fai (137,375 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 59(11)(c) of Companies
Act 2016 (“CA2016”) and Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn Bhd (1,577,600 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 8 of CA2016.
b 	
Indirect interest via shareholdings of his spouse, Ng Faai @ Ng Yoke Pei pursuant to Section 59(11)(c) of CA2016.
c 	
Indirect interest via shareholdings of his spouse, Lim Tong Lean pursuant to Section 59(11)(c) of CA2016.
None of the other Directors holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in ordinary shares of the Company during
the financial year.
Directors’ Benefits
Since the end of the previous financial year, none of the Directors have received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other than
those benefits included in the aggregate amount of remuneration received or due and receivable by the Directors as shown in the
financial statements) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which
the Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest, other than the following:
(a)	
certain Directors who may be deemed to derive benefits by virtue of trade transactions entered into with companies in which
certain Directors have substantial financial interests; and
(b)	
certain Directors who received remuneration from a subsidiary as Directors of the subsidiary.
The details of the above transactions are disclosed in Note 26 to the financial statements.
Therewerenoarrangementsduringandattheendofthefinancialyear,towhichtheCompanyisaparty,whichhadtheobjectofenabling
the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other body corporate.
50 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
Directors’ REMUNERATION
The details of the Directors’ remuneration for the current financial year of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Executive Directors’ remuneration:
- Salaries and other emoluments 3,289 -
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration:
- Fees 499 430
Total 3,788 430
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR OFFICERS, DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS
The Group and the Company effected Directors’ liability insurance during the financial year to protect the Directors of the Group and
of the Company against potential costs and liabilities arising from claims brought against the Directors. The insurance premium paid
by the Group during the financial year amounted to RM11,500.
There were no indemnity given to or insurance effected for the auditors of the Group and of the Company during the financial year.
Other Statutory Information Regarding the Group and the Company
(I)	As at the End of the Financial Year
(a)	
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the Directors took reasonable steps:
(i)	
to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of provision
for doubtful debts and had satisfied themselves that there are no known bad debts to be written off and that adequate
provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii)	
to ensure that any current assets other than debts, which were unlikely to realise their book values in the ordinary
course of business have been written down to their estimated realisable values.
(b)	
In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have
not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.
(II)	From the End of the Financial Year to the Date of This Report
(c) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i)	
which would necessitate the writing off of bad debts or render the amount of the provision for doubtful debts in the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any material extent;
(ii)	
which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
misleading; and
(iii)	
which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the
Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.
51
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
Other Statutory Information Regarding the Group and the Company (continued)
(II)	From the End of the Financial Year to the Date of This Report (continued)
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i)	
there has not arisen any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the
results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made; and
(ii)	
no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within the period of twelve
(12) months after the end of the financial year which will or may affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to
meet their obligations as and when they fall due.
(III)	As at the Date Of This Report
(e)	
There are no charges on the assets of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year
to secure the liabilities of any other person.
(f)	
There are no contingent liabilities of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year.
(g)	
The Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which
would render any amount stated in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AND SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF THE REPORTING PERIOD
Significant event during the financial year and subsequent to the end of the reporting period are disclosed in Note 28 to the financial
statements.
AUDITORS
The auditors, BDO PLT (LLP0018825-LCA & AF 0206), have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Auditors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 amounted to RM125,750
and RM47,250 respectively.
Signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King
Director
Kuala Lumpur
31 March 2021
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh
Director
DIRECTORS’
REPORT (CONTINUED)
52 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 58 to 93 have been drawn up in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the provisions of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December
2020 and of the financial performance and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended.
On behalf of the Board,
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King
Director
Kuala Lumpur
31 March 2021
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh
Director
I, Fong Peng Fai (CA 23408), being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Three-A Resources
Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 58 to 93 are, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue
of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by )
the abovenamed at			 )
Kuala Lumpur, this 			 )
31 March 2021				 ) Fong Peng Fai
Before me:
STATEMENT
BY DIRECTORS
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
53
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF THREE-A
RESOURCES BERHAD (Incorporated in Malaysia)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Three-A Resources Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position
as at 31 December 2020 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive
income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year
then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages
58 to 93.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the
Company as at 31 December 2020, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then ended in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and
the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing (“ISAs”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the
Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and
Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’
International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”),
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not
provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Recoverability of trade receivables
As at 31 December 2020, trade receivables of the Group amounted to RM100,424,000. The details of trade receivables and
their credit risk have been disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
We determine this to be a key audit matter because it requires management to exercise significant judgements in determining
the probability of default by trade receivables and appropriate forward looking information incorporating the impact of
COVID-19 pandemic.
54 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
Key Audit Matters (continued)
Audit response
Our audit procedures included the following:
(a)	
Recomputed the probability of default using historical data and forward-looking information adjustment incorporating the
impact of COVID-19 pandemic, applied by the Group;
(b)	
Recomputed the correlation coefficient between the macroeconomic indicators used by the Group and historical credit
losses to determine the appropriateness of the forward looking information used by the Group; and
(c)	
Inquiries of management to assess the rationale underlying the relationship between the forward-looking information and
expected credit losses.
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our report in respect of the audit of the financial
statements of the Company.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our auditors’
report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of
the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are
required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company
that give a true and fair view in accordance with MFRSs, IFRSs, and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation
of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the ability
of the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern
and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or
to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
55
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF THREE-A
RESOURCES BERHAD (Incorporated in Malaysia) (CONTINUED)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected
to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and ISAs, we exercise professional
judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a)	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b)	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate
in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control of the
Group and of the Company.
(c)	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by the Directors.
(d)	
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt
on the ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty
exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of
the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based
on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause
the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e)	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the underlying
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f)	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction,
supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on
our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
56 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. We
describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when,
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.
BDO PLT
LLP0018825-LCA & AF 0206
Chartered Accountants
Kuala Lumpur
31 March 2021
Ho Kok Khiaw
03412/02/2023 J
Chartered Accountant
57
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
  Group   Company
Note
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
  Property, plant and equipment 5 157,082 141,801 - -
Right-of-use assets 6 60,846 54,088 - -
Investments in subsidiaries 7 - - 163,382 163,382
217,928 195,889 163,382 163,382
Current assets
Inventories 8 75,110 49,824 - -
Trade and other receivables 9 112,181 116,599 2 700
Cash and bank balances 10 26,618 44,207 1,690 76
213,909 210,630 1,692 776
TOTAL ASSETS 431,837 406,519 165,074 164,158
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 11 149,087 149,087 149,087 149,087
Treasury shares 11 (1,078) - (1,078) -
Reserves 12 218,464 199,087 16,556 14,619
TOTAL EQUITY 366,473 348,174 164,565 163,706
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 14 6,429 12,770 - -
Deferred tax liabilities 13 14,446 14,003 - -
20,875 26,773 - -
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 15 35,333 28,418 496 441
Borrowings 14 6,249 1,762 - -
Current tax liabilities 2,907 1,392 13 11
44,489 31,572 509 452
TOTAL LIABILITIES 65,364 58,345 509 452
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 431,837 406,519 165,074 164,158
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2020
58 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
  Group   Company
Note
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Revenue 18 436,166 436,066 13,500 9,000
Cost of sales (359,320) (360,209) - -
Gross profit 76,846 75,857 13,500 9,000
Other income 19 1,524 1,188 15 -
Administrative expenses 20 (28,328) (24,973) (793) (696)
Other operating expenses (8,706) (10,899) - -
Profit from operations 41,336 41,173 12,722 8,304
Finance costs 21 (628) (914) - -
Profit before tax 40,708 40,259 12,722 8,304
Tax expense 22 (10,546) (10,840) * -
Profit for the financial year 30,162 29,419 12,722 8,304
Total other comprehensive income, net of tax - - - -
Total comprehensive income 30,162 29,419 12,722 8,304
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 30,162 29,419 12,722 8,304
Total comprehensive income attributable to
owners of the parent 30,162 29,419 12,722 8,304
Earnings per share attributable to equity holders
of the Company (sen):
Basic and diluted 23 6.2 6.0
*  The amount is less than RM1,000.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF
PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
59
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
 Non-distributable Distributable
Group Note
Share
capital
RM’000
Treasury
shares
RM’000
Share
premium
RM’000
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 2019 98,400 - 50,687 179,508 328,595
Profit for the financial year - - - 29,419 29,419
Other comprehensive income,
  net of tax - - - - -
Total comprehensive income - - - 29,419 29,419
Transactions with owners
Dividend 24 - - - (9,840) (9,840)
Transfer pursuant to
  Companies Act 2016* 50,687 - (50,687) - -
Balance as at 31 December 2019 149,087 - - 199,087 348,174
Profit for the financial year - - - 30,162 30,162
Other comprehensive income,
  net of tax - - - - -
Total comprehensive income - - - 30,162 30,162
Transactions with owners
Repurchase of treasury shares 11 - (1,078) - - (1,078)
Dividend 24 - - - (10,785) (10,785)
Balance as at 31 December 2020 149,087 (1,078) - 218,464 366,473
* 
Pursuant to the Companies Act 2016, the credit balance in the share premium account was transferred to the share
capital account upon the expiry of transitional period of twenty-four (24) months to utilise the amount in the share premium
account.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
60 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
 Non-distributable Distributable
Company Note
Share
capital
RM’000
Treasury
shares
RM’000
Share
premium
RM’000
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 2019 98,400 - 50,687 16,155 165,242
Profit for the financial year - - - 8,304 8,304
Other comprehensive income,
  net of tax - - - - -
Total comprehensive income - - - 8,304 8,304
Transaction with owners
 Dividend 24 - - - (9,840) (9,840)
 
Transfer pursuant to
  Companies Act 2016* 50,687 - (50,687) - -
Balance as at 31 December 2019 149,087 - - 14,619 163,706
Profit for the financial year - - - 12,722 12,722
Other comprehensive income,
  net of tax - - - - -
Total comprehensive income - - - 12,722 12,722
Transaction with owners
  Repurchase of treasury shares 11 - (1,078) - - (1,078)
 Dividend 24 - - - (10,785) (10,785)
Balance as at 31 December 2020 149,087 (1,078) - 16,556 164,565
*  
Pursuant to the Companies Act 2016, the credit balance in the share premium account was transferred to the share
capital account upon the expiry of transitional period of twenty-four (24) months to utilise the amount in the share
premium account.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
61
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
  Group   Company
Note
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax 40,708 40,259 12,722 8,304
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5 8,712 8,267 - -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 6 975 979 - -
Dividend income from a subsidiary 18 - - (13,500) (9,000)
Impairment losses on trade receivables 9(f) 570 2,233 - -
Interest expense 21 628 914 - -
Interest income 19 (790) (1,001) (15) -
Loss/(Gain) on disposal of property,
  plant and equipment 19, 20 127 (3) - -

Reversal of impairment losses on trade
 receivables 9(f) (291) - - -
Unrealised loss in foreign exchange 20 549 455 - -
Operating profit/(loss) before
  changes in working capital 51,188 52,103 (793) (696)
Changes in working capital:
Inventories (25,286) 30,240 - -
Trade and other receivables 3,604 (9,293) (1) -
Trade and other payables 5,725 (4,552) 55 118
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 35,231 68,498 (739) (578)
Tax refunded 2,503 1,091 13 43
Tax paid (11,091) (7,141) (11) (12)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 26,643 62,448 (737) (547)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020
62 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
  Group   Company
Note
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Additions of right-of-use assets 6 (7,733) - - -
Repayments from subsidiaries - - 699 127
Dividend received from a subsidiary 18 - - 13,500 9,000
Interest received 19 790 1,001 15 -
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant
  and equipment 2 14 - -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 5(b) (22,939) (12,122) - -
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (29,880) (11,107) 14,214 9,127
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Dividend paid 24 (10,785) (9,840) (10,785) (9,840)
Interest paid 21 (628) (914) - -
Payments of lease liabilities - (154) - -
Repayments of bankers’ acceptance - (3,045) - -
Repayments of term loans (1,854) (2,283) - -
Repurchase of treasury shares 11 (1,078) - (1,078) -
Net cash used in financing activities (14,345) (16,236) (11,863) (9,840)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and
  cash equivalents (17,582) 35,105 1,614 (1,260)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
  and cash equivalents (7) 44 - -
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of
  financial year 44,207 9,058 76 1,336
Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 10 26,618 44,207 1,690 76
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
63
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
  Group
Term loans
(Note 14)
RM’000
Lease
liabilities
(Note 6)
RM’000
Bankers’
acceptance
RM’000
2020
At 1 January 2020 14,532 - -
Cash flows (1,854) - -
At 31 December 2020 12,678 - -
2019
At 1 January 2019 16,815 154 3,045
Cash flows (2,283) (154) (3,045)
At 31 December 2019 14,532 - -
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
64 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020
1.	CORPORATE INFORMATION
Three-A Resources Berhad (“the Company”) is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia,
and listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The registered office and principal place of business of the Company is located at AL 308, Lot 590 & Lot 4196, Jalan
Industri, U19, Kampung Baru Sungai Buloh, 40160 Shah Alam, Selangor Darul Ehsan.
The consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 comprise the Company and its
subsidiaries. These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the functional currency
of the Company. All financial information presented in RM has been rounded to the nearest thousand, unless otherwise
stated.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on 31 March
2021.
2. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The principal activity of the Company is investment holding. The principal activities and the details of the subsidiaries are
disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities
during the financial year.
3.	BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and the provisions of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the effects of adoption
of new MFRSs during the financial year. The new MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs adopted during the financial year
are disclosed in Note 29.1 to the financial statements.
The Group has also early adopted Amendment to MFRS 16 COVID-19-Related Rent Concessions in the current financial
year and elected to apply the practical expedient to all rent concessions relating to leases with similar characteristics and
similar circumstances.
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention
except as otherwise stated in the financial statements.
65
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
4.	OPERATING SEGMENTS
Segmental information
Segment analysis has not been prepared as the business of the Group is focused only in manufacturing and trading of
food and beverage ingredients.
The Group does not have any non-current assets that are located in countries other than Malaysia.
The Chief Operating Decision Maker reviews the business performance of the Group as a whole and management
monitors the operating results of its business for the purpose of making decisions on resources allocation and performance
assessment.
Geographical information
For the purpose of disclosing geographical information, revenue is based on the geographical location of customers
from which the sales transactions originated. The customers are predominantly based in Malaysia, Singapore and other
foreign countries.
  Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Revenue:
Malaysia 225,886 264,565
Singapore 41,791 41,294
Other foreign countries 168,489 130,207
436,166 436,066
Major customers
There are no major customers with revenue equal or more than ten percent (10%) of the Group’s revenue. As such,
information on major customers is not presented.
66 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group
2020
Factory
andoffice
buildings
RM’000
Plantand
machinery,
toolsand
implements
RM’000
Furniture
andfittings
and
equipment
RM’000
Renovations
andelectrical
installations
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Construction-
in-progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Cost
As at 1 January 2020 67,251 127,133 6,024 5,191 15,640 12,676 233,915
Additions 212 7,589 517 2,507 1,213 12,084 24,122
Disposal - - - - (459) - (459)
Transfers 3,613 2,184 - - - (5,797) -
As at 31 December 2020 71,076 136,906 6,541 7,698 16,394 18,963 257,578
Accumulated depreciation
As at 1 January 2020 13,155 64,502 4,443 2,955 7,059 - 92,114
Charges for the financial year 1,414 5,760 324 412 802 - 8,712
Disposal - - - - (330) - (330)
As at 31 December 2020 14,569 70,262 4,767 3,367 7,531 - 100,496
Carrying amount
As at 31 December 2020 56,507 66,644 1,774 4,331 8,863 18,963 157,082
67
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued)
Group
2019
Factory
andoffice
buildings
RM’000
Plantand
machinery,
toolsand
implements
RM’000
Furniture
andfittings
and
equipment
RM’000
Renovations
andelectrical
installations
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Construction-
in-progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Cost
As at 1 January 2019 66,957 119,973 5,818 4,852 13,744 5,143 216,487
Additions 294 3,414 206 339 1,951 7,533 13,737
Disposal - - - - (55) - (55)
Transferfromright-of-useassets - 3,746 - - - - 3,746
As at 31 December 2019 67,251 127,133 6,024 5,191 15,640 12,676 233,915
Accumulated depreciation
As at 1 January 2019 11,813 57,376 4,116 2,606 6,277 - 82,188
Charges for the financial year 1,342 5,423 327 349 826 - 8,267
Disposal - - - - (44) - (44)
Transferfromright-of-useassets - 1,703 - - - - 1,703
As at 31 December 2019 13,155 64,502 4,443 2,955 7,059 - 92,114
Carrying amount
As at 31 December 2019 54,096 62,631 1,581 2,236 8,581 12,676 141,801
68 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued)
  Furniture and fittings
Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Cost
At 1 January/31 December 5 5
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January/31 December 5 5
Carrying amount
At 31 December - -
(a)	
All items of property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. After initial recognition, property, plant and
equipment are stated at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values on a straight line basis
over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives represent common life expectancies applied in the
manufacturing industry within which the Group operates.
Factory and office buildings 50 years
Plant and machinery, tools and implements 10 to 20 years
Furniture and fittings and equipment 10 years
Renovations and electrical installations 10 years
Motor vehicles 7 to 15 years
Construction-in-progress represents factory and plant and machinery under construction and is stated at cost.
Construction-in-progress is not depreciated until such time when the asset is available for use.
(b) During the financial year, the Group made the following cash payments to purchase property, plant and equipment:
  Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 24,122 13,737
Financed by credit purchase (Note 15(c)) (1,183) (1,615)
Cash payments on purchase of property, plant and equipment 22,939 12,122
(c)	
As at the end of the reporting period, certain factory and office buildings, plant and machinery of the Group with
a total carrying amount of RM23,623,000 (2019: RM32,288,000) have been charged to a licensed bank for credit
facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 14(b)(i) to the financial statements.
69
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
6.	LEASES
The Group as lessee
Right-of-use assets
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1.1.2020
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Depreciation
RM’000
Balance
as at
31.12.2020
RM’000
Long-term leasehold land 52,753 5,330 (777) 57,306
Short-term leasehold land 1,335 2,403 (198) 3,540
54,088 7,733 (975) 60,846
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1.1.2019
RM’000
Depreciation
RM’000
Transfer
to property,
plant and
equipment
RM’000
Balance
as at
31.12.2019
RM’000
Long-term leasehold land 53,488 (735) - 52,753
Short-term leasehold land 1,391 (56) - 1,335
Plant and machineries 2,231 (188) (2,043) -
57,110 (979) (2,043) 54,088
Lease liabilities
Group
Plant and
machineries
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2019
Carrying amount
As at 1 January 2019 154 154
Lease payments (154) (154)
As at 31 December 2019 - -
70 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
6.	LEASES (continued)
(a)	
The right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, which comprise the initial amount of the lease liabilities
adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date of the leases.
After initial recognition, right-of-use assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated
impairment losses, and adjusted for any re-measurement of the lease liabilities.
The right-of-use assets are depreciated on the straight-line basis over the earlier of the estimated useful lives of the
right-of-use assets or the end of the lease term. The lease terms of right-of-use assets are as follows:
Long-term leasehold land 56 to 99 years
Short-term leasehold land 36 to 45 years
Plant and machineries 10 to 20 years
(b)	
As at the end of the reporting period, certain leasehold land with a carrying amount of RM17,886,000 (2019:
RM26,102,000) were charged as securities for bank facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 14(b)(i) to the
financial statements.
(c)	
The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
  Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets (included in administrative expenses) 975 979
Expense relating to short-term leases (included in administrative expenses) 380 291
1,355 1,270
7.	INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
  Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Unquoted shares - at cost 189,923 189,923
Less: Impairment losses (26,541) (26,541)
163,382 163,382
(a)	
Investments in subsidiaries are stated in the separate financial statements of the Company at cost less impairment
losses.
71
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
7.	INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (continued)
(b)	
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Effective interest
in equity
Name of company
Country of
incorporation/
Principal place of
business
2020
%
2019
% Principal activities
San Soon Seng Food Industries Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Manufacturing and sale
 of food and beverage
ingredients
Three-A Food Industries (M) Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
All subsidiaries of the Company are audited by BDO PLT.
(c)	
In the previous financial year, the Company subscribed an additional 17,000,000 ordinary shares in San Soon Seng
Food Industries Sdn Bhd by way of capitalisation of RM12,023,000 of the amount owing by San Soon Seng Food
Industries Sdn Bhd.
8.	INVENTORIES
  Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
At cost
Raw materials 43,966 27,481
Work-in-progress 4,717 4,377
Packing materials 2,662 1,868
Finished goods 23,765 16,098
75,110 49,824
(a)	
Cost is determined using the first-in first-out basis and stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for as follows:
(i) raw materials and goods-in-transit: all purchase costs.
(ii)	
finished goods and work-in-progress: costs of direct materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing
overheads based on normal operating capacity.
(b)	
During the financial year, inventories of the Group recognised as cost of sales amounted to RM336,085,000
(2019: RM343,141,000).
72 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
9.	TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Trade receivables
Third parties 103,735 103,598 - -
Related party 157 129 - -
103,892 103,727 - -
Less: Impairment losses
- third parties (3,468) (3,189) - -
100,424 100,538 - -
Other receivables
Amounts owing by subsidiaries - - - 699
Other receivables 3 2 2 1
Deposits 932 959 - -
935 961 2 700
Total receivables 101,359 101,499 2 700
Prepayments 10,822 15,100 - -
112,181 116,599 2 700
(a)	
Trade receivables are classified as financial assets measured at amortised cost.
(b)	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted by the Group range from
30 to 150 days (2019: 30 to 150 days). They are recognised at their original invoice amounts, which represent their
fair values on initial recognition.
(c)	
Amount owing by a related party is due from Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn Bhd, a company in which certain
Directors have financial interests. Amount owing by a related party is non-interest bearing and credit terms range
from 60 to 90 days (2019: 60 to 90 days).
(d)	
In the previous financial year, the amounts due from subsidiaries were unsecured, interest-free and payable within
the next twelve (12) months in cash and cash equivalents.
(e)	
Impairment for trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are recognised based on the
simplified approach using the lifetime expected credit losses (“ECL”).
The Group uses an allowance matrix to measure the expected credit loss of trade receivables from individual
customers. Expected loss rates are calculated using the roll rate method separately for exposures in different
segments based on the following common credit risk characteristic - age of customer relationship.
73
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
9.	TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued)
(e)	(continued)
During this process, the probability of non-payment by the trade receivables is adjusted by forward looking
information such as unemployment rate, gross domestic product (“GDP”) and inflation rate and multiplied by the
amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine the lifetime expected credit loss for the trade
receivables. For trade receivables, which are reported net, such impairments are recorded in a separate impairment
account with the loss being recognised within impairment allowance on receivables in the statements of profit or
loss and other comprehensive income. On confirmation that the trade receivable would not be collectable, the
gross carrying value of the asset would be written off against the associated impairment. The Group considers a
trade receivable in default, when contractual payments are 90 days past due. However, in certain cases the Group
may also consider a trade receivable to be in default when internal or external information indicates that the Group
is unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual amounts in full.
It requires management to exercise significant judgement in determining the probability of default by receivables
and appropriate forward looking information incorporating the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic.
(f)	
Movements in the impairment allowance for trade receivables are as follows:
Group
Lifetime ECL
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
At the beginning of the year 3,189 956
Charged for the financial year 570 2,233
Reversal of impairment losses (291) -
At the end of the year 3,468 3,189
(g) Lifetime expected loss provision for trade receivables are as follows:
Group
Gross
carrying
amount
RM’000
Lifetime
ECL
RM’000
Net
balance
RM’000
As at 31 December 2020
Not past due 99,352 - 99,352
Past due:
- 1 to 30 days 1,063 - 1,063
- 31 to 60 days 9 - 9
- 91 to 120 days 10 (10) -
- more than 120 days 3,458 (3,458) -
4,540 (3,468) 1,072
103,892 (3,468) 100,424
74 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
9.	TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued)
(g) Lifetime expected loss provision for trade receivables are as follows: (continued)
Group
Gross
carrying
amount
RM’000
Lifetime
ECL
RM’000
Net
balance
RM’000
As at 31 December 2019
Not past due 100,070 - 100,070
Past due:
- 1 to 30 days 430 (8) 422
- 31 to 60 days 557 (525) 32
- 61 to 90 days 871 (868) 3
- 91 to 120 days 804 (803) 1
- more than 120 days 995 (985) 10
3,657 (3,189) 468
103,727 (3,189) 100,538
(h)	
Impairment for other receivables are recognised based on the general approach within MFRS 9 using the forward
looking expected credit loss model. The methodology used to determine the amount of the impairment is based on
whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of the financial asset. For those
in which the credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition of the financial asset, twelve-month
expected credit losses along with gross interest income are recognised. At the end of the reporting period, the
Company assesses whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk for financial assets by comparing
the risk of default occurring over the expected life with the risk of default since initial recognition. For those in
which credit risk had increased significantly, lifetime expected credit losses along with the gross interest income
are recognised. For those that are determined to be credit impaired, lifetime expected credit losses along with
interest income on a net basis are recognised. Credit impaired refers to individually determined debtors who are in
significant financial difficulties as at the end of the reporting period.
Theprobabilityofnon-paymentbyotherreceivablesisadjustedbyforwardlookinginformationsuchasunemployment
rate, gross domestic product (“GDP”) and inflation rate as the key macroeconomic factors and multiplied by the
amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine the twelve-month or lifetime expected credit losses
for other receivables. The Group and the Company defined significant increase in credit risk when there is changes
in contractual terms and delay in payment from its other receivables.
No expected credit loss is recognised arising from other receivables as it is negligible.
(i) Credit risk concentration profile
	
At the end of each reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk of the Group is represented by the
carrying amount of each close of financial assets recognised in the statements of financial position.
75
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
9.	TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued)
(i) Credit risk concentration profile (continued)
The Group determines concentrations of credit risk by monitoring the country of its trade receivables on an ongoing
basis. The credit risk concentration profile of the trade receivables of the Group at the reporting date are as follows:
  2020   2019
RM’000 % of total RM’000 % of total
By country:
Malaysia 61,515 61% 73,064 73%
Singapore 8,250 8% 8,472 8%
Other foreign countries 30,659 31% 19,002 19%
100,424 100% 100,538 100%
At the end of each reporting period, approximately 60% (2019: 58%) of the trade receivables of the Group were due
from 10 (2019: 10) major customers.
In the previous financial year, the Company did not have any significant concentration of credit risk other than the
amount owing by a subsidiary, which constituted 96% of total receivables of the Company as at the end of the
reporting period.
(j) The currency exposure profiles of trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) are as follows:
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Ringgit Malaysia 63,071 74,855 2 700
Singapore Dollar 2,414 2,315 - -
United States Dollar 35,874 24,329 - -
101,359 101,499 2 700
(k)	
Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other
variables remain constant, are as follows:
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Effects of 3% changes to
 RM against foreign currencies
Profit after tax
- Singapore Dollar 55 53 - -
- United States Dollar 818 555 - -
76 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
10. CASH AND BANK BALANCES AND PLACEMENT IN FUNDS
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Cash and bank balances 9,693 8,358 1,690 76
Placement in funds 16,925 35,849 - -
26,618 44,207 1,690 76
(a)	
The weighted average effective interest rates of the Group and of the Company at the reporting date were as
follows:
  Group   Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
Weighted average effective interest rate (%)
Placement in funds
- Floating rates 2.71% 3.94% - -
(b)	
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group and of the Company if interest rates for
placement in funds at the end of each reporting period changed by three hundred (300) basis points with all other
variables held constant:
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Profit after tax
- increase by 3% (2019: 3%) 386 817 - -
- decrease by 3% (2019: 3%) (386) (817) - -
(c)	
The currency exposure profiles of cash and bank balances and placement in funds are as follows:
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Ringgit Malaysia 25,709 44,061 1,690 76
United States Dollar 907 140 - -
Other foreign currencies 2 6 - -
26,618 44,207 1,690 76
77
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
10. CASH AND BANK BALANCES AND PLACEMENT IN FUNDS (continued)
(d)	Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currency at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other variables
remain constant, is as follows:
  Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Effects of 3% changes to RM against foreign currency
Profit after tax
- United States Dollar 21 3
Sensitivity of other foreign currencies are not disclosed as they are not significant to the Group.
(e)	
Placement in funds aim to invest in highly liquid instruments which are investing its assets in Ringgit Malaysia
deposits with financial institutions in Malaysia and are redeemable with one (1) day notice. These funds are subject
to an insignificant risk of changes in value and form part of net cash and cash equivalents. Funds distribution income
from these funds is tax-exempted, is calculated daily and distributed at every month end.
(f)	
No expected credit losses were recognised arising from the deposits with financial institutions because the
probability of default by these financial institutions were negligible.
11. SHARE CAPITAL
   Group and Company
  2020   2019
Number
of shares
(’000) RM’000
Number
of shares
(’000) RM’000
Issued and fully paid
At beginning of financial year 492,000 149,087 492,000 98,400
Transfer pursuant to Companies Act 2016 - - - 50,687
At end of financial year 492,000 149,087 492,000 149,087
(a)	
The owners of the parent are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company and are entitled
to one (1) vote per ordinary share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares rank pari passu with regard to the
residual assets of the Company.
(b)	
Of the total 492,000,010 issued and fully paid ordinary shares as at 31 December 2020, 1,768,800 ordinary shares
purchased for RM1,078,000 are held as treasury shares by the Company. The number of outstanding ordinary
shares in issue after deducting the treasury shares is 490,231,210.
78 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
12. RESERVES
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Non-distributable
Share premium
  Balance as at 1 January - 50,687 - 50,687
  Transfer pursuant to Companies Act 2016 - (50,687) - (50,687)
Balance as at 31 December - - - -
Distributable
Retained earnings 218,464 199,087 16,556 14,619
218,464 199,087 16,556 14,619
13. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
(a)	
The deferred tax liabilities are made up of the following:
  Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 14,003 14,556
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 22) 443 (553)
Balance as at 31 December 14,446 14,003
(b)	
The components and movements of deferred tax assets and liabilities during the financial year prior to offsetting are
as follows:
Deferred tax assets of the Group
Provisions
RM’000
Offsetting
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 2019 (1,655) 1,655 -
Recognised in profit or loss (614) 614 -
Balance as at 31 December 2019 (2,269) 2,269 -
Recognised in profit or loss (76) 76 -
Balance as at 31 December 2020 (2,345) 2,345 -
79
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
13. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (continued)
(b)	
The components and movements of deferred tax assets and liabilities during the financial year prior to offsetting are
as follows: (continued)
Deferred tax liabilities of the Group
Property,
plant and
equipment
RM’000
Others
RM’000
Offsetting
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 2019 16,103 108 (1,655) 14,556
Recognised in profit or loss 169 (108) (614) (553)
Balance as at 31 December 2019 16,272 - (2,269) 14,003
Recognised in profit or loss 519 - (76) 443
Balance as at 31 December 2020 16,791 - (2,345) 14,446
14. BORROWINGS
  Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Non-current liabilities
Secured: Term loans 6,429 12,770
Current liabilities
Secured: Term loans 6,249 1,762
Total borrowings
Secured: Term loans 12,678 14,532
(a) Borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(b) The bank borrowings of the Group are secured by the following:
(i)	
fixed charges over the long-term leasehold land, short-term leasehold land, factory and office buildings, plant
and machinery of a subsidiary as disclosed in Notes 5(c) and 6(b) to the financial statements respectively;
(ii)	
negative pledge on two adjoining pieces of leasehold land of a subsidiary; and
(iii)	
corporate guarantees by the Company.
(c) All borrowings are denominated in RM.
80 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
14. BORROWINGS (continued)
(d)	
The carrying amount of the Group borrowings approximate fair value due to they are floating rate instrument that are
re-priced to market interest rates on or near the end of the reporting period.
(e)	
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the borrowings of the Group at the end of each reporting period
based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations:
Group
On
demand
or within
one year
RM’000
Two to
five years
RM’000
Over five
years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
As at 31 December 2020
Term loans 6,594 6,778 - 13,372
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 6,594 6,778 - 13,372
As at 31 December 2019
Term loans 2,492 12,834 853 16,179
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 2,492 12,834 853 16,179
(f)	
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group if interest rates at the end of each reporting
period changed by three hundred (300) basis points with all other variables held constant:
  Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Profit after tax
Floating rate instrument
- increase by 3% (2019: 3%) (289) (331)
- decrease by 3% (2019: 3%) 289 331
81
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
14. BORROWINGS (continued)
(g)	
The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average effective interest rates (“WAEIR”) as at the
end of each reporting period and the remaining maturities the financial instruments of the Group that are exposed
to interest rate risk:
WAEIR
%
Within
1 year
RM’000
1 - 2
years
RM’000
2 - 3
years
RM’000
3 - 4
years
RM’000
4 - 5
years
RM’000
More than
5 years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Asat31December2020
Floating rates
Term loans 4.32 6,249 4,950 369 394 716 - 12,678
Asat31December2019
Floating rates
Term loans 5.63 1,762 6,181 5,040 346 374 829 14,532
15. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Trade payables
Third parties 18,718 12,711 - -
Other payables
Other payables 4,562 6,200 - -
Deposit received 1,293 1,194 - -
Accruals 10,760 8,313 496 441
16,615 15,707 496 441
35,333 28,418 496 441
(a)	
Trade and other payables are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(b)	
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted to the Group range from 30 to
60 days (2019: 30 to 60 days).
(c)	
Included in other payables of the Group are credit purchase of property, plant and equipment amounting to
RM1,183,000 (2019: RM1,615,000) as disclosed in Note 5(b) to the financial statements.
82 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
15. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (continued)
(d) The currency exposure profiles of trade and other payables are as follows:
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Ringgit Malaysia 21,987 20,812 496 441
United States Dollar 12,283 7,328 - -
Other foreign currencies 1,063 278 - -
35,333 28,418 496 441
(e)	
Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other
variables remain constant, are as follows:
  Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Effects of 3% changes to RM against foreign currencies
Profit after tax
- United States Dollar (280) (167)
Sensitivity analysis of other foreign currencies are not disclosed as they are not material to the Group.
(f)	
The maturity profile of trade and other payables of the Group and of the Company at the reporting date based on
contractual undiscounted repayment obligations is repayable on demand or within one (1) year.
16.	COMMITMENTS
  Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Capital expenditure in respect of purchase of property, plant and equipment:
Contracted but not provided for 8,498 12,731
83
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
17.	CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
  Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Corporate guarantees given to banks for credit facilities
  granted to a subsidiary - secured 12,678 14,532
The Group designates corporate guarantees given to banks for credit facilities granted to subsidiaries as insurance
contracts as defined in MFRS 4 Insurance Contracts. The Group recognises these insurance contracts as recognised
insurance liabilities when there is a present obligation, legal or constructive, as a result of a past event, when it is
probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits would be required to settle the obligation and a
reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
The Directors have assessed the financial guarantee contracts and concluded that the guarantees are unlikely to be
called upon by the financial institutions as the loans are collateralised by fixed charges over certain properties, plant and
machinery of the Group as disclosed in Notes 5, 6 and 14 to the financial statements. Accordingly, the fair value of the
above corporate guarantees is negligible.
18. REVENUE
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Revenue from contracts with customers:
  Sale of goods 436,166 436,066 - -
Other revenue:
  Dividend income from a subsidiary - - 13,500 9,000
436,166 436,066 13,500 9,000
Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated by geographical market as disclosed in Note 4 to the financial
statements.
Revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated in the table below by timing of revenue recognition.
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Timing of revenue recognition
Transferred at a point in time 436,166 436,066
84 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
18. REVENUE (continued)
(i) Sale of goods
Revenue from sale of products is recognised at a point in time when the products has been transferred or the services
has been rendered to the customer and coincides with the delivery of products and services and acceptance by
customers.
There is no right of return and warranty provide to the customers on the sale of products and services rendered.
There is no significant financing component in the revenue arising from the sale of products as the sales made are
on the normal credit terms not exceeding twelve months.
(ii) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
19. OTHER INCOME
Included in other operating income are:
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Interest income 790 1,001 15 -
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment - 3 - -
Realised foreign exchange gain - 28 - -
Reversal of provision for impairment losses on
  trade receivables 291 - - -
Insurance claims 276 - - -
Other income 167 156 - -
1,524 1,188 15 -
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
85
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
20. ADMINISTRATIVE AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES
Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, included in administrative and other operating
expenses are:
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Impairment losses on trade receivables 570 2,233 - -
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 127 - - -
Rental of machineries 100 95 - -
Rental of hostel 180 30 - -
Rental of premises 100 166 - -
Realised loss in foreign exchange 1,716 - - -
Unrealised loss in foreign exchange 549 455 - -
21. FINANCE COSTS
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Interest expense on:
- term loans 628 875 - -
- bankers’ acceptances - 33 - -
- others - 6 - -
628 914 - -
22. TAX EXPENSE
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Current tax
 
Current tax expense based on profit
  for the financial year 10,041 10,162 - -
  Underprovision in prior years 62 1,231 * -
10,103 11,393 * -
Deferred tax (Note 13):
 
Relating to origination and reversal
  of temporary differences 952 (109) - -
  Overprovision in prior years (509) (444) - -
443 (553) - -
10,546 10,840 * -
* The amount is less than RM1,000.
86 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
22. TAX EXPENSE (continued)
(a)	
Malaysian income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 24% (2019: 24%) of the estimated taxable profits for the
fiscal year.
(b)	
The numerical reconciliations between the average effective tax rates and the applicable tax rates of the Group and
of the Company are as follows:
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Profit before tax 40,708 40,259 12,722 8,304
Tax at Malaysian statutory
  tax rate of 24% (2019: 24%) 9,770 9,662 3,053 1,993
Tax effects in respect of:
Non-allowable expenses 1,382 598 191 167
Non-taxable income (159) (207) (3,244) (2,160)
10,993 10,053 - -
Underprovision of current
  tax expense in prior years 62 1,231 - -
Overprovision of deferred
  tax in prior years (509) (444) - -
10,546 10,840 - -
23. EARNINGS PER SHARE
(a) Basic earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year
attributable to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during
the financial year after deducting treasury shares.
  Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 30,162 29,419
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (’000) 489,296 492,000
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen) 6.2 6.0
(b)	
The diluted earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is the same as the basic earnings per ordinary share
for the financial year as there were no dilutive potential ordinary shares.
87
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
24. DIVIDEND
   Group and Company
  2020   2019
Dividend
per share
Sen
Amount
of dividend
RM’000
Dividend
per share
Sen
Amount
of dividend
RM’000
Interim single tier dividend 2.2 10,785 2.0 9,840
The Directors do not recommend the payment of any final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December
2020.
25. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
  Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Salaries, wages, allowances and bonuses 29,270 26,711
Contributions to defined contribution plan 1,619 1,634
Social security contributions 256 151
Other employee benefits 22 37
31,167 28,533
Included in the employee benefits of the Group are Executive Directors’ remuneration amounting to RM3,289,000
(2019: RM4,061,000).
26. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES
(a) Identities of related parties
Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the
party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or
where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related parties may
be individuals or other entities.
The Group and the Company have controlling related party relationships with its subsidiaries, companies related to
the Directors and the significant corporate shareholder of the Company as follows:
Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn Bhd A company of which Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King and
Fang Siew Ping, who are Directors of the Company, have
financial interests and Fang Chew Ham Holdings Sdn
Bhd, a significant corporate shareholder of the Company.
Qinhuangdao Gold Delicious Food Industries Co., Ltd A subsidiary of a significant corporate shareholder of the
Company.
88 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
26. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES (continued)
(b) Significant related party transactions
In addition to the transactions and balances detailed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the
Company had the following transactions with related parties during the financial year:
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Sale of products
  - Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn Bhd 1,028 1,158 - -
Dividend income from a subsidiary
  - San Soon Seng Food Industries Sdn Bhd - - 13,500 9,000
Purchase of products from
  - Qinhuangdao Gold Delicious Food Industries
  Co., Ltd - 1,194 - -
The related party transactions described above were carried out on negotiated terms and conditions in the ordinary
course of business between the related parties and the Company.
Information regarding outstanding balances arising from related party transactions as at 31 December 2020 is
disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel are those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and
controlling the activities of the entity, directly and indirectly, including any Director of the Group and of the Company.
(c) Compensation of key management personnel (continued)
The remunerations of Directors and other key management personnel during the financial year were as follows:
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Short-term employee benefits 3,727 5,937 - -
Contributions to defined contribution plan 339 476 - -
Directors’ fees 499 422 430 374
4,565 6,835 430 374
89
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
27.	CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
(i) Capital management
The primary objective of the capital management of the Group is to ensure that entities of the Group would be able
to continue as going concerns whilst maximising return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and
equity ratios. The overall strategy of the Group remains unchanged from that in the previous financial year.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in response to changes in economic conditions.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders,
return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes
during the financial years ended 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019.
The Group monitors capital using a net debt-to-equity ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt.
The Group includes within net debt, loans and borrowings, trade and other payables, less cash and bank balances
and placement in funds. Capital represents equity attributable to the owners of the parent.
  Group   Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Borrowings 12,678 14,532 - -
Trade and other payables 35,333 28,418 496 441
Total liabilities 48,011 42,950 496 441
Less:
Cash and bank balances (9,693) (8,358) (1,690) (76)
Placement in funds (16,925) (35,849) - -
Net debt/(cash) 21,393 (1,257) (1,194) 365
Total equity 366,473 348,174 164,565 163,706
Net debt/(cash) 21,393 (1,257) (1,194) 365
387,866 346,917 163,371 164,071
Ratio (%) 6% -^ -^ -^
^ Gearing ratio is not presented as the Group and the Company are in net cash’s position or less than 1%.
Pursuant to the requirements of Practice Note No. 17/2005 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities, the Group is required
to maintain a consolidated shareholders’ equity of more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the issued and paid-up
capital and such shareholders’ equity is not less than RM40,000,000. The Group has complied with this requirement
during the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
The Group is not subject to any other external imposed capital requirements.
90 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
27.	CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
(ii) Financial risk management
The financial risk management objective of the Group is to optimise value creation for shareholders whilst minimising
the potential adverse impact arising from fluctuations in interest rates and the unpredictability of the financial markets.
The Group is exposed mainly to credit risk, liquidity and cash flow risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
Information on the management of the related exposures is detailed below:
(a) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to
meet its contractual obligations. The exposure to credit risk of the Group arises principally from its receivables
from customers. The exposure to credit risk of the Group arises principally from trade and other receivables.
The credit risk concentration profiles have been disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
(b) Liquidity and cash flow risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company would encounter difficulty in meeting financial
obligations due to shortage of funds. The exposure to liquidity and cash flow risk of the Group and of the
Company arises primarily from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities. The objective of
the Group and of the Company is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through
the use of stand-by credit facilities.
The Group manages its debt maturity profile, operating cash flows and the availability of funding so as to
ensure that all refinancing, repayment and funding needs are met. As part of its overall liquidity management,
the Group maintains sufficient levels of cash or cash convertible investments to meet its working capital
requirements. In addition, the Group strives to maintain available banking facilities at a reasonable level to its
overall debt position.
In order to mitigate potential risk exposure due to the COVID-19 pandemic, the Group has taken and will
continue to take necessary steps to safeguard and preserve its financial condition, emphasising on liquidity
management to meet its continuing financial commitments and liquidity needs of business operations.
The analysis of financial instruments by remaining contractual maturities has been disclosed in Notes 14 and
15 to the financial statements.
(c) Interest rate risk
The variable rate borrowings of the Group are exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to changes in
interest rates. The short term receivables and payables are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk.
The income and operating cash flows of the Group are substantially independent of changes in market interest
rate. Interest rate exposure arises from the borrowings and deposits of the Group and is managed through the
use of fixed and floating rate borrowings and deposits. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments
to hedge its interest rate risk.
The interest rate profile and sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk have been disclosed in Notes 10 and 14 to
the financial statements.
91
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
27.	CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
(ii) Financial risk management (continued)
The Group is exposed mainly to credit risk, liquidity and cash flow risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
Information on the management of the related exposures is detailed below: (continued)
(d) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument would fluctuate
because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk as a result of
the foreign currency denominated transactions entered into by the Group during the course of business. The
foreign currencies primarily involved are the United States Dollar and Singapore Dollar. In addition, the Group
does not use foreign exchange derivative instruments to hedge its transaction risk. The Group also holds cash
and bank balances denominated in foreign currencies for working capital purposes.
The foreign currency exposure profile and sensitivity analysis of foreign currency risk have been disclosed in
Notes 9, 10 and 15 to the financial statements.
28.	SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AND SUBSEQUENT TO THE END OF THE REPORTING
PERIOD
The World Health Organisation declared the 2019 Novel Coronavirus infection (‘COVID-19’) a pandemic on 11 March 2020.
The Government of Malaysia imposed the Movement Control Order (‘MCO’) on 18 March 2020 and has subsequently
entered into various phases of the MCO and Conditional Movement Control Order (‘CMCO’) until 31 March 2021.
The Group does not anticipate significant disruption to its operations and will continue to actively monitor and manage
its funds and operations to minimise any impact arising from the COVID-19 pandemic. Based on the assessment of the
Group, the judgements and assumptions used in the preparation of the financial statements for the financial year ended 31
December 2020 have not been impacted significantly by the COVID-19 pandemic. The Group will continue to assess the
impact of the COVID-19 pandemic on the financial statements of the Group for the financial year ending 31 December 2021.
29.	ADOPTION OF NEW MFRSs AND AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs
29.1	New MFRSs adopted during the financial year
The Group and the Company adopted the following Standards of the MFRS Framework that were issued by the
Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) during the financial year:
Title Effective Date
Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in MFRS Standards 1 January 2020
Amendments to MFRS 3 Definition of a Business 1 January 2020
Amendments to MFRS 101 and MFRS 108 Definition of Material 1 January 2020
Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 139 and MFRS 7 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform 1 January 2020
Amendment to MFRS 16 COVID-19-Related Rent Concessions 1 June 2020
(early adopt)
Amendments to MFRS 4 Insurance Contract - Extension of the Temporary Exemption from
  Applying MFRS 9 17 August 2020
Adoption of the above Standards did not have any material effect on the financial performance or position of the
Group and of the Company.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2020 (CONTINUED)
92 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
29.	ADOPTION OF NEW MFRSs AND AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs (continued)
29.2	New MFRSs that have been issued, but only effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021
Title Effective Date
Interest Rate Benchmark Reform - Phase 2 (Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 139, MFRS 7,
MFRS 4 and MFRS 16) 1 January 2021
Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018 - 2020 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 3 Reference to the Conceptual Framework 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment - Proceeds before Intended Use 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 137 Onerous Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a Contract 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current 1 January 2023
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Disclosure of Accounting Policies (Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial
Statements) 1 January 2023
Definition of Accounting Estimates (Amendments to MFRS 108 Accounting Policies,
Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors) 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor
and its Associate or Joint Venture Deferred
The Group does not expect the adoption of the above Standards to have a significant impact on the financial
statements.
29.3	IFRIC Agenda Decision - An assessment of the lease term (IFRS 16)
The IFRS Interpretations Committee (‘IFRIC’) issued a final agenda decision on 26 November 2019 regarding ‘Lease
term and useful life of leasehold improvements (IFRS 16 and IAS 16)’.
The submission to the IFRIC raised a question pertaining the determination of the lease term of a cancellable lease
or a renewable lease based on the requirements of IFRS 16.B34.
Based on the final agenda decision, the IFRIC concluded that the determination of the enforceable period of a lease
and the lease term itself shall include broad economic circumstances beyond purely commercial terms.
The Group has implemented the requirements of this final agenda decision during the financial year ended
31 December 2020. There is no material impact on the financial statements of the Group as at the end of reporting
period.
93
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
Location Title No. PM 472
Lot 4196
Jalan Union, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. PN 21710
Lot 47720 (Lot 590)
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. PN 57895
Lot 53150
(PT 585 & PT 586)
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing Use Office Building
Production Factory
Warehouse
Office Building
Production Factory
Warehouse
Production Factory
Warehouse
Types of Land Industrial Land Industrial Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
49 years
(30 May 2070)
81 years
(03 Jul 2102)
81 years
(03 Jul 2102)
Age of Property 25 years 44 years 16 years
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 110,976 34,950 93,032
Cost (RM’000) 15,435 4,465 8,828
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2020 (RM’000)
10,604 2,843 6,507
Date of Acquisition 31 Jan 1996 24 Jan 1997 13 Jan 1998
Year of Last Revaluation 2003 2003 2003
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 4098
PT 2317
Jalan Middle, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 4651
PT 5938
Jalan Union, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 3999
PT Lot 584
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing Use Warehouse Warehouse Production Factory
Types of Land Residential Land Residential Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
60 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
21 years
(22 Jun 2042)
25 years
(26 Jun 2046)
20 years
(24 May 2041)
Age of Property 22 years 22 years 13 years
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 8,168 6,806 46,005
Cost (RM’000) 577 874 5,476
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2020 (RM’000)
326 494 3936
Date of Acquisition 19 Dec 1997 25 Nov 1998 25 May 2005
Year of Last Revaluation 2003 2003 2010
PARTICULARS OF PROPERTIES
HELD BY THE GROUP
94 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 11086
Lot 66
Jalan Union, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(D) 264602
PT 12294 (PT 589)
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 9078
PT 669
Jalan Middle, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing Use Warehouse Production Factory
Warehouse
Hostel
Types of Land Industrial Land Industrial Land Residential Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
60 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
49 years
(30 May 2070)
49 years
(25 Jul 2070)
33 years
(19 Jul 2054)
Age of Property 11 years 10 years 11 years
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 87,123 43,560 7,631
Cost (RM’000) 7,293 6,162 681
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2020 (RM’000)
5,765 4,830 523
Date of Acquisition 12 Sep 2006 18 Dec 2008 30 Sep 2009
Year of Last Revaluation 2009 2008 2009
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 9111
PT 27687
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. PN 67417
Lot 2306
Jalan Welfare, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 14513
PT 12493
(Lot 9107 & Lot 9108)
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing Use Vacant Hostel Production Factory
Warehouse
Types of Land Industrial Land Residential Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
99 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
72 years
(22 Sep 2093)
44 years
(17 July 2065)
72 years
(22 Sep 2093)
Age of Property - 11 years 17 years (Lot 9108)
10 years (Lot 9107)
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 42,281 7,535 103,570
Cost (RM’000) 999 1,030 19,453
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2020 (RM’000)
882 825 16,219
Date of Acquisition 14 Apr 2010 28 Apr 2010 22 Jun 2010 (Lot 9108)
10 Mar 2010 (Lot 9107)
Year of Last Revaluation - - 2010
95
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
Location Title No. H.S.(D) 321305
PT 13116 (PT 847 & PT 848)
Jln Khalifah Zakaria 2, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(D) 261056
PT 12202
Jalan Middle, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing Use Warehouse Hostel
Types of Land Industrial Land Residential Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
91 years
(15 Jan 2112)
87 years
(21 Dec 2108)
Age of Property 5 years (PT 847)
3 years (PT 848)
9 years
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 161,674 7,623
Cost (RM’000) 23,216 1,025
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2020 (RM’000)
20,410 873
Date of Acquisition 23 Aug 2010 (PT 847)
26 Apr 2013 (PT 848)
5 Sep 2011
Year of Last Revaluation 2010 (PT 847)
2013 (PT 848)
-
Location Title No. H.S.(D) 312040
PT 582
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 9109
PT 27685
Jalan Union, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(D) 295891
PT 583
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing Use Warehouse Under Construction Production Factory
Types of Land Industrial Land Industrial Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
93 years
(05 Oct 2114)
72 years
(22 Sep 2093)
91 years
(30 Dec 2112)
Age of Property 4 years - 1 year
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 46,005 48,265 47,641
Cost (RM’000) 7,891 5,561 11,113
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2020 (RM’000)
7,507 5,352 10,779
Date of Acquisition 2 Nov 2016 19 Oct 2016 7 Aug 2017
Year of Last Revaluation 2015 2015 2017
PARTICULARS OF PROPERTIES
HELD BY THE GROUP (CONTINUED)
96 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 12526
PT 64
Jalan Union, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 9110
PT 27684
Jalan Union, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing Use Under Construction Under Construction
Types of Land Industrial Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
49 years
(30 May 2070)
72 years
(22 Sep 2093)
Age of Property - -
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 87,123 43,637
Cost (RM’000) 16,089 6,055
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2020 (RM’000)
15,442 5,917
Date of Acquisition 15 Jun 2017 06 Jun 2018
Year of Last Revaluation 2017 2018
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 2168
PT 63
Jalan Union, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(D) 314676
PT 2313
Jalan Middle, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 4626
PT 587
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg. Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor
Existing Use Vacant Land Under Construction Vacant Land
Types of Land Agriculture Land Residential Land -
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
60 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
51 years
(23 Feb 2072)
55 years
(12 Dec 2075)
9 years
(20 Jan 2030)
Age of Property - - 1 year
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 84,066 7,351 49,826
Cost (RM’000) 4,500 830 2,404
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2020 (RM’000)
4,464 824 2,263
Date of Acquisition 17 Aug 2020 11 Aug 2020 23 Jun 2020
Year of Last Revaluation 2019 2019 2020
97
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
ANALYSIS
OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 31 MARCH 2021
Total Number of Issued Shares: 492,000,010 Ordinary Shares (including 1,768,800 treasury shares)
Class of Shares : Ordinary Share
Voting Rights : One (1) Voting Right per Ordinary Share
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS
Size of Shareholdings
No. of
Shareholders
Shareholders
(%)
No. of
Shares
Percentage
of Issued
Shares (%)
less than 100 282 6.76 12,058 0.00
100 to 1,000 426 10.20 158,315 0.03
1,001 to 10,000 1,855 44.43 9,562,428 1.95
10,001 to 100,000 1,331 31.88 42,870,602 8.75
100,001 to 24,511,559 (*) 278 6.66 241,639,207 49.29
24,511,560 and above (**) 3 0.07 195,988,600 39.98
TOTAL 4,175 100.00 490,231,210 100.00
Note: *  Less than 5% of total issued shares
Note: ** 5% and above of total issued shares
Note: Exclude treasury shares
LIST OF TOP 30 SHAREHOLDERS
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shares
%
1 FANG CHEW HAM HOLDINGS SDN BHD 86,250,000 17.59
2 WILMAR INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 77,000,000 15.71
3 UOB KAY HIAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TEO KWEE HOCK
32,738,600 6.68
4 UOB KAY HIAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TEO SIEW LAI
24,198,200 4.94
5 DB (MALAYSIA) NOMINEE (TEMPATAN) SENDIRIAN BERHAD
DEUTSCHE TRUSTEES MALAYSIA BERHAD FOR EASTSPRING INVESTMENTS
SMALL-CAP FUND
16,915,875 3.45
6 FOONG CHIEW FATT 15,768,825 3.22
7 CGS-CIMB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR FANG CHEW HAM HOLDINGS SDN BHD
(MY3185)
14,500,000 2.96
8 TEO KWEE HOCK 13,733,850 2.80
9 FONG CHU KING @ TONG CHU KING 13,687,500 2.79
10 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EMPLOYEES PROVIDENT FUND BOARD
8,839,650 1.80
11 FONG CHIEW HEAN 8,000,000 1.63
98 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
No. Name of Shareholders
No. of
Shares
%
12 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
KUMPULAN WANG PERSARAAN (DIPERBADANKAN) (ESPG IV SC E)
4,563,175 0.93
13 CGS-CIMB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR FONG PENG MAN (MY3238)
4,053,000 0.83
14 ALLIANCEGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR DATO’ SRI TAN HOW YAP (7004055)
4,000,000 0.82
15 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR YOONG FUI KIEN
3,230,000 0.66
16 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
ETIQA LIFE INSURANCE BERHAD (LIFE PAR)
3,229,600 0.66
17 PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR NG FAAI @ NG YOKE PEI (SRB/PMS)
2,243,625 0.46
18 CHAN CHAI BEE 2,181,850 0.45
19 FONG CHIEW HEAN 2,166,100 0.44
20 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
MAYBANK TRUSTEES BERHAD FOR APEX DANA AL-SOFI-I (ADAS-I) (410325)
2,025,700 0.41
21 T.B.R SHOPPING CENTRE (M) SDN BHD 2,000,000 0.41
22 CHONG CHEONG LEONG 1,986,600 0.41
23 CHAN CHU WEI 1,978,750 0.40
24 CHAN SEONG KUN 1,828,900 0.37
25 PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN AH CHAI (E-SRB)
1,700,100 0.35
26 PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN BOON SEONG (E-SRB)
1,694,850 0.35
27 PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN BOON THIAM (E-SRB)
1,660,300 0.34
28 PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN AH HOCK (E-SRB)
1,612,300 0.33
29 CHIN SWEE CHEW 1,598,000 0.33
30 CGS-CIMB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN TUAN PHIN (JALAN DEDAP-CL)
1,587,300 0.32
99
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
Name
No. of
shares
Percentage
of Issued
Shares
(%)
No. of
shares
Percentage
of Issued
Shares
(%)
1. Fang Chew Ham Holdings Sdn Bhd 100,750,000 20.55 1,577,600(1) 0.32
2. Wilmar International Limited 77,000,000 15.71 - -
3. Fang Chew Ham 100,000 0.02 102,327,600(2) 20.87
4. Fang Siew Yee - - 102,327,600(2) 20.87
5. Teo Kwee Hock 46,778,050 9.542 554,375(3) 0.11
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDING
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
Name
No. of
shares
Percentage
of Issued
Shares
(%)
No. of
shares
Percentage
of Issued
Shares
(%)
1. Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh - - - -
2. Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King 13,745,500 2.80 1,714,975(4) 0.35
3. Chew Eng Chai 200,000 0.04 8,750(5) negligible
4. Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng - - 2,243,625(5) 0.46
5. Khoo Wee Boon - - - -
6. Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah 625,000 0.13 - -
7. Liew Kuo Shin 125,000 0.03 - -
8. Fang Siew Ping - - - -
9. Kee Thuan Chai - - - -
10. Lim Yee Mein - - - -
Notes:
1 Deemed interest through Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn Bhd pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016
(“the Act”).
2 Indirect interest via shareholdings of Fang Chew Ham Holdings Sdn Bhd (100,750,000 ordinary shares) and Seong
Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn Bhd (1,577,600 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
3 Deemed interest via shareholdings held by his family pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
4 Indirect interest via shareholdings of his son (137,375 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 59 (11) (c) of the Act, and
Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn Bhd (1,577,600 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
5 Indirect interest via shareholdings of his spouse pursuant to Section 59 (11) (c) of the Act.
ANALYSIS
OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 31 MARCH 2021 (CONTINUED)
100 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
NOTICE OF NINETEENTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Nineteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be conducted on a fully virtual
basis through live streaming from the broadcast venue at 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia (“Broadcast Venue”) on Monday, 21 June 2021 at 10 a.m. to
transact the following business:
AGENDA
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December
2020 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 1 on Ordinary Business)
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of RM499,000 for the financial year ended
31 December 2020.
(Resolution 1)
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 2 on Ordinary Business)
3. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation pursuant to Clause 76(3) of the
Company’s Constitution:
(i)	
Encik Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah;
(ii)	
Mr Chew Eng Chai; and
(iii)	
Mr Khoo Wee Boon.
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 3 on Ordinary Business)
(Resolution 2)
(Resolution 3)
(Resolution 4)
4. To re-elect the following Directors who retire pursuant to Clause 78 of the Company’s
Constitution:
(i)	
Mr Kee Thuan Chai; and
(ii)	
Ms Lim Yee Mein.
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 3 on Ordinary Business)
(Resolution 5)
(Resolution 6)
5. To re-appoint Messrs BDO PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the
Directors to fix their remuneration.
(Resolution 7)
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 4 on Ordinary Business)
101
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
Special Business
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without modifications, the following resolutions:
6. ORDINARY RESOLUTION
AUTHORITY TO ISSUE AND ALLOT SHARES PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 75 AND 76 OF
THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
“THAT subject always to the Companies Act, 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the Company,
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements
(“Listing Requirements”) and the approvals of the relevant governmental/regulatory authorities
(if any), the Directors be and are hereby authorised, pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the
Act, to issue and allot shares in the Company from time to time at such price, upon such terms
and conditions, and for such purposes and to such person or persons whomsoever as the
Directors may in their absolute discretion deem fit provided that the aggregate number of
shares to be issued pursuant to this Resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the
total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) of the Company for the time being
and THAT the Directors be and are hereby also authorised to obtain the approval from Bursa
Securities for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so issued on the Bursa
Securities AND THAT such authority shall continue to be in force until the conclusion of the
next Annual General Meeting of the Company after the approval was given or at the expiry
of the period within which the next Annual General Meeting is required to be held after the
approval was given, whichever is earlier, unless such approval is revoked or varied by the
Company at a general meeting.”
(Resolution 8)
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 1 on Special Business)
7. ORDINARY RESOLUTION
PROPOSED RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY FOR SHARE BUY-BACK
(Resolution 9)
“THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the Company,
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements
(“Listing Requirements”) and all other applicable laws, guidelines, rules and regulations, the
Company be and is hereby authorised, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to purchase
such number of issued shares in the Company as may be determined by the Directors of
the Company from time to time through Bursa Securities upon such terms and conditions
as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the interest of the Company provided that:
(i)	The aggregate number of issued shares in the Company (“Shares”) purchased (“Purchased
Shares”) and/or held as treasury shares pursuant to this ordinary resolution does not
exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company as
quoted on Bursa Securities as at point of purchase; and
(ii)	
The maximum fund to be allocated by the Company for the purpose of purchasing the
shares shall not exceed the aggregate of the retained profits of the Company based on
the latest audited financial statements and/or the latest management accounts (where
applicable) available at the time of the purchase.
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 2 on Special Business)
NOTICE OF NINETEENTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (CONTINUED)
102 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
(“Proposed Share Buy-Back”).
AND THAT the authority to facilitate the Proposed Share Buy-Back will commence immediately
upon passing of this Ordinary Resolution and will continue to be in force until:
(a)	
The conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company following at which
time the authority shall lapse unless by ordinary resolution passed at the meeting, the
authority is renewed, either unconditionally or subject to conditions;
(b)	The expiration of the period within which the next Annual General Meeting of the Company
is required by law to be held; or
(c)	
Revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the Company at
a general meeting,
whichever occurs first, but shall not prejudice the completion of purchase(s) by the Company of
its own Shares before the aforesaid expiry date and, in any event, in accordance with the Listing
Requirements and any applicable laws, rules, regulations, orders, guidelines and requirements
issued by any relevant authorities.
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised, at their discretion, to deal
with the Purchased Shares until all the Purchased Shares have been dealt with by the Directors
in the following manner as may be permitted by the Act, Listing Requirements, applicable laws,
rules, regulations, guidelines, requirements and/or orders of any relevant authorities for the
time being in force:
(i)	
To cancel all or part of the Purchased Shares;
(ii)	
To retain all or part of the Purchased Shares as treasury shares as defined in Section 127
of the Act;
(iii)	TodistributeallorpartofthetreasurysharesasdividendstotheshareholdersoftheCompany;
(iv)	
To resell all or part of the treasury shares;
(v)	
To transfer all or part of the treasury shares for the purposes of or under the employees’
share scheme established by the Company and/or its subsidiaries;
(vi)	
To transfer all or part of the treasury shares as purchase consideration;
(vii)	
To sell, transfer or otherwise use the shares for such other purposes as the Minister may
by order prescribe; and/or
(viii)	To deal with the treasury shares in the manners as allowed by the Act, Listing Requirements,
applicable laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, requirements and/or orders of any relevant
authorities for the time being in force.
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are authorised to take all such steps as are
necessary or expedient [including without limitation, the opening and maintaining of central
depository account(s) under Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, and the entering
into all other agreements, arrangements and guarantee with any party or parties] to implement,
finalise and give full effect to the Proposed Share Buy-Back with full powers to assent to any
conditions, modifications, revaluations, variations and/or amendments (if any) as may be imposed
by the relevant authorities.”
103
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
8. ORDINARY RESOLUTIONS
Continuation IN OFFICE AS INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 3 on Special Business)
(i)	
“THAT subject to the passing of the Resolution 2 above approval be and is hereby
given to Encik Mohd Zaki bin Hamzah who has served as an Independent Director of
the Company for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years, to continue to act as an
Independent Director of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of next Annual
General Meeting of the Company.”
(ii)	
“THAT approval be and is hereby given to Mr Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng who has
served as an Independent Director of the Company for a cumulative term of more than
nine (9) years, to continue to act as an Independent Director of the Company to hold
office until the conclusion of next Annual General Meeting of the Company.”
(iii)	“THAT subject to the passing of the Resolution 3 above approval be and is hereby given
to Mr Chew Eng Chai who has served as an Independent Director of the Company for
a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years, to continue to act as an Independent
Director of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of next Annual General
Meeting of the Company.”
(iv)	“THAT subject to the passing of the Resolution 4 above approval be and is hereby given
to Mr Khoo Wee Boon who has served as an Independent Director of the Company
for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years, to continue to act as an Independent
Director of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of next Annual General
Meeting of the Company.”
(Resolution 10)
(Resolution 11)
(Resolution 12)
(Resolution 13)
9. To consider any other business of which due notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board,
Wong Wai Foong [SSM PC NO. 202008001472 (MAICSA 7001358)]
Ng Bee Lian [SSM PC NO. 201908003459 (MAICSA 7041392)]
Yap Sit Lee [SSM PC NO. 202008001865 (MAICSA 7028098)]
Company Secretaries
Kuala Lumpur
30 April 2021
Notes:
IMPORTANT NOTES
The broadcast venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires the
Chairman of the meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting.
Shareholders will not be allowed to attend this Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) in person at the broadcast venue on the day of the
meeting. Therefore, shareholders are strongly advised to participate and vote remotely at this AGM through live streaming and online
remote voting using the Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn
Bhd (“Boardroom”) via https://web.lumiagm.com.
NOTICE OF NINETEENTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (CONTINUED)
104 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
Please read these notes carefully and follow the procedures in the Administrative Guide for the AGM in order to participate
remotely via the RPEV
.
APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
(a)	For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the Company, a Record of Depositors as at 14 June 2021. Only a member whose name
appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM.
(b)	
A member who is entitled to participate in this AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation, to
appoint a duly authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
(c)	
A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at a General Meeting of the Company may appoint not more than
two (2) proxies to participate instead of the member at the General Meeting.
(d)	Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined in the Securities Industries (Central Depositories) Act 1991
(“Central Depository Act”), it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies in respect of each securities account it holds in ordinary
shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
(e)	
Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple
beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt
authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an
authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of
Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
(f)	
Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of shareholdings to be represented by each proxy must be
specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
(g)	
The appointment of a proxy may be made in hard copy form or by electronic form. In the case of an appointment made in hard
copy form, the proxy form must be deposited with the Share Registrar of the Company at Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara
Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor. In the case of the appointment of a
proxy made in electronic form, the proxy form must be deposited through the Share Registrar’s website, Boardroom Smart
Investor Online Portal at https://boardroomlimited.my. Please refer to the procedures as set out in the Administrative Guide for
the electronic lodgement of proxy form. All proxy form submitted must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48)
hours before the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned General Meeting at which the person named in
the appointment proposes to vote.
(h)	Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited at the Share Registrar of
the Company at Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned General
Meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted
provided that it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in
which it is executed.
(i)	
Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in this proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
(j)	
Last date and time for lodging this proxy form is Saturday, 19 June 2021 at 10 a.m.
(k)	
For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative instead of a proxy to attend this meeting, please
deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment executed in the manner as stated in this proxy form if this has not been lodged
at the Company’s registered office earlier.
105
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
explanatory NOTES ON ORDINARY BUSINESS
1.	
Audited financial statements for the financial YEAR ended 31 December 2020
The Audited Financial Statements is meant for discussion only as an approval from Shareholders is not required pursuant to
the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act 2016. Hence, this item on the Agenda is not put forward for voting by
shareholders of the Company.
2.	
PAYMENT OF DIRECTORS’ Fees
Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016, the fees of the Directors shall be approved at a general meeting.
The proposed Resolution 1 is to facilitate the payment of Directors’ fees of the Company.
3. RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS
Encik Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah, Mr Chew Eng Chai, Mr Khoo Wee Boon, Mr Kee Thuan Chai and Ms Lim Yee Mein are standing
for re-election as Directors of the Company and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election at the Nineteenth Annual
General Meeting of the Company.
The Board has through the Nomination Committee, considered the assessed of the said Directors and agreed that they meet
the criteria as prescribed by Paragraph 2.20A of the Listing Requirement of Bursa Securities on character, experience, integrity,
competence and time commitment to effectively discharge their roles as Directors.
The Board has also through the Nomination Committee assessed the independence of Encik Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah,
Mr Chew Eng Chai, Mr Khoo Wee Boon and satisfied that they have complied with the criteria on independence as prescribed
by the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities.
4.	
RE-APPOINTMENT OF AUDITORS
The Audit Committee had at its meeting held on 23 February 2021 assessed the suitability and independence of the External
Auditors and recommended the re-appointment of Messrs BDO PLT as External Auditors of the Company for the financial year
ending 31 December 2021. The Board has in turn reviewed the recommendation of the Audit Committee and recommended
the same be tabled to the shareholders for approval at the forthcoming Nineteenth Annual General Meeting of the Company
under Resolution 7.
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON SPECIAL BUSINESS
1.	
AUTHORITY TO ISSUE AND ALLOT SHARES PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 75 AND 76 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
The proposed Resolution 8 is the renewal of the mandate obtained from the members at the last Annual General Meeting. As at
the date of this Notice, the Company did not allot any shares pursuant to the mandate granted to the Directors at the Eighteenth
Annual General Meeting held on 29 June 2020 as there were no requirements for such fund raising activities.
NOTICE OF NINETEENTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (CONTINUED)
106 THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Annual Report 2020
The proposed Resolution 8, if passed, would provide flexibility to the Directors to undertake fund raising activities, including but
not limited to placement of shares for the purpose of funding the Company’s future investment project(s), working capital and/
or acquisition(s), any time as the Directors may deem fit provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the
mandate does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) of the Company
for the time being, without having to convene a general meeting. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company in a
general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company or at the expiry of the period
within which the next Annual General Meeting is required to be held after the approval was given, whichever is earlier.
2.	
PROPOSED RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY FOR SHARE-BUY-BACK
The proposed Resolution 9, if passed, will allow the Company to purchase its own shares through Bursa Securities up to ten
per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company. Please refer to the Statement to Shareholders dated
30 April 2021 in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Authority to Purchase its own Shares by the Company for further details.
3.	
CONTINUATION IN OFFICE AS AN INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR
Pursuant to the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, it is recommended that approval of shareholders be sought in the
event the Company intends to retain an Independent Director who has served in that capacity for more than nine years.
Mr Chew Eng Chai and Mr Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng were appointed to the Board on 17 June 2002 while Mr Khoo Wee
Boon and Encik Zaki Bin Hamzah were appointed to the Board on 27 September 2004 and 9 January 2007 respectively and
have therefore served as the Independent Directors of the Company for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years.
The Board has through the Nomination Committee assessed the independence of Mr Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim Tieng, Mr Chew
Eng Chai, Mr Khoo Wee Boon and Encik Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah and recommended them to continue to act as Independent
Directors of the Company based on the following justifications:
(i)	They have fulfilled the criteria under the definition on Independent Director as stated in the Main Market Listing Requirements
of Bursa Securities and therefore, are able to bring independent and objective judgement to the Board;
(ii)	
They have an acute understanding of the Group’s business operation, and have continued to critically and constructively
challenge and contribute to the development of effective business strategy and direction of the Group during Board and
Board Committees’ meetings;
(iii)	
Their long tenure of services on the Board and Board Committees have neither impaired nor compromised their exercise
of independent judgement, and they are free from any business or relationships which could interfere with their exercise
of independent judgement;
(iv)	
They have remained objective and independent in expressing their views and participating in deliberation and decision
making of the Board and Board Committees in the best interest of the Group;
(v)	
Their vast experience and exposure in the fields of food manufacturing, auditing, accountancy, corporate finance and
financial market provide diverse set of expertise which bring valuable contribution to the Board;
(vi)	
They have ensured effective checks and balances in Board proceedings and have exercised due care during their tenure
as Independent Non-Executive Director to carry out their duties in the best interest of the Company and shareholders; and
(vii)	
They have exhibited high commitment and devoted sufficient time and attention to their responsibilities as Independent
Non-Executive Directors of the Company.
The proposed Resolutions 10, 11, 12 and 13, if passed, will enable Encik Mohd Zaki Bin Hamzah, Mr Tan Chon Sing @ Tan Kim
Tieng, Mr Chew Eng Chai and Mr Khoo Wee Boon to continue serving as Independent Directors of the Company.
107
ABOUT US LEADERSHIP PERFORMANCE
REVIEW
SUSTAINABILITY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
This page is intentionally left blank
I/We,                                       Tel.: 
      (Full name in block, NRIC/Passport/Company No.)
of 
(Address)
being a member of Three-A Resources Berhad, hereby appoint:
Full Name (in Block) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address Email Address
and/or^
Full Name (in Block) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address Email Address
or failing him/her, the Chairperson of the Meeting as ^my/our proxy to vote for ^me/us and on ^my/our behalf, at the Nineteenth Annual
General Meeting of the Company will be conducted on a fully virtual basis through live streaming from the broadcast venue at 12th Floor,
Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia (“Broadcast Venue”)
on Monday, 21 June 2021 at 10 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof and to vote as indicated below:
ITEM AGENDA RESOLUTION FOR AGAINST
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. ToapprovethepaymentofDirectors’Feesforthefinancialyearended31December2020. Ordinary
2. To re-elect Encik Mohd Zaki bin Hamzah as Director. Ordinary
3. To re-elect Mr Chew Eng Chai as Director. Ordinary
4. To re-elect Mr Khoo Wee Boon as Director. Ordinary
5. To re-elect Mr Kee Thuan Chai as Director. Ordinary
6. To re-elect Ms Lim Yee Mein as Director. Ordinary
7. To re-appoint Messrs BDO PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors
to fix their remuneration.
Ordinary
SPECIAL BUSINESS
8. To grant authority to issue and allot shares. Ordinary
9. To approve the Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-Back. Ordinary
10. To approve Encik Mohd Zaki bin Hamzah to continue to act as an Independent Director. Ordinary
11. ToapproveMr.TanChonSing@TanKimTiengtocontinuetoactasanIndependentDirector. Ordinary
12. To approve Mr. Chew Eng Chai to continue to act as an Independent Director. Ordinary
13. To approve Mr. Khoo Wee Boon to continue to act as Independent Director. Ordinary
Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions. In the absence of
specific direction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he thinks fit.
Signed this        day of        2021                                 
                                             
Signature*
                                             
Member
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
199901006659 (481559-M)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
CDS Account No. No. of Shares Held
PROXY
FORM
^Delete whichever is inapplicable
*Manner of execution:
a)	
If you are an individual member, please sign where indicated.
b)	
If you are a corporate member which has a common seal, this proxy form should be executed under seal in accordance
with the constitution of your corporation.
c)	
If you are a corporate member which does not have a common seal, this proxy form should be affixed with the rubber
stamp of your company (if any) and executed by:
(i)	
at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii)	
any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which your corporation is
incorporated.
NOTES:
IMPORTANT NOTES
The broadcast venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires the Chairman
of the meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting.
Shareholders will not be allowed to attend this Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) in person at the broadcast venue on the day of the meeting.
Therefore, shareholders are strongly advised to participate and vote remotely at this AGM through live streaming and online remote voting
using the Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) via
https://web.lumiagm.com.
Please read these notes carefully and follow the procedures in the Administrative Guide for the AGM in order to participate remotely via RPEV.
APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
(a)	
For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa
Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the Company, a Record of Depositors as at 14 June 2021. Only a
member whose name appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM.
(b)	
A member who is entitled to participate in this AGM via is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a
corporation, to appoint a duly authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a
member of the Company.
(c)	
A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at a General Meeting of the Company may appoint not more
than two (2) proxies to participate instead of the member at the General Meeting.
(d)	
Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined in the Securities Industries (Central Depositories)
Act 1991 (“Central Depository Act”), it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies in respect of each securities account it
holds in ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
(e)	
Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which
the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee
refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with the
provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
(f)	
Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of shareholdings to be represented by each proxy
must be specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
(g)	
The appointment of a proxy may be made in hard copy form or by electronic form. In the case of an appointment made
in hard copy form, the proxy form must be deposited with the Share Registrar of the Company at Ground Floor or 11th
Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor. In the case of the
appointment of a proxy made in electronic form, the proxy form must be deposited through the Share Registrar’s website,
Boardroom Smart Investor Online Portal at https://boardroomlimited.my. Please refer to the procedures as set out in
the Administrative Guide for the electronic lodgement of proxy form. All proxy form submitted must be received by the
Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned
General Meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
(h)	
Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited at the Share
Registrar of the Company at Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13,
46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the General
Meeting or adjourned General Meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the
power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal
requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
(i)	
Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in this proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
(j)	
Last date and time for lodging this proxy form is Saturday, 19 June 2021 at 10 a.m.
(k)	
For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative instead of a proxy to attend this meeting,
please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment executed in the manner as stated in this proxy form if this has
not been lodged at the Company’s registered office earlier.
Please fold here
Please fold here
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
C/O BOARDROOM SHARE REGISTRARS SDN BHD
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor
STAMP/SETEM
www.three-a.com.my
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
AI 308, Lot 590 & Lot 4196, Jalan Industri, U19
Kampung Baru Sungai Buloh,
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
(+60)3-6156 2655
(+60)3-6156 2657
