Annual Report 2023
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
Registration No. 199901006659 (481559-M)
Embracing
Challenges and
Striving For
Continuous
Excellence
COVER RATIONALE
This cover visualises triangles in dynamic motion, mirroring The Group’s vision and
the obstacles that come our way. As the ones facing forward outnumbers the latter,
it emphasises our commitment in pushing through challenges to pursue our goals.
Images of our products are also incorporated into the design, highlighting its versatile
range and premium quality, which differentiates us from our competitors. The design
as a whole showcases our brand identity, taking pride in our business and values.
TABLE OF
CONTENTS
  About Us 
Vision and Mission     2
Corporate Profile     3
Corporate Information     4
 LEADERSHIP 
Profile of Board of Directors and Key Senior Management     5
  PERFORMANCE REVIEW 
Management Discussion and Analysis     10
Five-Year Group Financial Highlights     14
 SUSTAINABILITY 
Sustainability Statement     16
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
of Three-A Resources Berhad
Registration No. 199901006659 (481559-M)
22nd
Date:
30 May 2024
(Thursday)
10:00
Time:
10.00 a.m.
Virtual basis through live streaming and
online Remote Participation and Electronic
voting (“RPEV”) from the Broadcast Venue:
Level 12, Menara Symphony,
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13, 46200,
Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
Corporate Governance Overview Statement     57
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control     74
Audit Committee Report     77
Additional Compliance Information     80
  FINANCIAL Report 
Financial Statements     81
  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION 
Particulars of Properties Held by the Group     125
Analysis of Shareholdings     129
Notice of 22nd Annual General Meeting     132
Proxy Form     •
To excel as one of the Global Market Leaders in the manufacture of
Food & Beverage ingredients
VISION
To excel as one of the Global Quality Brands in the industries
MISSION
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  OUR PRODUCT PORTFOLIO 
• Liquid Caramel, Caramel Colour
• Fermented Vinegar, Distilled Vinegar, Rice Vinegar
• Glucose Syrup, High Maltose Syrup, Liquid Maltodextrin
• Soya Protein Sauce (“SPS”)
• Caramel Powder
• Maltodextrin
• Golden Syrup
SSSFI serves businesses of all sizes across a broad spectrum of
industries and sectors. Our versatile range of ingredients has
different functional properties and unique characteristics that can
be tailored to customer needs. All ingredients are Halal and Kosher
certified.
SSSFI offers a diverse range of packaging options to accommodate
customer needs. There are various package sizes ranging from bulk
road tankers to small packings such as jerrycan and carton boxes.
Customised packaging can be arranged to accommodate customer
requirements.
  OUR ACCREDITATION & RECOGNITION 
FSSC 22000 Certification by
Intertek Certification International Sdn. Bhd.
HACCP Certification by
Ministry of Health Malaysia (“MOH”)
HALAL Certification by
Department of Islamic Development Malaysia (“JAKIM”)
KOSHER Certification by
Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America
CORPORATE
PROFILE
ABOUT US
Three-A Resources Berhad (“3A”) is an investment holding
company that was listed since 2002 and has ascended to
the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia in 2008. Its wholly-
owned subsidiary, San Soon Seng Food Industries Sdn
Bhd (“SSSFI”) is one of the leading food and beverage
ingredients manufacturing companies in the country,
started as a caramel producer in 1977 and expanded its
product portfolio that has made strong footprints in many
parts of the world. SSSFI has remained focused in its core
strength of manufacturing food and beverage ingredients
and firmly believes in producing products of the highest
quality and has successfully expanded beyond Asian
horizons and making its mark in the international market.
3	 
About Us
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
 Board Committee 
Audit Committee
Jamel Bin Ibrahim (Chairman)
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
Remuneration Committee
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh (Chairperson)
Jamel Bin Ibrahim
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
Nomination Committee
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam (Chairman)
Jamel Bin Ibrahim
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
Risk Management Committee
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh (Chairperson)
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King
Fang Siew Ping
Company Secretaries
Law Mee Poo MAICSA 7033423 (SSM PC No. 201908002275)
Tan Lai Hong MAICSA 7057707 (SSM PC No. 202008002309)
Auditors
BDO PLT
Chartered Accountants
Level 8, BDO @ Menara CenTARa
360 Jalan Tuanku Abdul Rahman, 50100 Kuala Lumpur
Tel no. : +603 2616 2888
Fax no. : +603 2616 3190
Registered Address
AL 308, Lot 590 & Lot 4196,
Jalan Industri U19
Kampung Baru Sungai Buloh,
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan.
Tel no : +603 6156 2655
Fax no : +603 6156 2657
E-mail : info@three-a.com.my
Share Registrar
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd
11th Floor, Menara Symphony,
No 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan.
Tel no. : +603 7890 4700
Fax no. : +603 7890 4670
Company No.
199901006659 (481559-M)
Website
www.three-a.com.my
Bankers
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd
OCBC Bank (Malaysia) Berhad
CIMB Bank Berhad
Hong Leong Bank Berhad
Stock Exchange
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Market
Main Market
Sector
Consumer Products & Services
Stock Name
3A
Stock Code
0012
Investor Relation
Fong Peng Fai, Group Financial Controller
Jessica Fang, Senior Manager
Tel no. : +603 6156 2655
E-mail : info@three-a.com.my
 Board of Directors 
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King
Managing Director
Chew Eng Chai
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 26 May 2023)
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
Independent Non-Executive Director
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
Independent Non-Executive Director
Fang Siew Ping
Non-Independent Executive Director
Liew Kuo Shin
Non-Independent Executive Director
Kee Thuan Chai
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Lim Yee Mein
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 29 February 2024)
Jamel Bin Ibrahim
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 13 June 2023)
Tan Soon Hoe
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 29 February 2024)
									 
About Us 4
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND KEY SENIOR
MANAGEMENT
DATO’ JAGJIT SINGH A/L BANT SINGH
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Nationality    
Age    Gender
  
68
   
MR FONG CHU KING @ TONG CHU KING
Managing Director/Key Senior Management
Nationality    
Age    Gender
  
79
   
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh (“Dato’ Jagjit”) was appointed to the
Board on 28 August 2019 and serves as an Independent Non- Executive
ChairmanoftheCompanyandaDirectorofitswholly-ownedsubsidiaries,
San Soon Seng Food Industries Sdn Bhd (“SSSFI”) and Three-A Food
Industries (M) Sdn Bhd (“3A Food”).
Dato’ Jagjit holds a Bachelor of Law (“LLB Hons”) and Master of Law
(“LLM”) from the King’s College, University of London. He was called
to Malaysian Bar in March 2002 and was awarded Kesatria Mangku
Negara (“KMN”) in 2008, Setia Mahkota Pahang (“SMP”) in 2010
and Darjah Indera Mahkota Pahang (“DIMP”) in 2011.
Dato’ Jagjit was a former Judge and has served the Malaysian Legal
and Judicial Service for 28 years in various positions including that of
a Senior Federal Counsel, Deputy Treasury Solicitor, Legal Advisor to
the Ministry of Health, Deputy Public Prosecutor and Senior Assistant
Parliamentary Draftsman.
Dato’ Jagjit had served as a member of the Malaysia Competition
Commission(“MyCC”)undertheMinistryofDomesticTradeandConsumer
Affairs (“KPDNHEP”) and he practises as an Advocate and Solicitor and
is a Partner in Jagjit Ariff & Co.
Dato’ Jagjit attended all four (4) Board Meetings held during the financial
yearended31December2023.Hedoesnothaveanyfamilyrelationship
with any Director and/or major shareholder, nor any conflict of interest
with the Company. He has no convictions for any offences within the
past five (5) years (other than traffic offences, if any), nor any public
sanctionorpenaltyimposedbyregulatorybodiesduringthefinancialyear.
Mr Fong Chu King was re-designated to the Board on 28 August 2019
and serves as Managing Director of the Company and a Director of its
wholly-owned subsidiaries, SSSFI and 3A Food. He also serves as a
member of Risk Management Committee, Sustainability Committee
and various Committees of the 3A Group. Previously, he was a Non-
Independent Executive Director of the Company from May 2002 to
August 2019.
Mr Fong Chu King holds a Bachelor of Science in Chemical Engineering
fromtheNationalTaiwanUniversity.HeisaqualifiedProfessionalEngineer
of Lembaga Jurutera Malaysia and also a member of the Institution
Engineers Malaysia. In his past 20 years of service with the Lion Group
of Companies, he held a number of positions including Manager of
Amsteel Mills Sdn Bhd and General Manager of Megasteel Sdn Bhd.
Mr Fong Chu King is equipped with more than 40 years of experience
in manufacturing industry combining technical, operational, as well as
extensive knowledge in managerial finance and business development.
Hisstrategicleadershipentailsamoresustainablecompetitiveadvantage
for the Company in the food & beverage industry.
Mr Fong Chu King attended all four (4) Board Meetings held during the
financial year ended 31 December 2023. He is a sibling of the major
shareholder, Mr Fang Chew Ham. He has no conflict of interest with the
Company and has no convictions for any offences within the past five
(5) years (other than traffic offences, if any), nor any public sanction
or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies during the financial year.
5	 
LEADERSHIP
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND KEY SENIOR
MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
MS KARMJIT KAUR A/P SARBAN SINGH
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality    
Age    Gender
  
62
   
DATO’ SHAMESH A/L JEEVARETNAM
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality    
Age    Gender
  
48
   
Ms Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh (“Ms Karmjit”) was appointed
to the Board on 8 June 2022 and serves as an Independent Non-
Executive Director of the Company. She also serves as a Chairperson of
Remuneration Committee and Risk Management Committee, and is a
member of Audit Committee, Nomination Committee of the Company.
Ms Karmjit holds a Bachelor of Arts from York University, Toronto, Canada.
Ms Karmjit has more than 30 years’ experience in the banking sector
having worked in commercial and investment banks locally and for a
short stint in Melbourne. She held various senior management positions
and leadership roles including Senior Director of Affin Hwang Investment
Bank (M) Berhad for about 13 years. She was a member of asset and
liability committee, compliance risk and oversight committee, and
early alert and watch list committee. Her experience also covers risk
assurance functions, change management and business transformation,
and stakeholder engagement.
She is currently a member of Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia.
Ms Karmjit attended four (4) Board Meetings held during the financial
year ended 31 December 2023 since her appointment as Director on 8
June 2022. She does not have any family relationship with any Director
and/or major shareholder, nor any conflict of interest with the Company.
She has no convictions for any offences within the past five (5) years
(other than traffic offences, if any), nor any public sanction or penalty
imposed by regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam (“Dato’ Shamesh”) was appointed
to the Board on 8 June 2022 and serves as an Independent Non-
Executive Director of the Company. He also serves as a Chairman of
Nomination Committee and is a member of Audit Committee and
Remuneration Committee of the Company.
Dato’ Shamesh holds a Bachelor of Law (“LLB Hons”) from the
University of London. He has been in legal practice for more than 20
years and has vast experience in civil and commercial law including
handling human resource and intellectual property issues. He also
currently serves as a President of the Housing Tribunal.
Dato’ Shamesh attended four (4) Board Meetings held during the
financial year ended 31 December 2023 since his appointment as
Director on 8 June 2022. He does not have any family relationship
with any Director and/or major shareholder, nor any conflict of
interest with the Company. He has no convictions for any offences
within the past five (5) years (other than traffic offences, if any),
nor any public sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
									 
LEADERSHIP 6
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND KEY SENIOR
MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
MS FANG SIEW PING
Non-Independent Executive Director
Nationality    
Age    Gender
  
42
   
MR KEE THUAN CHAI
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality    
Age    Gender
  
54
   
Ms Fang Siew Ping was reappointed to the Board on 28 August 2019
and serves as a Non-Independent Executive Director of the Company
and its wholly-owned subsidiary, SSSFI. She also serves as a member
of Risk Management Committee, Sustainability Committee and various
Committees of the 3A Group.
Ms Fang Siew Ping holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Chemistry from the
UniversityofKentucky,USA.ShejoinedSSSFIin2004andcurrentlyserves
as Senior Manager of Business Development cum R&D. She collaborates
with the Sales & Marketing team for new business opportunities and
she is also Head of R&D and Quality Assurance Department of SSSFI.
Ms Fang Siew Ping attended all four (4) Board Meetings held during
the financial year ended 31 December 2023. She is the daughter of Mr
Fang Chew Ham and a sibling of Ms Fang Siew Yee, who both are major
shareholders of the Company. She has no conflict of interest with the
Company and has no convictions for any offences within the past five
(5) years (other than traffic offences, if any), nor any public sanction
or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Mr Kee Thuan Chai was appointed to the Board on 30 June 2020 and
serves as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Mr Kee Thuan Chai graduated with a Bachelor of Business in Accountancy
from Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology (“RMIT”), Melbourne,
Australia. He is a member of CPA, Australia and Malaysian Institute of
Accountants (“MIA”).
Mr Kee Thuan Chai started his career as Trainee Accountant with Perlis
Plantation Berhad (now known as PPB Group Berhad) in 1993. He was
transferred to the group’s oil palm plantation subsidiary and based in
Central Kalimantan in 2006. In 2009, he was transferred back to Kuala
Lumpur, with PPB Oil Palms Berhad, now known as Wilmar Plantation
Sdn Bhd (“WPSB”), a fully owned subsidiary of Wilmar International
Limited. He now heads WPSB Finance Department as Group Manager
(“FAA”).
Mr Kee Thuan Chai attended all four (4) Board Meetings held during
the financial year ended 31 December 2023. He does not have any
family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder, nor
any conflict of interest with the Company. He has no convictions for any
offences within the past five (5) years (other than traffic offences, if
any), nor any public sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
7	 
LEADERSHIP
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND KEY SENIOR
MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
MR LIEW KUO SHIN
Non-Independent Executive Director
Nationality    
Age    Gender
  
46
   
Mr Liew Kuo Shin was reappointed to the Board on 28 August 2019
and serves as a Non-Independent Executive Director of the Company.
He also serves as Chief Sustainability Officer of the Sustainability
Committee, a member of Risk Management Working Committee and
various Committees of the 3A Group.
Mr Liew Kuo Shin graduated as a Mechanical Engineer and joined the
Company in 2001. He currently holds the position of General Factory
Manager and oversees the daily operations and overall co-ordination of
all the manufacturing plants. He is also the Head of Logistic Department
and Maintenance Department of SSSFI.
Mr Liew Kuo Shin attended all four (4) Board Meetings held during the
financial year ended 31 December 2023. He is the spouse of Ms Fang
Siew Yee, a major shareholder of the Company. He has no conflict of
interest with the Company and has no convictions for any offences
within the past five (5) years (other than traffic offences, if any), nor
any public sanction or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies during
the financial year.
MR Jamel Bin Ibrahim
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality    
Age    Gender
  
58
   
Mr Jamel Ibrahim was appointed to the Board on 13 June 2023 and
serves as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company. He
also serves as the Chairman of Audit Committee and a member of
Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee of the Company.
Mr Jamel Ibrahim is a qualified accountant and a member of the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants. He has more than 30 years of
professional experience gained in various positions in Tenaga Nasional
Berhad, Shell Malaysia plus a few other companies.
Mr Jamel Ibrahim attended two (2) Board meetings held during the
financialyearended31December2023sincehisappointmentasDirector
on 13 June 2023. He does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholders, nor any conflict of interest with the
Company. He has no convictions for any offences within the past five
(5) years (other than traffic offences, if any), nor any public sanction
or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies during the financial year.
									 
LEADERSHIP 8
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PROFILE OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND KEY SENIOR
MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
MR FONG PENG FAI
Group Financial Controller/Key Senior Management
Nationality    
Age    Gender
  
47
   
Mr Fong Peng Fai was appointed to the Company in 2013 and currently
serves as the Group Financial Controller. He graduated with a Bachelor
of Commerce majoring in Accounting from the University of Otago.
He is a Chartered Global Management Accountant of the Chartered
Institute of Management Accountants (“CIMA”), UK and American
Institute of CPAs (“AICPA”) and a member of the Malaysian Institute
of Accountants (“MIA”).
Mr Fong Peng Fai also holds a Masters of Business Administration from
the University of Strathclyde, UK. His professional working experience
started in external audit firms. Then he moved on to business recovery
and consulting assignments in PriceWaterhouseCoopers and later, he
joined Digi as Head of Accounting and Financial Reporting.
Mr Fong Peng Fai is the son of the Managing Director, Mr Fong Chu
King @ Tong Chu King. He has no conflict of interest with the Company
and has no convictions for any offences within the past five (5) years
(other than traffic offences, if any), nor any public sanction or penalty
imposed by regulatory bodies during the financial year.
MR TAN SOON HOE
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality    
Age    Gender
  
45
   
Mr Tan Soon Hoe was appointed to the Board on 29 February 2024
and serves as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director of the
Company.
Mr Tan Soon Hoe graduated with an accounting and finance degree
from the University of London (external programme). He is presently
an investment manager with Wilmar International Limited. He has
more than 15 years in the investment management industry.
Mr Tan Soon Hoe does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder, nor any conflict of interest with the
Company. He has no convictions for any offences within the past five
(5) years (other than traffic offences, if any), nor any public sanction
or penalty imposed by regulatory bodies during the financial year.
9	 
LEADERSHIP
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
Revenue
RM 603.9
million
Profit After Tax (PAT)
RM 45.2
million
  1.0 Three-A Resources Management Discussion & Analysis 
Business Overview
Three-A Resources Berhad ("3A" or "the Company") is an investment
holding company that has been publicly listed since 2002, subsequently
transferred to the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia in 2008. Through
our wholly-owned subsidiary, San Soon Seng Food Industries Sdn Bhd
("SSSFI"), 3A operates as a leading manufacturer of food and beverage
ingredients. Originating as a caramel producer in 1977, SSSFI has since
diversified our product range, establishing our presence across various
global markets. Together, as a cohesive entity ("the Group"), 3A and
SSSFI remain committed to manufacturing excellence, with a core
focus on producing high-quality food and ingredients. Leveraging our
collective expertise, the Group has successfully extended our reach
beyond the confines of Asia where we now have an established
presence on the international stage.
Our primary objective at 3A is to relentlessly pursue excellence in
our business operations. Aligned with our overarching vision to
emerge as a prominent global market leader, we are dedicated
to manufacturing globally-recognised quality brands of food and
beverage ingredients. To achieve this goal, we adopt a strategic
approach focused on innovation, quality assurance, and customer
satisfaction. By consistently striving for excellence in every aspect of
our operations, we aim to solidify our position as a preferred choice
for discerning consumers worldwide. Through a relentless pursuit of
manufacturing excellence, we position ourselves to achieve our vision
of global leadership in the food and beverage ingredients industry.
Industry Overview
Against the backdrop of a challenging global economic environment,
3A navigated FY2023 with strategic resilience. The Malaysian economy,
after an impressive growth of 8.7% in 2022, witnessed a normalisation
to 3.7% in 2023 according to Bank Negara Malaysia's Economic
and Financial Developments in Malaysia in the Fourth Quarter of
2023. This moderation stemmed from various external challenges,
including a slowdown in global trade, the impact of the global tech
downcycle, geopolitical tensions, and the implementation of tighter
monetary policies.
In spite of this, the outlook for 2024’s growth according to Bank
Negara Malaysia's Economic and Financial Developments in
Malaysia in the Fourth Quarter of 2023 will be fuelled by resilient
domestic spending and a recovery in external demand. The IMF
anticipates a substantial rebound in global trade growth, rising
from 0.4% in 2023 to 3.3% in 2024. This, coupled with the tech
upswing, increased external demand, and ongoing improvements
in the tourism sector, is poised to bolster Malaysia's exports. On
the domestic side, sustained employment and wage growth will
support household spending, whilst investments will gain momentum
through multi-year projects in both private and public sectors.
									 
PERFORMANCE REVIEW 10
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
Statista, the market and consumer data provider also reveals that the
global revenue in the food market was forecast to continuously increase
between 2023 and 2028 by in total 3.6 trillion U.S. dollars (+38.46
percent). This market is poised for significant growth, projecting an
annual increase of 6% through the compound annual growth rate
(CAGR) from 2023 to 2028 indicating a favourable trend for 3A. With the
confectionery and snacks segment standing out as the market's largest
segment with an expected market revenue of US$1.77 trillion in 2024,
these global statistics show a positive potential for companies like 3A.
In the prevailing economic climate, 3A's trajectory is significantly
influenced by current market dynamics, necessitating a diligent and
adaptable approach in our strategic deliberations. Throughout the fiscal
year 2023, the Group implemented initiatives aimed at enhancing our
business resilience, particularly in response to challenges encountered,
such as geopolitical risks affecting raw material expenses and the
escalation of inflationary pressures. As we progress forward, 3A remains
committed to navigating these economic conditions prudently, moving
towards a promising future.
  2023 Business and Operational Performance 
Performance Overview
Turning to business and operational performance, 3A experienced a
decrease of 8.3% in revenue (RM 54.8 million) in FY2023 compared to
the previous fiscal year. This reduction was attributed to lower quantities
of products sold, reflecting the broader economic challenges faced
during this period. The anticipated softening in consumer demand,
influenced by weakened consumer spending and increased competition
from new market entrants, is expected to affect the group accordingly.
However,amidstthefinancialenvironment,therewerepositiveindicators
wherein the Group's liquidity ratios, including the current ratio, quick
ratio, as well as cash and bank balances, demonstrated improvements.
Exports
Singapore emerged as the primary export destination, constituting
10.3% of the total revenue in FY2023 as compared to 9.7% in FY2022.
However, overall export revenue experienced a decline, amounting to
approximately RM 5.4 million less than FY2022. This reduction in export
revenue can be attributed primarily to diminished sales volumes during
FY2023, due to broader industry headwinds and subdued demand
compared to the preceding fiscal year. In response to these challenges,
the Group has remained vigilant, implementing adaptive strategies
to align with market dynamics and navigate industry fluctuations
effectively. We continue to prioritise agility and responsiveness in our
operations to capitalise on emerging opportunities and mitigate risks
in the global export arena.
Earnings
The Group’s earnings demonstrated promising growth in FY2023, with
net profit surging by 29% or RM 10.1 million to RM 45.2 million. The
significant increase can be ascribed to several strategic factors. Firstly,
our focus on optimising our sales mix led to an improved average
selling price (ASP), bolstering our bottom line. Additionally, measures
to mitigate raw material costs and stabilise other industry-related
expenses contributed positively to our financial performance. Cost
controls implemented throughout FY2023 yielded substantial benefits
compared to the preceding fiscal year, improving our overall profitability
and positioning us favourably amidst evolving market dynamics.
Assets and Liabilities
3A saw adjustments in our financial position in FY2023 where total
assets decreased by 0.66% (RM 3.384 million), whilst total liabilities
saw a significant decline of 38.08% (RM 33.869 million). In contrast,
shareholders' equity experienced a positive increase of 7.26% (RM
11	 PERFORMANCE REVIEW
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
30.485 million). Earnings per share stood at 9.23 sen, and net assets
per share was reported as 92.2 sen as of 31 December 2023. Lower
inventory levels and reduced trade and other receivables contributed
to the decrease in total assets in tandem with lower revenue recorded.
Similarly, total liabilities decreased due to reduced trade and other
payables, along with repayments in bank borrowings like banker
acceptances and term loans during FY2023. Conversely, the increase in
shareholders' equity by 31 December 2023, compared to 31 December
2022, stemmed from the profit generated in FY2023, partly offset by
the interim dividend payout in December 2023.
Production
We strategically leveraged our manufacturing capacity and drove
product innovation, highlighted by significant advancements such as
the acquisition and deployment of hydro heaters and advanced product
packing machinery. Additionally, the implementation of a solar panel
photovoltaic system marked a significant step forward in the Group's
ESG initiatives, reducing reliance on non-renewable energy sources
and lowering energy costs whilst minimising our carbon footprint.
Strategicinitiativesincludeongoingplansforplantexpansions,upgrades,
andmodernisation,demonstratingafocusedefforttoachieveeconomies
of scale and operational excellence. Our current business strategy
emphasises operational efficiency, with a particular focus on initiatives
to increase automation and decrease dependence on foreign labour.
These measures aim to enhance plant efficiency, drive cost savings,
and ensure long-term sustainability.
Marketing and Customer Base Expansion
Focused on expanding market presence and cultivating customer
loyalty, the Group actively participated in exhibitions and trade fairs
to attract new customers and showcase products for both local and
export markets. We strive to foster customer loyalty by sharing hands-
on information on key aspects such as business varieties, food safety,
formulas and batches, regulatory compliance, sales and profitability,
and critical success factors.
Maintaining strong customer relationships is essential for long-term
business success. We achieve this by actively listening to our customers’
needs, providing solutions, and continually seeking improvements to
achieve our marketing goals.
The relocation and expansion of the Micro Lab, Physical & Chemical Lab
is currently underway and expected to be ready for use in 2024. We
enhance our research and development (“R&D”) team and facilities
to offer proactive technical support and swiftly address operational
challenges for our customers. Ongoing innovation is crucial for seeking
novel approaches, with a focus on maximising manufacturing capacity
and enhancing product innovation. Our strategic focus ensures the
deliveryofcost-competitivesolutionstomeettheneedsofourcustomers.
Key Business Opportunities and Risks
In FY2023, we identified significant business opportunities and risks,
including the potential impact of slower economic growth due to
various external challenges, including a slowdown in global trade, the
impact of the global tech downcycle, geopolitical tensions, and the
implementation of tighter monetary policies present risks in specific
major countries and the introduction of our competitor's products in
local and overseas markets. Key raw materials, including tapioca,
corn starch, sugar, and soybean meal, face commodity price volatility
which presents challenges for the Group. Recognising sustainability
and ESG-related matters as potential growth areas, the Group aimed
to attract companies that prioritise ESG efforts in line with our efforts
to foster sustainability.
In response, 3A executed strategic measures, particularly in optimising
the sales mix which has resulted in positive outcomes for 3A. ESG
considerations were integrated into decision-making processes,
indicating our proactive approach to the evolving industry dynamics.
Ongoing discussions and operational strategies were implemented
to mitigate the impact of fluctuating raw material costs, a crucial
concern given our dependence on sourcing primary raw materials
from other countries. These initiatives exemplify 3A's adaptability
and foresight in navigating the volatile business conditions of FY2023.
  Outlook and Prospects 
In line with Malaysia's commitment to fostering a stronger economic
rebound and enhancing societal well-being, particular attention is
directed towards the role of the Food and Beverage (“F&B”) sector.
Recognised as a cornerstone in reshaping lifestyles and ensuring food
security, the F&B industry has witnessed notable growth in recent
years within the global economy.
TheoutlookforMalaysia'sF&Bsectorsintheupcomingfiscalyearappears
promising. Nevertheless, it is imperative to acknowledge potential
challenges on the horizon, such as escalating inflation prevalent in
larger economies. These factors warrant careful consideration in our
strategic planning for sustained growth and resilience in the evolving
economic landscape.
The anticipated outlook for Three-A Resources in the fiscal year 2024 is
characterisedbyprevailingchallengesarisingfrompersistentinflationary
pressures and geopolitical uncertainties. These factors are expected to
exert upward pressure on raw material costs, potentially impacting the
Group's operational expenses. However, amidst these challenges, the
Group remains steadfast in our strategic initiatives aimed at mitigating
risks and capitalising on opportunities for growth.
Despitetheaforementionedhurdles,3Aisresolutelyfocusedonproactive
measures to navigate the evolving market landscape. The Group's
strategic priorities include optimising the sales mix, venturing into
new markets to diversify revenue streams, enhancing plant efficiency
to drive operational excellence, and fostering innovation to develop
									 
PERFORMANCE REVIEW 12
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
new products. These initiatives are geared towards identifying and
capitalising on emerging business prospects whilst also driving cost
efficiencies to safeguard profitability in the face of external pressures.
Through a blend of resilience and strategic foresight, 3A remains poised
to navigate the challenges of FY2024 and capitalise on opportunities
for sustainable growth.
Dividends
The Group declared an interim dividend of RM0.025 and a special
dividend of RM0.005 per share for FY2023, resulting in a total dividend
payout of RM14.7 million on 20 December 2023. The decision on
dividends considered the robust financial performance in FY2023,
aligning with the Group's strategic business plans for the upcoming
years. Deliberations also factored in the Group's capital requirements
and cash flow positions to ensure a balanced approach to dividends
whilst maintaining financial stability and supporting future business
initiatives.
Note of Appreciation
As we look back on FY2023, it proved to be a year filled with challenges
for our Group, and we are deeply appreciative of the steadfast support
we received from our customers and suppliers. Their confidence in us
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS (CONTINUED)
helped us mitigate the impact of external adversities on our business
and operations. We extend our heartfelt gratitude to our shareholders for
their continued trust, to our loyal consumers for navigating the volatile
market alongside us, and to our business partners for collaborating with
us to create synergistic outcomes.
Our sincere appreciation also goes out to every member of the 3A Group,
from our dedicated employees to our management team. Their trust
in embracing the Group's business strategies has been instrumental
in our resilience and driving revenue growth.
We would like to express our sincere appreciation to Mr Chew Eng Chai
and Ms Lim Yee Mein who resigned from the Board on 26 May 2023
and 29 February 2024 respectively for their invaluable contribution to
the Group. Then we would like to welcome Mr Jamel Bin Ibrahim and
Mr Tan Soon Hoe to the Board and we have full confidence that they
can contribute immensely to the future success of the Group.
Lastly, we would like to express our profound gratitude to our Chairman
and directors for their invaluable wisdom and foresight in guiding the
Group towards a brighter future. With the support of the 3A team, we
eagerlyanticipatetheGroup'soutlookforsustainablesuccessinthefuture.
13	 PERFORMANCE REVIEW
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
FIVE-YEAR GROUP
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
									 
PERFORMANCE REVIEW 14
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Revenue 603,864 658,702 515,615 436,166 436,066
Profit Before Tax 57,422 47,803 62,506 40,708 40,259
Profit After Tax 45,155 35,094 46,545 30,162 29,419
Total Assets 505,664 509,048 463,570 431,837 406,519
Total Liabilities 55,072 88,941 65,259 65,364 58,345
Share Capital 149,087 149,087 149,087 149,087 149,087
Shareholders' Equity 450,592 420,107 398,311 366,473 348,174
Earnings per Share (sen) 9.2 7.2 9.5 6.2 6.0
Net Assets per Share (sen) 92.2 85.8 81.2 74.4 70.7
Net Dividend per Share (sen) 3.0 2.5 3.0 2.2 2.0
Return on Equity (%) 10.0 8.4 11.7 8.2 8.4
Return on Assets (%) 8.9 6.9 10.0 7.0 7.2
Dividend Payout Ratio (%) 32.5 34.9 31.6 35.7 33.3
FIVE-YEAR GROUP
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS (CONTINUED)
15	 PERFORMANCE REVIEW
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
REVENUE
(RM’000)
YEAR 2023
RM 603,864
YEAR 2022
RM 658,702
0
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
700,000
800,000
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
FY2020
FY2019
EARNINGS PER SHARE
(sen)
YEAR 2023
RM 9.2
YEAR 2022
RM 7.2
0
2.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
10.0
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
FY2020
FY2019
PROFIT AFTER TAX
(RM’000)
YEAR 2023
RM 45,155
YEAR 2022
RM 35,094
0
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
FY2020
FY2019
NET ASSETS PER SHARE
(sen)
YEAR 2023
RM 92.2
YEAR 2022
RM 85.8
0
20.0
40.0
60.0
80.0
100.0
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
FY2020
FY2019
 CONTENTS 
 
AN OVERVIEW OF OUR SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT      17
  Three-A’s Statement at a Glance     17
Progressing into a Sustainable Future     17
Reporting Scope and Boundary     17
Reporting Frameworks and Standards     17
Feedback on Our Statement     17
Accreditations and Recognition     17
Assurance Statement     17
SUSTAINABILITY ACHIEVEMENTS     18
KEY MILESTONES ACROSS OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY     19
STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH     20
ESG Framework     20
Three-A’s Sustainability Policy     21
Focus on Global Responsibility     22
Governance and Leadership     23
Stakeholders and Us     24
NAVIGATING THREE-A’S MATERIAL MATTERS     25
Materiality Assessment     25
Visualising Our Materiality Matters     26
Mapping of Material Sustainability Matters     27
MEASURING SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE     28
ADVANCING CLIMATE ACTION     29
Compliance to TCFD Reporting Recommendations     29
ECONOMIC IMPACT     31
Economic Performance | Driving Economic Value     32
Supply Chain Management | Optimising the Value Chain    32
ROBUST GOVERNANCE     34
Corporate Governance and Anti-Corruption | Working with
Ethics and Integrity     35
Customer Privacy and Data Protection | Ensuring
Digital Security      37
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP     38
Climate Change and Energy | Towards A
Greener Environment     39
Water Management | Optimising Our
Water Requirements     41
Waste and Effluent | Responsibly Managing
Our Environmental Footprint     41
SOCIAL PROTECTION     42
Health and Safety | Protecting Our People     43
Fair Labour Practices | Fostering an Equitable Workplace     44
Diversity | Embracing Diversity and Inclusivity     47
Product Quality and Customer Satisfaction | Ensuring
Quality Assurance     50
Community Investment | Uplifting Communities     51
CONCLUSION     51
PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE     52
GRI CONTENT INDEX     55
TCFD CONTENT INDEX     56
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
									 SUSTAINABILITY	
16
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
  AN OVERVIEW OF OUR SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT 
Three-A’s Statement at a Glance 
The Food and Beverage (“F&B”) ingredients industry has an important
role to play in terms of providing sustainable consumer products and
fulfillingstandardsandexpectationsofresponsibleconsumption.Three-A
Resources Berhad, an investment holding company listed since 2002
and transferred to the Bursa Malaysia Main Market in 2008, recognises
the importance of meeting the ever-evolving needs of consumers in
the F&B ingredients industry.
Through our wholly-owned subsidiary, San Soon Seng Food Industries
Sdn Bhd (“SSSFI”), we strive to embrace an eco-friendly organisational
culture that prioritises the production of high-quality products. Starting
out as a sole proprietorship caramel producer in 1977, SSSFI has since
diversified our product portfolio to include soya protein sauce, vinegar
and other ingredients further strengthening our sustainable ingredient
manufacturing practices in line with the expansion to global markets.
Three-AResourcesBerhad(“3A’’or“theCompany”)anditswholly-owned
subsidiaries(collectivelyknownas“3AGroup”,“Three-A”or“theGroup”)
are delighted to present our Sustainability Statement which provides
a complete and balanced account of the Group’s material matters and
performanceforthefinancialyearended31December2023(“FY2023”).
Progressing into a Sustainable Future 
FY2023 marked the development of 3A Group’s Sustainability Policy
encompassing the four pillars of Economic Impact, Robust Governance,
Environmental Stewardship and Social Protection. As part of the
Group’s alignment with the Task Force on Climate-Related Disclosures
(“TCFD”) recommendations, the Policy includes climate-related risks and
opportunities where we have scaled up decarbonisation efforts across
the value chain.
Being an advocate of the United Nation’s 2030 Agenda for Sustainable
Development,weadoptedfourUnitedNationsSustainableDevelopment
Goals (“UN SDGs”) in response to this pressing call for action. The Group's
core values pertaining to Environmental Responsibility, Community
Engagement and Sustainable Growth also play an instrumental role in
determining our sustainability strategy including principles, approaches
and policies.
The Group recorded zero incidents of corruption and industry-related
non-complianceindicatingourdedicationtosoundcorporategovernance
practices. We conducted the Anti-Corruption Risk Assessment to better
prevent and manage corruption risks in all departments and to comply
with Bursa Malaysia’s requirements. As we move forward, our focus on
sustainability propels us towards becoming a globally-recognised player
in the F&B ingredients industry.
Reporting Scope and Boundary 
TheGroup’sSustainabilityStatementcoverstheperiodfrom1January2023
until 31 December 2023. Our sustainability disclosures for this reporting
period comprises data from 3A and our wholly-owned subsidiary SSSFI.
DatafromThree-AFoodIndustries(M)Sdn.Bhd.whichisawholly-owned
subsidiary of 3A will be included under the economic disclosures section
only,duetothenatureofitsprincipalactivity,whichisinvestmentholdings.
Reporting Frameworks and Standards 
ThissustainabilitystatementispreparedwithreferencetoBursaMalaysia
Securities Main Market Listing Requirements, the Bursa Malaysia’s
Sustainability Reporting Guide (3rd edition) and the recent Illustrative
Reporting Guidelines. The sustainability disclosures are also guided by
the Global Reporting Initiatives (“GRI”) Standards, the TCFD and the UN
SGDs as a measure of our compliance.
Feedback on Our Statement 
As part of our efforts to continuous improvement, we strive to enhance
our sustainability reporting progressively. We value the input of our
stakeholders and welcome any questions, feedback or suggestions you
mayhave.Kindlyreachouttoususingthecontactdetailsprovidedbelow.
Ms Jessica Fang
Senior Manager
Mr Fong Peng Fai
Group Financial
Controller
Email
info@three-a.com.my
Accreditations and Recognition 
Three-A has been accredited by various agencies, attesting to our
compliance with national and international regulations in providing
quality products with high standards.
• 
FSSC 22000 Certification by Intertek Certification International
Sdn. Bhd.
• 
HACCP Certification by Ministry of Health Malaysia (“MOH”)
• 
HALALCertificationbyDepartmentofIslamicDevelopmentMalaysia
(“JAKIM”)
• 
KOSHER Certification by Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations
of America
Assurance Statement 
All data contained in Three-A’s FY2023 Sustainability Statement has been
internally sourced, verified and validated by the respective business
divisions and information owners. The Group is dedicated to improving
ourdatacollectionandanalysisprocessesforaccuracyandqualityaswell
as enhancing disclosures. In addition, this Sustainability Statement has
been subjected to a review by the Internal Auditor, IA Essential Sdn Bhd.
The scope and subject matters under review are the compliance with the
applicable Practice Note 9 Disclosure Requirements, the Sustainability
PerformanceData,theBursa’sprescribedcommonSustainabilityIndicators
andtheconsistencyofthedisclosurewiththeGRIreferences.Thereviewed
findings and commentary were presented to the Audit Committee and
the Management.
17	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
 SUSTAINABILITY ACHIEVEMENTS 
FY2023 saw numerous key achievements for the Group in aspiring towards an equitable future. In making a mark in the F&B ingredients
industry, we go the extra mile to incorporate sustainability principles and initiatives across our entire operations. As evidence of the strong
drive to achieve long-term sustainable growth, our accomplishments convey the Group’s current Environment, Social and Governance
(“ESG”) performance and future targets.
RM603.86
million
Economic value
generated
RM45.15
million
Economic value
retained
Implemented
Supplier
Assessment for
100% of active
vendors
Zero
reported incidents
of corruption
Zero
whistleblowing
cases reported
Zero incidents
of industry-related
non-compliances
reported
Initiated climate-
related disclosures
in line with TCFD
Recommendations
14.3%
reduction in
total energy
consumption
36%
used plastic
packaging
containers
reconditioned and
reused
Zero
work-related fatalities
12,186
total employee
development and
safety training hours
Zeroincidents of
human rights violation
RM16,262
in community
investments
Robust
Governance
Environmental
Stewardship
Social
Protection
Economic
Impact
									SUSTAINABILITY	
18
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  KEY MILESTONES ACROSS OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY 
Three-A’s sustainability journey has been marked by many pivotal moments since the first Sustainability Statement in 2017.
Exemplifying our dedication to excellence, a forward-looking approach is employed to achieve the Group’s sustainability
goals. Perseverance remains central to the organisation as we contribute to sustainable development, embracing “green” and
“people-driven” initiatives along the way.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
• 
Reported sustainability disclosures under four
pillars: Marketplace, Environment, Workplace and
Community.
• 
Reported sustainability disclosures under three pillars
renamed as: Economic, Environment, and Social.
• 
Established a 3-tiered governance structure
• 
Identified six stakeholder groups.
• 
Conducted a materiality assessment and identified
10 material sustainability matters.
• 
Generated the Group’s first materiality matrix.
• 
Maintained disclosures under three pillars: Economic,
Environment and Social.
• 
Maintained 10 material sustainability matters.
• 
Included an internal assurance statement.
• 
Maintained disclosures under three pillars renamed
as: Economic, Environment and Social.
• 
Maintained 10 material sustainability matters.
• 
Reported sustainability disclosures under four pillars
renamed as: Economic Impact, Robust Governance,
Environmental Stewardship and Social Protection.
• 
Conducted materiality reassessment and identified
12 material sustainability matters.
• 
Adopted four new UN SDGs.
• 
Established a Sustainability Policy.
• 
Developed an ESG Framework.
• 
Included an internal assurance statement from
internal auditors.
• 
Reported 1st Sustainability Statement guided by the
GRI standards.
• 
Reported sustainability disclosures under three
pillars: Marketplace, Environment and Workplace.
2017
2018
2019
2020-
2021
2022
2023
19	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
1. Economic
Performance
2. Supply Chain
Management
1. Corporate Governance
and Anti-Corruption
2. 
Customer Privacy and
Data Protection
1. 
Climate Change and
Energy
2. Water Management
3. 
Waste and Effluent
1. 
Health and Safety
2. 
Fair Labour Practices
3. Diversity
4. 
Product Quality and
Customer Satisfaction
5. Community Investment
 STRATEGIC SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 
ESG Framework
Three-A’s ESG framework forms the basis of the organisation upon which sustainability policies, strategies and directives are developed.
In laying out these foundational principles including the Group’s vision and mission statements, there is a clear direction and foresight of
what present and future endeavours should entail.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Vision Mission
To excel as one of the Global Market Leaders in the
manufacture of Food and Beverage ingredients
To excel as one of the Global Quality Brands in the industries
ESG Pillars
Material Sustainability Matters
UN SDGs
Stakeholder Groups
Alignment with Frameworks & Standards
Robust
Governance
Environmental
Stewardship
Social
Protection
Economic
Impact
Shareholders Employees Regulators Customers Suppliers Local
Communities
									SUSTAINABILITY	
20
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
• 
Maintain transparent and
opencommunicationwith
ourstakeholderstoensure
the disclosure of accurate
informationregardingour
sustainability practices,
performance and goals.
• 
Uphold the highest level
of ethics and integrity in
our business operations,
encouraging a culture
of honesty, fairness and
accountability.
• 
Preventallformsofbribery
andcorruptionthroughout
the Group’s value chain.
• 
Adhere strictly to laws,
regulations and industry
standards relevant to our
operations.
• 
Implement robust risk
management strategies,
identifying potential
risks associated with
environmental impact,
social issues and
governance concerns
and proactively taking
measures to mitigate
them.
• 
Continuously improve
energy efficiency,
monitor and reduce our
carbon footprint across
operations.
• 
Embrace the principles of
a circular economy, with a
focusonrecycling,reusing
and reducing waste.
• 
Promote responsible
consumption and
production.
• 
Prevent environmental
pollutionandimprovethe
quality of environmental
management.
• 
Ensure compliance with
environmentalregulations
and legal requirements.
• 
Foster a culture of
diversity and inclusion
by implementing policies
andpracticesthatpromote
equal opportunities and
eliminate discrimination.
• 
Prioritise the health,
safety and well-being
of our employees by
implementing stringent
safety guidelines and
protocols.
• 
Conductregularhealthand
safety training to foster
a safe and healthy work
environment.
• 
Supportthewell-beingand
growth of our employees
bycultivatingaworkplace
culture that encourages
their development.
• 
Encourage employee
g r o w t h a n d
development through
training programmes,
career advancement
opportunities and
performance recognition.
• 
Engage in community
development initiatives.
  Three-A’s Sustainability Policy 
The Group’s Sustainability Policy was formulated in line with current ESG policies and core values. Through this Policy, our commitment
to all four pillars of governance, economic, social and environment is evident. Sustainability practices are integrated across operations,
decision-making processes and the overall business strategy.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
• 
Adopt a sustainable
business model that
emphasises quality
products, value-added
services and ethical
practices.
• 
Drive the continuous
innovation of sustainable
products and services.
• 
Prioritise suppliers with
strong sustainability
practices.
• 
Co n d u c t re g u l a r
assessments to identify
andmitigateanypotential
risks associated with our
supply chain, ensuring
compliance with ethical
and responsible sourcing
practices.
• 
Prioritise the delivery
of superior returns to
our shareholders whilst
consideringthelong-term
impacts of our actions.
Economic
Impact
Robust
Governance
Environmental
Stewardship
Social
Protection
21	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Focus on Global Responsibility
The UN SDGs set the global agenda for sustainable development by 2030 and are a call for action by both the public and private sectors.
As such, Three-A has adopted four UN SDGs that resonate with specific initiatives and targets, whilst striving to embed sustainability into
core strategies. In doing so, it positions us to navigate risks, seize opportunities and remain resilient in the rapidly changing business
landscape.
8.8: Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working environments
• 
The Group complied with all relevant local and international labour laws and standards.
• 
The Group maintained an equal distribution of salary ratios between male and female employees to ensure fairness
and impartiality in compensation.
12.5: Reduce waste generation
• 
The Group had commenced an initiative to promote the use of reused materials where plastic packaging containers
are reconditioned and reused in products.
• 
The Group has partnered with approved contractors to responsibly manage waste generated from manufacturing
activities.
13.1: Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters
• 
Completed Phase 1 of our Solar Power Project in July 2023, allowing us to generate renewable energy.
• 
The Group installed a Variable Refrigerant Volume (“VRV”) System at the office building to control refrigerant flow
and use heat pumps with inverter technology to enhance efficiency and promote climate solutions.
16.5: Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all their forms
• 
Zero reported incidents of corruption for FY2023.
• 
Initiated the Group’s first anti-corruption assessment in FY2023.
• 
Assessed 100% of operations (departments) for corruption risks.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
									SUSTAINABILITY	
22
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Governance and Leadership
Three-A’s 3-tiered Sustainability Governance Structure is designed to provide a robust framework with distinct roles and responsibilities
for the development and implementation of sustainable policies and procedures. It is headed by the Board of Directors, who provide
strategic oversight on sustainability strategies, policies and targets as well as climate-related risks and opportunities.
The Sustainability Committee (“SC”) is tasked with steering the sustainability strategy and ensuring initiatives align with the set
objectives and timelines. Handling the day-to-day implementation of sustainability initiatives, the Sustainability Working Committee
(“SWC”) translates strategic goals into tangible actions and regularly reports the progress to the SC.
Three-A Resources Berhad Sustainability Governance Structure
Board
of
Directors
Sustainability
Committee
Sustainability
Working Committee
Roles Responsibilities
Board of Directors
• 
Provides strategic oversight over the Group’s overall sustainability agenda, practices, strategies, performance
and material sustainability matters.
• 
Provides strategic oversight over the integration of ESG-related risks and opportunities within the Group’s
strategy and risk management, including climate-related risks and opportunities.
• 
Approves sustainability policies, strategies, material sustainability matters, and the annual Sustainability
Statement proposed by the SC.
Sustainability
Committee
• 
Develops and recommends sustainability strategies, initiatives and targets to the Board.
• 
Monitors the implementation of sustainability strategies, policies and initiatives.
• 
Assesses and manages the Group’s ESG and climate-related risks and opportunities.
• 
Identifies and proposes changes to sustainability policies, standards and procedures to the Board when required.
Sustainability
Working
Committee
• 
Implements and monitors sustainability initiatives in day-to-day operations.
• 
Identifies and proposes material sustainability matters relevant to the Group to the SC.
• 
Tracks and reports ESG-related data to the SC on a regular basis.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
23	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Stakeholders and Us
Constructive communication and collaboration with stakeholders are important to create and maintain meaningful and mutually-beneficial
relationships. Through continual stakeholder engagement, we stay abreast of changing trends, developments and expectations. This
enables us to embrace new possibilities whilst staying relevant to stakeholders.
Shareholders
Shareholders actively participate in key decisions through voting, fostering effective communication and transparency
with Three-A. Their ownership, voting rights, financial contributions and return expectations collectively shape the
company’s direction, enabling us to fulfil our business goals.
Engagement Method & Frequency Areas of Interest Our Response
Ongoing
• 
Investor relationship feedback
• 
Company website
Quarterly
• 
Financial results announcements
Annually
• 
Annual General Meeting
• 
Continued growth and profitability
• 
3A’s positive image and reputation
• 
Mitigationandadaptationtoclimate
change
• 
Quarterly financial results and
annual reports
• 
Uphold good governance practices
• 
Outline carbon reduction strategies
• 
Monitor sustainability performance
and targets
Regulators
Government and regulatory authorities are institutions entrusted with the responsibility of creating, enforcing,
and overseeing the legal and regulatory frameworks that govern the sector within Three-A’s operations.
Engagement Method & Frequency Areas of Interest Our Response
As needed
• 
On-site inspection
• 
Updates and briefing by regulators
• 
Anti-bribery and corruption
• 
Food safety, quality and compliance
• 
Anti-corruption policy
• 
Full compliance with regulatory
requirements
Employees
Three-A employees comprise of individuals who contribute their skills, expertise, and efforts towards the
collective goals and success of the Group. Our employees contribute not only to the tangible output of goods for
Three-A but also to the intangible aspects of our Group culture and morale.
Engagement Method & Frequency Areas of Interest Our Response
Ongoing
• 
Management meetings
As needed
• 
Workshops and trainings
• 
Interviews
Annually
• 
Feedback and surveys
• 
Appraisal
• 
Training, guidance and support
• 
Employee welfare
• 
Workplace safety and health
• 
Talent attraction, career development,
recognition, and job satisfaction
• 
Provide relevant upskilling
opportunities
• 
Third party audits in line with
labour standards
• 
Employee feedback box
• 
HIRARC assessments and health
and safety trainings
• 
Employee benefits and
competitive compensation
Customers
Customers for Three-A are businesses operating in the food and beverage industry which source their raw or
semi-processed food and beverage ingredients from our Group. The consistency of our product quality influences
the quality of the food and beverage product that they market.
Engagement Method & Frequency Areas of Interest Our Response
As needed
• 
Meetings
• 
Survey feedback
Annually
• 
Satisfaction assessment
• 
Food safety and quality
• 
CompliancewithInternationalQuality
Standards
• 
Compliance with Food Safety
System Certification
• 
Compliance with FSSC22000,
Halal and Kosher certifications
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
									SUSTAINABILITY	
24
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  NAVIGATING THREE-A’S MATERIAL MATTERS 
Materiality Assessment
In FY2023, we embarked on a materiality reassessment with key stakeholder groups to gather feedback on material matters that
have the greatest impact on them whilst also identifying those matters most important to us. Our material matters are increasingly
interconnected and inform strategic decision-making, guide sustainability practices as well as reporting. We continue to tailor approaches
with topics that are significant, taking into consideration the evolving F&B ingredients industry.
Identify: A benchmarking exercise against industry best
practices and compliance against Bursa Malaysia’s Main Market
Listing Requirements was conducted to review and redefine
Three-A’s material sustainability matters, to account for changes
in ESG priorities and stakeholder expectations.
01
04
Validate:Theresultingmaterialitymatrixwasvalidatedbythe
Sustainability Committee and approved by the Board of Directors.
03
Prioritisation:Theresponsesfromthematerialityassessment
forms were collated and plotted on a matrix using the weighted
average method.
Assess:Amaterialityassessmentworkshopwasconductedwhich
involvedtheparticipationofdepartmentheadsandrepresentatives,
and the materiality assessment form was distributed for them to
rankthematerialsustainabilitymattersintheorderofimportance
to stakeholders and impact on the business.
02
Materiality
Assessment
Process
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Suppliers
Suppliers and vendors are vital business partners for our Group, contributing to various aspects of our supply
chain whereby their products and services can influence Three-A’s product quality and reputation.
Engagement Method & Frequency Areas of Interest Our Response
As needed
• 
Product quality feedback
• 
Meetings
Bi-Annually
• 
Performance reviews
• 
Procurement processes
• 
Ethical practices
• 
Supply chain responsibility
• 
Supplier/Vendor Assessment
• 
Procurement and Management
Teams
Local
Communities
Local communities hold significant importance for Three-A as they form the immediate socio-economic context
in which the business operates. Engaging with and contributing to local communities is a strategic imperative
for Three-A.
Engagement Method & Frequency Areas of Interest Our Response
As needed
• 
Communication with
representatives
• 
Participation in community
programmes
• 
Corporate Social Responsibility
programmes
25	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
3.  Economic Performance
7. Supply Chain
Management
2. Corporate Governance
and Anti-Corruption
4. 
Customer Privacy and
Data Protection
8. 
Waste and Effluent
9. 
Climate Change and
Energy
10.  Water Management
1. 
Procduct Quality and
Customer Satisfaction
5.  Health and Safety
6.  Fair Labour Practices
11. Diversity
12.  Community Investment
Visualising Our Materiality Matters
The resulting materiality matrix reflects our ESG priorities based on the importance to stakeholders and the impact to our business as
well as how we understand and respond to stakeholder feedback. The matrix is also used to develop future ESG goals and actions which
shape the overall sustainability agenda.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
High
High Critical
Very High
Impact to the Business
Importance to Stakeholders
Very High
Critical
11
12
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Robust
Governance
Environmental
Stewardship
Social
Protection
Economic
Impact
									SUSTAINABILITY	
26
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Mapping of Material Sustainability Matters
Material matters are categorised according to the four pillars, the UN SDGs and relevant stakeholder groups. The strategic mapping
provides a holistic view of approaches to each material matter, weaving together specific measures taken to address these focus areas.
Legend:
  Shareholders     Regulators     Employees     Customers     Suppliers     Local Communities
Material Matters Our Approach UN SDGs Stakeholder Groups
Economic Impact
Economic
Performance
Oureconomicperformanceprovidesthebasisforbusinessandemployment
opportunities to the local population and businesses.      
Supply Chain
Management
Our procurement practices seek to support the local economy by sourcing
from local suppliers where possible. We also procure input materials
from suppliers with high quality materials.
 
Robust Governance
Corporate
Governance and
Anti-Corruption
The Group is guided by a robust governance structure and implements
policies, codes and procedures to ensure an ethical business process for
our organisation and those we engage with.
     
Customer Privacy
and Data Protection
We safeguard our customers' data and privacy from data breaches through
our policies, procedures and implement industry best practices.    
Environmental Stewardship
Climate Change and
Energy
We mitigate our impact on the environment and tackle climate change
by managing our energy consumption to minimise greenhouse gas
emissions.
     
Waste and Effluents
The Group minimises environmental impacts by managing waste disposal
and minimising general waste generation. We implement our own
wastewater treatment to prevent adverse impacts to surface water
and the environment.
     
Water Management
The Group aims to manage our water consumption efficiently across our
operations using adopted measures.  
Social Protection
Health and Safety
We ensure the health and safety of our employees by maintaining a
safe and conducive working environment.      
Fair Labour Practices
The Group respects the rights of employees and the community by
implementing measures and procedures to safeguard their rights.      
Diversity
We advocate equal opportunity and inclusivity in our workforce regardless
of gender and social background.    
Community
Investment
The Group allocates resources to contribute to a range of community
initiatives to alleviate the challenges faced by vulnerable groups and
communities surrounding our operations.
   
Product Quality
and Customer
Satisfaction
We ensure the safety and quality of our products via compliance with
international quality standards and fair product pricing.    
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
27	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
  MEASURING SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 
Three-A measures progress towards sustainability goals and identifies areas where we can improve by tracking key performance indicators
(“KPIs”) related to ESG issues. Hence, a total of 10 KPIs linked under four pillars which consisted of one Economic Impact KPI, two Robust
Governance KPIs, three Environmental Stewardship KPIs and four Social Protection KPIs are tracked by the Group to improve our business
approach and performance.
Material Matters KPIs Performance
ECONOMIC IMPACT
Supply Chain
Management
Implemented at least 85% of supplier assessments annually
ROBUST GOVERNANCE
Corporate
Governance and
Anti-Corruption
Zero reported incidents of bribery and corruption annually
Zero reported grievances or whistleblowing complaints to the Group annually
ENVIRONMENTAL STEWARDSHIP
Climate Change
and Energy
To establish a baseline year for GHG emissions by FY2025
Waste and Effluent
To achieve 20% of used plastic packaging containers (by weight) reconditioned and
reused annually
To monitor and disclose volume of wastewater released annually by FY2025
SOCIAL PROTECTION
Safety and Health
Achieve zero cases of serious accidents annually
To ensure at least 60% of workers received safety and health training annually
Labour Practices
and Standards
Achieve zero substantiated complaints of human rights violation
Provide an average of 10 training hours per employee annually
 Achieved        In-Progress
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
									SUSTAINABILITY	
28
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  ADVANCING CLIMATE ACTION 
Compliance to TCFD Reporting Recommendations
By adopting the TCFD recommendations, Three-A has transitioned towards a more transparent and comprehensive approach to disclosing
climate-related financial information.
Governance
The Group has initiated efforts to encapsulate climate change awareness including risks and opportunities into our sustainability governance.
Climate-related roles and responsibilities
Board
• 
The Board is aware of the potential impacts, risks and opportunities from climate change on Three-A’s operations and includes
climate-related considerations in the Company’s governance and risk management.
• 
The Board provides strategic oversight of the company’s sustainability and enterprise risk management including climate-related
risk management.
• 
The Board provides strategic oversight of the company’s sustainability initiatives, including climate-related initiatives.
Management
• 
The Management monitors climate-related risk and opportunities.
• 
The Management manages the Company’s risk management strategy including climate-related strategies.
• 
The Management ensures the implementation of sustainability initiatives, including climate-related initiatives.
Strategy
Three-A has identified the potential impact of climate-related risks and opportunities on the Group’s operations and financial performance,
taking into consideration “The Paris Agreement” (warming below 2°C) climate scenario.
Legend:
  Short to medium term risks (current to 2030)       Medium to long term risks (2031 to 2050)
Transition Risks: Climate-related Risks, Impacts and Opportunities
Transition Risk Impact Opportunities
Policy and Legal
 
Regulations imposed for regulatory
environmental compliance.
• 
Potential incurred costs from penalties
and fines.
• 
Adapted long-term best practices to prevent
non-compliances.
 
Standards imposed on low-carbon
production.
• 
Increasedcostsforproductionandfulfilling
demands.
• 
Increased demands for low-carbon products
(e.g. eco-friendly packaging material, bulk
orders, etc.).
 
Future implementation of carbon tax or
other carbon pricing mechanism.
• 
Increased cost incurred from carbon
pricing mechanism.
• 
Reduction of Three-A’s reliance on
carbon-intensive materials and processes.
Technology
 
Challenges in research and development
(“R&D”) to develop production process
that require less resources and produce
less waste.
• 
Additional costs for research and
development.
• 
Resource savings upon adoption of new
production that is more resource efficient and
reduces waste.
 
Challenges in the adoption of new
technology and new low-carbon
production process.
• 
Incurredupfrontcostsfrominvestmentsin
newtechnologyanditsimplementation.
• 
Cost and resource savings upon successful
implementation of new technology and low-
carbon production process.
Market
 
Increased cost of raw ingredients. • 
The rise in raw ingredients’ cost will
affect the overall production cost and
reduce the profit margin per product.
• 
Opportunity to widen the sourcing of raw
materials or diversify products to utilise more
abundant source of raw materials.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
29	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Transition Risk Impact Opportunities
Reputation
 
Increased stakeholder concerns and
expectations for climate action from
the Company where non-action may
affect brand reputation.
• 
Revenueaffectedbynegativestakeholder
sentiment which influences product
demands.
• 
Opportunity to strengthen brand reputation
via the supply of more products with
eco-based features.
Physical Risks: Climate-related Risks, Impacts and Opportunities
Physical Risk Impact Opportunities
Acute
 
Occurrence of short-term extreme
climate-related events i.e. heat
waves, floods, landslides, etc.
• 
Short-term extreme climate-related
events may cause reduced production
capacity, workforce disruption, and
damages to assets.
• 
Opportunitytoinnovateandadopttechnological
facilities or advanced processes that can
anticipate and withstand the impacts of acute
climate-related events in advance of industry
peers.
Chronic
 
Occurrence of long-term effects such
as extreme variability in weather
patterns, i.e. prolonged high
temperatures, intense rain, etc.
• 
Long-term climate-related impacts may
affect the volume of raw materials
available and increase its cost, which
affecttheoveralloperatingcosts,capital
costs and insurance costs to manage
impacts.
• 
Long-termdisruptioninThree-A’ssupply
chain may cause reduced revenue from
lower output.
• 
Opportunity to adopt innovative technology,
materials and processes that withstand
long-term climate impacts in advance of
industry peers.
Risk Management
The processes for identifying, assessing and managing climate-related risks are integrated into the Group’s overall risk management framework.
Risk Management
Identification of Climate-related Risks
• 
Risks including climate-related risks are identified through risk identification, risk assessment, risk management approach and
continuous monitoring and inclusion at each division where significant risks identified are escalated to the Risk Management
Committee (“RMC”) and the Board.
• 
The Board and other committees convene at least four times a year to discuss and update strategic business matters and this include
climate-related matters.
Managing Climate-related Risks
• 
The RMC and SC are responsible for ensuring sustainability and climate risks are managed by monitoring anticipated or reported
impacts including sustainability-related or climate change impacts on the Company’s operations.
• 
Both SC and RMC are responsible for proposing mitigation actions for the identified sustainability and climate risks and oversees its
implementation.
• 
The Group implements the ISO 31000 standard for Risk Management which covers risk identification, analysis, evaluation, treatment,
reporting and continuous communication, monitoring and review and based on the principles of continual improvement.
Integration of Climate-related Risk Management
• 
Climate-related risks are integrated into the Company’s Risk Management framework to ensure risks are properly addressed and
comprehensive oversight is implemented.
Metrics and Targets
The Group assesses climate-related risks and opportunities in line with our strategy and risk management process. Moving forward, we
plan to include Climate Change targets such as establishing a baseline year for GHG emissions by FY2025.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
									SUSTAINABILITY	
30
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Material Sustainability Matters
• 
Economic Performance
• 
Supply Chain Management
Highlights
• 
RM 603.86 million economic value generated
• 
RM 45.15 million economic value retained
• 
Implemented Supplier Assessment for 100% of active
vendors
Key Stakeholders
Shareholders
Suppliers
Local Communities
ECONOMIC
IMPACT
For Three-A, economic vitality is crucial in order to thrive amidst the dynamic business environment. In addition to directly
affecting financial performance, economic performance also influences growth opportunities, access to resources and overall
sustainability. Recognising this, the Group strives to intricately balance economic development with sustainable practices through
our decisions, policies and initiatives.
31	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
  Economic Performance | Driving Economic Value 
Why it Matters
Economic performance is important to us as it directly affects employment opportunities, standards of living as well as stakeholder and
consumer confidence. As such, our support of national development objectives is evident by the distribution of economic value through
our tax contribution, product outputs, job creation, supplier engagement and our capital and infrastructural investments.
Our Approach
The Group formulates strategic procedures and policies to maximise economic value across our area of operations. To mitigate ongoing
challenges in market fluctuations, Three-A continues to deliver high quality products, utilising industry best practices to maintain timely
and efficient production throughout the year.
Our Performance
In FY2023, we focused on strong economic performance to maintain our financial health and enhance shareholder value.
 Supply Chain Management | Optimising the Value Chain 
Why it Matters
As a major F&B ingredients producer, Three-A contributes towards the socio-economic advancement of the communities where we give
priority to local suppliers whenever possible. Through this, Small and Medium Enterprise (“SME”) suppliers in the country benefit through
new business opportunities and market exposure. Efficient supply chain management processes also enable us to achieve operational
efficiency and gain a competitive edge in the industry.
Our Approach
Three-A prioritises local procurement and selection of local goods and services as far as feasible to support a positive impact on the
economy. Local suppliers with capabilities to provide the necessary goods and services at the required specifications, competitive pricing,
quality and time will be prioritised in our sourcing selection. The Group implemented several initiatives to support the local supply chain.
RM14.67 million
Payments Made to
Providers of Capital
RM9.92 million
Payments to
Government
RM16,262
Community
Investments
RM45.15 million
Economic Value
Retained
RM603.86 million
Economic Value
Generated
RM45.60 million
Operating
Costs
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
									SUSTAINABILITY	
32
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Encouraged procedures and best practices
that set high ethical standards for partners
and suppliers with regard to the Group’s
supply chain and promoted compliance
with industry best practices, e.g. HACCP,
FSSC 22000, etc.
Established fair, participative and
transparent procurement process when
sourcing raw materials and services,
e.g. inclusion of Procurement and
Management teams.
Implemented Supplier/Vendor Assessment
in terms of quality, price, timeliness of
delivery and fulfilment of terms to prevent
our wastage of supplies (management of
expiry period), safety of products produced
and integrity of procurement practice.
Our Performance
We prioritised local suppliers in our sourcing and procurement as far as feasible for an optimal production. Some key ingredients were
imported due to their unavailability in the local market, hence our expenditure on local suppliers totalled 37% in FY2023.
Proportion of Procurement
Spent on Local Suppliers
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
40%
36% 37%
We implemented supplier assessments annually and this year, 377 (100%) of our active suppliers were assessed in terms of price,
delivery, service and quality.
Our quality criteria include traceability and transportation of products and materials which relates to the environmental aspects of a
supply chain. In terms of social aspects, related criteria such as safety were also assessed.
Our new suppliers which consist of 9% of our total suppliers were screened with environmentally related criteria such as the quality of
materials and the timeliness of material delivery. Through this, we prevent the wastage of raw materials in consideration of best-before
dates and ensure the safety of our products.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
33	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Material Sustainability Matters
• 
Corporate Governance and Anti-Corruption
• 
Customer Privacy and Data Protection
Highlights
• 
Zero reported incidents of corruption
• 
Zero whistleblowing cases reported
• 
Zero incidents of industry-related non-compliances
reported
Key Stakeholders
Regulators
Customers
Employees
Suppliers
ROBUST
GOVERNANCE
Three-A promotes integrity and accountability in day-to-day operations. With strategic policies and codes in place, we create
a workplace culture that is ethical, fair and equitable. Additionally, our data privacy and cybersecurity measures help navigate
through this era of technological advancement and digitisation in a safe and secure manner.
									SUSTAINABILITY	
34
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  Corporate Governance and Anti-Corruption | Working with Ethics and Integrity 
Why it Matters
Robust corporate governance is pivotal in supporting the stability and credibility of operations and in gaining the trust of stakeholders.
As such, a responsible and effective governance structure is in place, ensuring a healthy and productive working culture. Three-A’s high
standards of integrity is enforced through a zero-tolerance approach against any form of bribery and corruption. The Group establishes an
ethical work environment for all employees to remain in compliance with all applicable laws and regulations.
Our Approach
To ensure the Group maintains our track record of zero instances of corruption, we regularly inform our employees, suppliers and
other stakeholders on relevant rules and responsibilities stipulated within our various policies and practices. We implemented training
programmes to ensure full comprehension and compliance of applicable laws and regulations. Also, in place are policies that encompass
our corporate governance and anti-corruption approaches.
The Group’s Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Policy comprises anti-corruption procedures, compliance requirements and controls which
are enforced across the Group. Pursuant to the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (“MACC”) Act 2009 and the MACC (Amendment)
Act 2018, our ABC Policy provides clear guidance to identify and address bribery and corruption issues as well as sets out the roles and
responsibilities in upholding the Group’s position on bribery and corruption. To ensure compliance with the policy, the Board oversees the
anti-corruption efforts of the Group, supported by the Risk Management Committee.
Note: For further details on the Group’s policies and procedures, please visit our corporate website at https://www.three-a.com.my/
Our Performance
Our corporate governance approach consists of our efforts to improve Board diversity and representation.
Code of Conduct and Ethics
Director’s Fit and Proper Policy
Whistleblowing Policy
Board Charter
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
Remuneration Policy and Procedure
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
35	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
Board Composition by Gender
20%
80% 67% 67%
33% 33%
Men Women
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
Board Composition by Age
80%
20%
33% 33%
67% 67%
30-50 years >50 years
The percentage of women on the Board has remained at 33% for FY2022 & 2023, where we maintained compliance with the recommendations
of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”). The composition of our Board members ranging from 30 to 50 years old has remained
at 33% since FY2022. The Group has also made significant advancements in anti-corruption control and risk management.
Three-A reinitiated the Group’s anti-corruption assessment in FY2023 where 100% of its operations (departments) were assessed for
corruption risks. The Group also conducted a workshop training session on anti-corruption awareness prior to the Anti-Corruption Risk
Assessment (“ACRA”) which evaluates potential corruption risks and the effectiveness of control measures currently in place. All 12
departments were evaluated and an overall low level of corruption risk was recorded for the Group.
Corruption Risk Assessment
FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Percentage of operations assessed for corruption risks 100% - 100%
Anti-corruption Training
Employee Category FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Senior Management 100% - 100%
Management 100% - 100%
Executive - - 100%
Non-Executive - - 100%
Zero reported
incident of
corruption
  Initiated the
Group’s first
anti-corruption
assessment
  Assessed 100%
of operations
(departments)
for corruption
risks
  Identified an
overall low level
of corruption
risk across the
Group
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
									SUSTAINABILITY	
36
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
The Group also conducted training programmes and a series of campaigns to educate employees on identification and reporting of
suspected phishing attempts. In accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act of 2010 (“PDPA”), the Group ensures data privacy and
confidentiality by ensuring that data is collected with full understanding from stakeholders to be utilised for their consented purposes
and protected from third party involvement unless with consent or if mandated by law or enforcement agencies.
Our Performance
There were zero complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data in FY2023. There were also zero non-
compliances in relation to IT and cybersecurity laws and regulations reported for the past three years.
This year, Three-A also initiated Anti-Corruption training for all employees across all employee categories. The Group continues to implement
anti-corruption risk control via the enforcement of its established policies such as the Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy, the Whistleblowing
Policy, and the Code of Conduct and Ethics, and ensured proper communication of these policies and codes to the Board, management,
employees, suppliers, and relevant third parties working for or on behalf of the Group. We have also recorded zero incidents of corruption
across our business operations.
Corruption Incidents
FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Number of confirmed corruption incidents 0 0 0
  Customer Privacy and Data Protection | Ensuring Digital Security 
Why it Matters
Advancements in digitisation and global e-commerce have positively influenced the utilisation of digital technologies and infrastructure
in many of our business processes and stakeholder interactions. However, with these digital technologies come potential risks and threats
for the Group and our stakeholders. To prevent and manage the possible impacts of cybersecurity risks and data breaches, the Group has
in place specific systems and initiatives.
Our Approach
Three-A has implemented cybersecurity training, campaigns and procedures to ensure a holistic understanding of the potential threats
and risks including practical methods of prevention and management.
Annual Cybersecurity
Awareness Training and other
related Information Technology
(IT) training.
Cybersecurity threat
management e.g. antivirus
set up, Firewall, systems
configuration, Threat Defender.
Proceduresandpoliciestoenhance
protection e.g. cybersecurity
review with vendors and service
providers, enforcing restrictions
to reduce risk.
Disciplinary action to curb high-
risk actions that may cause
cybersecurity breaches.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
37	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Material Sustainability Matters
• 
Climate Change and Energy
• 
Water Management
• 
Waste and Effluent
Highlights
• 
14.3% reduction in total energy consumption
• 
36% used plastic packaging containers reconditioned
and reused
Key Stakeholders
Shareholders
Regulators
Customers
Employees
Local Communities
ENVIRONMENTAL
STEWARDSHIP
The Group is conscious of the impact on the environment stemming from our business operations. As such, we work towards
managing and diminishing our carbon footprint by adhering to high operational standards, both internationally and locally.
Through the implementation of environmentally-friendly practices, we strive to be a responsible corporate citizen.
									SUSTAINABILITY	
38
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  Climate Change and Energy | Towards A Greener Environment 
Why it Matters
Given the reliance on machinery, processing equipment and refrigeration systems in the food production sector, the effective management
of energy is not only essential for controlling operational costs but is also a key aspect of our commitment to environmental sustainability. In
an era where environmental awareness is crucial, optimising energy consumption aligns seamlessly with our overarching goals of mitigating
the effects of climate change.
Our Approach
At Three-A, we enhance operational efficiency through the implementation of cutting-edge equipment and sustainable practices. We have
successfully completed Phase 1 of our Solar Panel Electricity Generation Project in July 2023, allowing us to generate renewable energy. We
aim to start tracking our renewable energy consumption upon fine-tuning of the system.
The installation of gas flowmeters at all boilers allows for the daily monitoring of natural gas consumption, enabling us to make precise
adjustments to enhance burner efficiency. We also introduced a steam leak detection system, preventing energy loss through steam leakages.
The installation of hydroheater equipment has proven to be instrumental, reducing steam usage in production.
Our commitment to sustainability extends to incorporating energy-saving equipment such as Variable Refrigerant Volume (“VRV”) air conditioning,
which utilises variable refrigerant flow control to precisely match the air conditioning needed in our office buildings.
Three-A ensures the efficient use of electricity through regular awareness sessions for all staff, taking a proactive approach to sustainable and
responsible energy practices.
Our Performance
Energy Consumption
Our total energy consumption encompasses both fuel and electricity usage. In FY2023, this amounted to 277,574 MWh, demonstrating a
14.3% decrease in energy consumption compared to the previous year.
Total Energy Consumption (MWh)
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
295,970
323,765
277,574
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Note: The value of total energy consumption in performance data table is reported as MWh.
39	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Petrol Consumption (L)
14,450
18,960
11,193
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
930,066
1,067,226
872,054
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
Diesel Consumption (L)
Natural Gas Consumption (GJ)
892,682
1,042,201
956,252
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
LPG Consumption (kg)
42,252
40,796
35,084
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
19,735,459
23,014,444
21,168,983
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
Electricity Consumption (kWh)
Electricity consumption
In FY2023, our electricity consumption decreased by 14.2% to 19,735,459 kWh, driven by both a reduction in production volume and
enhanced energy efficiency measures compared to the previous year.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Fuel Consumption
We rely on various fuel sources for our operations. Petrol and diesel fuel for our company vehicles, whilst liquefied petroleum gas (“LPG”)
powers for forklifts. We also utilise natural gas to operate our boilers, generating steam for various processes such as cooking, heating
and pasteurisation.
Notes:
a) 	
The source of unit conversion for petrol and diesel consumption from L to MWh, and LPG from kg to MWh is based on the UK
Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting.
b) 	
The source of unit conversion for natural gas consumption from GJ to MWh is based on Carbon Disclosure Project (“CDP”) Technical
Note: Conversion of fuel data to MWh.
c) The value of electricity consumption in performance data table is reported as kWh.
									SUSTAINABILITY	
40
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  Water Management | Optimising Our Water Requirements 
Why it Matters
Water consumption in our business operations is primarily drawn from municipal sources and is of particular importance to us, as a manufacturer
of F&B ingredients. High quality water is crucial for the safety and superiority of products; hence, we ensure the proper management of this
valuable and finite resource.
Our Approach
Our proactive strategy for optimising water consumption in our production processes involves the recycling of hot water from equipment such
as evaporators and heat exchangers for operational use. Additionally, we rigorously test our water supply monthly to closely monitor its quality.
Our Performance
In FY2023, our water consumption amounted to 1,393 ML, in relation to the volume of our business production this year. Our overall water
consumption decreased by 0.3% compared to the previous year.
  Waste and Effluent | Responsibly Managing Our Environmental Footprint 
Why it Matters
In the F&B ingredients industry, the responsible management of waste and effluent is essential to sustainability. As we rely heavily on
raw materials and packaging, our operational processes inherently generate waste. Hence, we have undertaken approaches to enhance
resource efficiency across the value chain, spanning from raw material procurement to waste disposal.
Our Approach
A central element of our cost-effective waste minimisation strategy involves incorporating reconditioned used plastic in our packaging. We
have set a target of achieving 20% used plastic packaging containers reconditioned and reused by weight, curtailing our reliance on new
plastics for packaging.
We ensure that any waste generated during our operations is promptly collected by licensed contractors approved by the Department of
Environment (“DOE”). The disposal process is executed with the utmost responsibility, adhering to environmental standards and regulations.
Our Performance
Packaging Materials
In FY2023, we surpassed our goal by achieving a notable 36% utilisation of used plastic packaging containers reconditioned and reused
in our packaging materials.
FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Percentage of used plastic packaging containers reconditioned and reused by weight (%) 27 30 36
Target (%) 20 20 20
1,393
1,397
1,236
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
Water Consumption (ML)
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
41	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Material Sustainability Matters
• 
Health and Safety
• 
Fair Labour Practices
• 
Diversity
• 
Product Quality and Customer Satisfaction
• 
Community Investment
Highlights
• 
Zero work-related fatalities
• 
12,186 total employee development and safety training
hours
• 
Zero incidents of human rights violation
• 
RM16,262 spent on community investments
Key Stakeholders
Shareholders
Regulators
Customers
Employees
Local Communities
SOCIAL
PROTECTION
Three-A’s resilience and success rely on cultivating a cohesive organisational culture that motivates and empowers employees
to achieve their full potential. We invest in our workforce through comprehensive cultural development and communication
programmes. These initiatives are designed not only to fortify our core values but also to encourage norms that align with our
organisational objective.
									SUSTAINABILITY	
42
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  Health and Safety | Protecting Our People 
Why it Matters
Prioritising the safety for our employees is crucial as our operations involve the handling of various machinery. As such, we take appropriate
health precautions to prevent any potential form of contamination within our operations. The Group strives to provide a safe and secure work
environment for all who are involved in our business operations.
Our Approach
The Group’s Overarching Safety and Health Policy
Our Safety and Health Policy serves as a guiding framework, emphasising the critical importance of Occupational Health and Safety (“OHS”)
within the Group. The policy outlines our approach in maintaining high OHS standards and complying with regulations.
•  
Employee Well-being: Prevention of employee injuries and fostering work-life balance for overall health.
•  
Legal Compliance: Ensuring strict adherence to laws and regulations governing occupational safety and health.
•  
Contractor Standards: Mandating that contractors meet our stringent OHS standards across all operations.
•  
OHS Culture: Cultivating a workplace culture where every employee shares a deep commitment to their safety and health as well as that
of our contractors and the public.
Management of Occupational Health and Safety
Regular OHS reports are submitted to the Safety, Health and Environment Committee including information on lost-time injuries, fatalities,
injuries, near-misses, non-compliance issues and other KPIs. These reports outline root causes of incidents and detail the corrective and
preventive measures taken, minimising or eradicating potential future occurrences.
We have in place a dedicated Occupational Health and Safety Committee that oversees OHS guidelines. The committee ensures that heads of
departments are held accountable for the health and safety of their respective teams. Committee meetings are conducted quarterly, providing
a platform to discuss pertinent safety and environmental issues.
Regular OHS Assessments
Third-party audits are conducted as and when necessary, in alignment with Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (“SMETA”) requirements for
safety and health risk assessments.
Hazard Identification, Risk Assessment and Risk Control (“HIRARC”) assessments are also performed throughout our premises including production
plants and offices, on an ad hoc basis. Engaging with employees annually allows us to identify potential safety risks, and the existence of a
panel clinic ensures swift and effective responses to any arising issues.
Our Performance
In FY2023, a total of 13 health and safety training sessions for 486 employees took place. The sessions encompassed topics such as induction
for all new employees, proper handling of chemicals, forklift operation, awareness of noise risks, first aid and cardiopulmonary resuscitation
(“CPR”) protocols as well as training for authorised entrants and standby personnel for confined spaces (“AESP”).
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
43	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
We are pleased to report zero fatalities in FY2023. Across a total of 1,384,628 hours worked, there were nineteen lost time injuries,
resulting in a decreased lost time incident rate of 2.74 for FY2023.
FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Total no. of hours worked 1,147,680 1,272,600 1,384,628
No. of work-related fatalities 0 0 0
No. of work-related injuries 0 2 2
No. of recorded ill-health 0 0 0
No. of lost time injuries 0 33 19
Lost time incident rate (“LTIR”) * 0.00 5.19 2.74
*LTIR was calculated based on Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Reporting Guide of per 200,000 hours worked.
Notes:
(a) 	
Disregard the total number of hours worked, total hours worked and total worked hours in performance data table with no data
provided.
(b) 	
The total number of hours worked is converted to total number of days worked in performance data table with basis of 7.5 hours
(1 working day).
  Fair Labour Practices | Fostering an Equitable Workplace 
Why it Matters
Fair labour practices play a pivotal role in fostering a thriving and sustainable work environment. Beyond compliance, our commitment
to these practices underscores our dedication to providing development opportunities and benefits to our valued workforce. We aim to
build a team of highly qualified and skilled professionals to ensure the production of high-quality and safe products.
Our Approach
Equity in the Workplace
Our organisational culture is anchored on practices that prioritise merit-based principles across hiring, retention, rewards, promotions
and training opportunities. The Human Resource department oversees talent management, ensuring the continuous development and
progress of our employees.
We adhere to the national minimum wage policy, guaranteeing that every employee receives a basic salary meeting or exceeding the
national minimum wage set by the National Wages Consultative Council Act 2011 [Act 732], Minimum Wages Order 2022.
Adherence to local laws on working hours, governed by the Malaysia Employment (Amendment) Act 2022 and the Employment
(Limitation of Overtime Work) Regulations 1980, ensures a work-life balance which is essential for effective job performance.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
13
HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING
SESSIONS
486
EMPLOYEES TRAINED ON HEALTH
AND SAFETY
1,649
TOTAL TRAINING HOURS ON
HEALTH AND SAFETY
									SUSTAINABILITY	
44
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Upskilling our Workforce
To provide employees with relevant skills and knowledge, over 400 sessions of training programmes were conducted In FY2023. The programmes
covered topics such as food production, safety, quality, halal practices, lab procedures, equipment maintenance, packaging, allergen control
and food storage. We also adopt mentoring, coaching and follow-up strategies to track employee performance and for talent management.
Employee Benefits
Recognising the importance of attracting and retaining top talent, we offer comprehensive benefits and competitive compensation
packages. Performance-based rewards including monetary bonuses, incentivise and recognise employee contributions. Our transparent
360-degree appraisal process ensures fair and proportional compensation, acknowledging the value each employee brings to the company.
Employee Benefits
• 
Health Care • 
Parental Leave
• 
Maternity Leave • 
Retirement Provision (KWSP)
• 
Annual Leave • 
Medical Leave
• 
Group Hospitalisation Insurance • 
Group Personal Accident Insurance
• 
Employment Injury Scheme (“EIS”) • 
Foreign Workers Compensation Scheme (“FWCS”)
• 
Yearly bonus, increments and promotions • 
Employee Personal Loan
• 
Provision of Personal Protective Equipment • 
Nightshift Allowances
• 
Free Parking • 
Hostels for Foreign Employees
Our Performance
Employee Training
In line with employee development and empowerment, we ensure that all staff undergo annual training in food safety knowledge,
technical and soft skills. With a yearly target of 10 hours per employee, we surpassed expectations in FY2023, achieving an average of
18 hours of training per employee.
Average Training Hours per Employee
18
13
15
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
Average Training Hours per Gender
30.5
23.5
16.3
13.6
23.2
11.5
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
Men Women
Employee Category
Total Training Hours
FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Senior Management 84 96 179
Management 405 344 510
Executive 1,740 1,833 2,484
Non-Executive 4,665 5,092 7,364
Total 6,894 7,365 10,537
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
45	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
73
77
99
35
85
193
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
Total New Hires and Turnover
New Hires Turnover
New Hires by Gender
8
22
91
22 13
171
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
Men Women
New Hires by Age
0
2
39
60
11
22
2
91
100
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
<30 30-50 >50
Men Women
Turnover by Gender
9
24
64
70
15
53
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
Turnover by Age
3
5
43
27
37
44
4
28
44
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
<30 30-50 >50
Employee Retention and Attrition
In FY2023, the Group recorded 99 new hires and 73 turnovers, with no new hires or turnovers observed within the senior management
and management groups. The Group recorded 10 new executive and 89 new non-executive hires.
Employee Category
   Total No. of Employee New Hires
FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Senior Management 0 0 0
Management 1 0 0
Executive 8 18 10
Non-Executive 26 175 89
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
									SUSTAINABILITY	
46
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Employee Category
   Total No. of Employee Turnover
FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Senior Management 0 0 0
Management 0 0 0
Executive 5 10 7
Non-Executive 80 67 66
Performance Appraisal
To continually assess employee performance, we conduct annual appraisals and offer feedback on strengths and areas for improvement.
These assessments serve as opportunities to discuss career development plans and identify training needs, supporting employees in
achieving their goals. We firmly believe that regular performance evaluations are vital for sustaining a high-performing workforce and
fostering ongoing employee growth and development.
FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
No. of employees received appraisal 455 566 587
Parental Leave
The Group offers parental leave for both men and women. Starting January 2023, men received seven paid paternity days per annum,
whilst women were entitled to 98 days of paid maternity leave for each confinement period, in alignment with the Employment
(Amendment) Act 2022.
  FY2023
Men Women
No. of employees that took parental leaves 11 2
No. of employees that returned after parental leave 11 2
No. of employees that returned to work after parental leave ended that were still employed 12 months
after their return from work
10 2
  Diversity | Embracing Diversity and Inclusivity 
Why it Matters
We believe that nurturing and promoting a diverse and inclusive culture creates a conducive workplace. By advocating inclusion, we seek
to unlock the full potential of our workforce where employees feel more engaged, productive and happier. This provides opportunities
for everyone to contribute, grow and feel valued evoking a profound sense of belonging.
Our Approach
Three-A’s talent management strategy is founded on the principles of diversity and equal opportunity. Diversity fosters a wide range
of perspectives and experiences, resulting in informed decision-making. Hence, our overarching goal is to create a dynamic, high-
performance work environment that champions inclusivity and supports the overall well-being of our employees.
Ensuring fairness and impartiality, the Group adheres to the principle of equal opportunity in determining basic salary and employee
remuneration. We maintain an equitable distribution of salary ratios between men and women, reinforcing our commitment to fair
compensation practices.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
47	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Our Performance
Upholding Non-Discrimination and Human Rights
In FY2023, there were zero substantiated complaints related to discrimination or human rights violations.
FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
No. of substantiated complaints concerning human rights violation and discrimination 0 0 0
Workforce Diversity
Total Number of Employees
587
566
455
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
Employment Type
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
Permanent Contract
68%
63%
58%
32%
37%
42%
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
Employee Diversity by Gender
Men Women
84%
16%
88%
12%
88%
12%
Employee Diversity by Age
<30 30-50 >50
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
7% 5% 5%
63% 63% 62%
30% 32% 33%
Gender Diversity by Employee Category
Although our workforce predominantly comprises men, a more balanced gender distribution is evident within office-related roles, particularly
in senior management and managerial positions. The prevalence of men in manufacturing and operational sites can be attributed to the
physically demanding and intensive nature of work conducted within the Group.
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
57%
43%
57%
43%
57%
43%
Senior Manegement
Men Women
Management
Men Women
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
56%
44%
56%
44%
50%
50%
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Notes:
a)  We have restated the total number of employees figures for FY2021 and FY2022.
b)  We have restated the employee diversity by age figures for FY2021 and FY2022.
									SUSTAINABILITY	
48
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Executive
Men Women
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
36%
64%
38%
62% 62%
38%
Non-Executive
Men Women
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
93%
7%
96%
4%
97%
3%
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
71%
29%
71%
29%
71%
29%
Senior Manegement
30-50 >50
Executive
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
19%
72%
25%
68%
27%
68%
9% 7% 5%
<30 30-50 >50
Management
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
78%
22%
78%
22%
58%
42%
30-50 >50
Non-Executive
<30 30-50 >50
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
32%
62%
33%
63%
35%
61%
6% 4% 4%
Age Diversity by Employee Category
Employees ranging from below 30 to 50 years old form a substantial demographic within our workforce. This demographic provides
Three-A with a strong talent base for supporting succession planning initiatives across the Group.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
49	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
88.4%
87.2% 86.8%
FY2023
FY2022
FY2021
Customer Satisfaction Rate
  Product Quality and Customer Satisfaction | Ensuring Quality Assurance 
Why it Matters
In the F&B ingredients industry, product quality is a prerequisite impacting brand reputation, increased sales and overall competitiveness
in the market. Over the years, we have maintained compliance with the Food Safety System Certification FSSC 22000, Halal certification
and Kosher certification.
Embedded in our business philosophy is a determination to meet and exceed our customers' expectations. Through a genuine
understanding of their needs and challenges, we customise and innovate our products to effectively address their evolving requirements.
Our Approach
Ensuring Product Quality
Three-A places a premium on the quality of our manufacturing processes, giving utmost priority to food safety. All our manufacturing
facilities proudly hold certifications from reputable external food safety programmes, including the Food Safety System Certification,
FSSC 22000 ensuring strict adherence to food safety control requirements. These ensure the establishment and maintenance of a robust
system covering food safety, process control, quality assurance and traceability.
All our products carry the Halal certification, adhering rigorously to Islamic Shariah requirements. This recognition involves good
manufacturing practices, underlining the need for meeting stringent hygienic conditions.
In embracing innovation, we actively explore progressive approaches such as machinery automation to reduce human intervention and
pre-emptively prevent product contamination during the manufacturing process.
Customer-Centric Approach
For the Group, enduring relationships with our customers is integral to our ethos of trust, integrity and respect. To measure and enhance
satisfaction levels, we administer an annual survey, a primary tool for measuring their experiences with our products and services. This
comprehensive survey covers various facets including product quality, delivery services and sales services, ensuring that we continuously
refine our operations to meet and exceed our customers' expectations.
Our Performance
Sustained efforts have consistently yielded high customer satisfaction rates over the years. Setting a target of attaining a minimum 80%
customer satisfaction rate, we are pleased to report that in FY2023, a remarkable 88.4% was reached.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
To enhance customer’s satisfaction, we strive to elevate the quality and value of our ingredients, ensuring that our products meet our
customers’ expectations.
									SUSTAINABILITY	
50
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  Community Investment | Uplifting Communities 
Why it Matters
At Three-A, we strive towards the development of vibrant communities. Through purposeful contributions, we believe in strengthening
connections between businesses and communities for enhanced social inclusion. Community engagement programmes are continuously
conducted for the betterment and upliftment of the society.
Our Approach
The Group is devoted to various initiatives providing local employment opportunities, supporting charitable causes and sponsoring social
events within neighbouring communities. At Three-A, we actively encourage our staff to participate in Corporate Social Responsibility
(“CSR”) activities, acknowledging and appreciating their volunteerism efforts.
Our Performance
In FY2023, we contributed RM 16,262 to seven different CSR programmes, positively impacting 1,550 people.
Noble Care Nursing Home
Organised a Caring Day event at Noble Care Nursing Home in Rawang, where we celebrated New Year’s and a resident’s birthday with
the elderly. We distributed daily essential items for the residents.
FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Total amount invested in CSR Programmes RM 4,099 RM 7,700 RM 16,262
* 
Number of individuals impacted by the programme 200 2,030 1,550
* 
Estimation figures only
 CONCLUSION 
Three-A believes that our corporate responsibility is to build a sustainable future for present and future generations. Striving towards
this goal, we are also passionate in our efforts to contribute significantly to the global sustainability agenda. Becoming a leading
F&B ingredient manufacturer is part of the organisation’s vision as we continue to deliver high quality products whilst incorporating
environmental and social considerations that benefit people and the planet.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
51	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
  PERFORMANCE DATA TABLE 
Indicator Measurement Unit FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Economic performance
Economic value generated RM (in million) – – 603.86
Economic value retained RM (in million) – – 45.15
Operating costs RM (in million) – – 45.60
Payments made to providers of capital RM (in million) – – 14.67
Payments to government RM (in million) – – 9.92
Bursa (Supply chain management)
Bursa C7(a) Proportion of spending on local suppliers Percentage 40.00 36.00 37.00
Supplier assessment (active suppliers) Percentage – – 100.00
Corporate governance and anti-corruption
Bursa C1(a) Percentage of employees who have received training
on anti-corruption by employee category
Senior Management Percentage 100.00 0.00 100.00
Management Percentage 100.00 0.00 100.00
Executive Percentage 0.00 0.00 100.00
Non-Executive Percentage 0.00 0.00 100.00
Bursa C1(b) Percentage of operations assessed for corruption-related risks Percentage 100.00 0.00 100.00
Bursa C1(c) Confirmed incidents of corruption and action taken Number 0 0 0
Bursa C3(b) Percentage of directors by gender and age group
Male Percentage 80.00 67.00 67.00
Female Percentage 20.00 33.00 33.00
Between 30-50 Percentage 20.00 33.00 33.00
Above 50 Percentage 80.00 67.00 67.00
Customer privacy and data protection
Bursa C8(a) Number of substantiated complaints concerning breaches
of customer privacy and losses of customer data
Number 0 0 0
Climate change and energy
Bursa C4(a) Total energy consumption Megawatt 295,970.00 323,765.00 277,574.00
Petrol consumption Litres 11,193 18,960 14,450
Diesel consumption Litres 872,054 1,067,226 930,066
Natural gas consumption Gigajoules 956,252.00 1,042,201.00 892,682.00
LPG consumption Kilograms 35,084.00 40,796.00 42,252.00
Electricity consumption Kilowatt 21,168,983 23,014,444 19,735,459
Water management
Bursa C9(a) Total volume of water used Megalitres 1,236.000000 1,397.000000 1,393.000000
Waste and effluent
Percentage of used plastic packaging containers reconditioned and
reused by weight
Percentage 27.00 30.00 36.00
Bursa (Health and safety)
Bursa C5(a) Number of work-related fatalities Number 0 0 0
Bursa C5(b) Lost time incident rate ("LTIR") Rate 0.00 5.19 2.74
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*)Restated
									SUSTAINABILITY	
52
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Indicator Measurement Unit FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Bursa C5(c) Number of employees trained on health and safety standards Number 0 0 486
Total number of hours worked Hours – – No Data
Provided
Number of work-related injuries Number 0 2 2
Number of recorded ill-health Number 0 0 0
Number of lost time injuries Number 0 33 19
Total hours worked Hours – – No Data
Provided
Total worked hours Hours – – No Data
Provided
Total number of days worked Days 153,024 169,680 184,617
Fair labour practices
Bursa C6(a) Total hours of training by employee category
Senior Management Hours 84 96 179
Management Hours 405 344 510
Executive Hours 1,740 1,833 2,484
Non-Executive Hours 4,665 5,092 7,364
Bursa C6(c) Total number of employee turnover by employee category
Senior Management Number 0 0 0
Management Number 0 0 0
Executive Number 5 10 7
Non-Executive Number 80 67 66
Average training hours per employee Hours 15.0 13.0 18.0
Average training hours per gender (Men) Hours 13.6 11.5 16.3
Average training hours per gender (Women) Hours 23.2 23.5 30.5
Total new hires Number 35 193 99
Total turnover Number 85 77 73
New hires by gender (Men) Number 22 171 91
New hires by gender (Women) Number 13 22 8
Turnover by gender (Men) Number 70 53 64
Turnover by gender (Women) Number 15 24 9
New hires by age (Under 30) Number 22 100 60
New hires by age (Between 30-50) Number 11 91 39
New hires by age (Above 50) Number 2 2 0
Turnover by age (Under 30) Number 44 44 27
Turnover by age (Between 30-50) Number 37 28 43
Turnover by age (Above 50) Number 4 5 3
Total number of employee new hires by employee category
(Senior Management)
Number 0 0 0
Totalnumberofemployeenewhiresbyemployeecategory(Management) Number 1 0 0
Total number of employee new hires by employee category (Executive) Number 8 18 10
Total number of employee new hires by employee category
(Non-Executive)
Number 26 175 89
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*)Restated
53	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Indicator Measurement Unit FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Number of employees received appraisal Number 455 566 587
Number of employees that took parental leaves Number – – 13
Number of employees that returned after parental leaves Number – – 13
Number of employees that returned to work after parental leaves
ended that were still employed 12 months after their return from work
Number – – 12
Bursa (Diversity)
Bursa C3(a) Percentage of employees by gender and age group, for
each employee category
Age Group by Employee Category
Senior Management Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Senior Management Between 30-50 Percentage 71.00 71.00 71.00
Senior Management Above 50 Percentage 29.00 29.00 29.00
Management Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00 0.00
Management Between 30-50 Percentage 78.00 78.00 58.00
Management Above 50 Percentage 22.00 22.00 42.00
Executive Under 30 Percentage 19.00 25.00 27.00
Executive Between 30-50 Percentage 72.00 68.00 68.00
Executive Above 50 Percentage 9.00 7.00 5.00
Non-Executive Under 30 Percentage 32.00 33.00 35.00
Non-Executive Between 30-50 Percentage 62.00 63.00 61.00
Non-Executive Above 50 Percentage 6.00 4.00 4.00
Gender Group by Employee Category
Senior Management Male Percentage 57.00 57.00 57.00
Senior Management Female Percentage 43.00 43.00 43.00
Management Male Percentage 56.00 56.00 50.00
Management Female Percentage 44.00 44.00 50.00
Executive Male Percentage 36.00 38.00 38.00
Executive Female Percentage 64.00 62.00 62.00
Non-Executive Male Percentage 93.00 96.00 97.00
Non-Executive Female Percentage 7.00 4.00 3.00
BursaC6(b)Percentageofemployeesthatarecontractorsortemporarystaff Percentage 58.00 63.00 68.00
Bursa C6(d) Number of substantiated complaints concerning human
rights violations
Number 0 0 0
Total number of employees Number 455 566 587
Employee diversity by gender (Men) Percentage 84.00 88.00 88.00
Employee diversity by gender (Women) Percentage 16.00 12.00 12.00
Employee diversity by age (Under 30) Percentage 30.00 32.00 33.00
Employee diversity by age (Between 30-50) Percentage 63.00 63.00 62.00
Employee diversity by age (Above 50) Percentage 7.00 5.00 5.00
Product quality and customer satisfaction
Customer satisfaction rate Percentage 87.20 86.80 88.40
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*)Restated
									SUSTAINABILITY	
54
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Indicator Measurement Unit FY2021 FY2022 FY2023
Community investment
Bursa C2(a) Total amount invested in the community where the
target beneficiaries are external to the listed issuer
MYR 4,099.00 7,700.00 16,262.00
Bursa C2(b) Total number of beneficiaries of the investment in
communities
Number 200 2,030 1,550
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*)Restated
  GRI CONTENT INDEX 
Statement of use Three-A has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period 1 January 2023 to
31 December 2023 with reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI 1 used GRI 1: Foundation 2021
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
(PAGE)
GRI 2: General Disclosures
2021
2-1 Organisational details 17
2-2 Entities included in the organisation’s sustainability reporting 17
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point 17
2-5 External assurance 17
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships 17
2-7 Employees 48
2-8 Workers who are not employees 48
2-9 Governance structure and composition 23
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of impacts 23-25
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts 23, 29
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting 23, 29-30
2-19 Remuneration policies 35
2-20 Process to determine remuneration 35
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy 20
2-23 Policy commitments 21
2-24 Embedding policy commitments 21
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts 24-25, 35
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns 24-25, 35
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 35-36, 41,
43-44, 47
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement 24-25
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-1 Process to determine material topics 25-26
3-2 List of material topics 26
3-3 Management of material topics Throughout
GRI 201: Economic
Performance 2016
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 29-30
GRI 204: Procurement
Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 33
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
55	 SUSTAINABILITY
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION
(PAGE)
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 36
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 36-37
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 37
GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-2 Recycled input materials used 41
GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 39
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 39-40
GRI 303: Water and
Effluents 2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 41
303-5 Water consumption 41
GRI 306: Waste 2020 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 41
GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 46-47
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or
part-time employees
45
401-3 Parental leave 47
GRI 403: Occupational
Health and Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 43
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 43
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and
safety
43-44
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 43-44
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked
by business relationships
43
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 43-44
403-9 Work-related injuries 44
403-10 Work-related ill health 44
GRI 404: Training and
Education 2016
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 45
404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programmes 45
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal
Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 36, 47-49
GRI 406: Non-discrimination
2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 48
GRI 408: Child Labour 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour 48
GRI 409: Forced or
Compulsory Labour 2016
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour 48
GRI 413: Local Communities
2016
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development
programmes
51
GRI 418: Customer Privacy
2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of
customer data
37
  TCFD CONTENT INDEX 
TCFD Recommendation References / Location
Governance Sustainability Statement FY2023, page 29
Strategy Sustainability Statement FY2023, page 29-30
Risk Management Sustainability Statement FY2023, page 30
Metrics and Targets Sustainability Statement FY2023, page 30
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT (CONTINUED)
									SUSTAINABILITY	
56
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Three-A Resources Berhad (“3A” or “the Company”) is committed to the best practices and
principles of good corporate governance as set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“the Code”) as well as the Main
Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”).
Excellent corporate governance is essential to good business performance and the numerous past corporate governance awards accorded
to 3A testify that the Board, Management and staff of 3A remain steadfast and focused in ensuring the highest level of corporate
governance so that the interests of investors and all other stakeholders are well taken care of.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement, which highlights key focus areas on how the Company applied the principles, practices
and step-ups of the Code for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 (“financial year 2023”), is to be read in conjunction with the
Corporate Governance Report (“CG Report”) which contains a detailed application for each practice as set out in the Code for the financial
year 2023 and is made available on the corporate website: www.three-a.com.my.
The Board considers that the Company has adopted the CG practices and applied the main principles of the CG Code for the financial year
2023 except:
• 
Practice 5.2 (At least half of the board comprises independent directors.)
• 
Practice 5.6 (In identifying candidates for appointment of directors, the board does not solely rely on recommendations from
existing board members, management or major shareholders. The board utilises independent sources to identify suitably qualified
candidates. If the selection of candidates was based on recommendations made by existing directors, management or major
shareholders, the Nominating Committee should explain why these source(s) suffice and other sources were not used.)
• 
Practice 5.9 (At least 30% of the board comprises women on the board.)
• 
Practice 5.10 (The board discloses in its annual report the company’s policy on gender diversity for the board and senior management.)
  A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS 
1.0 	Board’s Leadership on Governance and Objectives
The Board is responsible for the overall governance of the Group and discharges this responsibility through compliance with
relevant rules, laws, regulations, directives and guidelines in addition to adopting the best practices in the Code. Collectively,
the Directors combine their diverse experience and qualifications on commercial, regulatory, industry and financial expertise
to discharge their duties and responsibilities.
The Board’s main responsibility is to lead and manage the Group in an effective manner including developing strategic
directions and objectives in line with its vision and missions, implement plans and supervise the conduct of the Group’s
business as a whole. The Board’s role is to provide leadership of the Group within a framework of prudent and effective controls
whilst ensuring risks are consistently assessed and controlled.
The Board conducts ongoing review and evaluation of the Group’s strategic plans to ensure the Group’s focus is in line with
the constantly evolving market conditions as well as identifying new businesses and opportunities. The Board also ensures
that an adequate system of internal controls is in place and adopts appropriate measures to mitigate any foreseeable and/or
unexpected risks.
The Board members are attentive to applying high ethical standards in their decision-making, taking into account the interests
of all stakeholders.
57	  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
 A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED) 
1.0 	Board’s Leadership on Governance and Objectives (Continued)
Certain functions of the Board have been delegated to various Board Committees, which reviews and make recommendations
to the Board on specific areas. There are currently four (4) Board committees, namely:
• 
Audit Committee (“AC”);
• 
Nomination Committee (“NC”);
• 
Remuneration Committee (“RC”); and
• 
Risk Management Committee (“RMC”).
Each of the Board committee operates within approved Terms of Reference. These committees have authority to examine
particular issues and report to the Board with their findings and recommendations. The ultimate responsibility for the final
decision on all matters, however, lies with the entire Board.
1.1 Duties and Responsibilities of the Board
The Company acknowledges the importance of having an effective Board for the overall governance and management of the
Group. The core responsibilities of the Board include reviewing and approving the Company’s business strategies and plans,
significant policies and monitoring the Management’s performance in implementing them.
In carrying out their duties and responsibilities, the Board exercises great care to ensure that high ethical standards are upheld,
and that the interests of stakeholders are not compromised. The Board members are consistently mindful that the interests of
the Group’s stakeholders are always being protected.
The Board’s principal functions include the following responsibilities:
• 
Promotes good corporate governance culture within the Group which reinforces ethical, prudent and professional
behaviour;
• 
Reviews and approves the Group’s medium-term and long-term strategic business plans;
• 
Oversees the conduct of the Group’s business operations and financial performance against the approved strategic
business plans;
• 
Ensures that the operating infrastructure, systems of control, systems of risk management as well as financial and
operational controls are in place and properly implemented;
• 
Reviews the adequacy and the integrity of the internal control system and mitigation measures; and
• 
Undertakes various functions and responsibilities as specified in guidelines and directives issued by the regulatory
authorities from time to time.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors by virtue of their roles and responsibilities, in effect represent the minority
shareholders’ interest in the 3A Group. The Independent Non-Executive Directors engage proactively with the Management
and with both the external and internal auditors. The Independent Non-Executive Directors play a significant role in bringing
objectivity and scrutiny to the Board’s deliberations and decision-making. They also serve to inspire and challenge the
Management in an objective and constructive manner.
									 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE	
58
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
  A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED) 
1.1 Duties and Responsibilities of the Board (Continued)
In enhancing the function of the Independent Non-Executive Directors, the Board has also defined their roles and responsibilities
to include the following:
• 
Provides relevant check and balances, focusing on shareholders’ and other stakeholders’ interests and ensuring high
standards of corporate governance are applied;
• 
Scrutinises the performance of Management in meeting agreed goals and objectives and monitors the reporting of
performance;
• 
Constructively challenges and contributes to the development of the business strategies; and
• 
Ensures the financial information presented is accurate and that financial controls as well as system of risk management
is robust and defensible.
The Independent Directors are at liberty to obtain advice from independent professionals if deemed necessary for the proper
discharge of their duties at the expense of the Group. The Independent Directors also have direct access to the advice and
services of internal and external auditors and the Company Secretary who is responsible for ensuring that the Board procedures
are followed.
1.2	Board Meetings and Supply of Information to the Board
Board meetings for the following financial year are scheduled in advance before the end of the current financial year so as to
facilitate the Directors to plan ahead and organise the next year’s Board meetings into their respective schedules.
The Chairman of the respective Board Committees would inform the Directors at Board meetings, of any salient matters noted
by the committee and which require the Board’s notice or direction.
The Board members are provided with the agenda and board papers including status report, quarterly report, performance
and management report at least five (5) business days before each meeting so that the Directors have ample time to review
matters to be deliberated at the Board meeting and to facilitate informed decision making by the Directors. The Chairman
of all Board meetings ensures that each of the agenda items is adequately reviewed and thoroughly deliberated within a
reasonable timeframe.
The Board papers provide, among others, periodical financial and corporation information, significant operational, financial and
corporate issues, by the Group and management proposals that require the Board’s approval.
At the Board meetings, the Board reviews the Group’s business operations by analysing the financial statements and its
accompanying notes and disclosures as contained in the quarterly report of the Group as compared to the same corresponding
period. The Board also notes the decisions and salient issues deliberated by the AC that are tabled to the Board.
The Board members are regularly updated by the Company Secretary on the new statutory as well as regulatory requirements
relating to Directors’ duties and responsibilities or the discharge of their duties as Director of the Company. The Company
Secretary attends all Board meetings and ensures that accurate and adequate records of the proceedings of the Board meetings
and decisions made are properly kept. The external auditors update the Board on latest developments on new accounting
standards that are relevant to the Group.
All Board members have full and timely access to information on the Company’s businesses and affairs for the discharge of
their duties and responsibilities. Where necessary, senior management staff as well as advisors and professionals appointed
to act for the Company on corporate proposal may be invited to attend the Board meeting to furnish the Board with their
comments and advice on the relevant proposal tabled.
59	  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
  A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED) 
1.3	Board Charter
The primary objective of the Company’s Board Charter (“Board Charter”) is to set out the roles and responsibilities of the Board
to achieve the vision and mission of the Company. The Board is guided by the Board Charter which provides references for
Directors in relation to the Board’s role, powers, duties and functions.
Apart from reflecting the current best practices and the applicable rules and regulations, the Board Charter also outlines
processes and procedures for the Board and their committees to be effective and efficient. The Board regularly reviews the
Board Charter to ensure it remains consistent with the Board’s objectives and responsibilities and all the relevant standards of
corporate governance. The Board Charter is made available on 3A’s website, www.three-a.com.my.
1.4	Sustainability of Business
The Board governs the overall sustainability matters of the Group and takes responsibility for the setting of the Group’s
sustainability strategies, priorities and targets. The Sustainability Committee (“SC”) that comprises members from Management
to provide support to the Board taking into sustainability considerations in the development and implementation of major
business strategies and plans.
The Board is mindful of the importance of business sustainability and its growing impact to the Group, whilst no less emphasis
been put into managing the social and environmental impact of its business operations. The Group also embraces sustainability
through collaboration and partnership with its suppliers, customers and other stakeholders. The Group is committed to the
continuous efforts in maintaining a delicate balance between the sustainability agenda and the shareholders’ interests.
1.5	Board Gender Diversity Policies and Targets and the Measures
As at end of February 2024, the Board composed of seven (7) males and two (2) females to ensure a good mix of gender as well.
Therefore, the Board currently does not fulfil Practice 5.9 of the Code of 30% composition of women on the Board. The Board
takes note of the need to establish a policy formalising the approach to gender diversity for the board and senior management.
The Board will consider gender diversity as part of its future selection to identify suitable candidates if the need arises. If any,
such candidates will be strictly assessed based on merit, their competencies, time commitment, experience, gender diversity,
age and cultural background, and competencies required for an effective Board.
The NC will oversee the overall composition of the Board and Board Committees, including succession planning to maintain
the appropriate size and skills, the balance between Executive Directors, Non-Executive Directors and Independent Directors as
well as the mixture of skills and other core competencies required on the Board.
1.6 Code of Conduct and Ethics
The Board will continue to adhere to the Code of Conduct and Ethics which is applicable to all directors, management and
employees of the Group. The Code of Conduct and Ethics as established by the Board that was published in the Company’s
website, www.three-a.com.my is based on the following principles:
• 
Uphold of human rights of workers and commitment to a safe and healthy work environment;
• 
Social responsibility and protection of the environment;
• 
Duty to act in the best interest of the Group;
• 
Protect and maintain the assets and confidentiality of sensitive information of the Group;
• 
Conduct of fair trade in business;
• 
Honesty and integrity;
• 
No conflict of interests and no bribery or unethical business practices;
• 
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy; and
• 
Compliance with legal and regulatory requirements and Group policies.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
									 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE	
60
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED) 
1.7 Whistleblowing Policy and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy
The Board acknowledges that misconduct such as violation of laws, rules, regulations, production fraud, fraud, health and
safety infringements or corruption are usually known first by people who work within or with the Group. An early warning
system such as a Whistleblowing Policy and Procedure can help the Group to detect wrongdoings and alert the Group to take
corrective action before a problem becomes a crisis. In order to promote ethical values and conduct throughout the Group, the
Board has put in place an Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy to prevent conflict of interest, the risk of bribery and corruption
within the Group.
The Board in its effort to enhance corporate governance has put in place a Whistleblowing Policy to provide an avenue for
employees, suppliers and stakeholders to report genuine concerns about malpractices, unethical behaviour or misconduct
without fear of reprisal. Any concerns raised will be received by the members of the AC, investigated and outcome of such
investigation will be reported to the Board. Appropriate action will be taken to resolve the issue. The whistleblower’s identity will
be kept confidential. The Company will assign a senior officer from the Human Resources (“HR”) Department as whistleblower
protector who will keep in touch with the whistleblower to monitor and assess any signs of victimisation or stress.
The Whistleblowing Policy and Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy are made available on 3A’s website, www.three-a.com.my.
1.8 Promoting Sustainability
3A’s approach to governance is to drive business revenues and profits and manage risks prudently in order to deliver long-term
profitability and provide value to shareholders on a sustainable basis. This includes meeting expectations of stakeholders such
as customers, shareholders, regulators, bankers, joint-venture partners and the communities in which 3A operates.
The Board and Management of 3A uphold sustainability efforts in terms of achieving economic, environment and social
sustainable objectives as part of its responsibility to its stakeholders and the communities in which it operates.
The Group is committed to the implementation of safe work practices and aims to provide an injury-free workplace for all its
employees. Besides, 3A is dedicated to do its part to protect the environment in its business activities and support the local
communities. More details of the Group’s efforts in incorporating sustainability in its business operations can be found in the
Sustainability Statement on pages 16 to 56 of the Annual Report.
1.9 Qualified and Competent Company Secretaries
The Company Secretaries are appointed by the Board. The appointments are based on criteria related to the qualifications,
experience and competence of the individual concerned to carry out their duties and responsibilities to ensure 3A is in
compliance with the regulations and Listing Requirements. The Company Secretaries are qualified and their roles and
responsibilities include the following:
• 
Preparation and submission of forms as required under the Companies Act 2016 to the Companies Commission Malaysia;
• 
Ensure compliance of regulatory requirements, updates on new Bursa Securities Listing Requirements to the Board;
• 
Submissions of corporate announcements electronically via Bursa Link to Bursa Securities;
• 
Support the Board of Directors, by ensuring adherence to Board policies and procedures, rules, relevant laws and best
practices on Corporate Governance;
• 
Attendance at Annual General Meeting, AC, NC, RC and Board of Directors’ meetings and ensure minutes of meetings are
well documented; and
• 
Follow-up on matters arising from the meetings.
The Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company Secretaries in assisting them to discharge
their duties.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
61	  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
  A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED) 
2.0	Board Composition
Good governance principles require fairness, transparency, accountability and responsibility. The Board acknowledges the
importance of the Board structure.
The Board consists of nine (9) members, three (3) Executive Directors (including the Managing Director), two (2) Non-
Independent Non-Executive Directors and four (4) Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The Board comprises members with a wide range of business, financial and technical service background. The size of the
Board is optimum given the scope, size and complexity of the Group’s operations. The composition of the Board complies with
the Paragraph 15.02(1)(a) of the Listing Requirements that requires a minimum of two (2) or one-third (1/3) of the Board,
whichever is the higher, to be Independent Directors.
There is a clearly accepted division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Managing Director to ensure balance of the
power and authority. The Executive Directors have primary responsibilities for managing the Group’s day-to-day operations and
together with the other Directors, to ensure that the strategies are fully discussed and examined and to take into consideration
the long-term interests of the various stakeholders including shareholders, employees, customers, suppliers and the various
communities in which the Group conducts its business.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors do not engage in the day-to-day management of the Group and do not participate
in any business dealings and are not involved in any other relationship with the Group. This ensures that the Independent
Non-Executive Directors remain free from conflict of interest and facilitate them to carry out their roles and responsibilities as
Independent Directors effectively. The Independent Directors are at liberty to seek independent professional advice on matters
relating to the discharge of their duties. The cost of securing such professional services will be borne by 3A.
2.1 Appointment to the Board
Any proposed appointment of a new member to the Board is deliberated by the full Board upon the recommendation by the
NC, of which NC will review based on the necessity and qualification as well as experience of the proposed new member.
The NC will also conduct the Fit and Proper assessment prior to the appointment of any additional Board member to the Board
to ensure the Board quality and integrity for the appointment to the Group.
The appointment of any additional member to the Board is made as and when it is deemed necessary by the Board with due
consideration given to the mix of expertise, skills, experience, gender diversity, age and cultural background, competencies
required for an effective Board.
During the financial year 2023, the Board appointed one (1) Independent Non-Executive Directors on 13 June 2023 in place
of an outgoing Director. The NC had conducted the Fit and Proper assessment on the new Director prior to his appointment.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
									 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE	
62
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED) 
2.2 Re-Election of Directors
Clause 76(3) of the Company’s Constitution provides that at every Annual General Meeting (“AGM”), at least one-third (1/3)
of the Directors for the time being, or if their number is not three (3) or a multiple of three (3), then the number nearest to
one-third (1/3), shall retire from office at the conclusion of the AGM and be eligible for re-election provided always that all
Directors shall retire from office once at least in each three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election.
The re-election of Directors at the AGM is subject to the assessment by the NC pursuant to the fit and proper policy adopted
by the Group on 21 April 2022. For the forthcoming AGM, the following Directors will be retiring by rotation in accordance with
Clause 76(3) of the Company’s Constitution, and being eligible, have offered themselves for re- election:
• 
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King;
• 
Liew Kuo Shin; and
• 
Kee Thuan Chai.
The following newly appointed Directors will be retiring by rotation in accordance with Clause 78 of the Company’s Constitution,
and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election:
• 
Jamel Bin Ibrahim; and
• 
Tan Soon Hoe.
The profile of the abovementioned Directors and their respective attendance in Board meetings are presented in this Annual
Report. In determining whether to recommend a Director for re-election, the aforesaid Directors’ time commitment such as
attendance at meetings, participation, contribution to the activities of the Board, character, integrity and experience had been
considered by the NC.
The NC had on 22 February 2024 at its NC meeting conducted the assessment pursuant to the directors’ fit and proper policy,
was satisfied that the abovementioned Directors have met the criteria set out and recommended to the Board for their re-
election at the forthcoming AGM.
The Directors of 3A are individuals of high calibre and integrity and their knowledge and expertise in their fields from other
businesses, have enhanced the effectiveness of the Board and Board Committees.
The Board is of the view that given the size of the Group and its business complexity, the current number of Directors remains
optimum and conducive for effective deliberations at Board meetings and for the efficient conduct of Board meetings.
2.3 The Board Committees
The Board delegates certain authorities to the Board Committees that operate under clearly defined written Terms of Reference
and operating procedures duly approved by the Board.
The functions and terms of reference of the Board Committees as well as authority delegated by the Board to these Committees,
have been approved by the Board and are reviewed from time to time to ensure that they are relevant and up to date.
The various Committees report the outcome of their meetings to the Board which are then incorporated in the Board’s minutes.
The Board Committees are AC, NC, RC and RMC.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
63	  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
  A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED) 
2.4 Nomination Committee (“NC”)
The Board has established a NC and its principal objectives are in line with the Terms of Reference of the NC which is available
on the Company’s website, www.three-a.com.my.
The NC shall meet as and when necessary and at such other time(s) as it deems necessary to fulfil its responsibilities. The
quorum for each meeting is two (2) members, of whom shall be Independent Non-Executive Directors. Recommendations of
the NC will be submitted to the Board for approval.
To carry out the assessment of those Directors who are standing for re-election, the NC will base on the review of performance,
contribution to the Board through their skills, experience, strength and qualities, level of independence and abilities to exercise
independent judgment, demonstrate objectivity, clarity of thought during deliberations at meetings and ability to spend
sufficient time and commitment to the Group.
Annual evaluation, in the form of self and peer evaluation, will be conducted by the NC, on the effectiveness of the Board as
a whole, Board Committees, contribution of each individual Director, independence of Independent Directors and assessment
on Senior Management. A summary of the evaluations will be furnished to the NC for discussion.
The NC will furnish the Board Evaluation Questionnaire in relation to Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) or
Sustainability to the Board for review of the ESG or Sustainability performance of the Board and Senior Management in
addressing the Company’s material sustainability risks and opportunities as recommended under Practice 4.4 of the Code.
The NC had on 22 February 2024 conducted the annual assessment in respect of the financial year 2023 and was satisfied
with the existing Board composition, The NC was of the view that all the Directors and Board Committee of 3A had discharged
their responsibilities in a commendable manner and had performed competently and effectively. The Board’s effectiveness is
assessed on areas of composition, administration and process, accountability and responsibility, conduct and communication,
decision-making and Boardroom activities, each Director’s skills and competencies, as well as Board diversity.
For the Board diversity, the evaluation of the candidates’ suitability by the Board is solely based on their competence, character,
time commitment, integrity and experience in meeting the needs of the Group.
For the financial year 2023, the NC met twice (2) and the composition of the NC and their attendance at meetings of NC are
as follows:
Members of NC and Meeting Attendance during the financial year ended 2023
Name Membership Attendance
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Chairman 2/2
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Member 2/2
Chew Eng Chai
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Resigned on 26May2023)
Member 1/1
Jamel Bin Ibrahim
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Appointed on 13 June 2023)
Member –
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
									 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE	
64
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED) 
2.4 Nomination Committee (“NC”) (Continued)
The NC had undertaken the following activities in respect of the financial year 2023:
• 
Reviewed the Self and Peer Assessment Forms of the Directors who are standing for retirement pursuant to the Company’s
Constitution and recommended to the Board for re-election at the AGM;
• 
Reviewed the yearly Self and Peer Assessment Forms of Board Members, the Board’s mix of skills and the performance
of Board committees;
• 
Reviewed the independence of Independent Directors;
• 
Reviewed the Key Officer’s evaluation;
• 
Reviewed and recommended to the Board the appointment of new directors and committee members of the Company;
and
• 
Reviewed and recommended to the Board the change in the composition of the Board Committees.
In 3A Group, all appointments and employments are based on merits and not determined by gender, ethnicity and age bias.
The current structure of gender, ethnicity and age of the employees of the Group as at 13 March 2024 are as follows:
Gender Age Ethnicity
Male  89% 18 – 30  36% Malaysian – Bumiputera 23.3%
Female  11% 31 – 40  38% Malaysian – Chinese  9.8%
100% 41 – 50  21% Malaysian – Indian  0.1%
Above 50   5% Foreigners 66.8%
100% 100%
2.5 Remuneration Committee (“RC”)
The RC has a formal and transparent procedure to review each Director’s remuneration package which takes into consideration
on corporate and individual performance; experience and level of responsibilities of the Directors concerned. The RC is
responsible for recommending the remuneration framework for Directors, the remuneration packages of Executive Directors to
the Board as well as reviewing and deliberating on the quantum of Directors’ fee.
None of the Executive Directors participates in any way in determining their own remuneration.
The Board as a whole determines the level of remuneration of Non-Executive Directors with individual Directors abstaining
from decisions in respect of their own remuneration. Directors’ fees and benefits, if any, are approved at the AGM by the
shareholders.
The policy practiced on Directors’ remuneration by the RC is to recommend the remuneration packages necessary to attract,
retain and motivate Directors of the quality required to manage the business of the Group and to align the interest of the
Directors with those of the shareholders.
Information prepared by independent consultants and survey data on the remuneration practices of comparable companies are
taken into consideration in determining the remuneration packages, where necessary.
The components of Directors’ remuneration are structured so as to link rewards to corporate and individual performance in the
case of Executive Directors. In the case of Non-Executive Directors, the level of remuneration reflects the experience and level
of responsibilities undertaken by the individual Non-Executive Director concerned.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
65	  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
  A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED) 
2.5 Remuneration Committee (“RC”) (Continued)
Meetings are held as and when necessary and at least once a year. The quorum for each meeting shall be two (2) members,
of whom shall be Independent Non-Executive Directors. Minutes of each meeting shall be kept as evidence that the RC has
discharged its functions.
The RC held one (1) meeting during the financial year 2023 to review and recommend to the Board the remuneration of the
Directors.
Members of RC and Meeting Attendance during the financial year 2023
Name Membership Attendance
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Chairperson 1/1
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Member 1/1
Chew Eng Chai
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Resigned on 26May2023)
Member –
Jamel Bin Ibrahim
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
(Appointed on 13 June 2023)
Member 1/1
2.6 Remuneration of Directors
The remuneration package for Directors comprises the following elements:
Directors’ Fees
The Directors’ fees are only payable to Non-Executive Directors. The RC recommends the framework of Directors’ fees to
the Board. The fees structure is determined after a study of comparable organisations’ practices as well as the level of
responsibilities involved.
Salaries and Bonuses
The basic salaries for the Executive Directors are recommended by the RC to the Board for approval. In the evaluation process,
consideration is given to the salary scales for similar positions and job scopes in the industry.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
									 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE	
66
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED) 
2.6 Remuneration of Directors (Continued)
	Salaries and Bonuses (Continued)
The details of the remuneration Directors for the financial year 2023 are as follows:
Fees Salaries Allowance Bonus
Other
Emoluments Total
(RM) (RM) (RM) (RM) (RM) (RM)
Received from the Company
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh 160,000 – – – – 160,000
Chew Eng Chai
(Resigned on 26 May 2023)
39,000 – – – 70,000 109,000*
Lim Yee Mein 30,000 – – – – 30,000
Kee Thuan Chai 30,000 – – – – 30,000
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam 65,000 – – – – 65,000
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh 65,000 – – – – 65,000
Jamel Bin Ibrahim
(Appointed on 13 June 2023)
35,000 – – – – 35,000
424,000 – – – 70,000 494,000
Received from Subsidiaries
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh 70,000 – – – – 70,000
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King – 732,000 – 823,500 17,080 1,572,580
Fang Siew Ping – 528,000 60,000 506,000 131,280 1,225,280
Liew Kuo Shin – 528,000 60,000 506,000 131,280 1,225,280
70,000 1,788,000 120,000 1,835,500 279,640 4,093,140
Note:
* 
Directors’ remuneration in respect of financial year ended 31 December 2023 amounted to RM109,000 paid to the outgoing
director was approved by the shareholders at the Twenty-First Annual General Meeting (“21st AGM”) of the Company held
on 26 May 2023. The aforementioned Directors’ remuneration had also been paid to the outgoing director following his
resignation from the Company in 2023.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
67	  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
  A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED) 
2.7 Independence of the Board
The Independent Non-Executive Directors with their extensive knowledge and experience contribute independent views,
advice and judgement on interests, not only of the Company but also of shareholders, employees, customers and suppliers
in which the Group conducts its business. Independent Non-Executive Directors are essential for protecting the interests of
shareholders and stakeholders and can make significant contributions to the Group’s decision-making by bringing in detached
impartiality.
The roles of the Independent Non-Executive Chairman and Managing Director of the Company are distinct and separate with
individual responsibilities. Each of them has clear defined duties and authority thus ensures balance of power and greater
capacity for independent decision-making.
Where a potential conflict of interest may arise, it is mandatory practice for the Director concerned to declare his or her interest
and abstain from the decision-making process.
The Board through the NC assessed the independence of its Independent Non-Executive Directors based on criteria set out
in the Listing Requirements. The Board Charter provides a limit of a cumulative term of nine (9) years on the tenure of an
Independent Director. However, an Independent Director may continue to serve on the Board upon reaching the nine (9) year’s
limit subject to redesignation of the said Independent Director as a Non-Independent Director. In the event, the Board intends
to retain the Director as an Independent Non-Executive Director who serves beyond nine (9) years, the Company is required
to seek shareholders’ approval at general meeting. In justifying the decision, the Board is required to assess the candidate’s
suitability to continue as an Independent Non-Executive Director based on the criteria on independence assessment as adopted
by the Board.
2.8	Board Meetings
The Board meets every three (3) months in regular Board meetings during the year to approve the quarterly results on a
pre-scheduled basis. Additional meetings are convened when urgent and important decisions need to be taken between
scheduled meetings.
The Board met four (4) times during the financial year 2023. The dates of the Board meetings are as follows:
• 
23 February 2023
• 
30 May 2023
• 
28 August 2023
• 
21 November 2023
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
									 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE	
68
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED) 
2.8	Board Meetings (Continued)
Details of attendance by each Director at the Board meetings held under the financial year 2023 are as follows:
Director Number of Board Meetings
Held
Number of Board Meetings
Attended
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh (Chairman) 4 4/4
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King 4 4/4
Chew Eng Chai (Resigned on 26May2023) 1 1/1
Fang Siew Ping 4 4/4
Liew Kuo Shin 4 4/4
Kee Thuan Chai 4 4/4
Lim Yee Mein 4 4/4
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam 4 4/4
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh 4 4/4
Jamel Bin Ibrahim (Appointed on 13 June 2023) 2 2/2
Tan Soon Hoe (Appointed on 29 February 2024) – –
The listing of directorships held by Directors is disclosed by the respective Directors to the Board to ensure compliance to the
above Listing Requirements.
2.9 Directors’ Training
The Directors have continued to participate in relevant training programmes to keep abreast with the latest developments in
the security industry, in particularly in areas of corporate governance and regulatory changes so that they would be able to
discharge their duties as Directors effectively.
The Board will review the training needs of the Directors from time to time.
For the financial year 2023, the conferences, seminars and training programmes attended by each of the Directors were in
respect of the following areas:
Director Seminars/Training Programmes Attended Date
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh • 
Management of Cyber Risk
• 
Anti-Bribery&Anti-CorruptioninMalaysiaandEnvironmental,
Social,Governance(ESG),ClimateChangeandSustainability
Reporting
23 October 2023
17 November 2023
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King • 
Management of Cyber Risk
• 
Anti-Bribery&Anti-CorruptioninMalaysiaandEnvironmental,
Social,Governance(ESG),ClimateChangeandSustainability
Reporting
23 October 2023
17 November 2023
Fang Siew Ping • 
Management of Cyber Risk
• 
Anti-Bribery&Anti-CorruptioninMalaysiaandEnvironmental,
Social,Governance(ESG),ClimateChangeandSustainability
Reporting
23 October 2023
17 November 2023
Liew Kuo Shin • 
Management of Cyber Risk
• 
Anti-Bribery&Anti-CorruptioninMalaysiaandEnvironmental,
Social,Governance(ESG),ClimateChangeandSustainability
Reporting
23 October 2023
17 November 2023
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
69	  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Director Seminars/Training Programmes Attended Date
Lim Yee Mein • 
Management of Cyber Risk
• 
Anti-Bribery&Anti-CorruptioninMalaysiaandEnvironmental,
Social,Governance(ESG),ClimateChangeandSustainability
Reporting
23 October 2023
17 November 2023
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam • 
Management of Cyber Risk
• 
Anti-Bribery&Anti-CorruptioninMalaysiaandEnvironmental,
Social,Governance(ESG),ClimateChangeandSustainability
Reporting
23 October 2023
17 November 2023
Kee Thuan Chai • 
Management of Cyber Risk
• 
Anti-Bribery&Anti-CorruptioninMalaysiaandEnvironmental,
Social,Governance(ESG),ClimateChangeandSustainability
Reporting
23 October 2023
17 November 2023
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh • 
Board Sustainability Committee Dialogue & Networking:
The ABC Soup of ESG and You (Boards)
• 
NRC’s Role inChampioning a Future-Focused Talent Agenda
• 
Management of Cyber Risk
• 
Anti-Bribery&Anti-CorruptioninMalaysiaandEnvironmental,
Social,Governance(ESG),ClimateChangeandSustainability
Reporting
10 July 2023
26 July 2023
23 October 2023
17 November 2023
Jamel Bin Ibrahim • 
Management of Cyber Risk
• 
Anti-Bribery&Anti-CorruptioninMalaysiaandEnvironmental,
Social,Governance(ESG),ClimateChangeandSustainability
Reporting
23 October 2023
17 November 2023
The Company Secretary regularly updates the Board on relevant guidelines on statutory and regulatory requirements from time
to time at Board meetings. The Directors will continue to undergo relevant training programmes to further enhance their skills
and knowledge in the discharge of their stewardship role.
 B. EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT 
1.0	
Audit Committee (“AC”)
The AC currently comprises three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors. The AC meets not less than four (4) times a year
and is governed by clearly defined Terms of Reference. In the financial year 2023, the Committee met four (4) times. The
main responsibilities of the AC are to ensure integrity of financial reporting, a sound internal control system with effective risk
monitoring procedures and adherence to compliance matters.
The Chairman of AC is not the Chairman of the Board. Details of the composition of the AC, attendance of meetings held during
the financial year 2023 and the activities carried out by the AC during the year are set out in the AC Report on pages 77 to 79
of this Annual Report.
1.1 Financial Reporting
In presenting the annual audited financial statements and quarterly announcements of results to shareholders, the Directors
take responsibility to provide a balanced, clear and comprehensive assessment of the financial performance and prospects
of the Company and the Group in all the disclosures made to the stakeholders and the regulatory authorities. Following
discussions with the External Auditors, the Directors consider that the Company and the Group uses appropriate accounting
policies that are consistently applied and supported by reasonable as well as prudent judgments and estimates; and that
financial statements are prepared in accordance with applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia and the provisions
of the Companies Act 2016. The Directors recognise the responsibility for ensuring that accounting records are properly kept.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
  A.	BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONTINUED) 
2.9 Directors’ Training (Continued)
									 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE	
70
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
 B. EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) 
1.1 Financial Reporting (Continued)
The AC who assists the Board in overseeing the financial reporting process of the Company and the Group, has adopted a policy
for the types of non-audit services permitted to be provided by the External Auditors, including the need for AC’s approval prior
to such services can be provided by the External Auditors.
In assessing the independence of External Auditors, the AC requires written assurance by the External Auditors, confirming that
they are and have been independent throughout the conduct of the audit engagement with the Group in accordance with
the independence criteria set out by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants and the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants.
Early announcements of the quarterly results and issuance of annual report to Bursa Securities reflect the Board’s commitment
to provide timely, transparent and up-to-date assessments on the Company’s and the Group’s performance and prospects.
The Board is assisted by the AC to oversee the quality of the financial reporting of the Company and the Group. The AC
reviews and monitors the integrity of the Company’s and the Group’s annual and interim financial statements and reviews the
appropriateness of the Company’s and the Group’s accounting policies and changes to these policies as well as ensures these
financial statements comply with accounting and regulatory requirements.
AC had on 22 February 2024 conducted an assessment on the suitability and independence of the external auditors, Messrs
BDO PLT. Having considered their independence, competency, resources and the audit team assigned and the tenure of the
change of its audit engagement partner, the AC had recommended to the Board on the suitability and independence of Messrs
BDO PLT for re-appointment as Auditors of the Group at the forthcoming AGM.
The Board of Directors also have overall responsibilities for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard
the assets of the Company and the Group and for the implementation and continued operation of adequate accounting and
internal control systems for the prevention of fraud and other irregularities.
1.2	Statement on Directors’ Responsibility
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2016 to prepare financial statements for each year which give a true and fair
view of the state of affairs of the Company and of the Group at the end of the financial year and of their results and cash flow
for the financial year then ended. In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have:
• 
adopted suitable accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• 
made judgments and estimates that are prudent and reasonable;
• 
ensured applicable accounting standards have been followed; and
• 
prepared the financial statements on the going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company and the Group keep proper accounting records which disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Company and of Group which enables them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2016.
The Directors have overall responsibility for taking such steps that are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the
Company and the Group to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
1.3 Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Board requires the Company and the Group to maintain a rigorous risk management framework for identifying, evaluating,
monitoring and managing the risks taken to achieve the Company’s and the Group’s business objectives. This process is
periodically reviewed by the Board.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
71	  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
 B. EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED) 
1.3 Risk Management and Internal Control Framework (Continued)
The Group’s Internal Audit function is outsourced to an independent consultant whose credentials and qualifications had been
reviewed and found to be competent by the Board and had adequate resources to carry out the scope of activities as outlined
in the internal audit plan of the Company. They report directly to the AC on the effectiveness of the current system of internal
controls from the perspectives of governance, risks and controls. The internal audit function is independent of the activities it
audits. The internal audit function carries out the internal audit reviews based on internal audit plans approved by the AC and
the Board. The findings/results of the audits are presented to the AC at their quarterly meetings.
Follow-up reviews are also carried out to assess the status of implementation of management action plans, which are based
on internal audit recommendations. The results of these follow-up reviews are also highlighted to the AC at their quarterly
meetings.
On 22 February 2024, the AC performed an assessment and review of the adequacy and scope of the internal audit function
and the backgrounds of Internal Auditors as part of ongoing effort to ensure an effective and sound internal controls system.
The areas covered are the competency and independence of Internal Auditors as well as the scope, functions, resources and
authority of the internal audit function that is in place.
For further details on the focus areas for internal audit during the financial year 2023, please refer to the Statement of Risk
Management and Internal Control on pages 74 to 76 of this Annual Report.
The aforesaid Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control provides an overview of the state of internal controls within
the Group.
The cost incurred for the internal audit function in respect of the financial year 2023 was about RM97,000.
  C. INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING & RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS 
1.0 Communication with Stakeholders
The Company recognises the importance of maintaining accountability and transparency to its shareholders through proper
communication with its shareholders and stakeholders. The Company reaches out to its stakeholders through its distribution of
the annual reports, public announcements, company website, investor relations through telephone or emails.
The Group also provides corporate information as well as highlights key financial information in order to facilitate shareholders’
easy access to the information.
The Company maintained a website (www.three-a.com.my) to which shareholders can access information related to the
Group. The Group’s website is continuously updated to provide timely and accurate information to the users. The notice of
general meetings, proxy form, Annual Report, Circulars to shareholders, Questions and Answers from the Minority Shareholders
Watchdog Group and summary of key matters discussed at the AGM are also published on the Company’s website.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
									 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE	
72
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  C. INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING & RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS (CONTINUED) 
1.0 Communication with Stakeholders (Continued)
Investors and the public who wish to assess corporate and financial information that is made public such as the quarterly
announcements of the financial results of the Group, announcements and disclosures made pursuant to the disclosure
requirements of Listing Requirements and other corporate information and events related to the Company can channel their
queries to the following personnel:
Name: Fong Peng Fai Jessica Fang Siew Yee
Designation: Group Financial Controller Senior Manager
Email: fong.pengfai@three-a.com.my jessica.fang@three-a.com.my
Tel: +603 6156 2655 +603 6156 2655
Website: www.three-a.com.my
Whilst the Company endeavours to provide as much information as possible to its shareholders and stakeholders, the Company
is mindful of the legal and regulatory framework governing the release of material and price sensitive information.
1.1 Conduct of General Meeting
All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company’s Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) and to participate in the
proceedings. Shareholders’ suggestions received during AGM are reviewed and considered for implementation, whenever
possible. Every opportunity is given to the shareholders to ask questions and seek clarification on the performance of the
Company and the Group.
The 21st AGM of the Company held on 26 May 2023 was conducted through a virtual basis via Remote Participation and
Electronic voting (“RPEV”) facilities from the broadcast venue at Level 12, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay
Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan. Shareholders were encouraged to participate (including posting
questions to the Board via real time submission of typed texts) and vote remotely at the 21st AGM of the Company by using
the RPEV facilities provided by the Company’s Share Registrar via https://meeting.boardroomlimited/my.
In accordance with the Listing Requirements, the Board put all resolutions to vote by way of poll at the AGM and the results of
the polling were made to Bursa Securities on the same day.
At the 21st AGM, all Directors of the Company, along with the Group Financial Controller, Company Secretary and the External
Auditors were present to respond to the shareholders’ queries, where applicable and necessary. Further, in line with good
corporate governance practices, the Annual Report 2022 and notice of the said last AGM were made available to the shareholders
of the Company at least 28 days prior to the AGM. The notice of AGM is also published in a nationally circulated newspaper.
The notice would include explanatory statements for proposed resolutions to facilitate understanding and evaluation of issues
involving the shareholders.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (CONTINUED)
73	  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of Three-A Resources Berhad is pleased to present its Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Control for the financial year ended 31 December 2023. The disclosure of this Statement is presented pursuant to Paragraph 15.26(b) of
the Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and is guided by the Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers.
 BOARD RESPONSIBILITY 
The Board acknowledges its overall risk management responsibilities, understands the principal risks of the business that the Group
involves and accepts that business decisions require the incurrence and balancing of risk and return to generate reasonable returns to
the shareholders.
In its role of overseeing the effectiveness of the systems of risk management and internal control, the Board, together with the Audit
Committee (“AC”) and Risk Management Committee (“RMC”), diligently and comprehensively applies and uses the following processes
and information during the financial year to derive its comfort on these systems:
• 
The AC’s reviews of the quarterly financial results, annual report, and audited financial statements in consultation with Management;
and the status of Management’s implementation actions for the improvement thereof;
• 
The Board and AC deliberation on the External Audit Memorandum on the annual audit findings and risk and control issues noted by
them during their statutory audit;
• 
The RMC’s oversight of the risk management processes and the adequacy and effectiveness of these risk mitigation measures
Management took to manage the business and operational challenges and risks in the Group;
• 
The Internal Audit function assesses the governance practices, risk management and internal control systems of the Group; and
• 
The periodic business, financial and operational performance briefings by the Managing Director, Executive Directors and Group
Financial Controller and their assurance to the Board.
  RISK MANAGEMENT 
The Group’s risk management continues to be overseen by the RMC and assisted by the Risk Management Working Committee (“RMWC”).
The RMWC is responsible for identifying, evaluating, monitoring, and managing significant risks appropriately and in a timely manner,
whilst the RMC ensures that Management implements appropriate measures to manage material risk exposure in the Group.
The Group continues to face challenges, mainly from the increased volatility in raw materials costs stemming from the ongoing Russia-
Ukraine war and uncertain global economic landscape.
In facing these headwinds, the Group remained focused on efficiency initiatives through economies of scale, cost optimisation and efforts
to increase productivity and deliver good quality products. These initiatives include:
• 
Completion of Phase 1 Solar Panel Electricity Generation Project, allowing the Group to generate renewable energy;
• 
Expansion plans for lands acquired in the vicinity of existing factories;
• 
Inventory planning in managing the inventory costs of the raw materials, the margin of the selling price, and on-time and adequate
supplies of finished goods to the customers;
• 
Customer engagement and consultation for price improvement, order size differentiation, quality and service level;
• 
Automation and enhancement of certain production lines; and
• 
Exploration of new and alternative supplies of raw materials, chemicals and packaging materials.
									 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE	
74
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control (CONTINUED)
  INTERNAL CONTROLS 
In addition to the Board risk management oversight mentioned above, the Group has implemented various control frameworks and
procedures to ensure effective risk detection, prevention and mitigation and “check and balance”. In summary, these key control
frameworks and procedures are as follows:
• 
A board comprising half of the non-executive and independent directors provides objective oversight of management performance
and effectiveness;
• 
Organisational structure with defined lines of responsibility, hierarchical reporting and delegation of authorities at the Senior
Management and the Heads of Department levels;
• 
Limit of authority and approval facilitating delegation of authority;
• 
The adoption, certification and compliance of Food Safety System 22000 version 5.1 consisting of ISO 22000: 2018 and ISO/TS
22002-1:2009 for the products ensuring food safety;
• 
Continual implementation and compliance with Halal, Kosher, and HACCP Certifications, setting the fundamentals of management
control in the Group;
• 
Insurance, to minimise potential financial risk exposure and safeguard the value of Group’s assets against fire, perils, consequential
loss, burglary, public liability, general and product liability, contaminated products and employee dishonestly;
• 
Guidelines for selection and hiring of staff, formal training programmes as well as annual performance appraisals to ensure that staff
are competent and adequately trained to execute their functions; and
• 
Establish and implement the Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Policy, Code of Conduct and Ethics and Whistleblowing Policy.
During the financial year, a corruption risk assessment was conducted, and 100% of the Group’s operations (departments) were assessed
for corruption risks. Anti-corruption training was provided to 587 employees across the Group.
In addition, various operational management review meetings are held to supervise, monitor, and review the effectiveness of the actions
taken by line management to ensure that the business performance objectives are met. These meetings include:
a.	
Food Safety Team Meeting
Quarterly Food Safety Team (“FST”) meetings to review the achievements of the Key Results Areas (“KRA”) of respective departments,
the root cause for not achieving the KRAs and the corrective action plans, updates for pest control, results of audits undertaken by
FST, customer audits and FST training. The key KRAs include production quality, yield, downtime, customer goods returned, customer
complaint, vendor corrective action requests and accident rate.
b.	
Credit Control Committee Meeting
Quarterly Credit Control Committee meetings to review the customer collection status, the proposed credit term and limit, the
number of new customers, the account receivable ageing and impairment, the related party transactions and the annual credit
review of credit risk. The members of the Committee comprise Executive Directors and the Chairman of the Board.
c.	Sales Meeting
Regular sales meetings are held between Senior Management, Sales & Business Development Manager and the Sales team to
discuss the collection, orders and product prices.
75	  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
  MANAGEMENT RESPONSIBILITIES AND ASSURANCE  
In accordance with the Bursa Securities Guidelines, Management is responsible for identifying risks, implementing and maintaining sound
systems of risk management and internal control, and monitoring and reporting to the Board the significant control deficiencies and
changes in risks that could significantly affect the Group’s achievement of its objectives and performance.
In producing this Statement, the Board has received assurance from the Managing Director and Group Financial Controller that the
Group’s risk management and internal control systems are operating adequately and effectively in all material aspects to the best of
their knowledge.
 BOARD ASSURANCE AND LIMITATION 
The Board is satisfied that the Group’s existing risk management and internal control systems are adequate and effective in enabling
the Group to achieve its business objectives. The Board has also received assurance from the Managing Director and the Group Financial
Controller that the Group’s risk management and internal control systems are adequate and effective in all material respects to the best
of their knowledge. The Board did not note any significant control weaknesses for the financial year under review.
Nonetheless, the Board wishes to reiterate that due to the limitations inherent in any internal control and risk management systems, such
systems could only manage and mitigate risk within tolerable levels instead of eliminating every possible risk the Group encountered.
Therefore, these systems can only provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the possibility of material error, misstatement,
fraud, or loss.
  REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS 
As required by Paragraph 15.23 of the MMLR of Bursa Securities, the External Auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control. Their limited assurance review was performed in accordance with Malaysian Approved Standard on Assurance
Engagements, ISAE 3000 (Revised) Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information and Audit
and Assurance Practice Guide 3 (“AAPG 3”) Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control Included in the Annual Report, issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. AAPG 3 does not require the External
Auditors to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems of the Group.
The External Auditors reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention which causes them to believe that this Statement
is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the disclosures required by paragraphs 41 and 42 of the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, nor is factually inaccurate.
This Statement is made in accordance with the approval of the Board.
Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control (CONTINUED)
									 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE	
76
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Audit
Committee Report
  CompositIon and Attendance 
The Audit Committee (“AC”) of the Company comprises three (3) members who are all Independent Non-Executive Directors:
Chairman
Jamel Bin Ibrahim
Independent Non-Executive Director
Members
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
Independent Non-Executive Director
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr Jamel Bin Ibrahim, the Chairman of the AC, is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. Thus, Paragraph 15.09(1)(c)(i) of
the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Listing Requirements”)(“Bursa Securities”) has complied.
A total of four (4) meetings were held during the financial year ended 31 December 2023 (“FYE 2023”). The record of attendance of each
member at the AC Meetings held during the FYE 2023 is as follows:
Name of AC Members Number of AC Meetings Attended
Chew Eng Chai (Resigned on 26 May 2023) 1/1
Jamel Bin Ibrahim (Appointed on 13 June 2023) 2/2
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam 4/4
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh 4/4
Upon invitation by the AC, the Directors, Group Financial Controller, Internal Auditors, External Auditors and senior management attended
the meetings as and where required. The meetings were appropriately structured through the use of agendas, which were distributed
to members with sufficient notification.
  Terms of Reference (“ToR”) 
The latest TOR of the AC is available for reference at the Company’s website, www.three-a.com.my.
77	  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Audit
Committee Report (CONTINUED)
 SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES IN 2023 
In line with the TOR of the AC, the following activities were carried out by the AC for the FYE 2023 under review in accordance with its
functions and duties:
1.	
At the meeting held in February 2023, the AC:
• 
Reviewed the Audit Completion Report in respect of the audit of the Company and the Group for the financial year ended 31
December 2022 from External Auditors.
• 
Conducted a private session with BDO without the presence of the Executive Directors and Management.
• 
Assessed the independence and suitability of external auditors and being satisfied with the performance of the External
Auditors, recommended the re-appointment of BDO to the Board for further recommendation to the shareholders for approval
at the Twenty-First Annual General Meeting.
• 
Deliberated the Risk Management Committee Report.
• 
Reviewed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of the outsourced Internal Auditors of the Company
and was satisfied with their performance and resources.
2. At the meeting held in November 2023, the AC reviewed and deliberated the following:
• 
Audit Planning Memorandum (“APM”) for the FYE 2023 as prepared by BDO in relation to statutory and non-audit services. In the
APM, BDO gave assurance that they had complied with the independence requirement and further described BDO’s engagement
and reporting responsibilities, audit scope, and approach to the statutory audit for FYE 2023. The non-audit services of BDO and
its affiliate firm involve the annual review of the SORMIC as well as tax compliance services for the Group.
• 
Report from the Risk Management Committee.
• 
Assessed the solvency of the Company and recommended the payment of interim dividend for the FYE 2023 to the Board for
consideration.
• 
Reviewed the proposed audit fees of BDO and recommended the same to the Board for consideration.
3.	
On financial reporting, the AC reviewed every quarterly financial report during the AC meetings and subsequently recommended
the reports to the Board for approval. The reviews of quarterly reports were conducted in Feb 2023, May 2023, August 2023 and
November 2023 respectively. The AC also reviewed and discussed the recommendations from the Credit Control Committee on
matters in relation to the proposed reversal of impairment of trade receivables or any other matters relating thereto.
4.	
The AC reviewed and discussed the Internal Audit Reports of the Group that were prepared and presented by the Internal Auditors
every quarter. The AC reviewed the findings of Internal Audit Reports and discussed the management actions and updates on follow-
up matters with the Internal Auditors as and when required.
5.	
The AC reviewed the recurrent related party transactions of a revenue nature within the Group and provided an opinion on whether
they are fair and reasonable and not detrimental to the interest of the minority shareholders of the Company every quarter.
									 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE	
78
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Audit
Committee Report (CONTINUED)
  INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION 
Paragraph 15.27 of Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities provides that a listed issuer must establish an internal audit function
independent of the activities it audits and ensure it reports directly to the AC.
The Company has outsourced its internal audit function to an internal audit consulting firm. The primary responsibility of this internal
audit function is to assist the Board and the AC in reviewing and assessing the management systems of internal control and to provide
recommendations to strengthen these internal control procedures.
The internal audit function is led by a director who is assisted by a manager and audit executives assist. The director in charge is Mr Chong
Kian Soon, a member of Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand, the Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants and the
Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia, and the team members are accounting graduates.
The Internal Auditors have carried out their work with reference to the principles of the International Professional Practice Framework
(“IPPF”) of the Institute of Internal Auditors (“IIA”). These principles include the audit planning, execution, documentation, communication
of findings and consultation with key stakeholders.
An Internal Audit Plan will be proposed and presented to the AC for deliberation and approval before internal audit reviews are carried
out. The Internal Audit Plan is developed in consultation with management and the AC, and after considering the significant risk factors
identified by the Risk Management Working Group, changes in the compliance landscape and requirements, the audit emphasis of the
External Auditor, the audit universe in the Group and past internal audit findings. Subsequent changes to the approved Internal Audit Plan
will be discussed with the AC, and its approval will be obtained prior to the commencement of the audit.
The Internal Auditors report and present the Internal Audit reports to the AC periodically. These reports contained the conclusion of control
status, an overview of management performance, audit findings, management actions for improvement and target completion dates. In
addition, internal auditors conduct follow-up audits to ascertain the status of management actions.
The costs incurred for the Internal Audit function in respect of the FYE 2023 was about RM97,000.
During the FYE 2023, the Internal Auditors attended four (4) AC meetings. The summary of work conducted and reported by the Internal
Auditors in the current financial year is as follows:
• 
Conducted follow-up audit to ascertain the status of management actions;
• 
Prepared an Internal Audit Plan for financial years 2024 to 2026 to the Audit Committee for consideration and approval;
• 
Evaluated the adequacy and effectiveness of the general controls of the information system and the Quality Assurance Function; and
• 
Reviewed recurrent related party transactions.
The AC and the Board are satisfied with the Internal Auditor's performance. They are interested in greater independence and continuity
in the Internal Audit function and have decided to continue outsourcing the Internal Audit Function of the Group.
79	  CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
ADDITIONAL
COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
The information set out below is disclosed in compliance with the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”).
1.	
Audit and Non-Audit Fees
The amount of audit fees and non-audit fees paid or payable to the Company’s External Auditors and a firm affiliated to the External
Auditors’ by the Company and Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 are as follows:
Company
(RM’000)
Group
(RM’000)
Audit Fees 55 146
Non-Audit Fees 13 26
Total 68 172
2.	Material Contracts
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company or its subsidiaries which involve Directors’ and major shareholders’
interest either still subsisting at the end of the financial year ended 31 December 2023 or entered into since the end of the
previous financial year that have been entered by the Company or its subsidiary involving the interests of the Directors and major
shareholders.
3.	Utilisation of Proceeds
There were no proceeds raised by the Company from any corporate proposal during the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
4.	
Recurrent Related Party transactions of a Revenue or trading Nature (“RRPT”)
The Company did not seek any mandate from its shareholders pertaining to recurrent related party transactions of revenue or
trading nature during the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
5.	
Employee share scheme
The Company did not establish any employee share scheme and does not have any subsisting employee share scheme during the
financial year ended 31 December 2023.
									 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE	
80
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS       81
 
Directors’ Report     82
Statement By Directors     87
Statutory Declaration     87
Independent Auditors’ Report     88
Statements of Financial Position     92
Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income     93
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity     94
Statement of Changes In Equity     95
Statements of Cash Flows     96
Notes to The Financial Statements     98
81	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year ended 31 December 2023.
  Principal Activities 
The principal activity of the Company is investment holding. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are primarily involved in
manufacturing and sale of food and beverages ingredients and investment holding. Further details of the subsidiaries are disclosed in
Note 7 to the financial statements. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
 Results 
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Profit for the financial year, attributable to owners of the parent 45,155 14,970
 DividendS 
Dividends paid, declared or proposed since the end of the previous financial year were as follows:
RM’000
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2023:
  Interim single tier dividend of 2.5 sen per ordinary share, paid on 20 December 2023 12,225
  Special single tier dividend of 0.5 sen per ordinary share, paid on 20 December 2023 2,445
14,670
The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
  Reserves and Provisions 
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.
  Issue of Shares and Debentures 
The Company did not issue any new shares or debentures during the financial year.
  Options Granted Over Unissued Shares 
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
82
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
DIRECTORS’
REPORT (CONTINUED)
  REPURCHASE OF OWN SHARES 
At the Annual General Meeting held on 26 May 2023, the shareholders of the Company by an ordinary resolution renewed the mandate
given to the Company to repurchase up to 10% of existing issued and paid-up share capital of the Company.
The Company did not repurchase any of its issued ordinary shares during the financial year.
As at 31 December 2023, a total of 3,000,000 issued and fully paid ordinary shares at a total cost of RM2,150,920 are held as treasury
shares by the Company. The number of ordinary shares as at 31 December 2023 net of treasury shares is 489,000,010.
The details of the treasury shares are set out in Note 11 to the financial statements.
 Directors 
The Directors who have held office during the financial year and up to the date of this report are as follows:
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh*
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King*
Liew Kuo Shin
Fang Siew Ping*
Kee Thuan Chai
Dato’ Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam
Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh
Jamel Bin Ibrahim (Appointed on 13 June 2023)
Tan Soon Hoe (Appointed on 29 February 2024)
Chew Eng Chai (Resigned on 26 May 2023)
Lim Yee Mein (Resigned on 29 February 2024)
* These Directors of the Company are also the Directors of certain subsidiaries of the Company.
­  Directors’ Interests 
The Directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company and of its
related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2023 as recorded in the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings kept by
the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia were as follows:
   Number of ordinary shares
Balance
as at
1.1.2023 Bought Sold
Balance
as at
31.12.2023
Direct interests:
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King 13,745,500 – – 13,745,500
Liew Kuo Shin 125,000 – – 125,000
Indirect interest:
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King a 1,714,975 – – 1,714,975
a 
Indirect interest via shareholdings of his son, Fong Peng Fai (137,375 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 59(11)(c) of Companies Act
2016 (“CA2016”) and Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn. Bhd. (1,577,600 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 8 of CA2016.
None of the other Directors holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in the ordinary shares of the Company during
the financial year.
83	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
DIRECTORS’
REPORT (CONTINUED)
  Directors’ Benefits 
Since the end of the previous financial year, none of the Directors have received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other than
those benefits included in the aggregate amount of remuneration received or due and receivable by the Directors as shown in the
financial statements) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the
Directors is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest, other than the following:
(a)	
certain Directors who may be deemed to derive benefits by virtue of trade transactions entered into in the ordinary course of
business with companies in which certain Directors have substantial financial interests; and
(b)	
certain Directors who received remuneration from a subsidiary as Directors of the subsidiary.
The details of the above transactions are disclosed in Note 25 to the financial statements.
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year, to which the Company is a party, which had the object of
enabling the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other body
corporate.
  Directors’ REMUNERATION 
The details of the Directors’ remuneration for the current financial year of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Executive Directors’ remuneration:
- Salaries and other emoluments 4,023 –
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration:
- Fees 494 424
- Retirement benefits 70 70
Total 4,587 494
  INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR OFFICERS, DIRECTORS AND AUDITORS 
The Group and the Company effected Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance during the financial year to protect the Directors and the
officers of the Group and of the Company against potential costs and liabilities arising from claims brought against the Directors and
officers. The insurance premium paid by the Group during the financial year amounted to RM11,500.
There were no indemnity given to or insurance effected for the auditors of the Group and of the Company during the financial year.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
84
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
  Other Statutory Information Regarding the Group and the Company 
(I) As at the End of the Financial Year
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the Directors took reasonable steps:
(i)	
to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of provision
for doubtful debts and had satisfied themselves that there are no known bad debts to be written off and that adequate
provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii)	
to ensure that any current assets other than debts, which were unlikely to realise their book values in the ordinary course
of business have been written down to their estimated realisable values.
(b)	
In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have
not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.
(II) From the End of the Financial Year to the Date of This Report
(c) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i)	
which would necessitate the writing off of bad debts or render the amount of the provision for doubtful debts in the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any material extent;
(ii)	
which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
misleading; and
(iii)	
which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group
and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) 	
there has not arisen any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the
results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made; and
(ii)	
no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within the period of twelve
(12) months after the end of the financial year which would or may affect the ability of the Group or of the Company to
meet their obligations as and when they fall due.
(III)	
As at the Date Of This Report
(e)	
There are no charges on the assets of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year to
secure the liabilities of any other person.
(f)	
There are no contingent liabilities of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year.
(g)	
The Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which
would render any amount stated in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
DIRECTORS’
REPORT (CONTINUED)
85	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
 Auditors 
The auditors, BDO PLT (201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206), have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Auditors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 were as follows:
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Statutory audit 146 55
Other services 8 8
154 63
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors (“Board”) in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King
Director
Kuala Lumpur
17 April 2024
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh
Director
DIRECTORS’
REPORT (CONTINUED)
									 FINANCIAL Report	
86
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
STATEMENT
BY DIRECTORS
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 92 to 124 have been drawn up in accordance with Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true
and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2023 and of the financial performance and
cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended.
On behalf of the Board,
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King
Director
Kuala Lumpur
17 April 2024
Dato’ Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh
Director
I, Fong Peng Fai (CA 23408), being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Three-A Resources Berhad, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 92 to 124 are, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory
Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by )
the abovenamed at					)
Kuala Lumpur, this 					 )
17 April 2024						)	 Fong Peng Fai
Before me:
87	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Three-A Resources Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as at
31 December 2023 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statements
of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended and notes to the
financial statements, including material accounting policy information, as set out on pages 92 to 124.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company
as at 31 December 2023, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then ended in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing. Our
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of
Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other
ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements
of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion
on these matters.
Recoverability of trade receivables
As at 31 December 2023, trade receivables of the Group, net of impairment losses, amounted to RM126,582,000. The details of trade
receivables and their credit risk have been disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
We determine this to be a key audit matter because it requires management to exercise significant judgements in determining the
probability of default by trade receivables and appropriate forward looking information.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
88
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Key Audit Matters (continued)
Audit response
Our audit procedures included the following:
(a)	
Recomputed the probability of default using historical data and forward-looking information adjustment applied by the Group;
(b)	
Recomputed the correlation coefficient between the macroeconomic factors used by the Group and historical credit losses to
determine the appropriateness of the forward-looking information used by the Group; and
(c)	
Inquiries of management to assess the rationale underlying the relationship between the forward-looking information and expected
credit losses.
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our report in respect of the audit of the financial statements
of the Company.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in the
annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not express
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required
to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that give a
true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to
enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due
to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the ability of the
Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no
realistic alternative but to do so.
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia) (CONTINUED)
89	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing
in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise
from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing, we exercise
professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a)	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, whether due
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than
for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of
internal control.
(b)	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of internal control of the Group and of the
Company.
(c)	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures
made by the Directors.
(d)	
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the ability of the
Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our
auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e)	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, including
the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the underlying transactions and
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f)	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group
to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance
of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia) (CONTINUED)
									 FINANCIAL Report	
90
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and
to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where
applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe
these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act 2016 in
Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.
BDO PLT
201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206
Chartered Accountants
Kuala Lumpur
17 April 2024
Koo Swee Lin
03281/08/2024 J
Chartered Accountant
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia) (CONTINUED)
91	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023
Note
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
  Property, plant and equipment 5 176,071 175,238 – –
Right-of-use assets 6 66,005 62,722 – –
Investments in subsidiaries 7 – – 163,382 163,382
242,076 237,960 163,382 163,382
Current assets
Inventories 8 79,964 105,412 – –
Trade and other receivables 9 129,911 144,670 – –
Current tax assets 17 – 17 –
Cash and bank balances 10 53,696 21,006 1,527 1,235
263,588 271,088 1,544 1,235
TOTAL ASSETS 505,664 509,048 164,926 164,617
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 11 149,087 149,087 149,087 149,087
Treasury shares 11 (2,151) (2,151) (2,151) (2,151)
Reserves 12 303,656 273,171 17,538 17,238
TOTAL EQUITY 450,592 420,107 164,474 164,174
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 14 3,277 5,012 – –
Deferred tax liabilities 13 19,411 20,223 – –
22,688 25,235 – –
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 15 24,332 46,573 452 442
Borrowings 14 1,619 15,235 – –
Current tax liabilities 6,433 1,898 – 1
32,384 63,706 452 443
TOTAL LIABILITIES 55,072 88,941 452 443
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 505,664 509,048 164,926 164,617
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
92
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Note
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Revenue 17 603,864 658,702 15,750 13,500
Cost of sales (504,019) (570,497) – –
Gross profit 99,845 88,205 15,750 13,500
Other income 18 3,620 5,676 14 14
Administrative expenses 19 (36,328) (33,346) (814) (923)
Other operating expenses 19 (9,276) (12,301) – –
Profit from operations 57,861 48,234 14,950 12,591
Finance costs 20 (439) (431) – –
Profit before tax 57,422 47,803 14,950 12,591
Taxation 21 (12,267) (12,709) 20 (4)
Profit for the financial year 45,155 35,094 14,970 12,587
Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – –
Total comprehensive income 45,155 35,094 14,970 12,587
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 45,155 35,094 14,970 12,587
Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of
  the parent 45,155 35,094 14,970 12,587
Earnings per share attributable to equity holders
  of the parent (sen):
Basic and diluted 22 9.2 7.2
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
93	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT
OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
Group Note
Share
capital
RM’000
Treasury
shares
RM’000
Distributable
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
equity
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 2022 149,087 (1,078) 250,302 398,311
Profit for the financial year – – 35,094 35,094
Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – –
Total comprehensive income – – 35,094 35,094
Transactions with owners
Dividend paid 23 – – (12,225) (12,225)
Repurchase of treasury shares of the Company 11(b) – (1,073) – (1,073)
Total transactions with owners – (1,073) (12,225) (13,298)
Balance as at 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 149,087 (2,151) 273,171 420,107
Profit for the financial year – – 45,155 45,155
Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – –
Total comprehensive income – – 45,155 45,155
Transaction with owners
Dividends paid 23 – – (14,670) (14,670)
Balance as at 31 December 2023 149,087 (2,151) 303,656 450,592
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
94
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
Company Note
Share
capital
RM’000
Treasury
shares
RM’000
Distributable
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
equity
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 2022 149,087 (1,078) 16,876 164,885
Profit for the financial year – – 12,587 12,587
Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – –
Total comprehensive income – – 12,587 12,587
Transactions with owners
Dividend paid 23 – – (12,225) (12,225)
Repurchase of treasury shares of the Company 11(b) – (1,073) – (1,073)
Total transactions with owners – (1,073) (12,225) (13,298)
Balance as at 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 149,087 (2,151) 17,238 164,174
Profit for the financial year – – 14,970 14,970
Other comprehensive income, net of tax – – – –
Total comprehensive income – – 14,970 14,970
Transaction with owners
Dividends paid 23 – – (14,670) (14,670)
Balance as at 31 December 2023 149,087 (2,151) 17,538 164,474
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
95	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
Note
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax 57,422 47,803 14,950 12,591
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5 11,500 10,346 – –
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 6 1,967 1,523 – –
Dividend income from a subsidiary 17 – – (15,750) (13,500)
Interest expense 20 439 431 – –
Interest income 18 (889) (360) (13) (14)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 18 (14) (138) – –
Property, plant and equipment written off 19 6 9 – –
Reversal of impairment losses on trade receivables 9(e) (3) (13) – –
Unrealised (gain)/loss in foreign exchange 18, 19 (648) 1,643 – –
Operating profit/(loss) before changes in working capital 69,780 61,244 (813) (923)
Changes in working capital:
Inventories 25,448 (48,396) – –
Trade and other receivables 15,568 (20,225) – –
Trade and other payables (22,756) 11,484 10 (58)
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 88,040 4,107 (803) (981)
Tax refunded 8 25 8 –
Tax paid (8,569) (13,035) (6) (9)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 79,479 (8,903) (801) (990)
									 FINANCIAL Report	
96
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Note
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
  Dividend received from a subsidiary – – 15,750 13,500
Interest received 889 360 13 14
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 18 247 – –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 5(b) (11,883) (22,782) – –
Purchase of right-of-use assets 6 (5,250) (1,484) – –
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (16,226) (23,659) 15,763 13,514
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Dividends paid 23 (14,670) (12,225) (14,670) (12,225)
Interest paid (439) (431) – –
Drawdown of bankers’ acceptances 14(i) 29,493 30,947 – –
Repayments of bankers’ acceptances 14(i) (43,285) (17,155) – –
Repayments of term loans 14(i) (1,559) (1,559) – –
Repurchase of treasury shares of the Company 11(b) – (1,073) – (1,073)
Net cash used in financing activities (30,460) (1,496) (14,670) (13,298)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 32,793 (34,058) 292 (774)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and
  cash equivalents (103) (36) – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 21,006 55,100 1,235 2,009
Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 10 53,696 21,006 1,527 1,235
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
97	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
 1. CORPORATE INFORMATION 
Three-A Resources Berhad (“the Company”) is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia, and listed
on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The registered office and principal place of business of the Company is located at AL 308, Lot 590 & Lot 4196, Jalan Industri U19,
Kampung Baru Sungai Buloh, 40160 Shah Alam, Selangor Darul Ehsan.
The consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries.
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the functional currency of the Company. All
financial information presented in RM has been rounded to the nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on 17 April 2024.
  2. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES 
The principal activity of the Company is investment holding. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are primarily involved in
manufacturing and sale of food and beverages ingredients and investment holding. Further details of the subsidiaries are disclosed
in Note 7 to the financial statements. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial
year.
  3.	BASIS OF PREPARATION 
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards (“MFRSs”), IFRS Accounting Standards and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the effects of adoption of new
MFRSs during the financial year. The new MFRS and Amendments to MFRSs adopted during the financial year are disclosed in Note
27.1 to the financial statements.
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention except as
otherwise stated in the financial statements.
4. OPERATING SEGMENTS 
Segmental information
Segment analysis has not been prepared as the business of the Group is focused only in manufacturing and sale of food and
beverage ingredients.
The Group does not have any non-current assets that are located in countries other than Malaysia.
The Board of Directors review the business performance of the Group as a whole and management monitors the operating results
of its business for the purpose of making decisions on resources allocation and performance assessment.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
98
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
4. OPERATING SEGMENTS (continued) 
Geographical information
For the purpose of disclosing geographical information, revenue is based on the geographical location of customers from which the
sales transactions originated. The customers are based in Malaysia, Singapore, and other foreign countries.
  Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Revenue:
Malaysia 330,555 379,950
Singapore 62,630 63,983
Other foreign countries 210,679 214,769
603,864 658,702
Major customers
There are no major customers with revenue equal or more than ten percent (10%) of the Group’s revenue. As such, information on
major customers is not presented.
  5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 
Group
Factory
and office
buildings
RM’000
Plant and
machinery,
tools and
implements
RM’000
Furniture
and fittings
and
equipment
RM’000
Renovations
and
electrical
installations
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Construction-
in-progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2023
Cost
As at 1 January 2023 90,572 164,201 9,452 10,345 17,587 2,152 294,309
Additions 2,112 5,351 393 2,019 223 2,245 12,343
Disposals – (24) – – – – (24)
Written off – – (18) – – – (18)
As at 31 December 2023 92,684 169,528 9,827 12,364 17,810 4,397 306,610
Accumulated depreciation
As at 1 January 2023 17,746 82,367 5,527 4,397 9,034 – 119,071
Charges for the financial year 1,838 6,950 548 949 1,215 – 11,500
Disposals – (20) – – – – (20)
Written off – – (12) – – – (12)
As at 31 December 2023 19,584 89,297 6,063 5,346 10,249 – 130,539
Carrying amount
As at 31 December 2023 73,100 80,231 3,764 7,018 7,561 4,397 176,071
99	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued) 
Group
Factory
and office
buildings
RM’000
Plant and
machinery,
tools and
implements
RM’000
Furniture
and fittings
and
equipment
RM’000
Renovations
and
electrical
installations
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Construction-
in-progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2022
Cost
As at 1 January 2022 73,530 138,661 7,268 8,633 16,353 27,853 272,298
Additions 5,572 11,099 2,214 1,712 2,267 216 23,080
Transfers 11,470 14,447 – – – (25,917) –
Disposals – – – – (1,033) – (1,033)
Written off – (6) (30) – – – (36)
As at 31 December 2022 90,572 164,201 9,452 10,345 17,587 2,152 294,309
Accumulated depreciation
As at 1 January 2022 16,032 76,110 5,092 3,745 8,697 – 109,676
Charges for the financial year 1,714 6,259 460 652 1,261 – 10,346
Disposals – – – – (924) – (924)
Written off – (2) (25) – – – (27)
As at 31 December 2022 17,746 82,367 5,527 4,397 9,034 – 119,071
Carrying amount
As at 31 December 2022 72,826 81,834 3,925 5,948 8,553 2,152 175,238
Company
   Furniture and fittings
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Cost
At 1 January/31 December 5 5
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January/31 December (5) (5)
Carrying amount
At 31 December – –
									 FINANCIAL Report	
100
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued) 
(a)	
All items of property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. After initial recognition, property, plant and equipment
are stated at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
	
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values on a straight-line basis over their
estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives represent common life expectancies applied in the manufacturing industry
within which the Group operates.
Factory and office buildings 50 years
Plant and machinery, tools and implements 10 to 20 years
Furniture and fittings and equipment 10 years
Renovations and electrical installations 10 years
Motor vehicles 7 to 15 years
	
Construction-in-progress represents factory and plant and machinery under construction and is stated at cost. Construction-in-
progress is not depreciated until such time when the asset is available for use.
(b)	
During the financial year, the Group made the following cash payments to purchase property, plant and equipment:
  Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 12,343 23,080
Financed by credit purchase (Note 15(c)) (460) (298)
Cash payments on purchase of property, plant and equipment 11,883 22,782
(c)	
As at the end of the current financial year, certain factories and office buildings of the Group with a total carrying amount of
RM7,199,000 (2022: RM7,316,000) have been charged to a licensed bank for credit facilities granted to the Group as disclosed
in Note 14(c) to the financial statements.
  6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS 
Group
Balance
as at
1.1.2023
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Depreciation
RM’000
Balance
as at
31.12.2023
RM’000
Carrying amount
Long-term leasehold land 57,535 – (873) 56,662
Short-term leasehold land 5,187 5,250 (1,094) 9,343
62,722 5,250 (1,967) 66,005
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
101	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (continued) 
Balance
as at
1.1.2022
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Depreciation
RM’000
Balance
as at
31.12.2022
RM’000
Carrying amount
Long-term leasehold land 56,907 1,484 (856) 57,535
Short-term leasehold land 5,854 – (667) 5,187
62,761 1,484 (1,523) 62,722
(a)	
The right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, which comprise the initial amount of the lease liabilities adjusted for any
lease payments made at or before the commencement date of the leases.
After initial recognition, right-of-use assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment
losses, and adjusted for any re-measurement of the lease liabilities.
The right-of-use assets are depreciated on the straight-line basis over the earlier of the estimated useful lives of the right-of-
use assets or the end of the lease term. The lease terms of right-of-use assets are as follows:
Long-term leasehold land 60 to 99 years
Short-term leasehold land 60 years
(b)	
As at the end of the reporting period, certain leasehold land with a carrying amount of RM16,248,000 (2022: RM16,532,000)
were charged as securities for bank facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 14(c) to the financial statements.
(c)	
The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
  Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets (included in administrative expenses) 1,967 1,523
Expense relating to short-term leases (included in administrative expenses) 1,214 845
3,181 2,368
  7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES 
  Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Unquoted shares - at cost 189,923 189,923
Less: Impairment losses (26,541) (26,541)
163,382 163,382
(a)	
Investments in subsidiaries are stated in the separate financial statements of the Company at cost less impairment losses.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
102
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (continued) 
(b)	
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of companies
Country of incorporation/
Principal place of business
Effective
interest
in equity
Principal activities
2023
%
2022
%
San Soon Seng Food Industries Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Manufacturing and sale
 
of food and beverages
ingredients
Three-A Food Industries (M) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
All subsidiaries of the Company are audited by BDO PLT.
 8. INVENTORIES 
  Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
At cost
Raw materials 42,077 67,739
Work-in-progress 9,395 10,107
Packing materials 2,242 2,967
Finished goods 26,250 24,599
79,964 105,412
(a)	
Cost of inventories is determined using the first-in first-out basis and stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost
incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition are accounted for as follows:
(i)	
raw materials and packing materials: all purchase costs.
(ii)	
finished goods and work-in-progress: costs of direct materials and labour and a proportion of manufacturing overheads
based on normal operating capacity.
(b)	
During the financial year, inventories of the Group recognised as cost of sales amounted to RM491,688,000 (2022:
RM549,040,000).
103	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  9. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES 
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Trade receivables
Third parties 129,376 143,713 – –
Related parties 124 216 – –
129,500 143,929 – –
Less: Impairment losses - third parties (2,918) (2,921) – –
126,582 141,008 – –
Other receivables
Other receivables 41 77 – –
Deposits 846 1,185 – –
887 1,262 – –
Total receivables 127,469 142,270 – –
Prepayments 2,442 2,400 – –
129,911 144,670 – –
(a)	
Trade receivables are classified as financial assets measured at amortised cost.
(b)	
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted by the Group range from 30 to 150
days (2022: 30 to 150 days). They are recognised at their original invoice amounts, which represent their fair values on initial
recognition.
(c)	
Amounts owing by related parties are due from Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn. Bhd. and Holistic Food Sdn. Bhd., companies
in which certain Directors have financial interests. Amounts owing by related parties are non-interest bearing and credit terms
range from 60 to 90 days (2022: 60 to 90 days) and 30 to 60 days (2022: 30 to 60 days) respectively.
(d)	
Impairment for trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are recognised based on the simplified
approach by applying the provisional matrix using the flow-rate approach to calculate the lifetime expected credit losses
(“ECL”).
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the expected life
of the asset. The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period over
which the Group is exposed to credit risk.
The Group considers historical credit loss experience and observable data such as current changes and future forecasts in
economic conditions to estimate the amount of expected impairment loss. The methodology and assumptions including any
forecasts of future economic conditions are reviewed regularly.
During this process, the probabilities of non-payments by the trade receivables are adjusted by forward-looking information based
on macroeconomic factors such as unemployment rate, gross domestic product (“GDP”) and inflation rate and multiplied by the
amounts of the expected loss arising from defaults to determine the lifetime expected credit losses for the trade receivables. For
trade receivables, which are reported net, such impairments are recorded in a separate impairment account with the loss being
recognised within the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. On confirmation that the trade receivable
would not be collectable, the gross carrying value of the asset would be written off against the associated impairment.
It requires management to exercise significant judgement in determining the probability of default by trade receivables and
appropriate forward-looking information.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
104
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  9. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued) 
(e)	
Movements in the impairment allowance for trade receivables are as follows:
  Group
  Lifetime ECL
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
At the beginning of the year 2,921 2,934
Reversal of impairment losses (3) (13)
At the end of the year 2,918 2,921
(f)	
Lifetime expected credit loss provision for trade receivables are as follows:
Group
Gross
carrying
amount
RM’000
Lifetime
ECL
RM’000
Net
balance
RM’000
As at 31 December 2023
Not past due 126,052 (170) 125,882
Past due:
- 1 to 30 days 453 (182) 271
- 31 to 60 days 4 (4) –
- 61 to 90 days 4 (4) –
- 91 to 120 days 5 (5) –
- more than 120 days 2,982 (2,553) 429
3,448 (2,748) 700
129,500 (2,918) 126,582
As at 31 December 2022
Not past due 138,349 – 138,349
Past due:
- 1 to 30 days 2,062 – 2,062
- 31 to 60 days 486 – 486
- 61 to 90 days 26 – 26
- 91 to 120 days 85 – 85
- more than 120 days 2,921 (2,921) –
5,580 (2,921) 2,659
143,929 (2,921) 141,008
105	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  9. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued) 
(g)	
Impairment for other receivables are recognised based on the general approach within MFRS 9 using the forward looking
expected credit loss model. The methodology used to determine the amount of the impairment is based on whether there
has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of the financial asset. For those in which the credit risk has
not increased significantly since initial recognition of the financial asset, twelve-month expected credit losses along with gross
interest income are recognised. At the end of the reporting period, the Group assesses whether there has been a significant
increase in credit risk for financial assets by comparing the risk of default occurring over the expected life with the risk of
default since initial recognition. For those in which credit risk had increased significantly, lifetime expected credit losses along
with the gross interest income are recognised. For those that are determined to be credit impaired, lifetime expected credit
losses along with interest income on a net basis are recognised.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the expected
life of the asset, whilst 12-month expected credit losses are the portion of expected credit losses that result from default
events that are possible within the 12 months after the end of the reporting period. The maximum period considered when
estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period over which the Group is exposed to credit risk.
The Group defined significant increase in credit risk based on operating performance of the receivables, changes to contractual
terms, payment delays more than 30 days past due in making contractual payments and past due information.
The Group considers a receivable as credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated
future cash flows of the financial asset have occurred.
The probability of non-payment by other receivables is adjusted by forward-looking information based on macroeconomic
factors such as unemployment rate, gross domestic product (“GDP”) and inflation rate and multiplied by the amount of the
expected loss arising from default to determine the twelve-month or lifetime expected credit losses for other receivables.
No expected credit loss is recognised arising from other receivables as it is negligible.
(h) Credit risk concentration profile
At the end of each reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk of the Group is represented by the carrying amount
of each class of financial assets recognised in the statements of financial position.
The Group determines concentrations of credit risk by monitoring the country of its trade receivables on an ongoing basis. The
credit risk concentration profile of the trade receivables of the Group at the reporting date are as follows:
  2023   2022
RM’000 % of total RM’000 % of total
By country:
Malaysia 78,152 62% 96,321 69%
Singapore 15,044 12% 13,288 9%
Other foreign countries 33,386 26% 31,399 22%
126,582 100% 141,008 100%
At the end of each reporting period, approximately 57% (2022: 57%) of the trade receivables of the Group were due from 10
(2022: 10) major customers.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
106
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  9. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued) 
(i) The currency exposure profiles of trade and other receivables (excluding prepayments) are as follows:
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Ringgit Malaysia 79,447 98,757 – –
Singapore Dollar 2,403 2,762 – –
United States Dollar 45,619 40,751 – –
127,469 142,270 – –
(j)	
Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other variables
remain constant, are as follows:
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Effects of 3% changes to RM against foreign currencies
Profit after tax
- United States Dollar 1,040 929 – –
- Singapore Dollar 55 63 – –
Equity
- United States Dollar – – – –
- Singapore Dollar – – – –
(k)	
In the previous financial year, included in deposits was an amount of RM525,000 in respect of deposit paid in relation to the
acquisition of land and factory buildings.
  10. CASH AND BANK BALANCES 
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Cash and bank balances 16,356 21,006 1,527 1,235
Fixed deposits with a licensed bank 7,000 – – –
Placements in money market deposits 30,340 – – –
53,696 21,006 1,527 1,235
(a)	
Placements in money market deposits of the Group have maturity periods of 4 to 32 days (2022: Nil).
(b)	
Fixed deposits with a licensed bank of the Group have maturity period of 30 days (2022: Nil).
107	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  10. CASH AND BANK BALANCES (continued) 
(c)	
The effective interest rates of the placements in money market deposits and fixed deposits with a licensed bank as at the end
of reporting period are as follows:
  Group   Company
2023
%
2022
%
2023
%
2022
%
Placements in money market deposits 2.95 - 3.70 – – –
Fixed deposits with a licensed bank 3.15 – – –
(d)	
Sensitivity analysis for fixed rate deposits with a licensed bank and placements in money market deposits at the end of the
reporting period is not presented as they are not affected by changes in interest rates.
(e)	
The currency exposure profiles of cash and bank balances are as follows:
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Ringgit Malaysia 44,355 17,201 1,527 1,235
United States Dollar 9,320 3,787 – –
Other foreign currencies 21 18 – –
53,696 21,006 1,527 1,235
(f)	
Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currency at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other variables remain
constant, is as follows:
  Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Effects of 3% changes to RM against foreign currency
Profit after tax
- United States Dollar 213 86
Equity
- United States Dollar – –
Sensitivity of other foreign currencies are not disclosed as they are not significant to the Group.
(g)	
No expected credit losses were recognised arising from bank balances, fixed deposits with a licensed bank and placements in
money market deposits because the probability of default by these financial institutions were negligible.
(h)	
For the purposes of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances, fixed deposits
with a licensed bank and placements in money market deposits.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
108
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  11.	SHARE CAPITAL AND TREASURY SHARES 
   Group and Company
  2023   2022
Number
of shares
(’000) RM’000
Number
of shares
(’000) RM’000
Issued and fully paid with no par value
At beginning/end of financial year 492,000 149,087 492,000 149,087
(a)	
The owners of the parent are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company and are entitled to one (1)
vote per ordinary share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares rank pari passu with regard to the residual assets of
the Company.
(b)	Treasury shares
At the Annual General Meeting held on 26 May 2023, the shareholders of the Company by an ordinary resolution renewed the
mandate given to the Company to repurchase up to 10% of existing issued and paid-up share capital of the Company.
The Company did not repurchase any of its issued ordinary shares during the financial year.
In the previous financial year, the Company repurchased 1,231,200 of its issued ordinary shares at a total cost of RM1,072,681
that were held as treasury shares.
As at 31 December 2023, a total of 3,000,000 (2022: 3,000,000) issued and fully paid ordinary shares at a total cost of
RM2,150,920 (2022: RM2,150,920) are held as treasury shares by the Company. The number of ordinary shares as at
31 December 2023 net of treasury shares is 489,000,010 (2022: 489,000,010).
The treasury shares have no rights to voting, dividends or participation in other distribution. None of the treasury shares held
were resold, distributed or cancelled during the financial year.
  12. RESERVES 
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Distributable
Retained earnings 303,656 273,171 17,538 17,238
  13. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES 
(a)	
The deferred tax liabilities are made up of the following:
  Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 20,223 16,068
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 21) (812) 4,155
Balance as at 31 December 19,411 20,223
109	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  13. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (continued) 
(b)	
The components and movements of deferred tax assets and liabilities during the financial year prior to offsetting are as follows:
Deferred tax assets of the Group
Provisions
RM’000
Offsetting
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 2022 (2,070) 2,070 –
Recognised in profit or loss (371) 371 –
Balance as at 31 December 2022 (2,441) 2,441 –
Recognised in profit or loss (142) 142 –
Balance as at 31 December 2023 (2,583) 2,583 –
Deferred tax liabilities of the Group
Property,
plant and
equipment
RM’000
Others
RM’000
Offsetting
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Balance as at 1 January 2022 18,138 – (2,070) 16,068
Recognised in profit or loss 4,920 (394) (371) 4,155
Balance as at 31 December 2022 23,058 (394) (2,441) 20,223
Recognised in profit or loss (1,220) 550 (142) (812)
Balance as at 31 December 2023 21,838 156 (2,583) 19,411
  14.	BORROWINGS 
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Non-current liabilities
Secured:
Term loans 3,277 5,012 – –
Current liabilities
Secured:
Bankers’ acceptances – 13,792 – –
Term loans 1,619 1,443 – –
Financial guarantee contracts – – –* –
1,619 15,235 – –
Total borrowings 4,896 20,247 – –
									 FINANCIAL Report	
110
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  14.	BORROWINGS (continued) 
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Secured:
Bankers’ acceptances – 13,792 – –
Term loans 4,896 6,455 – –
Financial guarantee contracts – – –* –
4,896 20,247 – –
* 
Amount is negligible
(a)	
Borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(b)	
Financial guarantee contracts issued are initially measured at fair value. Subsequently, they are measured at higher of:
(i)	
the amount of the loss allowance; and
(ii)	
the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with
the principles of MFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
(c)	
As at the end of the financial year, the bank borrowings of the Group are secured by the following:
(i)	
fixed charges over the long-term leasehold land, short-term leasehold land, factories and office buildings of a subsidiary
as disclosed in Notes 5(c) and 6(b) to the financial statements respectively;
(ii)	
negative pledge on two adjoining pieces of leasehold land of a subsidiary; and
(iii)	
corporate guarantees by the Company.
(d)	
All borrowings are denominated in RM.
(e)	
At the end of the reporting period, the interest rate profiles of the borrowings were as follows:
  Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
- Fixed rates – 13,792
- Floating rates 4,896 6,455
4,896 20,247
111	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  14.	BORROWINGS (continued) 
(f)	
Sensitivity analysis for fixed rates borrowings as at the end of the reporting period was not presented as fixed rate instruments
are not affected by changes in interest rates. Sensitivity analysis of interest rate for the floating rate instruments at the end of
the reporting period, assuming all other variables remain constant, is as follows:
  Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Profit after tax
Floating rate instrument
- increase by 1% (2022: 1%) (37) (49)
- decrease by 1% (2022: 1%) 37 49
Equity
Floating rate instrument
- increase by 1% (2022: 1%) – –
- decrease by 1% (2022: 1%) – –
(g)	
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the borrowings of the Group and of the Company at the end of each
reporting period based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations:
Group
On
demand
or within
one year
RM’000
One to
five years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
As at 31 December 2023
Term loans 1,815 3,434 5,249
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 1,815 3,434 5,249
As at 31 December 2022
Bankers’ acceptances 13,963 – 13,963
Term loans 1,815 5,839 7,654
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 15,778 5,839 21,617
Company
On
demand
or within
one year
RM’000
One to
five years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
As at 31 December 2023
Financial guarantee contracts 4,896 – 4,896
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 4,896 – 4,896
									 FINANCIAL Report	
112
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  14.	BORROWINGS (continued) 
(h)	
The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average effective interest rates (“WAEIR”) as at the end of each
reporting period and the remaining maturities of the financial instruments of the Group that are exposed to interest rate risk:
WAEIR
%
Within
1 year
RM’000
1 - 2
years
RM’000
2 - 3
years
RM’000
3 - 4
years
RM’000
4 - 5
years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
As at 31 December 2023
Floating rates
Term loans 4.70 1,619 1,824 1,127 326 – 4,896
As at 31 December 2022
Fixed rates
Bankers’ acceptances 3.14 13,792 – – – – 13,792
Floating rates
Term loans 4.31 1,443 1,483 1,671 992 866 6,455
(i)	
Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
The table below details changes in borrowings of the Group arising from financing activities, including both cash and non-
cash changes. Borrowings arising from financing activities are those for which cash flows were, or future cash flows will be,
classified in the statements of cash flows of the Group as cash flows from financing activities.
  Group
Term loans
RM’000
Bankers’
acceptances
RM’000
2023
At 1 January 2023 6,455 13,792
Cash flows (1,559) (13,792)
At 31 December 2023 4,896 –
2022
At 1 January 2022 8,014 –
Cash flows (1,559) 13,792
At 31 December 2022 6,455 13,792
113	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  15. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES 
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Trade payables
Third parties 5,144 23,363 – –
Other payables
Other payables 4,044 7,411 – –
Deposit received 1,440 1,337 – –
Accruals 13,704 14,462 452 442
19,188 23,210 452 442
24,332 46,573 452 442
(a)	
Trade and other payables are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(b)	
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted to the Group range from 30 to 60 days
(2022: 30 to 60 days).
(c)	
Included in other payables of the Group are credit purchase of property, plant and equipment amounting to RM460,000 (2022:
RM298,000) as disclosed in Note 5(b) to the financial statements.
(d)	
The currency exposure profiles of trade and other payables are as follows:
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Ringgit Malaysia 21,634 25,815 452 442
United States Dollar 2,382 19,521 – –
Other foreign currencies 316 1,237 – –
24,332 46,573 452 442
(e)	
Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currency at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other variables remain
constant, is as follows:
  Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Effects of 3% changes to RM against foreign currency
Profit after tax
- United States Dollar (54) (445)
Equity
- United States Dollar – –
Sensitivity analysis of other foreign currencies are not disclosed as they are not material to the Group.
(f)	
The maturity profile of trade and other payables of the Group and of the Company at the reporting date based on contractual
undiscounted repayment obligations is repayable on demand or within one (1) year.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
114
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  16. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS 
  Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Capital expenditure in respect of purchase of property, plant and equipment:
Contracted but not provided for 6,923 7,717
  17. REVENUE 
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Revenue from contracts with customers:
Sale of goods 603,864 658,702 – –
Other revenue:
Dividend income from a subsidiary – – 15,750 13,500
603,864 658,702 15,750 13,500
Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated by geographical market as disclosed in Note 4 to the financial statements.
Revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated in the table below by timing of revenue recognition.
  Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Timing of revenue recognition
Transferred at a point in time 603,864 658,702
(i) Sale of goods
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised at a point in time when the goods have been transferred to the customers and
coincides with the delivery of products and acceptance by customers.
There is no right of return and warranty provided to the customers on the sale of goods.
There is no significant financing component in the revenue arising from sale of goods as the sales are made on the normal
credit terms not exceeding twelve months.
(ii) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
115	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  18. OTHER INCOME 
Included in other operating income are:
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Gain on disposal of property plant and equipment 14 138 – –
Interest income 889 360 13 14
Realised gain in foreign exchange 1,858 4,709 – –
Unrealised gain in foreign exchange 648 – – –
Reversal of impairment losses on trade receivables (Note 9(e)) 3 13 – –
Insurance claims 28 96 – –
Other income 180 360 1 –
3,620 5,676 14 14
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
  19. ADMINISTRATIVE AND OTHER OPERATING EXPENSES 
Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, included in administrative and other operating expenses are:
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Auditors’ remuneration:
- statutory audit 146 139 55 53
- other services 8 8 8 8
Property, plant and equipment written off 6 9 – –
Rental of machineries 166 113 – –
Rental of hostel 454 276 – –
Rental of premises 590 456 – –
Rental of motor vehicles 4 – – –
Unrealised loss in foreign exchange – 1,643 – –
The Group and the Company do not present the net impairment losses/(reversal) of impairment losses on financial instruments
determined in accordance with MFRS 9 separately in the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income as the
amounts are not material.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
116
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
 20. FINANCE COSTS 
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Interest expense on:
- term loans 256 256 – –
- bankers’ acceptances 181 163 – –
- others 2 12 – –
439 431 – –
  21. TAXATION 
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Current tax
  Current tax expense based on profit for the financial year 13,460 8,636 (23) –
  (Over)/Under-provision in prior years (381) (82) 3 4
13,079 8,554 (20) 4
Deferred tax (Note 13):
  Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,934 4,133 – –
  (Over)/Under-provision in prior years (2,746) 22 – –
(812) 4,155 – –
12,267 12,709 (20) 4
(a)	
Malaysian income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 24% (2022: 24%) of the estimated taxable profits for the fiscal year.
(b)	
The numerical reconciliations between the average effective tax rates and the applicable tax rates of the Group and of the
Company are as follows:
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Profit before tax 57,422 47,803 14,950 12,591
Tax at Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24% (2022: 24%) 13,781 11,473 3,588 3,022
Tax effects in respect of:
Non-allowable expenses 1,616 1,299 172 221
Non-taxable income (3) (3) (3,783) (3,243)
15,394 12,769 (23) –
(Over)/Under-provision of tax expense in prior years (381) (82) 3 4
(Over)/Under-provision of deferred tax in prior years (2,746) 22 – –
12,267 12,709 (20) 4
117	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  22. EARNINGS PER SHARE 
(a) Basic earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year attributable to
equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year after
deducting treasury shares.
  Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Profit attributable to owners of the parent 45,155 35,094
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (’000) 489,000 489,557
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen) 9.2 7.2
(b)	
The diluted earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is the same as the basic earnings per ordinary share for the
financial year as there were no dilutive potential ordinary shares.
  23. DIVIDENDS 
   Group and Company
  2023   2022
Dividend
per share
Sen
Amount
of dividend
RM’000
Dividend
per share
Sen
Amount
of dividend
RM’000
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2022:
  Interim single tier dividend – – 2.5 12,225
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2023:
Interim single tier dividend 2.5 12,225 – –
Special single tier dividend 0.5 2,445 – –
3.0 14,670 2.5 12,225
The Directors do not recommend the payment of any final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
118
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  24. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS 
  Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Salaries, wages, allowances and bonuses 38,967 36,065
Contributions to defined contribution plan 2,219 1,969
Social security contributions 347 302
Other employee benefits 143 132
41,676 38,468
Included in the employee benefits of the Group are Executive Directors’ remuneration amounting to RM4,023,000 (2022: RM3,602,000).
  25. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES 
(a) Identities of related parties
Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise
significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the party
are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
The Group and the Company have controlling related party relationships with its subsidiaries, companies related to the Directors
and the significant corporate shareholder of the Company as follows:
Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn. Bhd. A company of which Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King and Fang Siew Ping, who are
Directors of the Company and Fang Chew Ham Holdings Sdn. Bhd., a significant
corporate shareholder of the Company, have significant financial interests.
Excellent Chemicals Industrial Sdn. Bhd. A company of which Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King and Fang Siew Ping, who
are Directors of the Company, have significant financial interests.
Holistic Food Sdn. Bhd. A company of which Liew Kuo Shin, who is the Director of the Company, have
significant financial interests.
119	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
25. RELATED PARTIES DISCLOSURES (continued) 
(b) Significant related party transactions
In addition to the transactions and balances detailed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the Company had
the following transactions with related parties during the financial year:
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Sale of goods
- Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn. Bhd. 876 1,008 – –
- Holistic Food Sdn. Bhd. 77 100 – –
Rental expenses
- Excellent Chemicals Industrial Sdn. Bhd. 77 77 – –
Dividend income from a subsidiary
- San Soon Seng Food Industries Sdn. Bhd. – – 15,750 13,500
The related party transactions described above were carried out on negotiated terms and conditions in the ordinary course of
business between the related parties and the Company.
Information regarding outstanding balances arising from related party transactions as at 31 December 2023 is disclosed in
Note 9 to the financial statements.
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel are those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling
the activities of the entity, directly and indirectly, including any Director of the Group and of the Company.
The remunerations of Directors and other key management personnel during the financial year were as follows:
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Short-term employee benefits 4,720 4,164 – –
Contributions to defined contribution plan 387 379 – –
Directors’ fees 494 507 424 441
Retirement benefits 70 210 70 210
5,671 5,260 494 651
									 FINANCIAL Report	
120
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  26. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT 
(i)	Capital management
The primary objective of the capital management of the Group is to ensure that entities of the Group would be able to continue
as going concerns whilst maximising return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity ratios. The overall
strategy of the Group remains unchanged from that in the previous financial year.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in response to changes in economic conditions. In order
to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to
shareholders or issue new shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the financial years
ended 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022.
The Group monitors capital using a net debt-to-equity ratio, which is net debt divided by total capital plus net debt. The Group
includes within net debt, loans and borrowings, trade and other payables, less cash and bank balances, fixed deposits with a
licensed bank and placements in money market deposits. Capital represents equity attributable to the owners of the parent.
  Group   Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Borrowings 4,896 20,247 – –
Trade and other payables 24,332 46,573 452 442
Total liabilities 29,228 66,820 452 442
Less:
Cash and bank balances (16,356) (21,006) (1,527) (1,235)
Fixed deposits with a licensed bank (7,000) – – –
Placements in money market deposits (30,340) – – –
Net (cash)/debt (24,468) 45,814 (1,075) (793)
Total equity 450,592 420,107 164,474 164,174
Net (cash)/debt (24,468) 45,814 (1,075) (793)
426,124 465,921 163,399 163,381
Ratio (%) –^ 10% –^ –^
^ 
Gearing ratio is not presented as the Group and the Company are in net cash position.
Pursuant to the requirements of Practice Note No. 17/2005 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities, the Group is required to maintain
a consolidated shareholders’ equity of more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the issued and paid-up capital (excluding
treasury shares) and such shareholders’ equity is not less than RM40,000,000. The Group has complied with this requirement
during the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
The Group is not subject to any other external imposed capital requirements.
121	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  26. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 
(ii)	
Financial risk management
The financial risk management objective of the Group is to optimise value creation for shareholders whilst minimising the
potential adverse impact arising from fluctuations in interest rates and the unpredictability of the financial markets.
The Group is exposed mainly to credit risk, liquidity and cash flow risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. Information
on the management of the related exposures is detailed below:
(a)	Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet
its contractual obligations. The exposure to credit risk of the Group arises principally from its receivables from customers.
The exposure to credit risk of the Group arises principally from trade and other receivables and financial guarantees given
to bank for banking facilities granted to a subsidiary.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial guarantee contracts provided as credit enhancements to the
secured loans of a subsidiary amounts to RM4,896,000 representing the outstanding banking facilities of a subsidiary as
at the end of the reporting period.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss of financial guarantee contracts
The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the financial position of the subsidiary
deteriorates significantly. The Company considers a financial guarantee to be credit impaired when:
(i)	
the subsidiary is unlikely to repay its credit obligation to the bank in full; or
(ii)	
the subsidiary is continuously loss making and is having a deficit shareholder’s fund.
The Company determines the probability of default of the subsidiary using internal information available.
The Company monitors on an ongoing basis the results of the subsidiary and repayments made by the subsidiary. As at
the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the subsidiary would default on repayment whereby such
loans and bank facilities are fully collateralised by charges over the long-term leasehold land, short-term leasehold land,
factories and office buildings of a subsidiary and where the Directors regard the fair values of the credit enhancement
provided by the corporate guarantees as negligible. The Directors are of the view that the likelihood of the bank calling
upon the corporate guarantees is remote.
No impairment loss is recognised arising from the financial guarantees as it is negligible.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
122
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  26. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued) 
(ii)	
Financial risk management (continued)
The Group is exposed mainly to credit risk, liquidity and cash flow risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk. Information
on the management of the related exposures is detailed below (continued):
(b)	
Liquidity and cash flow risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company would encounter difficulty in meeting financial obligations due
to shortage of funds. The exposure to liquidity and cash flow risk of the Group and of the Company arises primarily from
mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities. The objective of the Group and of the Company is to
maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of stand-by credit facilities.
The Group manages its debt maturity profile, operating cash flows and the availability of funding so as to ensure that
all refinancing, repayment and funding needs are met. As part of its overall liquidity management, the Group maintains
sufficient levels of cash or cash convertible investments to meet its working capital requirements. In addition, the Group
strives to maintain available banking facilities at a reasonable level to its overall debt position.
The analysis of financial instruments by remaining contractual maturities has been disclosed in Notes 14 and 15 to the
financial statements.
(c)	
Interest rate risk
The variable rate borrowings of the Group are exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to changes in interest rates.
The short term receivables and payables are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk.
The income and operating cash flows of the Group are substantially independent of changes in market interest rate.
Interest rate exposure arises from the borrowings and deposits of the Group and is managed through the use of fixed
and floating rate borrowings and deposits. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge its interest
rate risk.
The interest rate profile and sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk have been disclosed in Notes 10 and 14 to the financial
statements.
(d)	
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument would fluctuate because
of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk as a result of the foreign currency
denominated transactions entered into by the Group during the course of business. The foreign currencies primarily
involved are the United States Dollar and Singapore Dollar. In addition, the Group has a natural hedge position of sales and
purchases that are both denominated in a foreign currency. The Group also holds cash and bank balances denominated
in foreign currencies for working capital purposes.
The foreign currency exposure profile and sensitivity analysis of foreign currency risk have been disclosed in Notes 9, 10
and 15 to the financial statements.
123	  FINANCIAL Report
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONTINUED)
  27. ADOPTION OF NEW MFRSs AND AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs 
27.1 New MFRSs adopted during the financial year
The Group and the Company adopted the following Standard and Amendments of the MFRS Framework that were issued by
the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) during the financial year:
Title Effective Date
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 17 Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 - Comparative Information 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 101 Disclosure of Accounting Policies 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 108 Definition of Accounting Estimates 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 112 Deferred tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 112 International Tax Reform - Pillar Two Model Rules Refer paragraph
98M of MFRS 112
Adoption of the above Standard and Amendments did not have any material effect on the financial performance or position
of the Group and of the Company.
27.2 New MFRSs that have been issued, but only effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024
Title Effective Date
Amendments to MFRS 16 Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 101 Non-current Liabilities with Covenants 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 107 and MFRS 7 Supplier Finance Arrangements 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 121 Lack of Exchangeability 1 January 2025
Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its
  Associate or Joint Venture
Deferred
The Group and the Company are in the process of assessing the impact of implementing these Amendments, since the effects
would only be observable for the future financial periods.
									 FINANCIAL Report	
124
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PARTICULARS OF PROPERTIES
HELD BY THE GROUP
Location Title No. PM 472
Lot 4196
Jalan Industri 1, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. PN 21710
Lot 47720 (Lot 590)
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. PN 57895
Lot 53150 (PT 585 & PT 586)
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Existing use Office Building
Production Factory
Warehouse
Office Building
Production Factory
Warehouse
Production Factory
Warehouse
Types of Land Industrial Land Industrial Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
46 years
(30 May 2070)
78 years
(03 Jul 2102)
78 years
(3 Jul 2102)
Age of Property 28 years 47 years 19 years
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 110,976 34,950 93,032
Cost (RM’000) 15,960 4,435 8,886
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2023 (RM’000)
10,218 2,588 6,125
Date of Acquisition 31 Jan 1996 24 Jan 1997 13 Jan 1998
Year of Last Revaluation 2003 2003 2003
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 4098
PT 2317
Jalan Middle, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 4651
PT 5938
Jalan Industri 1, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 3999
PT Lot 584
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Existing use Warehouse Warehouse Production Factory
Types of Land Residential Land Residential Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
60 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
18 years
(22 Jun 2042)
22 years
(26 Jun 2046)
17 years
(24 May 2041)
Age of Property 25 years 25 years 16 years
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 8,168 6,806 46,005
Cost (RM’000) 577 874 5,595
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2023 (RM’000)
291 441 3,691
Date of Acquisition 19 Dec 1997 25 Nov 1998 25 May 2005
Year of Last Revaluation 2003 2003 2010
125	  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 11086
Lot 66
Jalan Industri 1, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. H.S.(D) 264602
PT 12294 (PT 589)
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. PM 5376
Lot 686
Jalan Middle, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Existing use Warehouse Production Factory
Warehouse
Hostel
Types of Land Industrial Land Industrial Land Residential Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
60 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
46 years
(30 May 2070)
46 years
(25 Jul 2070)
30 years
(19 Jul 2054)
Age of Property 14 years 13 years 14 years
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 87,123 43,560 7,631
Cost (RM’000) 7,307 6,288 681
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2023 (RM’000)
5,376 4,616 480
Date of Acquisition 12 Sep 2006 18 Dec 2008 30 Sep 2009
Year of Last Revaluation 2009 2008 2009
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 9111
PT 27687
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. PN 67417
Lot 2306
Jalan Welfare, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 14513
PT 12493 (Lot 9107 & Lot 9108)
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Existing use Vacant Hostel Production Factory
Warehouse
Types of Land Industrial Land Residential Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
99 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
69 years
(22 Sep 2093)
41 years
(17 Jul 2065)
69 years
(22 Sep 2093)
Age of Property – 14 years 20 years (Lot 9108)
13 years (Lot 9107)
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 42,281 7,535 103,570
Cost (RM’000) 999 1,030 20,020
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2023 (RM’000)
851 766 15,718
Date of Acquisition 14 Apr 2010 28 Apr 2010 22 Jun 2010 (Lot 9108)
10 Mar 2010 (Lot 9107)
Year of Last Revaluation – – 2010
PARTICULARS OF PROPERTIES
HELD BY THE GROUP (CONTINUED)
									 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION	
126
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PARTICULARS OF PROPERTIES
HELD BY THE GROUP (CONTINUED)
Location Title No. H.S.(D) 321305
PT 13116 (PT 847 & PT 848)
Jln Khalifah Zakaria 2, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. H.S.(D) 261056
PT 12202
Jalan Middle, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. H.S.(D) 312040
PT 582
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Existing use Warehouse Hostel Warehouse
Types of Land Industrial Land Residential Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
88 years
(15 Jan 2112)
84 years
(21 Dec 2108)
90 years
(5 Oct 2114)
Age of Property 8 years (PT 847)
6 years (PT 848)
12 years 7 years
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 161,674 7,623 46,005
Cost (RM’000) 23,216 1,025 7,912
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2023 (RM’000)
19,390 823 7,216
Date of Acquisition 23 Aug 2010 (PT 847)
26 Apr 2013 (PT 848)
5 Sep 2011 2 Nov 2016
Year of Last Revaluation 2010 (PT 847)
2013 (PT 848)
– 2015
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 9109
PT 27685
Jalan Industri 1, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 12526
PT 64
Jalan Industri 1, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. H.S.(D) 295891
PT 583
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Existing use Under Construction Office Building
Production Factory
Production Factory
Types of Land Industrial Land Industrial Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
69 years
(22 Sep 2093)
46 years
(30 May 2070)
88 years
(30 Dec 2112)
Age of Property – 2 years 4 years
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 48,265 87,123 47,641
Cost (RM’000) 5,684 21,824 11,508
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2023 (RM’000)
5,325 20,191 10,711
Date of Acquisition 19 Oct 2016 15 Jun 2017 7 Aug 2017
Year of Last Revaluation 2015 2017 2017
127	  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 9110
PT 27684
Jalan Industri 1, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 2168
PT 63
Jalan Industri 1, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. H.S.(D) 314676
PT 2313
Jalan Middle, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Existing use Water Treatment Vacant Under Construction
Types of Land Industrial Land Industrial Land Residental Land
Tenure Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
99 years
Leasehold
60 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
69 years
(22 Sep 2093)
48 years
(23 Feb 2072)
51 years
(12 Dec 2075)
Age of Property 2 years – –
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 43,637 84,066 7,351
Cost (RM’000) 6,452 6,054 2,741
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2023 (RM’000)
6,061 5,709 2,690
Date of Acquisition 6 Jun 2018 17 Aug 2020 11 Aug 2020
Year of Last Revaluation 2018 2019 2019
Location Title No. H.S.(M) 4626
PT 587
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 9025
PT 591
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Title No. H.S.(M) 14712
PT 12722
Jalan Industri, U19
Kg Baru Sungai Buloh
40160 Shah Alam, Selangor
Existing use Vacant Under Construction Under Construction
Types of Land Industrial Land Industrial Land
Tenure Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
60 years
Leasehold
60 years
Remaining Lease Period
(Expiry Date)
6 years
(20 Jan 2030)
5 years
(1 Mar 2029)
9 years
(22 May 2033)
Age of Property 4 years – –
Land Area (Sq. Feet) 49,826 34,574 54,885
Cost (RM’000) 2,404 8,585 5,250
Net Book Value
as at 31 Dec 2023 (RM’000)
1,515 7,342 4,823
Date of Acquisition 23 Jun 2020 25 Feb 2021 28 Feb 2023
Year of Last Revaluation 2020 2020 2021
PARTICULARS OF PROPERTIES
HELD BY THE GROUP (CONTINUED)
									 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION	
128
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Analysis of
Shareholdings
AS AT 29 MARCH 2024
Total Number of Issued Shares : 492,000,010 (including 3,000,000 treasury shares)
Class of Shares				 : Ordinary Share
Voting Rights 				 : One (1) Voting Right per Ordinary Share
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS
Size of Shareholdings
No. of
Shareholders
Shareholders
(%)
No. of
Shares
Shareholdings
(%)
Less than 100 323 7.44 13,539 0.00
100 to 1,000 479 11.03 199,733 0.04
1,001 to 10,000 1,882 43.32 9,763,238 2.00
10,001 to 100,000 1,381 31.79 44,627,968 9.13
100,001 to 24,450,000 (*) 276 6.35 224,697,832 45.95
24,450,001 and above (**) 3 0.07 209,697,700 42.88
Total 4,344 100.00 489,000,010 100.00
Note:  (*) Less than 5% of issued shares
Note:  (**) 5% and above of issued shares
List of Top Thirty (30) Shareholders
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares %
1. FANG CHEW HAM HOLDINGS SDN. BHD. 86,250,000 17.64
2. WILMAR INTERNATIONAL LIMITED 77,000,000 15.75
3. UOB KAY HIAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TEO KWEE HOCK
46,447,700 9.50
4. DB (MALAYSIA) NOMINEE (TEMPATAN) SENDIRIAN BERHAD
DEUTSCHE TRUSTEES MALAYSIA BERHAD FOR EASTSPRING INVESTMENTSSMALL-CAP FUND
16,711,675 3.42
5. FOONG CHIEW FATT 16,218,825 3.32
6. CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR FANG CHEW HAM HOLDINGS SDN. BHD. (MY3185)
14,500,000 2.97
7. FONG CHU KING @ TONG CHU KING 13,687,500 2.80
8. PHILLIP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
EXEMPT AN FOR PHILLIP CAPITAL MANAGEMENT SDN. BHD.
12,061,475 2.47
9. UOB KAY HIAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TEO SIEW LAI
11,458,400 2.34
10. FONG CHIEW HEAN HOLDINGS SDN. BHD. 10,198,600 2.09
11. MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR PGEO GROUP SDN. BHD.
8,452,300 1.73
12. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
KUMPULAN WANG PERSARAAN (DIPERBADANKAN) (ESPG IV SC E)
4,144,975 0.85
13. DB (MALAYSIA) NOMINEE (TEMPATAN) SENDIRIAN BERHAD
LEMBAGA TABUNG HAJI (AL-WARA’)
4,125,300 0.84
14. CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR FONG PENG MAN (MY3238)
3,300,000 0.68
129	  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Analysis of
Shareholdings (CONTINUED)
AS AT 29 MARCH 2024
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares %
15. MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR YOONG KAH YIN
3,230,000 0.66
16. CHONG CHEONG LEONG 2,640,000 0.54
17. TEO KWEE HOCK 2,243,050 0.46
18. CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LOH CHOOI TENG (JLNKUNINGDUA -CL)
2,240,000 0.46
19. T.B.R SHOPPING CENTRE (M) SDN. BHD. 2,200,000 0.46
20. CHAN CHAI BEE 2,000,050 0.41
21. CHAN CHU WEI 1,978,750 0.41
22. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN AH CHAI (E-SRB)
1,835,100 0.38
23. CHAN SEONG KUN 1,828,900 0.37
24. CHIN SWEE CHEW 1,823,000 0.37
25. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN BOON SEONG (E-SRB)
1,814,850 0.37
26. CIMSEC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
CIMB FOR KAWAN FOOD MANUFACTURING SDN BHD (PB)
1,762,300 0.36
27. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN AH HOCK (E-SRB)
1,740,000 0.36
28. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN BOON THIAM (E-SRB)
1,739,500 0.36
29. YONG YAU CHEW 1,710,000 0.35
30. SEONG CHAN SAUCE & FOODSTUFF SDN. BHD. 1,577,600 0.32
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
  Direct Interest   Indirect Interest
Name of Shareholders No. of
Shares
Percentage of
Issued Shares
(%)
No. of
Shares
Percentage of
Issued Shares
(%)
Fang Chew Ham Holdings Sdn. Bhd. 100,750,000 20.60 1,577,600 0.32(1)
Wilmar International Limited 77,000,000 15.75 8,452,300 1.73(5)
Fang Chew Ham 100,000 0.02 102,327,600 20.93(2)
Fang Siew Yee – – 102,327,600 20.93(2)
Teo Kwee Hock 48,934,750 10.01 554,375 0.11(3)
Prudential Plc – – 25,421,950 5.20(4)
Notes:
(1)
Deemed interested through Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
(2)
Indirect interest via shareholdings of Fang Chew Ham Holdings Sdn. Bhd. (100,750,000 ordinary shares) and Seong Chan Sauce &
Foodstuff Sdn. Bhd. (1,577,600 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
(3)
Deemed interest via shareholdings held by his family pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
(4)
Deemed interest through Eastspring Investment Berhad’s Managed Funds and Eastspring Al-Wara’ Investments Berhad’s Managed
Funds.
(5)
Deemed interest through its wholly owned subsidiary, namely PGEO Group Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION	
130
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
  Direct Interest   Indirect Interest
Name of Shareholders No. of
Shares
Percentage of
Issued Shares
(%)
No. of
Shares
Percentage of
Issued Shares
(%)

Dato' Jagjit Singh a/l Bant Singh – – – –

Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King 13,745,500 2.81 1,714,975 0.35 (1)

Liew Kuo Shin 125,000 0.03 – –

Fang Siew Ping – – – –

Kee Thuan Chai – – – –
Dato' Shamesh a/l Jeevaretnam – – – –

Jamel Bin Ibrahim – – – –

Karmjit Kaur a/p Sarban Singh – – – –

Tan Soon Hoe – – – –
Note:
(1)	
Indirect interest via shareholdings of his son, Fong Peng Fai (137,375 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 59 (11) (c) of the Act,
and Seong Chan Sauce & Foodstuff Sdn. Bhd. (1,577,600 ordinary shares) pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
Analysis of
Shareholdings (CONTINUED)
AS AT 29 MARCH 2024
131	  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Notice of Twenty-second
Annual General Meeting
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Twenty-Second Annual General Meeting (“22nd AGM”) of the Company will be conducted on a virtual
basis through live streaming and online Remote Participation and Electronic voting (“RPEV”) from the Broadcast Venue at Level 12,
Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan on Thursday, 30 May 2024 at
10.00 a.m. to transact the following business:
AGENDA
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 together
with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 1 on Ordinary Business)
2. ToapprovethepaymentofDirectors’feesofRM455,000.00forthefinancialyearended31December2023. (Please refer to Explanatory
Note 2 on Ordinary Business)
(Ordinary Resolution 1)
3. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation pursuant to Clause 76(3) of the Company’s
Constitution:
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 3 on Ordinary Business)
(i)	
Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King
(ii)	
Liew Kuo Shin
(iii)	
Kee Thuan Chai
(Ordinary Resolution 2)
(Ordinary Resolution 3)
(Ordinary Resolution 4)
4. To re-elect the following Directors who retire pursuant to Clause 78 of the Company’s Constitution: (Please refer to Explanatory
Note 4 on Ordinary Business)
(i)	
Jamel Bin Ibrahim
(ii)	
Tan Soon Hoe
(Ordinary Resolution 5)
(Ordinary Resolution 6)
5. To re-appoint BDO PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration. (Please refer to Explanatory
Note 5 on Ordinary Business)
(Ordinary Resolution 7)
Special Business
To consider and if thought fit, to pass, with or without modifications, the following resolutions:
6. AUTHORITY TO ALLOT AND ISSUE SHARES PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 75 AND 76 OF THE COMPANIES
ACT 2016
“THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the Company, the
Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and the
approvals of the relevant governmental/regulatory authorities, the Directors of the Company be and
are hereby authorised to allot and issue shares in the Company from time to time at such price, upon
such terms and conditions, and for such purposes and to such person or persons whomsoever as the
Directors may in their absolute discretion deem fit provided that the aggregate number of shares to
be issued pursuant to this Resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of
issued shares (excluding treasury shares) of the Company for the time being (“Proposed General
Mandate”) and THAT the Directors be and are hereby also authorised to obtain the approval from Bursa
Securities for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so issued on the Bursa Securities
AND THAT such authority shall continue to be in force until the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting of the Company after the approval was given or at the expiry of the period within which the
next Annual General Meeting is required to be held after the approval was given, whichever is earlier,
unless such approval is revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting.
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 1 on Special Business)
(Ordinary Resolution 8)
									 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION	
132
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
THAT authority be and is hereby given to the Directors of the Company, to give effect to the Proposed
General Mandate with full powers to assent to any conditions, modifications, variations and/or
amendments as they may deem fit in the best interest of the Company and/or as may be imposed
by the relevant authorities.
AND FURTHER THAT the Directors of the Company, be and are hereby authorised to implement, finalise,
complete and take all necessary steps and to do all acts (including execute such documents as may
be required), deeds and things in relation to the Proposed General Mandate.”
7. PROPOSED RENEWAL OF AUTHORITY FOR SHARE BUY-BACK
“THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the Company,
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing
Requirements”) and all other applicable laws, guidelines, rules and regulations, the Company be and
is hereby authorised, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to purchase such number of issued shares
in the Company as may be determined by the Directors of the Company from time to time through
Bursa Securities upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem fit and expedient in the
best interest of the Company provided that:
(i)	
the aggregate number of issued shares in the Company (“Shares”) purchased (“Purchased
Shares”) and/or held as treasury shares pursuant to this ordinary resolution does not exceed
ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company as quoted on Bursa
Securities as at point of purchase; and
(ii)	
the maximum fund to be allocated by the Company for the purpose of purchasing the shares
shall not exceed the aggregate of the retained profits of the Company based on the latest audited
financial statements and/or the latest management accounts (where applicable) available at the
time of the purchase.
(Please refer to Explanatory
Note 2 on Special Business)
(Ordinary Resolution 9)
Notice of Twenty-second
Annual General Meeting (CONTINUED)
133	  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
(“Proposed Share Buy-Back”).
AND THAT the authority to facilitate the Proposed Share Buy-Back will commence immediately upon
passing of this Ordinary Resolution and will continue to be in force until:
(a)	
the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company following at which time
the authority shall lapse unless by ordinary resolution passed at the meeting, the authority is
renewed, either unconditionally or subject to conditions;
(b)	
the expiration of the period within which the next Annual General Meeting of the Company is
required by law to be held; or
(c)	
revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the Company at a general
meeting,
whichever occurs first, but shall not prejudice the completion of purchase(s) by the Company of its own
Shares before the aforesaid expiry date and, in any event, in accordance with the Listing Requirements
and any applicable laws, rules, regulations, orders, guidelines and requirements issued by any relevant
authorities.
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised, at their discretion, to deal with the
Purchased Shares until all the Purchased Shares have been dealt with by the Directors in the following
manner as may be permitted by the Act, Listing Requirements, applicable laws, rules, regulations,
guidelines, requirements and/or orders of any relevant authorities for the time being in force:
i.	
To cancel all or part of the Purchased Shares;
ii.	
To retain all or part of the Purchased Shares as treasury shares as defined in Section 127 of the
Act;
iii.	
To distribute all or part of the treasury shares as dividends to the shareholders of the Company;
iv.	
To resell all or part of the treasury shares;
v.	
To transfer all or part of the treasury shares for the purposes of or under the employees’ share
scheme established by the Company and/or its subsidiaries;
vi.	
To transfer all or part of the treasury shares as purchase consideration;
vii.	
To sell, transfer or otherwise use the shares for such other purposes as the Minister charged with
the responsibility for companies may by order prescribe; and/or
viii.	
To deal with the treasury shares in the manners as allowed by the Act, Listing Requirements,
applicable laws, rules, regulations, guidelines, requirements and/or orders of any relevant authorities
for the time being in force.
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are authorised to take all such steps as are necessary or
expedient [including without limitation, the opening and maintaining of central depository account(s)
under Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, and the entering into all other agreements,
arrangements and guarantee with any party or parties] to implement, finalise and give full effect to
the Proposed Share Buy-Back with full powers to assent to any conditions, modifications, variations
and/or amendments (if any) as may be imposed by the relevant authorities.”
Notice of Twenty-second
Annual General Meeting (CONTINUED)
									 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION	
134
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
8. To consider any other business of which due notice shall have been given.
By Order of the Board,
LAW MEE POO [SSM PC NO. 201908002275 (MAICSA 7033423)]
TAN LAI HONG [SSM PC No. 202008002309 (MAICSA 7057707)]
Company Secretaries
Kuala Lumpur
30 April 2024
Notes:
IMPORTANT NOTES
The broadcast venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires the
Chairman of the meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting.
Shareholders will not be allowed to attend this Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) in person at the main venue on the day of the meeting.
Therefore, shareholders are strongly advised to participate and vote remotely at this AGM through live streaming and online remote voting
using the RPEV facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd. (“Boardroom”) via https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my.
Please read these notes carefully and follow the procedures in the Administrative Guide for the AGM in order to participate
remotely via the RPEV.
APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
(a)	
For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the Company, a Record of Depositors as at 23 May 2024. Only a member whose name
appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM.
(b)	
A member who is entitled to participate in this AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation, to
appoint a duly authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
(c)	
A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at a General Meeting of the Company may appoint not more than
two (2) proxies to participate instead of the member at the General Meeting.
(d)	
Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined in the Securities Industries (Central Depositories) Act 1991
(“Central Depository Act”), it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies in respect of each securities account it holds in ordinary
shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
(e)	
Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple
beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt
authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised
nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of
the Central Depositories Act.
(f)	
Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of shareholdings to be represented by each proxy must be
specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
(g)	
The appointment of a proxy may be made in hard copy form or by electronic form. In the case of an appointment made in hard copy
form, the proxy form must be deposited with the Share Registrar of the Company at Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony,
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan. In the case of the appointment of a proxy
made in electronic form, the proxy form must be deposited through the Share Registrar’s website, Boardroom Smart Investor Portal
at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. Please refer to the procedures as set out in the Administrative Guide for the electronic
lodgement of proxy form. All proxy forms submitted must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before
the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned General Meeting at which the person named in the appointment
proposes to vote.
(h)	
Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited at the Share Registrar of
the Company at Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya,
Notice of Twenty-second
Annual General Meeting (CONTINUED)
135	  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Selangor Darul Ehsan not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned
General Meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted
provided that it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in
which it is executed.
(i)	
Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in this proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
(j)	
Last date and time for lodging this proxy form is Tuesday, 28 May 2024 at 10:00 a.m.
(k)	
For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative instead of a proxy to attend this meeting, please deposit
the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment executed in the manner as stated in this proxy form if this has not been lodged at the
Company’s registered office earlier.
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. 
Item 1 of the Agenda – Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2023
The Audited Financial Statements is meant for discussion only as an approval from shareholders is not required pursuant to the
provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act 2016. Hence, this item on the Agenda is not being put forward for voting by
shareholders of the Company.
2.	
Ordinary Resolutions 1 – Payment of Directors’ Fees
Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016, the fees of the Directors and any benefits payable to the Directors of a
listed company and its subsidiaries shall be approved at a general meeting. The proposed Ordinary Resolution 1 is to facilitate the
payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
In the event the proposed Directors’ fees are insufficient due to new appointments which resulted in enlarged Board size, approval
will be sought at the next AGM for the shortfall.
3. 
Ordinary Resolutions 2, 3 and 4 – Re-election of Directors pursuant to Clause 76(3) of the Company’s Constitution
Mr Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King, Mr Liew Kuo Shin and Mr Kee Thuan Chai will retire at the 22nd AGM pursuant to Clause 76(3)
of the Company’s Constitution. All of them are standing for re-election by rotation as Directors of the Company and being eligible,
have offered themselves for re-election at the 22nd AGM.
Pursuant to Practice 5.7 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”), the profiles of the three (3) Directors are set
out in the Directors’ profile of the Annual Report 2023. The Board has through the Nomination Committee (“NC”), considered
the assessment of the said Directors pursuant to the Fit and Proper Policy adopted by the Company and agreed that they met the
criteria as prescribed by Paragraph 2.20A of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Securities on
character, experience, integrity, competence and time commitment to effectively discharge their roles as Directors.
The Board collectively agreed that the Directors had met the criteria as prescribed under Paragraph 2.20A of the Listing Requirements
of Bursa Securities on character, experience, integrity, competence and time commitment to effectively discharge their roles as
Directors and recommended the said Directors be re-elected as Directors of the Company.
4.	
Ordinary Resolutions 5 and 6 – Re-election of Directors pursuant to Clause 78 of the Company’s Constitution
Mr Jamel Bin Ibrahim and Mr Tan Soon Hoe will retire at the 22nd AGM pursuant to Clause 78 of the Company’s Constitution. All of
them are standing for re-election as Directors of the Company and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election at the
22nd AGM.
Pursuant to Practice 5.7 of the MCCG, the profile of both Directors are set out in the Directors’ profile of the Annual Report 2023.
The Board has through the NC considered the assessment of the said Directors pursuant to the Fit and Proper Policy adopted by the
Company and agreed that they met the criteria as prescribed by Paragraph 2.20A of the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities on
character, experience, integrity, competence and time commitment to effectively discharge their roles as Directors.
Notice of Twenty-second
Annual General Meeting (CONTINUED)
									 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION	
136
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
5. 
Ordinary Resolution 7 – Re-appointment of Auditors
The Audit Committee had at its meeting held on 22 February 2024 assessed the suitability and independence of the External
Auditors and recommended the re-appointment of BDO PLT as External Auditors of the Company for the financial year ending 31
December 2024. The Board had reviewed the recommendation of the Audit Committee and recommended to table the same to the
shareholders for approval at this AGM of the Company under Ordinary Resolution 7.
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON SPECIAL BUSINESS
1. 
Ordinary Resolution 8 – Authority to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of The Companies Act 2016
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 8, if passed, would renew the mandate granted to the Directors at the 21st AGM held on 26 May
2023 and provide flexibility to the Directors to undertake fundraising activities including but not limited to placement of shares for
the purpose of funding the Company’s future investment project(s), business expansion, working capital and/or acquisition(s) at
any time as the Directors may deem fit provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the mandate does not
exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) of the Company for the time being,
without having to convene a general meeting. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company in a general meeting, will
expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company or at the expiry of the period within which the next AGM is required to be
held after the approval was given, whichever is earlier.
As at the date of this Notice, the Company did not allot any shares pursuant to the shareholders’ mandate granted to the Directors
at the 21st AGM as there were no requirements for such fundraising activities.
2. 
Ordinary Resolution 9 – Proposed Renewal of Authority for the Company to purchase its own shares
	
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 9, if passed, will allow the Company to purchase its own shares through Bursa Securities up to
ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company. Please refer to the Statement to Shareholders dated 30
April 2024 in relation to the Proposed Renewal of Authority to Purchase its own Shares by the Company for further details.
Notice of Twenty-second
Annual General Meeting (CONTINUED)
137	  ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD 199901006659 (481559-M)
Proxy
Form
I/We,                                  Tel.:                                 
      (Full name in block, NRIC/Passport/Company No.)
of  
 (Address)
being a member of THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD, hereby appoint:
Full Name (in Block) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address Email Address/Tel No.
and/or^
Full Name (in Block) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address Email Address/Tel No.
or failing him/her, the Chairman of the Meeting as ^my/our proxy(ies) to vote for ^me/us and on ^my/our behalf, at the Twenty-Second
Annual General Meeting (“22nd AGM”) of the Company to be conducted on a virtual basis through live streaming and online Remote
Participation and Electronic voting (“RPEV”) from the Broadcast Venue at Level 12, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan on Thursday, 30 May 2024 at 10.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof:-
^my/our proxy(ies) shall vote as indicated follows:
ITEM AGENDA RESOLUTION FOR AGAINST
ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To approve the payment of Directors’ Fees for the financial year ended
31 December 2023.
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 1
2. To re-elect Fong Chu King @ Tong Chu King as Director. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 2
3. To re-elect Liew Kuo Shin as Director. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 3
4. To re-elect Kee Thuan Chai as Director. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 4
5. To re-elect Jamel Bin Ibrahim as Director. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 5
6. To re-elect Tan Soon Hoe as Director. ORDINARY RESOLUTION 6
7. To re-appoint BDO PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the
Directors to fix their remuneration.
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 7
SPECIAL BUSINESS
8. To grant authority to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of
the Companies Act 2016.
ORDINARY RESOLUTION 8
9. To approve the Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-Back ORDINARY RESOLUTION 9
Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions. In the absence
of specific direction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he thinks fit.
Signed this        day of        2024                                  	
                                              
Signature*
                                              
Member
CDS Account No.
No. of Shares Held
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
199901006659 (481559-M)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
^Delete whichever is inapplicable
*Manner of execution:
(a) If you are an individual member, please sign where indicated.
(b)	
If you are a corporate member which has a common seal, this proxy form should be executed under seal in accordance with the
constitution of your corporation.
(c)	
If you are a corporate member which does not have a common seal, this proxy form should be affixed with the rubber stamp of
your company (if any) and executed by:-
(i) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii)	
any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which your corporation is incorporated.
NOTES:
IMPORTANT NOTES
The broadcast venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires the
Chairman of the meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting.
Shareholders will not be allowed to attend this Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) in person at the main venue on the day of the meeting.
Therefore, shareholders are strongly advised to participate and vote remotely at this AGM through live streaming and online remote voting
using the RPEV facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd. (“Boardroom”) via https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my.
Please read these notes carefully and follow the procedures in the Administrative Guide for the AGM in order to participate
remotely via the RPEV.
APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
(a)	
For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the Company, a Record of Depositors as at 23 May 2024. Only a member whose name
appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM.
(b)	
A member who is entitled to participate in this AGM is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation, to
appoint a duly authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
(c)	
A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at a General Meeting of the Company may appoint not more than
two (2) proxies to participate instead of the member at the General Meeting.
(d)	
Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined in the Securities Industries (Central Depositories) Act 1991
(“Central Depository Act”), it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies in respect of each securities account it holds in ordinary
shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
(e)	
Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial
owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised
nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee
defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central
Depositories Act.
(f)	
Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of shareholdings to be represented by each proxy must be
specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
(g)	
The appointment of a proxy may be made in hard copy form or by electronic form. In the case of an appointment made in hard copy
form, the proxy form must be deposited with the Share Registrar of the Company at Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony,
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan. In the case of the appointment of a proxy
made in electronic form, the proxy form must be deposited through the Share Registrar’s website, Boardroom Smart Investor Portal
at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. Please refer to the procedures as set out in the Administrative Guide for the electronic
lodgement of proxy form. All proxy form submitted must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before
the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned General Meeting at which the person named in the appointment
proposes to vote.
(h)	
Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited at the Share Registrar of
the Company at Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned
General Meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted
provided that it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which
it is executed.
(i)	
Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in this proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
(j)	
Last date and time for lodging this proxy form is Tuesday, 28 May 2024 at 10:00 a.m.
(k)	
For a corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative instead of a proxy to attend this meeting, please deposit
the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment executed in the manner as stated in this proxy form if this has not been lodged at the
Company’s registered office earlier.
Please fold here
Please fold here
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
C/O BOARDROOM SHARE REGISTRARS SDN BHD
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan
STAMP/SETEM
THREE-A RESOURCES BERHAD
199901006659 (481559-M)
AL 308, Lot 590 & Lot 4196,
Jalan Industri U19,
Kampung Baru Sungai Buloh,
40160 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan,
Malaysia
T +603-6156 2655 F +603-6156 2657
www.three-a.com.my
