MAG Holdings Berhad
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
ANNUAL REPORT
2024
1
Corporate Information 2
Corporate Structure 3
Profile of the Directors and
Key Management
4
Five-Year Financial Summary 13
Chairman’s Statement and Management
Discussion & Analysis
14
Sustainability Statement 24
Corporate Governance Overview Statement 32
Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Control
41
Audit and Risk Management Committee
Report
44
Table of
Contents
Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 47
Additional Compliance Information 48
Financial Statements 49
List of Properties 123
Analysis of Shareholdings 124
Analysis of Warrants C Holdings 127
Notice of 19th Annual General Meeting 130
Statement Accompanying Notice of Annual
General Meeting
135
Form of Proxy
2
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
COMPANY SECRETARY
Wong Yuet Chyn
(MAICSA 7047163)
(SSM PC No. 202008002451)
AUDIT AND RISK
MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
Yeoh Wooi Kia
Chairman
Collin Goonting a/l O.S. Goonting
Datuk Lim Si Cheng
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Collin Goonting a/l O.S. Goonting
Chairman
Yeoh Wooi Kia
Datuk Lim Si Cheng
REMUNERATION
COMMITTEE
Datuk Lim Si Cheng
Chairman
Yeoh Wooi Kia
Collin Goonting a/l O.S. Goonting
LONG-TERM INCENTIVE
PLAN COMMITTEE
Ng Min Lin
Chairman
Datuk Lim Si Cheng
Yeoh Wooi Kia
CORPORATE OFFICE
B-3-12, Gateway Corporate
Suites Gateway Kiaramas
No. 1, Jalan Desa Kiara
Mont Kiara
50480 Kuala Lumpur
W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel : 603-6419 1385
Fax : 603-6419 1386
Website : https://magholdings.com.my
REGISTERED OFFICE
A3-3-8, Solaris Dutamas
No. 1, Jalan Dutamas 1
50480 Kuala Lumpur
W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel : 603-6413 3271
Fax : 603-6413 3270
AUDITORS
Morison LC PLT
Chartered Accountants
Level 11-01, Uptown 3
Jalan SS 21/39
Damansara Utama
47400 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
Tel : 603-7491 4419
SHARE REGISTRAR
Securities Services (Holdings) Sdn Bhd
Level 7, Menara Milenium
Jalan Damanlela
Pusat Bandar Damansara
Damansara Heights
50490 Kuala Lumpur
W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel : 603-2084 9000
Fax : 603-2094 9940
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
CIMB Bank Berhad
Bank Pertanian Malaysia Berhad
MBSB Bank Berhad
STOCK EXCHANGE
ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
Stock Name : MAG
Stock Code : 0095
Ng Min Lin Executive Chairman
Yeoh Wooi Kia Independent Non-Executive Director
Collin Goonting a/l O.S.
Goonting
Independent Non-Executive Director
Datuk Lim Si Cheng Independent Non-Executive Director
Wan Mohd Hazrie bin
Wan Mokhtar
Independent Non-Executive Director
Melvin Lim Chun Woei Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director
Wong Jo Ann Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
CORPORATE
STRUCTURE
MAG Aquaculture Sdn Bhd
MAG Holdings Berhad
100%
North Cube Food Sdn Bhd
Anyang Herun Oil Technical
Service Company Limited
North Cube Aquaculture Sdn Bhd
Sea Tuna Industry Sdn Bhd
100%
100%
100%
52%
North Cube Sdn Bhd
Supreme Global Group Limited
MAG Marine Food Sdn Bhd
MAG CAPITAL VENTURES Sdn Bhd
100%
100%
100%
100%
3
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
PROFILE OF THE DIRECTORS
AND KEY MANAGEMENT
Mr. Ng Min Lin (Mr. Ng) was appointed as a Non-
Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company
on 28 January 2011 and was re-designated as an
Executive Director on 1 April 2011.
On 24 April 2014, he was re-designated as a Non-
Independent Non-Executive Director and on 6
September 2016, he was re-designated as the Senior
Independent Director and appointed as Chairman of
the Board of Directors. He relinquished his role as the
Senior Independent Director on 28 December 2018.
On 31 December 2019, he was re-designated as
the Executive Chairman of the Board. He is also the
Chairman of the Long-Term Incentive Plan Committee.
Mr. Ng spent his early years as an audit associate
with KPMG, Penang. Subsequently, he ventured into
the corporate world when he became the Corporate
Development Manager of a company that manufactures
and franchises water vending machines. A year later,
he was promoted to Group Finance Director when the
company was listed on the PLUS Market (now known
as ICAP Securities and Derivatives Exchange) in the
United Kingdom.
As Mr. Ng looked for greener pastures, he established
Esabee Biotika Sdn. Bhd., a multi-level marketing
company which specialises in microalgae. He was
the Chief Executive Officer of the company until his
resignation in mid-2011.
Mr. Ng had also invested in companies that were
involved in sectors such as mining, agriculture and
energy. His involvement in these sectors had gained
him vast experience in the corporate world.
Mr. Ng is an alumnus of The University of New South
Wales, Sydney, Australia, having graduated there in
2002 with a Bachelor of Commerce, majoring in Finance
and Accounting.
Currently, Mr. Ng is also the Executive Chairman of XL
Holdings Berhad.
Mr. Ng is the spouse of Ms. Wong Jo Ann, the Non-
Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.
Mr. Ng attended all 7 Board of Directors’ (Board)
meetings held during the financial year ended 30 June
2024 (FYE 2024).
Ng Min Lin
Executive Chairman
Malaysian l Aged 45 l Male
4
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Profile of the Directors and Key Management
(cont’d)
5
Mr. Yeoh Wooi Kia (Mr. Yeoh), appointed on 1 June
2020, is an Independent Non-Executive Director. He is
the chairman of the Board’s Audit and Risk Management
Committee, a member of the Nomination Committee,
Remuneration Committee and Long-Term Incentive
Plan Committee.
Mr. Yeoh started his career as an audit associate with
KPMG Penang in 2001. Subsequently, he worked
extensively in various capacities in the corporate world
from 2004 to 2014, such as Accountant in Plexus
Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. and as Unit Manager in Hong
Leong Assurance Bhd.
Mr. Yeoh is currently the Business Development
Director of AYG Advisory which is engaged in the
provision of marketing and general business advisory
services and corporate training solutions to clients
from various industries including trading, direct-selling,
e-commerce, food and beverages, entertainment and
events management.
Mr. Yeoh graduated from University of Tasmania in
2000 with a Bachelor of Commerce (Accounting)
and has been a member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants since 2008.
Mr. Yeoh presently does not holds directorship in other
public companies or listed corporations.
Mr. Yeoh attended all 7 Board meetings held during the
FYE 2024.
Yeoh Wooi Kia
Independent Non-Executive Director
Malaysian l Aged 47 l Male
6
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Profile of the Directors and Key Management
(cont’d)
Mr. Collin Goonting a/l O.S. Goonting (Mr. Goonting),
appointed on 16 July 2020, is an Independent Non-
Executive Director. He is the chairman of the Board’s
Nomination Committee and a member of the Audit
and Risk Management Committee and Remuneration
Committee.
Mr. Goonting was admitted to the Honourable Society
of the Inner Temple as a barrister in 1972. He is an
Advocate and Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya.
In addition to litigation, Mr. Goonting is also active in
the corporate and financial sectors, internationally
and in Malaysia, since 1972. He has acted as the lead
counsel in many high-profile criminal and civil cases
and is still in active practice.
In 1991, when Labuan was made an International
Offshore Financial Centre by the Malaysian
government, Mr. Goonting established a branch of his
legal firm, Messrs. Collin Goonting & Co, in Labuan to
serve international companies setting up offices there.
His firm has acted for international offshore banks as
well as other foreign companies in financial matters
especially in the setting up of offshore companies and
special purpose vehicles. He is also active in providing
legal services to local offshore banks involving Islamic
financial products as well as legal advice in English
and international laws to multinational oil corporations
involved in offshore drilling in Labuan.
In 2001, Mr. Goonting set up a legal firm in Jakarta and
was appointed as the legal consultant to a company
building geothermal power plants and also acted for
one of the largest shipping corporations in Indonesia.
In addition, his firm advised on private equity funding,
debt restructuring and recovery as well as liquidation to
foreign banks and financial institutions in Indonesia. He
still has a corresponding office in Jakarta, Indonesia.
Mr. Goonting had held Independent Non-Executive
Directorship in two other Public listed companies but
presently does not hold directorship in any other public
companies or listed corporations.
Mr. Goonting attended all 7 Board meetings held during
the FYE 2024.
Collin Goonting a/l O.S. Goonting
Independent Non-Executive Director
Malaysian l Aged 77 l Male
7
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Profile of the Directors and Key Management
(cont’d)
Datuk Lim Si Cheng (Datuk Lim), appointed on 15 July
2021, is an Independent Non-Executive Director. He is
the chairman of the Board’s Remuneration Committee
and a member of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee, Nomination Committee and Long-Term
Incentive Plan Committee.
Datuk Lim began his career as a journalist in 1968.
He was the State Assemblyman of Bandar Segamat
from 1982 to 1990 and Exco Member of Johor State
Government from 1986 to 1990.
Datuk Lim served as the Political Secretary to the
Minister of Transport of Malaysia from 1990 to 1995.
He was elected as the Member of Parliament for Kulai,
Johor for 3 consecutive terms from 1995 to 2008.
Datuk Lim was the Deputy Speaker of the House of
Representative, Parliament Malaysia from 1999 to
2008. He was also a member of the Malaysian Pepper
Board from 2008 to 2011.
Datuk Lim is very active in community works of various
charitable organisations. Presently, he is a council
member of University Tunku Abdul Rahman, trustee
of Huaren Education Foundation, trustee of Chang
Ming Thien Foundation and a committee member of
Malaysia Mental Literacy Movement.
Currently, Datuk Lim is also a Board member of
Koperasi Jayadiri Malaysia Berhad.
Datuk Lim attended all 7 Board meetings held during
the FYE 2024.
Datuk Lim Si Cheng
Independent Non-Executive Director
Malaysian l Aged 74 l Male
8
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Profile of the Directors and Key Management
(cont’d)
Mr. Wan Mohd Hazrie bin Wan Mokhtar (Mr. Wan),
appointed on 14 February 2023, is an Independent
Non-Executive Director.
Mr. Wan established and operated Xeron (M) Sdn.
Bhd. in 2002 to supply mechanical & electrical
instrumentation, providing mechanical maintenance
to companies in the oil and gas industry and road,
road & building maintenance services to various local
companies including commercial buildings, industrial,
hospitality and in other various sectors.
Mr. Wan has more than 20 years of extensive experience
in road maintenance, property development, oil &
gas industry and has excellent organisational and
management skills, inter-personal skills and public
relations and active in pursuing new business
opportunities & ventures.
Mr. Wan presently does not holds directorship in other
public companies or listed corporations.
Mr. Wan attended all 7 Board meetings held during the
FYE 2024.
Wan Mohd Hazrie Bin Wan Mokhtar
Independent Non- Executive Director
Malaysian l Aged 46 l Male
9
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Profile of the Directors and Key Management
(cont’d)
Mr. Melvin Lim Chun Woei (Mr. Melvin Lim), appointed
on 15 July 2021, is a Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director.
Mr. Melvin Lim holds a degree in International Business
from University of Leeds, United Kingdom.
Mr. Melvin Lim has vast experience in marketing and
export, food manufacturing, aquaculture, agriculture
and land and building development. He started his
career in 2012 as Marketing Manager with Pegagau
Food Products Sdn. Bhd. and Borneo Bina Jaya
Sdn. Bhd. and progressed to the Marketing Director
position. In 2018, he co-founded Borneo Bina Jaya
Sdn. Bhd. which is involved in the business as land
and building developer, property management and
contractor business.
In 2022, Mr. Melvin Lim founded Synergy Travel Sdn.
Bhd. which is involved in tour and travel businesses
and in 2023 founded Hawan Maju Sdn. Bhd. for hot air
balloon activities.
Mr. Melvin Lim presently does not holds directorship in
other public companies or listed corporations.
Mr. Melvin Lim is the son of Mr. Lim Ah Cham, the
Aquaculture Farming Advisor.
Mr. Melvin Lim attended all 7 Board meetings held
during the FYE 2024.
Melvin Lim Chun Woei
Non-Independent Non- Executive Director
Malaysian l Aged 32 l Male
10
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Profile of the Directors and Key Management
(cont’d)
Ms. Wong Jo Ann (Ms. Wong), appointed on 31 May
2023, is a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director.
Ms. Wong is a professional auditor with previous
experience at PWC, Kuala Lumpur, where she worked
in the Consumer Industrial Products Group and
was involved in auditing listed companies and their
subsidiaries.
In addition to her work at PWC, Ms. Wong has also
participated in auditing at a medium-sized audit firm.
Her work encompasses auditing small to medium-
sized businesses with a focus on manufacturing and
services.
Furthermore, Ms. Wong has experience as a tax
associate at a medium-sized taxation firm, where she
handled individual and corporate tax matters.
Ms. Wong’s experience extends beyond auditing and
taxation. She served as a Human Resource (HR) and
Operations Manager at Esabee Biotika Sdn. Bhd.,
where she was responsible for various HR functions,
front office, back-end operations and product
management.
Ms. Wong is also the Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director of XL Holdings Berhad.
Ms. Wong is the wife of Mr. Ng Min Lin, the Executive
Chairman of the Company.
Ms. Wong attended all 7 Board meetings held during
the FYE 2024.
Wong Jo Ann
Non-Independent Non- Executive Director
Malaysian l Aged 46 l Female
11
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Profile of the Directors and Key Management
(cont’d)
Mr. Lim Hock Wah (Mr. Lim), was appointed as the
Farm Manager of MAG Aquaculture Sdn. Bhd., a wholly
owned subsidiary of the Company, on 1 December
2019. He is responsible for overseeing the overall
operations of the Group’s prawn aquaculture farming.
Mr. Lim has over 30 years of experience in the shrimp
aquaculture industry. He joined Loongsyn Aquaculture
Sdn. Bhd. in 1988 as a farm supervisor, spearheading
the culture of tiger prawns after his secondary
education. In 1993, he joined Dewasaga Sdn. Bhd.
as the person-in-charge for tiger prawn farming. In
1997, he joined Unistate Seafood Sdn. Bhd. as a
farm manager and was involved in the culture of tiger
prawns and white vannamei shrimps. In 2003, he joined
Shimmer Aquaculture Sdn. Bhd. as the farm manager
overseeing its tiger prawn operations and in 2006, he
joined Pelantar Cergas (M) Sdn. Bhd. (a subsidiary of
Manjung Aquatic Sdn. Bhd.) to assume the post of farm
manager.
In 2010, Mr. Lim joined Pegagau Aquaculture Sdn.
Bhd. as the farm manager for Wakuba farm. Under
his leadership, the Wakuba farm had adopted new
methods in shrimp cultivation and ponds maintenance
thereby shortening the cultivation period and improving
the production yield of the prawn farm.
Mr. Lim presently does not holds directorship in other
public companies or listed corporations.
Lim Hock Wah
Farm Manager
Malaysian l Aged 53 l Male
12
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Profile of the Directors and Key Management
(cont’d)
Mr. Lim Ah Cham (Mr. Lim), was appointed as an
advisor to the Group’s prawn aquaculture farming on 1
December 2019 for a period of 5 years. He is the founder
and a major shareholder of Pegagau Aquaculture Sdn.
Bhd. (Pegagau).
Mr. Lim has vast experience in the prawn aquaculture
farming having started the first shrimp farm in Kota
Kinabalu in year 1997 on 50 acres of land with 18 ponds.
3 years later, in year 2000, he founded Pegagau and
fully invested in black tiger prawn and white vannamei
prawn cultivation.
Within 10 years, Pegagau became the biggest shrimp
producer in Sabah with 3 shrimp farms in Semporna
and Tawau. Mr. Lim also involved in food processing
plant under Pegagau Food Products Sdn. Bhd. and
hatchery centre under Pegagau Hatchery Sdn. Bhd.
In Year 2011, Mr. Lim and his Umas-Umas Farm was
selected by Fishery Malaysia as an anchor company
under the Ministry of Agriculture’s NKEA Project, with
commitment to create RM280 million national income
and 450 jobs for the locals.
Mr. Lim presently does not holds directorship in other
public companies or listed corporations. Mr. Lim is
the father of Mr. Melvin Lim Chun Woei, the Non-
Independent Non-Executive Director.
Lim Ah Cham
Aquaculture Farming Advisor
Malaysian l Aged 77 l Male
1. Family Relationships
Save for Mr. Ng Min Lin, Mr. Melvin Lim Chun Woei, Ms. Wong Jo Ann and Mr. Lim Ah Cham, none of
the Directors or Key Management has any family relationship with any other Director and/or any major
shareholder of the Company.
2. Conflict of Interest
None of the Directors or Key Management has any personal interest or conflict of interest or potential conflict
of interest in any business arrangement involving the Group including any interest in any competing business
with the Company and its Subsidiaries, other than the related party transactions disclosed in Note 27 to the
financial statements on page 108 of the Annual Report.
3. Conviction of Offences
None of the Directors or Key Management has been convicted of any offences within the past 5 years other
than traffic offences, if any, or any public sanctions or penalties were imposed on them by any relevant
regulatory bodies during the FYE 2024.
13
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
2019 2021 2022 2023 2024
0
150
300
450
600
750
900
Shareholder’s fund
RM’ million
2019 2021 2022 2023 2024
150
250
350
450
550
650
REVENUE
RM’ million
2019 2021 2022 2023 2024
(150)
(100)
(50)
50
100
150
PROFIT/(LOSS) AFTER TAXATION
RM’ million
0
2019 2021 2022 2023 2024
250
500
750
1,000
1,250
Total assets
RM’ million
0
Year
2024
12 months
RM’000
2023
12 months
RM’000
2022
12 months
RM’000
2021
18 months
RM’000
2019
12 months
RM’000
Revenue 305,074 201,637 137,105 81,543 600,056
Profit/(loss) after taxation 32,696 34,151 17,720 9,196 (108,255)
Earnings/(loss) per share
 (sen)
2.07 2.28 1.27 1.38 (27.28)
Total assets 1,214,557 1,091,283 1,004,293 623,696 539,379
Total liabilities 398,455 322,173 296,556 85,075 59,444
Shareholder’s fund 816,103 767,460 706,075 536,953 478,246
Net assets per share 0.49 0.48 0.49 0.72 0.80
FIVE-YEAR
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
0 (200)
200
14
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
We are an aquaculture-based food producer specialising in the cultivation, processing and distribution of premium
quality prawns, serving both local and global markets. Our business is grounded in the pillars of high-quality
standards, food safety, ecological sustainability and social responsibility.
Since assuming the name ‘Malaysian Aquaculture Group’ in August 2020, we have remained focused on growing
our aquaculture operations and leading the industry with sustainable, innovative practices that ensure long-term
success.
Strengthening Resilience and Sustainable Growth
In FYE 2024, we navigated a challenging global landscape shaped by persistent macroeconomic headwinds,
including inflationary pressures, geopolitical uncertainties, and supply chain disruptions. Despite these global
challenges, Malaysia’s economy showed resilience, with gross domestic product growth projected at 4.5%,
underpinned by strong domestic demand and a recovery across key sectors.
Within this evolving environment, Malaysia’s aquaculture industry continued its upward trajectory, buoyed by
increasing demand for seafood both locally and globally. On the local front, Malaysia emerged as one of the top
consumers of seafood in Asia Pacific region driving government plans to increase aquaculture production to
40% of the nation’s total fisheries sector by 2030, to better meet the country’s needs. Government-led initiatives
to promote sustainable aquaculture and strengthen food security continued to bolster the industry’s expansion.
However, rising input costs and fluctuating market prices posed challenges, impacting profit margins across the
sector.
1 https://www.nst.com.my/business/corporate/2024/06/1062681/malaysia-one-top-seafood-consumers-asia-pacific-listing-
bound#google_vignette
2 https://www.bernama.com/en/news.php?id=2318318#:~:text=GEORGE%20TOWN%2C%20July%2016%20
(Bernama,Minister%20Datuk%20Arthur%20Joseph%20Kurup
Dear Valued
Shareholders,
It is an honour for me to present to you
the Annual Report and Audited Financial
Statements of MAG Holdings Berhad
(MAG or the Company) and its group
of companies (the Group) for the
financial year ended 30 June 2024
(FYE 2024).
15
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Chairman’s Statement
(cont’d)
Financial Review
Despite these hurdles, we delivered strong revenue growth during the review period, recording a significant 51.3%
increase to RM305.07 million, compared to RM201.64 million in the previous financial year. This remarkable growth
was primarily driven by increased demand for high-quality prawns in both domestic and international markets,
alongside strategic pricing adjustments that leveraged favourable market dynamics.
The Group’s focus on operational efficiency and rigorous cost management contributed to maintaining profitability,
underscoring its resilience in a competitive environment. While profit margins were slightly impacted by changes in
the product mix, the Group’s ability to adapt to fluctuating commodity prices and evolving consumer preferences
reflected the importance of strategic foresight.
Further details on our financial and operational performance are available in the Management Discussion and
Analysis section of this Report.
Dividend
Our Company had paid out its final single-tier dividend for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 of 0.1 sen per
ordinary share amounting to RM1,599,695 on 24 January 2024.
On 29 October 2024, our Board of Directors had proposed a final single-tier dividend of 0.1 sen per ordinary
share in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2024 which is subject to the shareholders’ approval at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Sustainability
As an aquaculture business, MAG is cognisant of our role in ensuring that our operations are sustainable. The Group
remained steadfast in advancing its sustainability agenda, prioritising eco-friendly practices across operations.
Key initiatives included adopting sustainable aquaculture methods, reducing chemical usage and enhancing
biodiversity. The integration of energy-efficient technologies and a comprehensive waste management programme,
such as converting sludge into fertiliser, contributed to a significant reduction in environmental impact. These
efforts, underscored by certifications in sustainable aquaculture, demonstrate our commitment to responsible
growth and our role in supporting long-term industry sustainability.
Please refer to the Sustainability Statement section of this Report for a more comprehensive overview of our
sustainability initiatives and progress.
Upholding Good Corporate Governance
Throughout FYE 2024, the Group continued to uphold the highest standards of corporate governance, ensuring
transparency, accountability and integrity in all business practices. We remain committed to maintaining robust
governance frameworks that align with regulatory requirements and best industry practices. Our Board of
Directors and senior management prioritise sound decision-making processes, effective risk management and
comprehensive internal controls to safeguard stakeholder interests.
The Group also implemented measures to enhance board oversight, including regular reviews of corporate
policies, rigorous compliance monitoring and ongoing director training programmes. These initiatives reinforce our
commitment to ethical business conduct and foster a culture of continuous improvement. We believe that strong
corporate governance is essential for sustainable growth and is fundamental to our ability to deliver long-term
value to our shareholders and other stakeholders.
16
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Chairman’s Statement
(cont’d)
Clear Waters Ahead
Looking ahead, the Group is poised for growth as one of Malaysia’s leading prawn producers. The expansion of
the fourth farm in Tawau will boost capacity to 384 ponds and increase breeding output to 5,500 tonnes annually,
further solidifying our market leadership.
We will continue to adopt advanced farming technologies to enhance productivity, reduce environmental impact
and improve shrimp health. Our prawn processing facilities, focused on ready-to-eat and ready-to-cook products,
have the potential to drive profitability through exports to key markets like South Korea, China, Taiwan and Australia.
Sustainability remains central to our operations, with eco-friendly farming practices ensuring compliance with
international standards. These strategies will enhance financial performance, create operational efficiencies and
position MAG for long-term success and shareholder value creation.
Acknowledgements
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like to extend my deepest appreciation to our valued shareholders
for their unwavering trust and confidence in MAG. Your continued support remains a cornerstone of our Group’s
resilience and success. I also wish to express my sincere gratitude to our employees for their dedication and hard
work, which have been instrumental in driving our achievements, as well as to our partners in the aquaculture
sector, whose collaboration has been key to our ongoing success.
The Board and I would also like to recognise the invaluable support and guidance we have received from our
business partners, advisors, and the relevant government and regulatory agencies.
Lastly, I am grateful for the wisdom, commitment and camaraderie of my fellow Directors. Together, we are fully
committed to delivering sustainable value to our shareholders, and I look forward to reaching new heights with all
of you.
Ng Min Lin
Executive Chairman
17
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The following is an analysis MAG Holdings Berhad’s (MAG, or the Group) operational and financial performance for
the financial year ended 30 June 2024 (FYE 2024).
Our Business
MAG (Malaysian Aquaculture Group) is a leading prawn aquaculture player. The Group is primarily involved in
prawn aquaculture and seafood processing. We are involved in every aspect of ensuring our products retain the
highest standard of quality, from cultivating our own prawn aquaculture farms to processing for domestic and
export markets.
MAG is listed on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The Group previously known as XingHe
Holdings Berhad. In 2019, the Group pivoted its business interest from edible oils to aquaculture, acquiring two
large prawn aquaculture farms in Tawau, Sabah and laying the foundation for our strategic direction.
Today, MAG continues to expand its operations and expertise in shrimp farming, processing and exporting high-
quality seafood products to markets across the globe.
Review of Operations
In FYE 2024, MAG operated in a complex environment shaped by significant global macroeconomic factors,
including persistent inflation, geopolitical tensions and ongoing supply chain disruptions.
Within this context, the Malaysian aquaculture industry continued to expand, benefiting from increasing local
and global demand for seafood. The government’s initiatives to promote sustainable aquaculture practices and
enhance food security further supported industry growth. However, challenges such as rising input costs and
fluctuations in market prices persisted, affecting profit margins across the sector.
Throughout the year in review, the Group focused on several strategic initiatives to strengthen our position and
support long-term growth and sustainability.
Expansion and Capacity Enhancement: We invested in expanding our capacity, establishing the “Wakuba II”
farm in Tawau, Sabah, and a new processing plant, which significantly enhanced our production capacity, while
maintaining high quality standards. The new farm has been in operation since year 2023.
With the addition of this new farm to the current Wakuba, Umas-Umas and Apas Paritf arms, the Group now has
a total of 384 cultivation ponds, a breeding capacity of 5,500 tonnes and a processing capacity of 8,000 tonnes
annually.
The combined output from these farms enables us to achieve economies of scale and operational synergies from
prawn cultivation to production. This strategic advantage allows us to streamline operations and enhance overall
efficiency.
The pristine coastal waters of Tawau, Sabah, where our farms are located, offer the ideal environment for culturing
premium shrimp. By maintaining non-pesticidal cured marine ponds, we ensure that our shrimp products meet the
highest standards of freshness and safety, catering to the growing demand from international consumers who are
increasingly aware of the environmental impact of their food sources.
In addition to enhancing our capacity, the Group continued to explore new markets, such as Taiwan, in line with
our long-term strategy of sustainable growth.
Technological Advancements: We implemented advanced farming techniques to improve feed conversion rates,
yield and sustainability, resulting in reduced environmental impact. Our commitment to continuous water quality
monitoring and rigorous health management protocols has further enhanced operational efficiency and product
quality.
18
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Management Discussion & Analysis
(cont’d)
Supply Chain Resilience: We focused on strengthening supplier relationships and optimising logistics to mitigate
cost pressures and ensure consistent operations amid any potential supply chain disruptions.
Review of Financial Performance
During the review period, the Group capitalised on market opportunities, achieving a revenue of RM305.1 million,
a 51.3% increase from the previous year (FYE 2023: RM201.6 million). This growth was largely attributed to
increased market demand for premium prawns and strategic pricing initiatives. The implementation of effective
cost management measures mitigated the impact of higher raw material costs, supporting sales growth across
both international and domestic markets. The Group’s overall performance for FYE 2024 was largely bolstered by
the increasing demand in our aquaculture and food processing segments. However, profit margins were affected
by shifts in the product mix, highlighting the need for strategic adaptability.
FYE 2024
(RM ‘000)
FYE 2023
(RM ‘000)
Revenue 305,074 201,637
Cost of Sales (237,868) (134,414)
Gross Profit 67,206 67,223
Other Income 13,157 19,928
Operating Expenses (22,605) (18,626)
Finance Cost (12,343) (13,709)
Unrealised loss on foreign exchange (1,387) (9,472)
Profit Before Taxation 44,028 45,344
Taxation (11,332) (11,193)
Profit After Taxation 32,696 34,151
For FYE 2024:
(a) Other income earned in FYE 2024 of RM13.16 million (FYE 2023: RM19.93 million) was mainly from fair value
gain of RM7.55 million on loan to a former subsidiary company and interest income of RM5.44 million from
the loan to the former subsidiary.
(b) The lower finance cost of RM12.34 million was the result of lower interest expenses of RM1.37 million
incurred during the review period.
(c) The unrealised loss on foreign exchange was mainly due to the depreciated value of Renminbi against the
Hong Kong Dollar.
19
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Management Discussion & Analysis
(cont’d)
REVIEW OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
i. Liquidity and Capital Resources
The Group’s reserves of cash and cash equivalents were RM171.8 million during the review period of FYE
2024, an increase of RM8.1 million compared to the cash and cash equivalent recorded in financial year
ended 30 June 2023 (FYE 2023), of RM163.7 million. The increase is analysed as follows:
FYE 30.6.2024
RM’000
FYE 30.6.2023
RM’000
Cash generated from /(used in):
– Operating activities 90,463 21,855
– Investing activities (78,595) (28,496)
– Financing activities (2,902) 11,430
Effect of forex changes (883) (3,159)
Net increase 8,083 1,630
For FYE 2024:
(a) The cash outflow in investing activities was mainly used for purchase of property, plant and equipment
RM86.2 million (FYE 2023: RM29.73 million).
ii. Gearing
30.6.2024
RM’000
30.6.2023
RM’000
Borrowings (interest-bearing) 108,760 110,870
Redeemable preference shares (RPS) 73,585 72,061
Shareholders’ equity 816,103 767,460
Gearing ratio (times) 0.22 0.24
Lower gearing in FYE 2024 mainly due to the lower bank borrowings and RPS and higher shareholders
equity.
MAG’s gearing ratio in FYE 2024 is 0.22, down from 0.24 in FYE 2023. This reflects reduced reliance on bank
borrowings and RPS, and the increase in shareholder’s equity following the conversion exercise.
20
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Management Discussion & Analysis
(cont’d)
iii. Number of shares issued and net assets per share
30.6.2024
RM’000
30.6.2023
RM’000
Total net assets 816,102 769,110
Number of shares in issue 1,667,900,515 1,590,838,865
Net assets per share 0.49 0.48
In FYE 2024, MAG’s net assets per share increased marginally from RM0.48 in FYE 2023 to RM0.49 in FYE
2024, following the increase in the number of shares issued from the result of the conversion of warrants C
into ordinary shares at a conversion price of RM0.16 per ordinary share.
Sustainability and Excellence
MAG recognises the role of sustainability in ensuring operational excellence and long-term value creation for all
our stakeholders. Throughout the year in review, we implemented a variety of initiatives designed to minimise our
environmental impact while promoting responsible business practices.
Sustainable Aquaculture Practices: We have adopted eco-friendly farming methods, emphasising the reduction
of chemical usage and the enhancement of biodiversity within our aquaculture operations. By prioritising these
sustainable practices, we strive to create a harmonious balance between productive farming and ecological
preservation.
Resource Efficiency: The integration of energy-efficient technologies into our operational framework has been a
significant focus for us. This strategic move has led to a marked reduction in energy consumption, thereby not only
lowering operational costs but also diminishing our overall environmental footprint.
Waste Management: In our pursuit of environmental responsibility, we established a comprehensive waste
management programme, with a pronounced emphasis on recycling and waste reduction during production. A
notable innovation within this programme has been the conversion of sludge into fertiliser, which has served to
effectively diminish our waste output while simultaneously contributing to sustainable agricultural practices.
Carbon Footprint Reduction: Our various initiatives have resulted in a significant reduction of our carbon
footprint, aligning with our long-term sustainability objectives and aiding in global climate action efforts. We are
acutely aware of our role in mitigating climate change, and we continually seek ways to enhance our practices in
line with this critical goal.
Our efforts have culminated in obtaining certifications aligned with sustainable aquaculture standards, further
affirming our commitment to environmentally responsible practices. All our farms have been thoroughly evaluated
and have received myGAP certification from the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security. This certification reflects
our adherence to Good Agricultural Practices (GAP), which emphasise environmental, economic, and social
dimensions of our operations. We are also proud to hold esteemed certifications such as HACCP, GMP and Mesti,
which bolster our credibility in the market.
Details of our sustainability initiatives and programmes are outlined in our Sustainability Statement section, page
24-31 of this annual report.
21
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Management Discussion & Analysis
(cont’d)
Strategic Risk Management
MAG continuously identifies and mitigates key risks that may impact our operations. The following outlines the
primary risks faced by the Group and the measures implemented to address them:
1. Disease Outbreaks
Prawns are highly susceptible to various diseases, which can significantly affect yield and profitability.
Mitigation:
• Implement comprehensive biosecurity measures, including the establishment of buffer zones around
shrimp farms to prevent contamination from neighbouring farms or agricultural runoff.
• Use pathogen-free broodstocks and regularly monitor their health.
• Conduct regular health assessments and maintain strict sanitation practices.
• Diversify shrimp species to reduce reliance on a single species. Currently, we farm White Shrimp (L.
vannamei) and Black Tiger Shrimp (P. monodon).
2. Environmental Pollution
Pollution from industrial or agricultural runoff can compromise water quality, affecting prawn health and
growth.
Mitigation:
• Regularly test water quality and apply water treatment solutions as necessary.
• Collaborate with local authorities to monitor environmental factors.
• Adopt integrated farming practices that reduce the environmental footprint of our operations.
3. Market and Foreign Currency Fluctuations
Prawn prices are subject to volatility due to demand shifts, competition and global market conditions.
Additionally, the Group is exposed to fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, particularly as revenue is
predominantly denominated in US dollars.
Mitigation:
• Diversify product offerings to include value-added products like frozen or processed shrimp.
• Establish contractual agreements with buyers to secure pricing and sales volumes.
• Conduct ongoing market research to anticipate trends and adjust strategies accordingly.
• Assess and implement hedging strategies to mitigate foreign exchange risk.
4. Regulatory Changes
Changes in government regulations regarding aquaculture may impact operations, costs and compliance
requirements.
Mitigation:
• Stay informed on regulatory developments and actively engage with industry associations.
• Ensure regulatory compliance through regular audits and staff training.
• Develop contingency plans to adapt to potential regulatory shifts.
22
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
5. Climate Change
Climate change may affect water temperatures and salinity, influencing prawn farming conditions.
Mitigation:
• Implement adaptive farming practices that account for environmental variability.
• Develop emergency response plans and maintain insurance coverage to mitigate potential financial
losses.
6. Supply Chain Disruptions
Disruptions in the supply of critical resources such as feed and equipment can impede operations.
Mitigation:
• Build relationships with multiple suppliers to ensure resource availability.
• Maintain inventory buffers for essential supplies to reduce the risk of shortages.
7. Reliance on Key Personnel
The success of prawn farming depends heavily on the expertise of key management and technical personnel.
Loss of skilled workers or difficulty in attracting talent could negatively impact operations.
Mitigation:
• Offer competitive salaries and benefits to retain skilled personnel.
• Invest in training and development programmes to enhance employee skills and future leadership
potential.
• Implement performance-based bonuses and profit-sharing schemes to align employee interests with
the company’s success.
• Introduce share option schemes to encourage long-term commitment from key personnel.
By proactively addressing these risks through structured mitigation strategies, the Group strengthens its resilience,
ensuring the sustainability and profitability of its prawn farming operations.
Management Discussion & Analysis
(cont’d)
23
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Management Discussion & Analysis
(cont’d)
Outlook and Prospects
Looking ahead, MAG remains focused on aquaculture and food trading as primary growth drivers. The Group will
continue to explore new market opportunities, increase exports and diversify our product range, particularly in
value-added products. Despite external challenges such as economic uncertainties and regulatory changes, we
are optimistic that our strategic initiatives and enhanced operational efficiencies will positively contribute to the
Group’s financial performance in financial year ending 30 June 2025.
The global demand for seafood continues to rise, driven by an increasing population and enhanced dietary
preferences toward healthy, protein-rich foods. Given these emerging trends, it is pertinent to assess how we can
strategically position ourselves to leverage opportunities in this sector.
Aquaculture production is projected to grow by an average annual growth rate of 6.7%. This gives us a compelling
reason to focus on enhancing our production capabilities and embracing sustainable practices. Our commitment to
responsible aquaculture is more crucial than ever as stakeholders become increasingly aware of the environmental
impact associated with seafood production.
In line with our vision, we aim to implement innovative farming practices that not only optimise yield but also
minimise ecological consequences. The integration of technology in our operations, is anticipated to boost
our efficiency and sustainability. By investing in advanced aquaculture technologies, we can improve disease
management and reduce reliance on antibiotics, thereby promoting healthier prawns and meeting the rising
consumer expectations for quality.
As the trend toward farm-to-table continues to gain traction, quality processing becomes integral to our supply
chain and drives the need to deliver premium products to customers with both freshness and traceability. We
anticipate that investments in modern processing facilities will not only enhance food safety but also diversify our
product offerings, allowing us to explore value-added products such as Ready-to-Cook and Ready-to-Eat prawns.
We foresee that consumer preferences will also dictate the future trajectory of our business. We are cognisant
of the increasing consumer demand for sustainably sourced and responsibly farmed seafood. To address this,
we will enhance our marketing efforts to communicate our sustainability credentials effectively. By prioritising
transparency and education about our practices, we aim to build trust and loyalty among our consumers.
We are committed to positioning MAG at the forefront of responsible prawn farming and processing. With a focus
on innovation, sustainability and collaboration, we are confident that we can meet the growing global demand for
aquaculture products while simultaneously contributing to environmental stewardship.
1 https://www.was.org/article/A-decadal-outlook-for-global-aquaculture.aspx#:~:text=It%20is%20often%20cited%20
that,decades%20(FAO%2C%202022b).
24
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
This section outlines the progress of MAG Holdings Berhad (MAG, or the Group) in its sustainability journey,
encompassing Economic, Environmental, Social and Governance activities and initiatives across the Group’s
business operations.
This Statement should be read alongside the Management Discussion and Analysis, Corporate Governance
Overview Statement, Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control and Corporate Governance Report.
REPORTING FRAMEWORK
This Statement was prepared according to the ACE Market Listing Requirements, Sustainability Reporting Guide
(3rd Edition) issued by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (Bursa Securities), with reference to the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) Standards.
MAG is currently in the early stages of outlining and implementing a Sustainability Roadmap which will include
approaches to data collection, monitoring and KPIs. As such, for now, information is presented where available.
In future editions of the Annual Report, the Group will strive to ensure a more comprehensive reporting of our
sustainability initiatives as we improve on our processes.
REPORTING PERIOD & CYCLE
This Statement covers MAG’s sustainability initiatives for the financial period of 1 July 2023 to 30 June 2024 (FYE
2024). The Group’s sustainability reporting cycle is concurrent with its financial year.
STATEMENT OF USE
This Statement was prepared by the Group’s Management Team and its accuracy has been assessed and approved
by the Board of Directors (Board), who also acknowledge responsibility for its use.
REPORTING SCOPE & BOUNDARIES
This Statement covers MAG’s primary operations in Malaysia and the Group’s wholly owned subsidiaries. It does
not include any joint ventures, vendors, suppliers or entities in which the Group does not hold a controlling stake.
The boundary of this Statement is in the areas beyond financial reporting and includes non-financial performance,
risks, opportunities and outcomes attributable to or associated with our key stakeholders.
ASSURANCE
Any financial data disclosed in this Statement is derived from the Financial Statements section of this Annual
Report, which has been audited and assured by an external auditor. The non-financial data and information
presented have not been externally assured.
LIMITATIONS
While MAG has made all efforts to collect and present accurate, relevant and meaningful qualitative and quantitative
data sourced from official company sources and records, we are cognisant of the existing gaps in data availability
for certain indicators. We are currently working on a more comprehensive data gathering and tracking mechanism
to enhance our reporting in future editions of the Annual Report.
25
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT
This Statement may contain forward-looking statements on MAG’s targets, plans, operations and performance
based on current business trajectories. The Group’s business is subject to risks and unforeseen events beyond our
control, as such, we advise readers not to rely solely on these statements, as actual results may differ.
FEEDBACK & COMMENTS
The Annual Report containing this Statement is available to the public on our corporate website https://magholdings.
com.my. MAG welcomes stakeholders’ feedback and suggestions to enable continuous improvement to our
disclosures.
Email: mag@magholdings.com.my
OUR APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
As a leading aquaculture player, our business is closely tied to the environment. As such, MAG is committed
to embedding sustainability into every aspect of our business operations. Our approach is aligned with Bursa
Securities’ requirements and is structured around the key pillars of environmental, social and governance (ESG)
responsibility. Additionally, where possible and relevant, we reference the GRI Standards in our reporting to ensure
transparency, measurability and accountability.
As part of our long-term sustainability vision, MAG is developing a comprehensive Sustainability Roadmap. This
roadmap will serve as a strategic framework for integrating sustainability deeper into our core business operations,
enabling us to set clear, measurable targets across key ESG areas.
• Key Focus Areas: Our roadmap will concentrate on critical aspects such as reducing our carbon footprint,
enhancing resource efficiency, adopting circular economy principles and promoting biodiversity within our
aquaculture processes.
• Stakeholder Engagement: The roadmap will be developed in consultation with key stakeholders, including
employees, customers, investors, regulators and local communities. This ensures that our sustainability
efforts are aligned with the expectations and needs of those we impact the most.
• Short-Term, Medium-Term and Long-Term Goals: The roadmap will outline short-term, medium-term
and long-term sustainability goals that align with global standards such as the United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (UNSDGs) and GRI. This phased approach will help us prioritise immediate actions while
laying the foundation for future innovation in sustainable practices.
• Performance Monitoring: To ensure accountability, MAG will implement a performance monitoring system
that tracks our progress against defined sustainability targets.
Regular updates on our progress will be disclosed to stakeholders through our annual sustainability reports,
ensuring transparency and accountability.
This Roadmap will not only guide our sustainability journey but also position MAG as a leading player in the
sustainable aquaculture industry, committed to creating positive impacts for our environment, society and economy.
26
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
Sustainability governance at MAG is overseen by our Board which ensures that our sustainability efforts align
with our corporate objectives and stakeholder expectations. The Board is responsible for setting sustainability
goals, overseeing materiality assessments and integrating governance ESG considerations into our day-to-day
operations and long-term strategy.
We are committed to maintaining compliance with all relevant local and international regulations and standards.
Moving forward, the Group will establish a dedicated Sustainability Committee as part of a robust structure to
oversee the implementation of sustainability initiatives and monitor their progress.
GOVERNANCE OF CORPORATE ETHICS
Ethical conduct, integrity, accountability and strong corporate governance are the pillars of our success. These
core principles shape our company culture, fostering a commitment to excellence, high performance and creating
a workplace of equal opportunities.
MAG has in place comprehensive corporate governance policies and guidelines that include the Anti-Bribery
and Corruption Policy, Whistleblowing Policy, Board Guidelines, Gift and Hospitality Policy, Corporate Disclosure
Policy and the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy. These materials are made available to our stakeholders and the
public on our corporate website. More information is available in the Corporate Governance Overview Statement
section of this Report.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Effective stakeholder engagement is central to MAG’s sustainability strategy. We actively engage with a diverse
group of stakeholders to understand their concerns, align our sustainability objectives, and ensure that we are
addressing the needs of those most affected by our operations.
Our engagement with these stakeholders enables us to continuously refine our sustainability strategies, ensuring
that our initiatives not only align with our business objectives but also address the broader social and environmental
challenges we face.
Key Stakeholders Engagement approach Frequency Expected Outcome
Investors/Shareholders Corporate website
Bursa Securities
announcements
Investor Relations
channel
General/
extraordinary
meetings
Annual Report
Quarterly/annual
As required
Clear two-way
communication
through dedicated
platforms
Transparency
and timeliness in
disclosures
Feedback and
suggestions
Employees Meetings and
briefings
Memos/circulars
Reviews with
management
Events organised
by MAG
As required Clear
understanding of
expectations
Feedback and
suggestions
Open channels of
communication
with management
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
27
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
Key Stakeholders Engagement approach Frequency Expected Outcome
Customers Meetings
Correspondence
As required Feedback and
suggestions
to improve our
products and
services
Clear
communication of
expectations and
standards
Timeliness of our
delivery
Product quality
Contractors and
Suppliers
Meetings
Correspondence
As required Clear
communication
of expectations,
deliverables, and
standards
Feedback and
suggestions
Timeliness in
payments
Long term
relationships
Government and
regulators
Compliance
monitoring
Participation in
events organised
by government
agencies and
regulatory bodies
Updates provided
by relevant
agencies
As required Compliance
with laws and
regulations
Licensing and
permits
Communities Community events
Social
contributions
Job opportunities
As required Positive
relationship with
the community
Contribute to
socioeconomic
development
Obtain their
feedback to
enhance our
sustainability
initiatives
28
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS
MAG acknowledges the importance of identifying and addressing the material topics that significantly impact both
our business and our stakeholders.
While we have yet to conduct an external materiality assessment, we have taken an internal approach to identify
key issues related to our operations, including environmental impact, employee welfare, community development
and economic performance. As we refine our Sustainability Roadmap, we plan to enhance our engagement with
stakeholders to formalise a structured materiality assessment, in line with global best practices. This process
ensures that sustainability efforts are aligned with both stakeholder expectations and business needs.
Based on the internal assessment and industry standards, we have identified several material topics as listed
below:
Material Topic Description
Environmental
Impact
Water Management Ensuring clean, uncontaminated water for prawn
farming and managing wastewater responsibly
Biodiversity and Ecosystem
Conservation
Protecting local ecosystems from the impacts
of farming operations, particularly in terms of
maintaining marine biodiversity
Carbon Emissions Reducing our carbon footprint through energy
efficiency and waste reduction
Waste Management Proper handling of waste
Economic
Performance
Sustainable Business Growth Our ability to grow the aquaculture business, ensuring
a balance between profitability and sustainability
Supply Chain Management Strengthening relationships with local suppliers and
supporting the use of sustainable materials in their
operations
Market Demand and Pricing Addressing fluctuations in the demand for premium
prawns and managing the impact of market pricing
and competition
Social Impact Employee Health, Safety and
Wellbeing
Ensuring the safety and wellbeing of workers
Community Engagement and
Development
Creating jobs and contributing to local economic
growth
Human Rights and Labour
Practices
Ensuring fair treatment, equal opportunities, and safe
working conditions for all employees, and maintaining
compliance with local labour laws and international
standards
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
29
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
Material Topic Description
Governance
and
Compliance
Regulatory Compliance Ensuring full compliance with local and international
aquaculture regulations, including environmental and
food safety standards (e.g. MyGAP, HACCP, GMP
certifications)
Risk Management Proactively managing risks such as disease outbreaks
in aquaculture and supply chain disruptions
Ethical Business Conduct Maintaining robust corporate governance and
ensuring transparency and accountability in all
business practices
Product Quality
and Safety
Product Safety and Quality
Assurance
Ensuring that the prawns and other seafood products
meet international food safety standards, particularly
in export markets
Sustainable Aquaculture
Practices
Implementing responsible farming techniques
that limit the use of harmful chemicals and protect
consumer health
ECONOMIC SUSTAINABILITY
MAG’s focus is on creating long-term value for shareholders while contributing to the economic growth of the
communities where we operate. In FYE 2024, we continued to diversify our aquaculture operations, which now
span 384 cultivation ponds. This expansion has not only enhanced our production capacity but has also provided
stable employment opportunities for local communities in Sabah.
In addition to producing our own shrimp supply from processing, we also source from local farmers. By prioritising
local suppliers and promoting local employment, MAG has contributed to the socioeconomic development of the
surrounding communities. In FYE 2024, 99% of our sourcing budget was allocated to local vendors and suppliers,
in keeping with our standard practices.
We have adopted a forward-looking approach to our aquaculture business, ensuring that it remains resilient to
external economic shocks, such as fluctuations in commodity prices and foreign exchange rates. Our emphasis
on operational efficiency and cost management will allow us to maintain profitability even during periods of market
volatility.
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
Generally, prawn aquaculture farming does not generate much environmental issues as there are no emissions of
harmful noxious gases or the production of toxic fluids and discharges. Solid particles in the ponds entrained by
the turbulence of moving water are removed naturally by sedimentation, a process which uses gravity to remove
suspended solids from water.
Our operations are designed to minimise the impact on natural ecosystems, particularly within our prawn
aquaculture farming. With reference to GRI’s environmental reporting standards, we focus on responsible water
management, reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, and waste minimisation.
30
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Key initiatives implemented in FYE 2024 include:
Sustainable Aquaculture Practices
We have adopted eco-friendly farming methods that prioritise reducing chemical usage and maintaining
biodiversity. Instead of relying on chemical pesticides, we introduce specific fish species that feed on parasites,
helping to maintain a healthy, chemical-free environment. These practices are in line with internationally recognised
standards, and all our farms are certified under Malaysia’s MyGAP certification, reinforcing our commitment to
sustainable farming.
Efficient Use of Resources
We continue to integrate energy-efficient technologies within our operations, reducing energy consumption and
lowering our carbon footprint. We have replaced some of our paddle wheels with more energy-efficient air blowers.
In addition, air blowers have fewer moving parts, resulting in lower maintenance costs and longer operational
lifespans.
Waste Management
Our waste management strategy focuses on reducing, reusing and recycling waste materials. Our aquaculture
operations produce sludge as a residue, which is rich in phosphorus and contains nitrogen – both essential
components in organic fertiliser. MAG is currently in the process of researching the most efficient methods of
converting sludge to fertiliser.
SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
We are committed to ensuring the safety and well-being of our employees, fostering an inclusive workplace, and
giving back to the communities in which we operate.
Employee Well-being
Occupational health and safety are top priorities. We have implemented stringent safety protocols across all
operations and provide regular training to ensure that our employees work in a safe and healthy environment.
MAG has established and implemented standard operating procedures in compliance with the Occupational
Safety and Health Act (OSHA) and industry best practices. We have also formed an OSHA Committee to conduct
regular audits and safety inspections. The Committee is tasked with identifying potential hazards and ensuring
compliance with regulations.
In FYE 2024, MAG received zero complaints concerning human rights violations.
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
31
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
Human Capital Development and Diversity
Our employees are our most valuable assets. We provide ongoing training and development opportunities to
help our staffs grow in their careers and contribute meaningfully to our operations. We are committed to equal
opportunity, ensuring that all employees, regardless of gender identity, sexual orientation, age, ethnicity or
background, have the chance to succeed, while promoting a culture of respect and collaboration.
In FYE 2024, we began collecting data on all our workers across our operations, which includes gender and other
details. This will allow us to plan and implement initiatives that specifically target their areas of need and foster a
conducive workplace that prioritises their wellbeing.
Community Engagement
MAG supports the local communities through job creation, social contributions and partnerships with local
suppliers. Our prawn farming operations in Sabah are not only a key driver of the local economy but also an
essential part of the community’s social fabric.
OUR COMMITMENT
MAG will continue to strengthen its sustainability efforts by further integrating ESG considerations into our business
strategy. Our future focus will include exploring new sustainable technologies, enhancing biodiversity within our
aquaculture operations and fostering deeper engagement with our stakeholders to ensure that our sustainability
initiatives meet evolving expectations.
By aligning with Bursa Securities’ guidelines and the GRI Standards, MAG remains dedicated to promoting
sustainability as a foundation for long-term business success, environmental stewardship and social responsibility.
32
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Board of Directors (Board) presents this Statement to provide shareholders and investors with an overview
of the corporate governance practices of MAG Holdings Berhad (MAG or the Company) and together with its
subsidiaries (the Group) for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 (FYE 2024). This overview takes guidance from
the corporate governance principles set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (MCCG).
This Statement is prepared in compliance with the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (Listing Requirements) (Bursa Securities) and is to be read in conjunction with the corporate governance
report 2024 (CG Report) which is available on the Group’s website at www.magholdings.com.my. The CG Report
provides explanations on how the Group applied each corporate governance practice (Practice) set out in the
Code in FYE 2024.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
a) Board Responsibilities
The Board acknowledges and fully supports the importance of corporate governance in directing and
managing the businesses and affairs of the Group, and to safeguard and enhance shareholders’ value and
performance of the Group on a sustainable and long-term basis.
The Board determines the Group’s strategic objectives and ensures that required resources are in place for
the Group to meet its objectives and to guide the Group on its short-term and long-term goals, providing
advice, stewardship and directions on the management and business development of the Group. The Board
also sets the Group’s values and standards and ensure that its obligations to the shareholders and other
stakeholders are understood and fulfilled.
Board Charter
The roles and responsibilities of the Board is formalised in the Board Charter. The Board Charter also clearly
sets all relevant governance matters and applicable limits of authority, including matters reserved for the Board
and those which are expressly delegated to Board committees, the chairman of the Board, the Managing
Director (MD)/Chief Executive Officer (CEO) or a nominated member of the Executive Management, subject
always to the ultimate responsibility of the Directors under the Companies Act 2016. The Board Charter is
reviewed periodically or as and when changes occur to ensure that it reflects the current needs of the Group.
Further details of the Board Charter can be found on the Group’s website at www. magholdings.com.my.
Further of the above and to ensure orderly and effective discharge of its functions and responsibilities, the
Board has established the following Board committees:
• Audit and Risk Management Committee (ARMC)
• Nomination Committee (NC)
• Remuneration Committee (RC)
• Long-Term Incentive Plan Committee
Presently the Board has seven members, comprising the Executive Chairman, four Independent Non-Executive
Directors and two Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors. Mr. Ng Min Lin is the Executive Chairman of the
Board. The MD/CEO position is vacant.
In the absence of a MD/CEO, the Executive Chairman takes on the responsibility of managing the Group’s
businesses and resources as well as overseeing and managing the day-to-day operations of the Group. The
Board took note of Practice 1.3 which states the positions of Chairman and CEO are to be held by different
individuals to ensure a balance of power and authority.
While the Group is searching for a suitable MD/CEO to fill the vacancy, the Board (save for the Executive
Chairman) is of the view that there are sufficient experienced and independent-minded Directors on the
Board to provide sufficient checks and balances to ensure a balance of power and authority.
33
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
a) Board Responsibilities (cont’d)
Code of Ethics and Conduct
The Board has formalised a Code of Ethics and Conduct which reflects the Group’s vision and core values
of integrity, respect and trust. The core areas concerned include the following:
• Conflict of interest
• Confidential information
• Insider information and securities trading
• Protection of assets
• Business records and control
• Compliance with laws
• Personal gifting and contributions
• Safety, health and environment
The Code of Ethics and Conduct governs the conduct of the Directors and all officers and employees of
the Group and provides guidance on the communication process and the duty to report whenever there are
breaches of the same. In connection thereto, each Director is to communicate any suspected violations of
the Code of Ethics and Conduct to the chairman of the ARMC and all violations will be investigated by the
Board or by persons designated by the Board, and appropriate action will be taken if deemed appropriate.
The Code of Ethics and Conduct is reviewed and updated from time to time by the Board to ensure that it
continues to remain relevant and appropriate. The Code of Ethics and Conduct is published on the Group’s
website at www.magholdings.com.my.
Whistleblowing Policy
To maintain the highest standards of ethical conduct and integrity, the Group has adopted a formal
Whistleblowing Policy to promote good business conduct and maintain business integrity. This policy
establishes a framework where stakeholders can raise in confidence any possible corporate misdemeanors.
The whistleblowing channel was created to help stakeholders raise their concerns without fear of retaliation
and to provide protection from reprisals and victimisation provided that the whistleblowing was done in good
faith. The Whistleblowing Policy is published on the Group’s website at www.magholdings.com.my.
The Board will review and update the Whistleblowing Policy as and when necessary to ensure that it remains
relevant to the Group’s business circumstances and comply with the applicable laws and regulations.
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy
The Board ensures adequate policies and procedures on anti-bribery and corruption practices are in place
to prevent any bribery or corruption practices within the Group.
The policy on anti-bribery and corruption established by the Group is in line with the corporate liability
provisions pursuant to Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 which takes
effect from 1 June 2020. The Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy can be viewed on the Group’s website at
www.magholdings.com.my.
Succession Planning
The Group recognises that effective succession planning is integral to the delivery of its strategic plans. It is
essential to ensure a continuous level of competency is in place in the key management team for a planned
future change in key management and to mitigate risks that may cause the untimely departure of any key
management member of the Group.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
34
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
a) Board Responsibilities (cont’d)
Company Secretary
The Board is supported by a suitably qualified and competent Company Secretary to provide sound
governance advice, ensure adherence to rules and procedures and advocate the adoption of corporate
governance best practices.
All members of the Board have full and unrestricted access to the Company Secretary who is a member of
the Malaysian Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Administrators.
Directors’ Meetings and Time Commitment
All the Directors are committed to discharge their roles and responsibilities effectively. Board and Board
committees meeting dates are pre-scheduled before the start of the financial year to enable all parties to plan
their schedule ahead.
The Board had seven meetings during the FYE 2024, and their meeting attendance are as follows:
Director Meetings attended % of attendance
Ng Min Lin 7/7 100%
Yeoh Wooi Kia 7/7 100%
Collin Goonting a/l O.S. Goonting 7/7 100%
Datuk Lim Si Cheng 7/7 100%
Wan Mohd Hazrie Bin Wan Mokhtar 7/7 100%
Melvin Lim Chun Woei 7/7 100%
Wong Jo Ann 7/7 100%
Directors’ Training
The Board’s NC oversees the training needs of each Director and an annual assessment is carried out on the
training needs. Directors’ training is an ongoing process as the Board recognises that Directors should keep
abreast with the current development of the industry as well as on the new or revised statutory and regulatory
requirements to enable them to discharge their duties effectively.
All Directors appointed to the Board had attended the mandatory accreditation programme accredited by
Bursa Securities.
During the FYE 2024, the Directors have attended the following training programs:
Director Training courses, Briefings or Seminars Date
Ng Min Lin 1. Management of Cyber Risk 25.10.2023
2. Best Practice for Halal Supply Chain 14.11.2023
Yeoh Wooi Kia 1. Corporate Sustainability Fundamentals 23.05.2024
2. A Guide to Strategic Risk Management 24.05.2024
Datuk Lim Si Cheng 1. Management of Cyber Risk organised by Ernst & Young 25.10.2023
2. Integration of Corporate Social Due Diligence by KPMG 14.11.2023
Melvin Lim Chun
Woei
1. Mandatory Accreditation Program Part II 29.04.2024 &
30.04.2024
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
35
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
a) Board Responsibilities (cont’d)
Directors’ Training (cont’d)
Director Training courses, Briefings or Seminars Date
Wong Jo Ann 1. Management of Cyber Risk organised by Ernst & Young 25.10.2023
2. Valuation in a Specialised Industry: Agriculture,   Horticulture
and Aquaculture - Addressing and Mitigating the Challenges
faced by Auditors
29.05.2024
The Board also facilitates a familiarisation program for newly appointed Directors which include on-site visit
to the Group’s business operations and organise meetings with key management to understand the Group’s
affairs, operations and businesses.
b) Board Composition
The Group is led by an experienced and diversified Board which comprises professionals from various fields
to bring together a balance of skills, diversity, mix of experience and expertise in areas relevant to the
Group’s business.
The present Board comprises of one Executive Chairman, four Independent Non-Executive Directors and
two Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors, collectively bring with them wide and varied technical,
financial and corporate experience to enable the Board to lead and steer the Group effectively.
The majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors on the Board help to bring objective and independence
judgements to facilitate a balanced leadership in the Group.
Nomination Committee
The NC of the Company comprises exclusively of non-executive Directors, all of whom are Independent
Non-Executive Directors.
The terms of reference of the NC which include, amongst others, the authority, duties, and selection and
assessment of directors, can be viewed on the Group’s website at www.magholdings.com.my.
The NC, in discharging its functions and responsibilities, carried out the following activities during the FYE
2024:
• Discussed, reviewed and recommended the re-election and re-appointment of Directors at the
forthcoming annual general meeting;
• Assessed and confirmed the independence of Independent Non-Executive Directors in accordance
with the criteria set by the Listing Requirements;
• Reviewed the structure, size, balance and composition of the Board having regard to the mix of skills,
experience and expertise, diversity, gender and time commitment of each Board member to meet the
needs of the Group;
• Reviewed the terms of office and performance of other Board committees;
• Reviewed and recommended the training needs of Directors; and
• Board evaluation as described below.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
36
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
b) Board Composition (cont’d)
Board Evaluation
The Board undertakes a formal and objective annual evaluation to determine the effectiveness of the Board
as a whole, its committees and contribution of each individual Director.
This evaluation is facilitated by the Company Secretary and conducted using the evaluation forms set out in
Bursa Securities’ Corporate Governance Guide covering the following aspects:
a) Board and Board committees
• Board mix and composition
• Quality of information and decision making
• Boardroom activities
• Board’s relationship with the management
b) Directors
• Fit and proper
• Contribution and performance
• Caliber and personality
As for the ARMC, the annual evaluation also covers the following aspects:
a) The ARMC as a whole on:
• Quality and composition
• Skills and competencies
• Meeting administration and conduct
b) Self and peer evaluation by the ARMC members
Based on the evaluation carried out in FYE 2024, the NC has informed the Board that it was satisfied with the
contribution and performance of each individual Director.
In Board nomination and election process, the NC takes into consideration the following criteria in selection
process:
• Skills, experience, expertise and personal traits of the candidate that will best complement the board
effectiveness;
• The capability of the candidate to devote the necessary time to the role, his/her potential conflict of
interest and ability to exercise independent judgment; and
• The existing composition of the Board, aimed at providing diversity to the Board
The use of external search organisations for the identification of potential director candidates may be
considered if deemed necessary.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
37
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
b) Board Composition (cont’d)
Board Evaluation (cont’d)
The Board understands the requirements of the MCCG that the board must comprise at least 30% women
directors. Currently, we have one (1) women director out of seven directors, representing approximately 14%
of the Board’s composition. In order to make the Company has good practice in corporate governance,
the Board will review and consider the appointment of more female Directors, taking into consideration the
combination of skills, experience and diversity necessary to strengthen the composition of the Board.
The seven (7) members of the Board are persons of high integrity and are responsible for overall governance
of the Group by ensuring that the Group’s internal control, risk management and reporting procedures are
well in place. The current size and composition of the Board are considered adequate to provide mix of skills,
experience and expertise. Furthermore, the Board is of the view that with the current Board size, the power
and authority of Executive Directors and Independent Non-Executive Directors are balanced. The Board will
continue to monitor and review the Board size and composition as and when necessary.
c) Remuneration
The Board, through the RC, ensure the level and compensation of remuneration of Directors and senior
management commensurate with the skills, experience and responsibilities and that it must be sufficient to
attract and retain the right talent to drive the Company’s objectives.
The RC is guided by the remuneration policies and procedures as well as the market norms and industry
practices to recommend the remuneration of Directors and senior management for Board approval.
The Board ensures the remuneration for non-executive directors, including Independent Non-Executive
Directors, does not conflict with their obligations to bring objectivity and independent judgment to the Board.
The terms of reference and policies and procedures are included in the Board Charter which is available on
the Group’s website at www.magholdings.com.my.
The breakdown of the total remuneration paid or payable or otherwise made available to all Directors of the
Company and the Group who served during the financial year is as follows:
Company
Director
Directors’
Fee
RM’000
Salary
RM’000
Bonus
RM’000
Other
Emolument
RM’000
Meeting
Allowance
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Executive:
Ng Min Lin – – – – – –
Non-Executive:
Yeoh Wooi Kia 54.00 – – – 4.00 58.00
Collin Goonting a/l O.S.
Goonting
42.00 – – – 4.00 46.00
Datuk Lim Si Cheng 42.00 – – – 4.00 46.00
Wan Mohd Hazrie Bin
Wan Mokhtar
42.00 – – – 3.50 45.50
Melvin Lim Chun Woei 42.00 – – – 3.50 45.50
Wong Jo Ann 42.00 – – – 3.50 45.50
Total 264.00 – – – 22.50 286.50
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
38
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
c) Remuneration (cont’d)
Group
Director
Directors’
Fee
RM’000
Salary
RM’000
Bonus
RM’000
Other
Emolument
RM’000
Meeting
Allowance
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Executive:
Ng Min Lin – 720.00 – 91.16 – 811.16
Non-Executive:
Yeoh Wooi Kia 54.00 – – – 4.00 58.00
Collin Goonting a/l O.S.
Goonting 42.00 – – – 4.00 46.00
Datuk Lim Si Cheng 42.00 – – – 4.00 46.00
Wan Mohd Hazrie Bin
Wan Mokhtar 42.00 – – – 3.50 45.50
Melvin Lim Chun Woei 42.00 – – – 3.50 45.50
Wong Jo Ann 42.00 – – – 3.50 45.50
Total 264.00 720.00 – 91.16 22.50 1,097.66
Other emolument comprises employer’s contribution to EPF, Socso and Employment Insurance System (EIS).
The key management of the Company who served during the financial year is listed in the profile of key
managements appearing on page 4 to 12 of the Annual Report and their total remuneration fall within the
following bands:
Range of Remuneration (RM) No. of Key Management
100,001 – 150,000 1
150,001 - 200,000 –
200,001 - 250,000 1
250,001 - 300,000 –
300,001 - 350,000 –
350,001 and above 1
 
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
a) Audit and Risk Management Committee
The ARMC is tasked with assisting and supporting our Board in fulfilling its statutory and fiduciary responsibilities
relatedtoareassuchasfinancialreporting,internalcontrols,externalandinternalauditfunctions,riskmanagement,
governance and other matters impacting our Group’s and Company’s businesses and financial conditions.
The ARMC is currently chaired by Mr. Yeoh Wooi Kia, an Independent Non-Executive Director, and is
supported by two other Independent Non-Executive Directors, namely Datuk Lim Si Cheng and Mr. Collin
Goonting a/l O.S.Goonting.
The ARMC has policies and procedures to assess the performance, suitability, objectivity and independence
of the external auditors. Prior to the commencement of the annual audit, the ARMC will seek confirmation
from the external auditors as to their independence. This independence confirmation would be re-affirmed
by the external auditors to the ARMC upon their completion of the annual audit. These confirmations were
made pursuant to the independence guidelines of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
39
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
b) Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Board ensure the Group has effective governance, risk management and internal control framework
and this is achieved via a risk management framework that adopts a structured and integrated approach in
managing the key business risks of the Group.
The risk management framework, together with the system of internal control, is designed to ensure the
Group’s risks are within its risk appetite.
As for the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal control, it is reviewed by the ARMC with
assistance from the internal auditors. The internal audit function is outsourced to an independent professional
consulting firm to provide independence and objective assurance on the effectiveness of governance, risk
management processes and internal control system of the Group.
TheinternalauditorsreportdirectlytoARMC.InternalauditreportsaretabledtotheARMCforreviewandExecutive
Management is required to be present at ARMC meetings to respond and provide feedback on the audit findings
and its recommendation. In addition, Executive Management is also required to present to the ARMC, status
updates on significant matters and changes in key processes that could impact the Group’s operations.
Based on the above, the Board is of the view that the risk management process and system of internal
control were in place during FYE 2024 for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced or
potentially to be encountered by the Group.
 
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP
WITH STAKEHOLDERS
a) Communication with Stakeholders
The Board is committed to ensuring continuous communication between the Group and stakeholders to
facilitate mutual understanding of each other’s objectives and expectations.
The Board strives to ensure the communication is effective, transparent and timely and is available on an
equal basis.
The release of announcements and information via Bursa Securities is handled by the Company Secretary
within the prescribed requirements of Listing Requirements and is guided by the Group Corporate Disclosure
Policy. The Group Corporate Disclosure Policy outlined the procedures and processes to be followed in
ensuring compliance by all Directors, officers and employees of the Group.
The Group’s website also provides relevant information to stakeholders and the investing community.
Quarterly and annual financial statements, announcements, financial information, annual reports, and
circulars or statements to shareholders are uploaded onto the website for investors and the public.
Shareholders’ queries or concerns relating to the Group may be conveyed to our Executive Chairman or the
senior management team. Their contact details can be found at our website at www.magholdings.com.my.
Mr. Collin Goonting a/l O.S. Goonting, our Independent Non-Executive Director, is designated by the Board
to be the contact person for a consultation and direct communication with shareholders on areas that cannot
be resolved through the normal channels of contact with the Executive Chairman or senior management
team.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
40
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP
WITH STAKEHOLDERS (cont’d)
b) Conduct of General Meetings
The Board recognise that general meetings, particularly the annual general meetings, are important platforms
for the Directors and senior management to engage with shareholders to facilitate a greater understanding of
the Group’s business, governance and financial performance.
The Company strives to ensure all the Directors attend all the Company’s general meetings and encourages
shareholders to attend and exercise their ownership rights to ask questions, to express views and to vote at
the general meetings. Members of the Board as well as Auditors of the Company are present in the AGM to
answer and provide explanations on queries raised during the meetings.
Each item of special business included in the notice of the meeting will be accompanied by an explanatory
statement for the proposed resolution to facilitate full understanding and evaluation of the issues involved.
In line with the best practice of Corporate Governance, notices for annual general meetings will be given to
shareholders at least 28 days prior to the meeting. Shareholders were notified of their rights to demand poll voting.
As mandated by Bursa Securities, voting at the General Meetings of the Company is by way of poll voting.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board on 24
October 2024.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
(cont’d)
41
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control which has been prepared in accordance with the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers) (Guidelines) is
made pursuant to Rule 15.26(b) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(Listing Requirements).
BOARD RESPONSIBILITY
The Board of Directors (Board) acknowledges that risk management and internal control are integral to corporate
governance and that it is responsible for establishing a sound risk management framework and internal control
system as well as to ensure their adequacy and effectiveness.
The Board recognises that the Group’s risk management framework and internal control system are designed to
manage the Group’s risks within its acceptable risk appetite, rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
the Group’s business and corporate objectives. As risks are inherent in all business activities, the said framework
and system provide reasonable, rather than absolute assurance against the risks of material misstatement of
financial information or against financial losses and fraud or breaches of laws or regulations.
The review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management framework and the system of internal
control is delegated by the Board to the Audit and Risk Management Committee (ARMC).
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework adopts a structured and integrated approach in managing
key business risks with the aim of safeguarding the Group’s assets and the shareholders’ interests.
The ARMC reviews the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management process and the management has
been entrusted to identify and assess risks as well as to ensure that the risk management processes are adequate
and effective. All policies and procedures formulated to identify, assess, measure, manage and monitor various
risk components are reviewed periodically.
Additionally, the ARMC reviews and assesses the adequacy of risk management policies and ensures that the
infrastructure, resources and systems are in place for implementing the risk management processes.
The risk management processes involve the key management staff in each functional or operating unit of the
Group. The risks identified remain the foundation in developing a risk profile and the action plans to assist key
management to manage and respond to these risks.
The Group’s risk management practices are business driven and the processes in identifying, evaluating and
managing significant risks facing the Group are embedded into its culture and operations. These processes
are driven by the Executive Chairman in response to the changes in the business environment and are clearly
communicated to all levels, via management meetings (formal and informal) and discussions.
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The Board acknowledges the importance of the internal audit function and is committed to articulating,
implementing and reviewing the Group’s system of internal control. The internal audit function has been outsourced
to an independent professional service provider to assist the ARMC in discharging their responsibilities and duties.
The outsourced Internal Auditor is led by a management team, who are registered with professional bodies. In
addition, the entire outsourced internal audit team is re-affirmed to be totally independent and the internal auditors
report directly to the ARMC.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
42
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM (cont’d)
The Group outsourced its internal audit function to an independent firm of consultants and the internal audit
function was carried out in accordance with a risk-based audit plan approved by ARMC. The internal audit
provides an assessment of the adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control.
The Internal Auditors present their Internal Audit Reports, which include their findings and recommendations for
improvements, to the ARMC for its review and deliberation. The engagement director is an Accountant registered
with the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA), Fellow Certified Practising Accountant (FCPA) with CPA Australia,
Chartered Member of the Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia (CMIIA) and an Certified Internal Auditor accredited
by the Institute of Internal Auditors Inc.
The ARMC also appraised the adequacy of the comments, actions and measures to be taken by the Executive
Management in resolving the audit issues reported and recommended for further improvement.
The key elements of the Group’s existing system of internal control include:
(a) A management organisational structure with clearly defined lines of responsibilities, authority and accountability;
(b) Approval and authority limits are imposed on key senior management in respect of daily operations and
major non-operating transactions;
(c) The Board and ARMC meet quarterly to discuss financial performances, business operations, strategies and
corporate updates;
(d) Management accounts and reports are prepared monthly for monitoring of actual performances;
(e) Corporate and regulatory matters are controlled centrally at Group level;
(f) The ARMC is comprised entirely of Independent Directors with full and unrestricted access to both internal
and external auditors; and
(g) The quarterly financial results and yearly audited financial statements are reviewed by the ARMC prior to the
approval by the Board.
(h) The Group has in place a Whistleblowing Policy which provides a channel to employees to report in confidentiality
without fear of reprisals, concerns about possible improprieties in financial reporting or other matters; and
(i) The Group has an Anti-Corruption and Bribery Policy in place to prevent the occurrence of corruption and
bribery practice in relation to the business.
ASSURANCE
The Board has reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management framework and system
of internal control for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 (FYE 2024) and up to the date of approval of this
Statement and is of the view that the risk management process and system of internal control are in place for the
period covered by this Statement for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks faced or potentially to
be encountered by the Group.
The Executive Chairman is accountable to the Board for identifying risks relevant to the business of the Group,
implementing and maintaining sound risk management practices and internal controls and monitoring and reporting
to the Board on significant control deficiencies and changes in risks that could affect the Group’s objectives and
performance.
Statement On Risk Management And Internal Control
(cont’d)
43
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
ASSURANCE (Cont’d)
The Executive Chairman and the acting head of finance have provided assurance to the Board that the Group’s
risk management process and internal control system were operating adequately and effectively in all material
aspects, and that there were no material losses incurred as a result of any weaknesses in internal controls that
would require disclosure in this Annual Report.
The Board and Executive Management will continuously improve and enhance the system of internal control to
ensure its adequacy and relevance in safeguarding the shareholders’ interests and the Group’s assets.
REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT BY THE EXTERNAL AUDITORS
REVIEW BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS
As required by Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s ACE Market Listing requirements, the
external auditor has reviewed this statement on Risk Management & Internal Control. The review was performed
in accordance with the Audit and Assurance Practice Guides (AAPG 3): Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to
Report on the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control included in the Annual Report of the Group for
the FYE 2024, issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. AAPG3 does not require the External Auditor to
consider whether the Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control covers all risks and controls or to form
an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control systems of the Group.
Based on the review, the external auditors have reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention
that causes them to believe that this Statement is neither prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with
the disclosures required by paragraph 41 and 42 of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control:
Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers to be set out, nor is factually inaccurate.
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board
dated 24 October 2024.
Statement On Risk Management And Internal Control
(cont’d)
44
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The Audit and Risk Management Committee (ARMC) was established to act as a committee of the Board of
Directors (Board) with the primary objective of assisting the Board in fulfilling its fiduciary duties in relation to:
• Assessing the processes in relation to the risk and control environment;
• Overseeing financial reporting and internal controls;
• Evaluating the internal and external audit processes; and
• Reviews conflict of interest situations and related party transactions.
The ARMC was also empowered by the Board to directly oversee the Group’s risk management framework and
policies and its implementation.
The ARMC is guided by its terms of reference which can be viewed on the Group’s website at www.magholdings.com.my.
COMPOSITION AND MEETINGS
The members of the ARMC during the financial year ended 30 June 2024 (FYE 2024) and as at the date of this
Report together with their attendance record at meetings held during FYE 2024 are as follows:
Director Designation Meetings attended
Yeoh Wooi Kia (Chairman) Independent Non-Executive Director 7/7
Collin Goonting a/l O.S. Goonting (Member) Independent Non-Executive Director 7/7
Datuk Lim Si Cheng (Member) Independent Non-Executive Director 7/7
Whilst the ARMC’s terms of reference require the ARMC to meet at least four times in a financial year, it met seven
times during FYE 2024. The Company Secretary who is also the Secretary to the ARMC was in attendance for all
the meetings. Executive Management and other officers, if necessary, were invited to the meetings to deliberate
on matters within their purview. Internal and external auditors were present at certain ARMC meetings to brief the
ARMC on their respective findings and any other pertinent issues.
After each meeting, the ARMC Chairman submits a report on matters deliberated to the Board for their reference
and notation. Matters reserved for the Board’s approval are tabled at Board meetings. The Company Secretary
records the decisions made and actions required and forward them to Executive Management for their actions.
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF ARMC
The following activities were carried out by the ARMC in FYE 2024 in the discharge of its functions and duties and
to meet its responsibilities:
(a) Financial Reporting
• Reviewedtheunauditedquarterlyfinancialresultsincludingtheannouncementsandbeforerecommending
to the Board for approval and release the results to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad; and
• Reviewed the Draft Audited Financial Statement of the Group and the company for the FYE 2024 and
recommended the same for the Board’s approval.
(b) External Audit
• Reviewed and approved the external auditors’ audit plan for FYE 2024;
• Reviewed and analysed the proposed audit fees for approval of the Board;
• Reviewed the nature, scope and appropriateness of the level of non-audit fees in respect of non-audit
services rendered by the external auditors to ensure that their independence is not impaired;
• Reviewed and discussed with the external auditors of their audit findings inclusive of changes in or
implementation of major accounting policies, significant matters arising from the audit, significant
judgments made by the Executive Management, significant and unusual events or transactions,
compliance with accounting standards and other legal and regulatory requirements and how all these
matters are dealt with in the audit report and reported the same to the Board;
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE REPORT
45
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Audit And Risk Management Committee Report
(cont’d)
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF ARMC (cont’d)
(b) External Audit (cont’d)
• Deliberated on significant matters raised by the external auditors including financial reporting issues,
significant judgments made by the Executive Management, significant and unusual events or transactions
and management reports and updates on actions recommended by the external auditors for improvement;
• Evaluated the performance, suitability and independence of the external auditors and recommended
them to the Board for re-appointment; and
• Met with the external auditors without the presence of executive Board members and Management.
The ARMC was briefed by the external auditors on issues that the external auditors deemed appropriate and
obliged to bring to the attention of ARMC.
(c) Internal Audit
• Reviewed and approved the internal audit plan and the internal auditors’ scope of work;
• Reviewed and discussed with the internal auditor, the audit reports and assessed the findings,
recommendations and management response;
• Conducted private sessions with the Internal Auditor without the presence of other directors and key
management of the Group to enable the Internal Auditor to raise any other issues noted during the
conduct of internal audit activities;
• Reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of corrective actions taken by the Executive Management
on all significant matters raised by the internal auditors; and
• Assessed the competency and adequacy of resources of internal audit team.
(d) Related Party Transactions
The ARMC reviewed on a quarterly basis the significant related party transactions (including recurrent related
party transactions of a revenue or trade nature) to ensure that the said transactions are carried out at arm’s
length and on normal commercial terms consistent with the Group’s usual business practices and policies
and on terms not more favorable to the related parties than those generally available to the public and are
not detrimental to the minority shareholders of the Company.
(e) Annual Report
• Reviewed and issued this ARMC Report for inclusion in the Annual Report 2024; and
• Reviewed the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control and recommended the same for the
Board’s approval for inclusion in the Annual Report.
(f) Risk Management
• Reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management process in identifying and
assessing risks;
• Reviewed and assessed the adequacy of the risk management policies and ensured that the necessary
infrastructure, resources and systems are in place for implementing the risk management process;
• Reviewed and discussed with the internal auditor, the risk management reports and assessed the
findings, recommendations and management response; and
• In FYE 2024, the internal auditor assessed the change in MAG’s risk profile and the review undertaken
involves the following function/ operating units:
• Risk Owner 1: Operation (Farm)
• Risk Owner 2: Operation (Processing Factory)
• Risk Owner 3: Finance
• Risk Owner 4: Procurement
• Risk Owner 5: Human Resource
• Risk Owner 6: Sales
46
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Audit And Risk Management Committee Report
(cont’d)
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to an independent professional consulting firm to assist
the ARMC in discharging their responsibilities and duties. The role of the internal audit function is to undertake
independent regular and systematic reviews of the system of internal controls so as to provide reasonable assurance
to the ARMC that such systems continue to operate satisfactory and effectively in the Group. The Internal Auditor
has carried out the internal audit activities based on the approved annual internal audit plan andis guided by the
International Professional Practices Framework (IPPF) for internal auditing issued by The Institute of Internal Auditors.
The internal auditors present their audit reports which include their findings and recommendations for improvements
to the ARMC for its review and deliberation. The internal auditors also carried out follow-up reviews to monitor the
status of implementing the recommendations proposed by them and agreed by the management.
The ARMC appraised the adequacy of the comments, actions and measures to be taken by the management in
resolving the audit issues reported and recommended for further improvement.
Summary of the work of the internal audit function
During the FYE 2024, the internal audit carried out review on the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of
internal control on the Group’s prawn aquaculture operations, in the following areas:
(a) Human Resources and Payroll Management; and
(b) Follow up review of the previous internal audit reports.
The ARMC discussed with the Internal Auditor for its findings and, where necessary, sought Management’s
clarification on the relevant matters. The ARMC took note of the findings raised by the Internal Auditor and their
corresponding remedial action plans as agreed by Management, which shall be monitored for implementation and
progress in the following internal audit cycles.
The cost incurred for the internal audit function in respect of FYE 2024 was RM24,500 (2023: RM18,000).
47
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
STATEMENT OF
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
Pursuant to Rule 15.26(a) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, the Board
of Directors (Board) are required to issue statement on its responsibility in the preparation of the annual audited
financial statements.
The Board of the Company is required by the Companies Act 2016 (Act) to prepare financial statements for each
financial year which have been prepared in accordance with the applicable approved accounting standards so as to
give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at the end of the financial year
and of their financial performance and cash flows for the financial year then ended.
The Board is satisfied that in preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2024, the Group
and the Company have adopted and applied appropriate accounting policies consistently, supported by reasonable
and prudent judgments and estimates and that the financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
The Board has the responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records that disclose with
reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group and the Company and which enable them to ensure that
the financial statements comply with the Act.
The Board also has the responsibility for taking such steps that are reasonably expected of them to safeguard the
assets of the Group and the Company and taking reasonable steps for the prevention and detection of fraud and
other irregularities.
This statement is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board dated 24 October 2024.
48
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
ADDITIONAL
COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
1.0 STATUS OF UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS RAISED FROM CORPORATE PROPOSAL
(a) Proceeds from issuance of Redeemable Convertible Notes (RCN) of up to RM120 million.
The status of drawdown and utilisation as at 30 June 2024 are as follows:
Purpose
Proposed
Utilisation
RM’000
Drawdown
RM’000
Utilisation
RM’000
Estimated
timeframe*
Financing the acquisition of Wakuba
prawn farming
101,000 79,609 79,609 within 3 years
Working capital for the prawn farm 9,000 8,421 8,421 within 6 months
Estimated expenses in relation to the
issuance of RCN:
- Setting up costs 1,600 1,600 1,600 within 1 month
- Implementation costs 8,400 8,370 8,370 within 3 years
120,000 98,000 98,000
* The estimated timeframe for the utilisation is from the date of issue of the respective sub-tranches of
the RCN.
 The proceed arising from RCN was fully utilised.
2.0 MATERIAL CONTRACTS
There were no material contracts, including contracts relating to loans, of the Company and its subsidiaries
involving the interests of Directors or major shareholders, either still subsisting at the end of the financial year
ended 30 June 2024 (FYE 2024) or, if not then subsisting, entered into since the end of the previous financial
year.
3.0 AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES
The amounts of audit and non-audit fees paid and payable by the Company and the Group to the external
auditors of the Company, Messrs. Morison LC PLT, for the FYE 2024, are as follows:
Company
RM
Group
RM
Audit fee 157,000 315,000
Non-audit fees* 5,000 5,000
Total 162,000 320,000
Note:
* Non-audit fees comprise review of Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control.
Directors’ Report 50
Statement by Directors 56
Statutory Declaration 57
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the Members
58
Statements of Comprehensive Income 64
Statements of Financial Position 66
Statement of Changes in Equity 68
Statements of Cash Flows 71
Notes to the Financial Statements 75
Financial
Statements
50
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
1
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The directors of MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial
statements of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding.
The information on the name of subsidiary company, place of incorporation, principal activities and effective
equity interest held by the Company in each subsidiary company is as disclosed in Note 12 to the financial
statements.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
Group Company
RM’000 RM’000
Profit/(Loss) before tax 44,028 (3,741)
Income tax expense (11,332) (4)
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year 32,696 (3,745)
Profit/(Loss) attributable to:
Owners of the Company 34,347 (3,745)
Non-controlling interests (1,651) -
32,696 (3,745)
In the opinion of the directors, the results of operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year
have not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.
DIVIDENDS
As mentioned in Note 26 to the financial statements, a final single tier dividend of 0.10 sen per ordinary share
amounting to RM1,599,695 which was proposed in the previous financial year and dealt with in the previous
directors’ report was declared and paid in cash by the Company during the current financial year.
The directors proposed a final single tier dividend of 0.10 sen per ordinary share for the financial year ended 30
June 2024 which is subject to the shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the
Company. The financial statements for the current financial year do not reflect this proposed dividend. Such
dividend, if approved by the shareholders, will be accounted for in equity as an appropriation of retained earnings
in the financial year ending 30 June 2025.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those
disclosed in the financial statements.
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
51
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
2
ISSUANCE OF SHARES OR DEBENTURES
During the financial year, the Company has increased its issued and paid-up capital from RM534,153,805 to
RM546,483,669 through exercise of 77,061,650 Warrants C at an exercise price of RM0.16 per Warrant totaling
RM12,329,864 for working capital purposes.
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari passu in all respect with the then existing
ordinary shares of the Company.
The Company has not issued any debentures during the financial year.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year other
than the issuance of Warrants B and Warrants C as disclosed below.
Warrants B
The salient terms of the Warrants B are disclosed in Note 19(b) to the financial statements.
The Warrants B had expired and lapsed on 1 September 2023, and the movement is as follows:
Balance
as at
1.7.2023 Issued Expired and lapsed
Balance
as at
30.6.2024
333,387,142 - (333,387,142) -
Warrants C
The salient terms of the Warrants C are disclosed in Note 19(c) to the financial statements.
During the financial year, 77,016,650 units of Warrants C at an exercise price of RM0.16 per Warrant were
exercised amounted to RM12,329,864.
The movement in the Company’s Warrants C during the financial year is as follows:
Balance
as at
1.7.2023 Issued Exercised
Balance
as at
30.6.2024
348,896,975 - (77,061,650) 271,835,325
SHARE OPTIONS
No options have been granted by the Company to any parties during the financial year to take up unissued shares
of the Company.
No shares have been issued during the financial year by virtue of the exercise of any option to take up unissued
shares of the Company. As at the end of the financial year, there were no unissued shares of the Company under
options.
Directors’ Report
(cont’d)
52
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
3
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the directors took reasonable
steps:
(a) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
allowance for doubtful debts, and have satisfied themselves that no known bad debts need to be written
off and that adequate allowance had been made for doubtful debts; and
(b) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business
including the values of current assets as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company
had been written down to an amount which the current assets might be expected so to realise.
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(a) which would require the writing off of bad debts or render the amount of allowance for doubtful debts in
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any substantial extent; or
(b) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company misleading; or
(c) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities
of the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(d) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements of the Group and of the Company which
would render any amount stated in the financial statements misleading.
At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(a) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial
year which secures the liabilities of any other person; and
(b) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial
year.
No contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within the period of
twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the directors, will or may substantially
affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to meet their obligations when they fall due.
In the opinion of the directors, no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the
interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect substantially the
results of operations of the Group and of the Company in the financial year in which this report is made.
DIRECTORS
The directors of the Company in office during the financial year and during the period from the end of the financial
year to the date of this report are:
Ng Min Lin*
Yeoh Wooi Kia*
Collin Goonting a/l O.S. Goonting
Datuk Lim Si Cheng
Melvin Lim Chun Woei
Wan Mohd Hazrie bin Wan Mokhtar
Wong Jo Ann
Directors’ Report
(cont’d)
53
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
4
The directors of the subsidiary companies in office during the financial year and during the period from the end
of the financial year to the date of this report are:
Dato’ Gooi Kok Song
Lee Xiao Ding
* Director of the Company and its subsidiary companies.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The interests in shares in the Company of those who were directors of the Company at the end of the financial
year, as recorded in the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the
Companies Act, 2016, are as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
Balance
as at
1.7.2023 Bought Sold
Balance
as at
30.6.2024
Shares in the Company
Direct interests
Ng Min Lin 426,220,097 59,597,700 (20,000,000) 465,817,797
Melvin Lim Chun Woei 48,250,652 - (600,000) 47,650,652
Datuk Lim Si Cheng 80,000 - - 80,000
Wong Jo Ann 6,816,600 - - 6,816,600
Indirect interest
Ng Min Lin* 6,816,600 - - 6,816,600
Wong Jo Ann* 426,220,097 59,597,700 (20,000,000) 465,817,797
Number of Warrants B over ordinary shares
Balance
as at
1.7.2023 Issued
Expired and
lapsed
Balance
as at
30.6.2024
Warrants B in the Company
Direct interests:
Ng Min Lin 17,175,224 - (17,175,224) -
Number of Warrants C over ordinary shares
Balance
as at
1.7.2023 Issued Sold
Balance
as at
30.6.2024
Warrants C in the Company
Direct interests:
Ng Min Lin 84,320,948 - (34,000,000) 50,320,948
Melvin Lim Chun Woei 5,762,663 - - 5,762,663
Datuk Lim Si Cheng 20,000 - - 20,000
Wong Jo Ann* 980,712 - - 980,712
Indirect interest
Ng Min Lin* 980,712 - - 980,712
Wong Jo Ann* 84,320,948 - (34,000,000) 50,320,948
Directors’ Report
(cont’d)
54
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
5
* Deemed interest by virtue of the spouse’s shareholdings in the Company pursuant to Section 59(11)(c) of
the Companies Act, 2016.
By virtue of the above directors’ interest in the shares of the Company, they are deemed to have beneficial interest
in the shares of all the subsidiary companies to the extent the Company has an interest.
The other directors in office at the end of the financial year did not hold shares, nor had beneficial interest in the
shares of the Company or its related corporation during or at the beginning and end of the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, none of the directors of the Company has received or become entitled
to receive a benefit (other than the benefit included in the aggregate amount of emoluments received or due and
receivable by the directors or the fixed salary of full-time employees of the Company as disclosed below) by
reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the director or with a firm of which the
director is a member, or with a company in which the director has a substantial financial interest.
The details of the directors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company for the financial year are as follows:
Group Company
RM’000 RM’000
Executive director:
Salaries and other emoluments 720 -
Defined contribution plans 91 -
811 -
Non-executive directors:
Fees 264 264
Other emoluments 23 23
287 287
1,098 287
During and at the end of the financial year, no arrangement subsisted to which the Company was a party whereby
directors of the Company might acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the
Company or any other body corporate.
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND AUDITORS
There were no indemnity given to or insurance effected for any directors, officers and auditors of the Company
in accordance with Section 289 of the Companies Act, 2016.
Directors’ Report
(cont’d)
55
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
6
AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The amount paid or payable as remuneration of the auditors of the Group and of the Company for financial year
ended 30 June 2024 are as follows:
Group Company
RM’000 RM’000
Auditors’ remuneration:
Statutory audit 363 157
Other services 25 25
388 182
SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
The details of subsequent events are disclosed in Note 34 to the financial statements.
AUDITORS
The auditors, Morison LC PLT, have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Signed on behalf of the Board, as approved by the Board
in accordance with a resolution of the directors,
________________________________
NG MIN LIN
________________________________
YEOH WOOI KIA
Kuala Lumpur,
30 October 2024
Directors’ Report
(cont’d)
56
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
7
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
The directors of MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD state that, in their opinion, the accompanying financial statements
are drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the
financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2024 and of their financial performance and
their cash flows for the financial year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board, as approved by the Board
in accordance with a resolution of the directors,
________________________________
NG MIN LIN
________________________________
YEOH WOOI KIA
Kuala Lumpur,
30 October 2024
STATEMENT
BY DIRECTORS
57
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
8
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
DECLARATION BY THE DIRECTOR PRIMARILY RESPONSIBLE FOR THE FINANCIAL
MANAGEMENT OF THE COMPANY
I, NG MIN LIN, the director primarily responsible for the financial management of the MAG HOLDINGS
BERHAD, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the accompanying financial statements are, in my opinion,
correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
________________________________
NG MIN LIN
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the abovenamed
NG MIN LIN at PETALING JAYA in State of
Selangor Darul Ehsan on 30th day of October, 2024.
Before me,
________________________________
COMMISSIONER FOR OATHS
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
58
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
9
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE MEMBERS OF
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD, which comprise the statements of
financial position as at 30 June 2024 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and
other comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of
the Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including material accounting
policy information, as set out on pages 64 to 122.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2024, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the
financial year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence
we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics,
Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics
Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including
International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities
in accordance with the By-Laws and IESBA Code.
(Forward)
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD
59
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
10
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matter that, in our professional judgement, were of the most significance in our audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and
in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on this matter.
Group
Key audit matters Our audit performed and responses thereon
Valuation of biological assets
Refer to Notes 3, 4 and 15 to the financial statements
for the Group’s accounting policies on valuation of
biological assets, key sources of estimation uncertainty
and related disclosures.
As at 30 June 2024, the Group’s biological assets
amounted to RM9,580,433. Biological assets comprise
live prawns held for harvesting.
The fair value of these biological assets is determined
by multiplying the market price of prawns by the
expected yield, adjusting for the estimated survival
rate, and subtracting associated maintenance and
harvesting costs.
The significant judgments and estimates involved in
determining the fair value of biological assets which
involve the estimation of the following:
• market price of prawns; and
• survival rate of prawns.
Our audit procedures, amongst others, included the
following: 
(i) Obtained an understanding of the relevant
controls in respect of compiling and transferring
information to the independent professional
valuer for the purpose of valuation of biological
assets.
(ii) Assessed the accuracy and completeness of the
input data provided to the independent
professional valuer for the valuation process.
(iii) Assessed the independency, competency and
objectivity of the independent professional
valuer.
(iv) Obtained the valuation report of biological
assets prepared by the independent professional
valuer, assessed and challenged the
reasonableness of the key assumptions used and
the appropriateness of the valuation
methodology to determine the fair value less
costs to sell of the biological assets.
(v) Performed retrospective review to establish the
reliability and reasonableness of the market
price of prawns and survival rate.
(vi) Performed sensitivity analysis to evaluate the
impact of changes to the key assumptions on the
fair value less costs to sell of the biological
assets.
(Forward)
Independent Auditors’ Report
(cont’d)
60
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
11
Key audit matters Our audit performed and responses thereon
Goodwill arising on acquisition
Refer to Notes 3, 4 and 11 to the financial statements
for the Group’s accounting policies on impairment of
non-financial assets, key sources of estimation
uncertainty and related disclosure.
As at 30 June 2024, the Group’s goodwill arising on
acquisition of North Cube Sdn. Bhd. and MAG
Aquaculture Sdn. Bhd., amounted to RM87,839,022.
Based on MFRS 136, the Group is required to review
the carrying amount of goodwill on acquisition
annually and at other times when impairment indicator
exist. The recoverable amount of the goodwill arising
on acquisition has been determined on the basis of its
value in use. The determination of recoverable amounts
involved significant judgements and estimates as
follows:
• basis of assumptions supporting the underlying
cash flow projections.
• discount rate applied.
Our audit procedures, amongst others, included the
following:
(i) Obtained an understanding of the relevant
controls in respect of compiling information for
the purpose of estimating the recoverable
amounts.
(ii) Assessed and challenged the management on the
reasonableness of the key assumptions used in
estimating the recoverable amount.
(iii) Performed retrospective review to establish the
reliability and reasonableness of the cash flow
projections.
(iv) Assessed the appropriateness of the discount rate
used to determine the present value of the cash
flows.
(v) Performed the sensitivity of key assumptions by
assessing the impacts of these key assumptions
and inputs that are expected to be most sensitive
to the recoverable amount.
Company
Key audit matters Our audit performed and responses thereon
Impairment of investment in subsidiary companies
Refer to Notes 3, 4 and 12 to the financial statements
for the Company’s accounting policies on impairment
of non-financial assets and related disclosures.
As at 30 June 2024, the Company’s investment in
subsidiary companies amounted to RM525,918,778,
which represent 89% of the total assets of the
Company.
The Company is required to review impairment of
investment in subsidiary companies whenever the
events or change in circumstances indicate the carrying
amount of the cost of investment in subsidiary
companies may not be recoverable. The determination
of recoverable amount of the cost of investment in
subsidiary companies involved significant judgements
and estimates as follows:
• basis of assumptions supporting the underlying
cash flow projections.
• discount rate applied.
Our audit procedures, amongst others, included the
following:
(i) Obtained an understanding of the relevant
control over the process of identifying the
impairment indicator and estimating the
recoverable amounts.
(ii) Assessed and challenged the management on the
reasonableness of the key assumptions used in
estimating the recoverable amount.
(iii) Performed retrospective review to establish the
reliability and reasonableness of the cash flow
projections.
(iv) Assessed the appropriateness of the discount
rate used to determine the present value of the
cash flows.
(v) Performed the sensitivity of key assumptions by
assessing the impacts of these key assumptions
and inputs that are expected to be most sensitive
to the recoverable amount.
(Forward)
Independent Auditors’ Report
(cont’d)
61
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
12
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors' Report Thereon
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to
read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards,
International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia. The
directors are also responsible for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing
the Group and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to
going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the
Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error
and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence
the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
of the Group’s and of the Company’s internal control.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
and related disclosures made by the directors.
Independent Auditors’ Report
(cont’d)
62
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
13
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the
related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date
of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease
to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are
responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible
for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit
and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our
audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in
the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should
not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected
to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia, we also report that the subsidiary
companies of which we have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 12 to the financial statements.
Independent Auditors’ Report
(cont’d)
63
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
14
Other Matters
(a) The financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 were audited by another
auditor who expressed an unmodified opinion on those financial statements on 30 October 2023.
(b) This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of
the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any
other person for the content of this report.
MORISON LC PLT (AF 002469)
202206000028 (LLP0032572-LCA)
Chartered Accountants
ERIC LIM HOE KUAN
03717/02/2025 J
Chartered Accountant
Petaling Jaya
30 October 2024
Independent Auditors’ Report
(cont’d)
64
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
15
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue 5 305,074 201,637 - 3,965
Cost of sales (237,868) (134,414) - -
Gross profit 67,206 67,223 - 3,965
Other income 13,157 19,928 1,704 4,233
Administrative expenses (23,992) (28,098) (1,121) (2,135)
Profit/(Loss) from
operations 56,371 59,053 583 6,063
Finance costs 6 (12,343) (13,709) (4,324) (4,319)
Profit/(Loss) before tax 7 44,028 45,344 (3,741) 1,744
Income tax expense 8 (11,332) (11,193) (4) -
Profit/(Loss) for the
financial year 32,696 34,151 (3,745) 1,744
Other comprehensive
income, net of income
tax
Item that may be
reclassified
subsequently to profit
or loss:
Exchange differences on
translating foreign
operations 3,566 1,454 - -
Total comprehensive
income/(loss) for the
financial year 36,262 35,605 (3,745) 1,744
Profit/(Loss) for the
financial year attributable
to:
Owners of the Company
34,347 34,163 (3,745) 1,744
Non-controlling interests (1,651) (12) - -
32,696 34,151 (3,745) 1,744
(Forward)
STATEMENTS OF
COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
65
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
16
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Total comprehensive
income/(loss) for the
financial year attributable
to:
Owners of the Company
37,913 35,617 (3,745) 1,744
Non-controlling
interests (1,651) (12) - -
36,262 35,605 (3,745) 1,744
Earnings per ordinary share
attributable to owners of
the Company:
Basic (sen) 9 2.07 2.28
Diluted (sen) 9 2.02 2.21
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Statements Of Comprehensive Income
(cont’d)
66
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
17
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2024
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
ASSETS
Non-Current Assets
Property, plant and
equipment 10 377,457 302,872 - -
Intangible assets 11 143,161 144,742 - -
Investments in subsidiary
companies 12 - - 525,918 526,018
Other investments 13 51,360 - - -
Loan to a former subsidiary
company 14 276,723 267,718 - -
Total Non-Current Assets
848,701 715,332 525,918 526,018
Current Assets
Biological assets 15 9,580 9,215 - -
Inventories 16 4,983 6,494 - -
Trade and other receivables
17 172,489 139,385 67,319 58,250
Other investment 13 3,085 51,360 - -
Tax recoverable 516 449 - -
Fixed deposit with licensed
bank 18 3,452 5,380 - -
Cash and bank balances 18 171,751 163,668 263 670
Total Current Assets 365,856 375,951 67,582 58,920
Total Assets 1,214,557 1,091,283 593,500 584,938
EQUITY AND
LIABILITIES
Capital and Reserves
Share capital 19 546,484 534,154 546,484 534,154
Reserves 20 269,619 233,306 (34,705) (29,360)
Equity attributable to
Owners of the
Company 816,103 767,460 511,779 504,794
Non-controlling interests (1) 1,650 - -
Total Equity 816,102 769,110 511,779 504,794
(Forward)
STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2024
67
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
18
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Non-Current Liabilities
Bank borrowings 21 83,931 88,107 - -
Lease liabilities 22 1,524 8,300 - -
Redeemable preference
shares (“RPS”)
23 73,585 72,061 73,585 72,061
Deferred tax liabilities 24 51,477 40,523 - -
Total Non-Current
Liabilities 210,517 208,991 73,585 72,061
Current Liabilities
Trade and other payables
25 155,591 89,884 8,136 8,083
Bank borrowings 21 24,829 22,763 - -
Lease liabilities 22 7,454 535 - -
Tax liabilities 64 - - -
Total Current Liabilities 187,938 113,182 8,136 8,083
Total Liabilities 398,455 322,173 81,721 80,144
Total Equity and
Liabilities 1,214,557 1,091,283 593,500 584,938
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Statements Of Financial Position
(cont’d)
68
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
19
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
Share
capital
Non-
distributable
reserve -
Translation
reserve
Distributable
Reserve - Retained
earnings
Equity
attributable
to Owners
of the Company
Non-controlling
interests Total equity
Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
As at 1 July 2022 508,386 44,694 152,995 706,075 1,662 707,737
Transactions with Owners of the Company:
Issuance of ordinary shares pursuant to: 19
Private placement 25,258 - - 25,258 - 25,258
Exercise of warrants 510 - - 510 - 510
Total transactions with Owners of the Company 25,768 - - 25,768 - 25,768
Profit for the financial year - - 34,163 34,163 (12) 34,151
Other comprehensive income - 1,454 - 1,454 - 1,454
Total comprehensive income for the financial year - 1,454 34,163 35,617 (12) 35,605
As at 30 June 2023 534,154 46,148 187,158 767,460 1,650 769,110
(Forward)
STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
69
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
20
Share
capital
Non-
distributable
reserve -
Translation
reserve
Distributable
Reserve - Retained
earnings
Equity
attributable
to Owners
of the Company
Non-controlling
interests Total equity
Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
As at 1 July 2023 534,154 46,148 187,158 767,460 1,650 769,110
Transactions with Owners of the Company:
Issuance of ordinary shares pursuant to exercise of
warrants 19 12,330 - - 12,330 - 12,330
Dividend 26 - - (1,600) (1,600) - (1,600)
Total transactions with Owners of the Company 12,330 - (1,600) 10,730 - 10,730
Profit for the financial year - - 34,347 34,347 (1,651) 32,696
Other comprehensive income - 3,566 - 3,566 - 3,566
Total comprehensive income for the financial year - 3,566 34,347 37,913 (1,651) 36,262
As at 30 June 2024 546,484 49,714 219,905 816,103 (1) 816,102
(Forward)
Statement Of Changes In Equity
(cont’d)
70
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
21
Share
capital
Distributable
reserve -
Accumulated
losses
Total
equity
Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Company
As at 1 July 2022 508,386 (31,104) 477,282
Transactions with Owners of the
Company:
Issuance of ordinary shares
pursuant to:
19
Private placement 25,258 - 25,258
Exercise of warrants 510 - 510
Total transactions with Owners of
the Company 25,768 - 25,768
Profit for the financial year,
representing total
comprehensive income for the
financial year - 1,744 1,744
As at 30 June 2023/1 July 2023 534,154 (29,360) 504,794
Transactions with Owners of the
Company:
Issuance of ordinary shares
pursuant to exercise of warrants
19 12,330 - 12,330
Dividend 26 - (1,600) (1,600)
Total transactions with Owners of
the Company 12,330 (1,600) 10,730
Loss for the financial year,
representing total
comprehensive loss for the
financial year - (3,745) (3,745)
As at 30 June 2024 546,484 (34,705) 511,779
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Statement Of Changes In Equity
(cont’d)
71
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
22
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED
IN) OPERATING
ACTIVITIES
Profit/(Loss) before tax 44,028 45,344 (3,741) 1,744
Adjustments for:
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,581 1,581 - -
Accretion of interest on loan to a
former subsidiary company (7,545) (2,588) - -
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment 12,021 10,228 - -
Dividend income - - - (3,965)
Fair value loss/(gain) on:
Biological assets 8,781 (1,153) - -
Other investments 163 - - -
(Gain)/Loss on disposal of
property, plant and equipment (13) 52 - -
Gain on remeasurement of RPS - (4,183) - (4,183)
Impairment loss on:
Investment in a subsidiary
company - - 100 -
Trade receivables 1,722 - - -
Interest expense 12,343 13,709 4,324 4,319
Interest income (5,546) (5,280) - -
Reversal of impairment loss on
trade receivables - (251) - -
Unrealised loss on foreign
exchange 1,387 9,472 - -
Waiver of debt - (2,430) (1,703) -
(Forward)
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
72
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
23
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Adjustments for: (Cont’d)
Write off of property, plant and
equipment - 219 - -
Operating profit/(loss) before
changes in working capital 68,922 64,720 (1,020) (2,085)
Changes in working capital:
(Increase)/Decrease in:
Biological assets (9,146) 6,038 - -
Inventories 1,511 (1,442) - -
Trade and other receivables (33,224) (49,173) (165) (322)
Increase/(Decrease) in:
Trade and other payables 62,781 2,397 (1,013) (1,868)
Cash from/(used in) operations
90,844 22,540 (2,198) (4,275)
Tax paid (381) (685) (4) -
Net Cash From/(Used In)
Operating Activities 90,463 21,855 (2,202) (4,275)
CASH FLOWS USED IN
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Advances to subsidiary companies
- - (8,935) (20,853)
Interest received 5,546 5,280 - -
Purchase of property, plant and
equipment (86,218) (29,734) - -
Proceeds from disposal of property,
plant and equipment
149 30 - -
Uplift/(Placement) of fixed
deposits with licensed banks 1,928 (4,072) - -
Net Cash Used In Investing
Activities (78,595) (28,496) (8,935) (20,853)
(Forward)
Statements Of Cash Flows
(cont’d)
73
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
24
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
CASH FLOWS (USED
IN)/FROM FINANCING
ACTIVITIES
Dividend paid (1,600) - (1,600) -
Interest paid (8,019) (9,178) - -
Proceeds from issuance of
ordinary shares 12,330 25,768 12,330 25,768
Advance from/(Repayment to) a
director 17 (131) - -
Advance from/(Repayment to)
related companies 109 (1,044) - -
Repayments of lease liabilities
(381) (395) - -
Net repayments of bank
borrowings (5,358) (3,590) - -
Net Cash (Used In)/From
Financing Activities (2,902) 11,430 10,730 25,768
NET INCREASE/
(DECREASE) IN CASH AND
CASH EQUIVALENTS
8,966 4,789 (407) 640
CASH AND CASH
EQUIVALENTS AT
BEGINNING OF THE
FINANCIAL YEAR 163,668 162,038 670 30
Effect of exchange differences
(883) (3,159) - -
CASH AND CASH
EQUIVALENTS AT END OF
THE FINANCIAL YEAR 171,751 163,668 263 670
(Forward)
Statements Of Cash Flows
(cont’d)
74
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
25
The details of cash and cash equivalents are as follow:
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Fixed deposits with licensed
banks 3,452 5,380 - -
Cash and bank balances 171,751 163,668 263 670
175,203 169,048 263 670
Less: Non-cash and cash
equivalents
Pledged fixed deposits with
licensed banks (3,452) (5,380) - -
171,751 163,668 263 670
* During the current financial year, the Group purchased property, plant and equipment through the following
arrangements:
Group
2024 2023
Financed by:
Cash payments 86,218 29,734
Lease liabilities 524 6,500
86,742 36,234
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Statements Of Cash Flows
(cont’d)
75
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
26
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and listed on
the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding.
The information on the name of subsidiary company, place of incorporation, principal activities and
effective equity interest held by the Company in each subsidiary company is as disclosed in Note 12.
The registered office of the Company is located at A3-3-8, Solaris Dutamas 1, No. 1, Jalan Dutamas 1,
50480 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur.
The principal place of business of the Company is located at B-03-12, Gateway Corporate Suites, Gateway
Kiaramas, No. 1, Jalan Desa Kiara, Mont Kiara, 50480 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia.
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company were authorised by Board of Directors for
issuance on 30 October 2024.
The names of the Company’s subsidiary companies and an associate in Chinese text in the financial
statements have been translated into English solely for the convenience of the users of the financial
statements. The translation is unofficial as there is no legal and official English translation for the Chinese
text.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia.
Adoption of MFRS and amendments to MFRSs standards
During the financial year, the Group and the Company have adopted the following applicable MFRS and
amendments to MFRSs issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) that are
mandatory for current financial year:
Amendments to MFRS 101 Disclosure of Accounting Policies
Amendments to MFRS 108 Definition of Accounting Estimates
Amendments to MFRS 112 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a
Single Transaction
The adoption of these new and amendments to standards did not have any significant impact on the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company except for: 
 
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
76
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
27
Amendments to MFRS 101 Disclosure of Accounting Policies 
 
The Group and the Company have adopted the amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial
Statements for the first time in the current financial year. The amendments change the requirements in
MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements with regard to disclosure of accounting policies. The
amendments replace all instances of the term “significant accounting policies” with “material accounting
policy information”. Accounting policy information is material if, when considered together with other
information included in an entity’s financial statements, it can reasonably be expected to influence decisions
that the primary users of general-purpose financial statements make on the basis of those financial
statements. 
 
Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of Financial Statements are also amended to clarify that
accounting policy information that relates to immaterial transactions, other events or conditions is
immaterial and need not be disclosed.  
 
Accounting policy information may be material because of the nature of the related transactions, other
events or conditions, even if the amounts are immaterial. However, not all accounting policy information
relating to material transactions, other events or conditions is itself material. 
The amendments have no effect on the measurement, recognition or presentation of any items in the Group’s
and the Company’s financial statements but affect the disclosure of accounting policies.
New MFRSs and amendments to MFRSs in issue but not yet effective
The Group and the Company have not applied the following new MFRSs and amendments to MFRSs that
have been issued by the MASB but are not yet effective for the Group and the Company:
Amendments to MFRS 16 Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback1
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current1
Amendments to MFRS 101 Non-current Liabilities with Covenants1
Amendments to MFRS 107 and MFRS 7 Supplier Finance Arrangements1
Amendments to MFRS 121 Lack of Exchangeability2
Amendments to MFRS 9 and MFRS 7 Amendments to the Classification and Measurement of
Financial Instruments3
Amendments to MFRSs Annual Improvements to MFRS Accounting Standards -
Volume 113
MFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements4
MFRS 19 Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures4
Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS
128
Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its
Associate or Joint Venture5
1 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024.
2 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025.
3 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2026.
4 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2027.
5 Deferred to a date to be determined and announced by MASB.
The directors anticipate that the abovementioned new MFRSs and amendments to MFRSs will be adopted
in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company when they become effective, if applicable, and
that the adoption of the new MFRSs and amendments to MFRSs may have an impact on the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company in the period of initial application. However, it is not
practicable to provide a reasonable estimate of the effect of the said Amendments to MFRSs until the Group
and the Company undertake a detailed review.
77
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
28
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION 
Basis of measurement
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared on the historical cost basis
unless otherwise indicated in the material accounting policy information below.
Functional and presentation currency
The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are measured using the currency of the
primary economic environment in which they operate (“the functional currency”). The consolidated
financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the Company’s functional
currency, and has been rounded to the nearest RM’000, unless otherwise stated.
Basis of consolidation
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combination from the acquisition date
when the acquired set of activities meet the definition of a business and control is transferred to the Group.
Non-controlling Interests
At the acquisition date, components of non-controlling interests of the Group are measured at the non-
controlling interests’ proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable assets.
Investment in subsidiary companies
In the Company’s separate financial statements, investments in subsidiary companies is stated at cost less
accumulated impairment losses.
Joint operation
The Group has a joint operation with Pegagau Aquaculture Sdn. Bhd. in which the Group contributes capital
expenditure and shares 30% of the revenue from the sales of the joint operations.
Goodwill arising on acquisition
Goodwill is initially measured at cost (being the excess of cost of the acquisition over the Group’s interest
in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities) and is subsequently
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
Goodwill is not amortised but is reviewed for impairment at least annually. For the purpose of impairment
testing, goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units expected to benefit from the
synergies of the combination. Cash-generating units to which goodwill has been allocated are tested for
impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the unit may be impaired. If the
recoverable amount of the cash generating unit is less than the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated
to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit pro-rata on the basis of the carrying amount of each asset
in the unit. An impairment loss recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
78
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
29
Revenue from contract with customers
Sales of goods
Revenue is generated by the sales of goods to customers. Revenue is measured based on the consideration
specified in a contract with a customer. The Group recognise revenue at a point in time when the Group
transfer control over goods to a customer and satisfy their performance obligation to a customer. Where
applicable, rebates and discounts to customers are accounted as net of revenue according to contract.
Other income
(a) Interest income
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method.
(b) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
Leases
The Group presents right-of-use assets as property, plant and equipment in Note 10.
Lessee accounting
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. Right-of-
use assets are initially measured at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment
losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liabilities. Amortisation is computed on the straight-
line basis over the lease period.
Leasehold land Over remaining leasehold period of 56 and 67
years
Plant and machinery Over lease term of 6 years
Lease of premises Over lease term between 2 and 6 years
Motor vehicles 5 to 10 years
The lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are paid at
commencement date, discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease contract. If that rate cannot be
readily determined, the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate.
The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term leases that
have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low value assets. The Group recognises the lease
payments associated with these leases as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
Property, plant and equipment
Property, plant and equipment other than right-of-use assets are measured at cost less accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Work in progress is not depreciated until it is completed and ready for intended use.
Property, plant and equipment other than work in progress and right-of-use assets are depreciated on
straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets, at the following annual rates:
79
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
30
Buildings 5%
Ponds and farm improvements 2.5%
Plant and machinery 10% to 50%
Factory and farm equipment 5% to 20%
Motor vehicles 10% to 20%
Office equipment 10% to 20%
Renovation 10%
Intangible assets
Intangible assets, other than goodwill arising on acquisition, that are acquired by the Group, which have
finite useful lives, are stated at cost less accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation is computed on the straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of 38 years for the
assets.
Biological assets
Biological assets are measured at fair value less costs to sell at the point of harvest.
The fair value of live prawns is determined using market price derived from observable market prices
through historical and most recent market transaction price and unobservable estimated survival rates
which are estimated through historical data. For live prawns not ready for harvest, a deduction is made to
cover estimated residual costs to grow the live prawns to its optimal harvest weight.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost of inventories comprises the original
cost of purchase plus incidental costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location, and
accounted for on a first-in, first-out basis.
Financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s and the Company’s statements of
financial position when the Group and the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the
instrument.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are
directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than
financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss) are added to or deducted from
the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on initial recognition.
Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair
value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Financial assets
All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date
basis. Regular way purchases or sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of
assets within the time frame established by regulation or convention in the marketplace.
All recognised financial assets are measured subsequently in their entirety at either amortised cost or fair
value, depending on the classification of the financial assets.
80
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
31
Classification of financial assets
Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are measured subsequently at amortised cost:
• the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in
order to collect contractual cash flows; and
• the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are measured subsequently at fair value through other
comprehensive income (“FVTOCI”):
• the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting
contractual cash flows and selling the financial assets; and
• the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
By default, all other financial assets are measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss
(“FVTPL”).
Despite the foregoing, the Group and the Company may make the following irrevocable
election/designation at initial recognition of a financial asset:
• the Group and the Company may irrevocably elect to present subsequent changes in fair value of
an equity investment in other comprehensive income if certain criteria are met; and
• the Group and the Company may irrevocably designate a debt instrument that meets the amortised
cost or FVTOCI criteria as measured at FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an
accounting mismatch (see (ii) below).
(i) Amortised cost and effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and
of allocating interest income over the relevant period.
For financial assets other than purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets (i.e. assets
that are credit-impaired on initial recognition), the effective interest rate is the rate that exactly
discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees and points paid or received that form an
integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts)
excluding expected credit losses, through the expected life of the debt instrument, or, where
appropriate, a shorter period, to the gross carrying amount of the debt instrument on initial
recognition. For purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets, a credit-adjusted effective
interest rate is calculated by discounting the estimated future cash flows, including expected credit
losses, to the amortised cost of the debt instrument on initial recognition.
81
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
32
The amortised cost of a financial asset is the amount at which the financial asset is measured at
initial recognition minus the principal repayments, plus the cumulative amortisation using the
effective interest method of any difference between that initial amount and the maturity amount,
adjusted for any loss allowance. The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is the amortised cost
of a financial asset before adjusting for any loss allowance.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method for debt instruments measured
subsequently at amortised cost and at FVTOCI. For financial assets other than purchased or
originated credit-impaired financial assets, interest income is calculated by applying the effective
interest rate to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset, except for financial assets that have
subsequently become credit-impaired (see below). For financial assets that have subsequently
become credit-impaired, interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the
amortised cost of the financial asset. If, in subsequent reporting periods, the credit risk on the
credit-impaired financial instrument improves so that the financial asset is no longer
credit-impaired, interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the gross
carrying amount of the financial asset.
For purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets, the Group recognises interest income
by applying the credit-adjusted effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset
from initial recognition. The calculation does not revert to the gross basis even if the credit risk of
the financial asset subsequently improves so that the financial asset is no longer credit-impaired.
(ii) Financial assets at FVTPL
Financial assets that do not meet the criteria for being measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI are
measured at FVTPL. Specifically:
• Investments in equity instruments are classified as at FVTPL, unless the Group designates
an equity investment that is neither held for trading nor a contingent consideration arising
from a business combination as at FVTOCI on initial recognition.
• Financial assets that do not meet the amortised cost criteria or the FVTOCI criteria are
classified as at FVTPL. In addition, debt instruments that meet either the amortised cost
criteria or the FVTOCI criteria may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if
such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition
inconsistency (so called “accounting mismatch”) that would arise from measuring assets or
liabilities or recognising the gains and losses on them on different bases. The Group has
designated investment in quoted unit trust and other investment as at FVTPL.
Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period, with any
fair value gains or losses recognised in profit or loss to the extent they are not part of a designated
hedging relationship. The net gain or loss from other financial assets are recognised in profit or loss
includes any dividend or interest earned on the financial asset and is included in the “other income”
or “administrative expenses” line item.
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Financial liabilities measured subsequently at amortised cost
Financial liabilities that are not (i) contingent consideration of an acquirer in a business combination, (ii)
held-for-trading, or (iii) designated as at FVTPL, are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the
effective interest method.
82
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
33
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of
allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly
discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees and points paid or received that form an
integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts) through the
expected life of the financial liability, or (where appropriate) a shorter period, to the amortised cost of
a financial liability.
Impairment of non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of non-financial assets (except for inventories, biological assets and deferred tax
assets) are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of
impairment. If any such indication exists, the Group and the Company make an estimate of the asset’s
recoverable amount.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that
generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of non-financial
assets or cash-generating units.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating units is the higher of its fair value less costs of
disposal and its value-in-use. In assessing value-in-use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value
of money and the risks specific to the asset or cash-generating units. In determining the fair value less costs
of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can be identified, an
appropriate valuation model is used.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or cashgenerating unit exceeds its
estimated recoverable amount. Impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss, unless the asset is carried at
a revalued amount, in which such impairment loss is recognised directly against any revaluation surplus
for the asset to the extent that the impairment loss does not exceed the amount in the revaluation surplus
for that same asset. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to
reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit (group of cash-generating
units) and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the cash-generating unit (group of
cash-generating units) on a pro rata basis.
Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at the end of each reporting period for any
indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed only if there has
been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss
was recognised. The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its
recoverable amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation
or amortisation, had no impairment loss been recognised for asset in prior years. Such reversal is
recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group and the Company recognise a loss allowance for expected credit losses (“ECL”) on trade
receivables and other receivables, fixed deposit with licensed bank as well as cash and bank balances. The
amount of ECL is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition
of the respective financial instrument.
The Group recognises lifetime ECL for trade receivables. The Group considers past loss experience, timing
of billing and observable data such as current changes and future forecasts in economic conditions to
estimate the amount of expected impairment loss. The methodology and assumptions including any
forecasts of future economic conditions are reviewed regularly.
83
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
34
For all other financial instruments, the Group and the Company recognise lifetime ECL when there has
been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. However, if the credit risk on the financial
instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group and the Company measure
the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12‑month ECL.
Lifetime ECL represents the expected credit losses that will result from all possible default events over the
expected life of a financial instrument. In contrast, 12‑month ECL represents the portion of lifetime ECL
that is expected to result from default events on a financial instrument that are possible within 12 months
after the reporting date.
Reversal of impairment loss to profit or loss, if any, is restricted to not exceeding what the amortised cost
would have been had the impairment not been recognised previously.
Significant increase in credit risk
In assessing whether the credit risk on a financial asset has increased significantly since initial recognition,
the Group and the Company compare the risk of a default occurring on the financial instrument at the
reporting date with the risk of a default occurring on the financial instrument at the date of initial
recognition. In making this assessment, the Group and the Company consider both quantitative and
qualitative information that is reasonable and supportable, including historical experience and forward-
looking information such as financial evaluation of the creditworthiness of the debtors, ageing of
receivables, defaults and past due amounts, past experience with the debtors, current conditions and
reasonable forecast of future economic conditions.
The Group and the Company considers an event of default for internal credit risk management purposes
when the borrower is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to the Group and the Company in full, without
recourse by the Group and the Company to actions such as realising security (if any is held).
Probability of default
The Group and the Company consider the information developed internally or obtained from external
sources indicates that the debtor is unlikely to pay its creditors, including the Group and the Company, in
full, as constituting an event of default for internal credit risk management purposes as historical experience
indicates that financial assets are generally not recoverable.
The Group and the Company consider that default has occurred when a financial asset is more than 90 days
past due after the lapsed of credit term granted unless the Group and the Company have reasonable and
supportable information to demonstrate that a more lagging default criterion is more appropriate.
Write-off policy
The Group and the Company write off a financial asset when there is information indicating that the debtor
is in severe financial difficulty and there is no realistic prospect of recovery, with case-by-case assessment
performed based on indicators such as insolvency or demise. Financial assets written off may still be
subject to enforcement activities under the Group’s and the Company’s recovery procedures, taking into
account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss as bad debts
recovered.
Measurement and recognition of expected credit losses
The measurement of expected credit losses is a function of the probability of default, loss given default
(i.e. the magnitude of the loss if there is a default) and the exposure at default. The assessment of the
probability of default and loss given default is based on historical data adjusted by forward-looking
information as described above. As for the exposure at default, for financial assets, this is represented by
the assets’ gross carrying amount at the reporting date.
84
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
35
For financial assets, the expected credit loss is estimated as the difference between all contractual cash
flows that are due to the Group and the Company in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows
that the Group and the Company expect to receive, discounted at the original effective interest rate.
If the Group and the Company have measured the loss allowance for a financial instrument at an amount
equal to lifetime ECL in the previous reporting period, but determine at the current reporting date that the
conditions for lifetime ECL are no longer met, the Group and the Company measure the loss allowance at
an amount equal to 12-month ECL at the current reporting date, except for assets for which the simplified
approach was used.
The Group and the Company recognise an impairment gain or loss in profit or loss for all financial
instruments with a corresponding adjustment to their carrying amount through a loss allowance account.
Segments reporting
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the chief
operating decision-maker. The chief operating decision-makers are responsible for allocating resources
and assessing performance of the operating segments and make overall strategic decisions. The Group’s
operating segments are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the products and
services provided, with each segment representing a strategic business unit that offers different products
and serves different markets.
Statements of cash flow
The Group and the Company adopt the indirect method in the preparation of the statements of cash flow.
For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are presented excluding pledged
fixed deposits with licensed banks.
4. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS AND KEY SOURCES OF ESTIMATION
UNCERTAINTY
Directors have used estimates and assumptions in measuring the reported amounts of assets and liabilities
at the end of the reporting period and the reported amounts of expenses during the reporting period.
Judgements and assumptions are applied in the measurement, and hence, the actual results may not
coincide with the report amounts.
(a) Critical judgements in applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies
In the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies, the directors are of
the opinion that there are no instances of application of judgements which are expected to have a
significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
(b) Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Directors believe that there are no key assumptions made concerning the future, and other key
sources of estimation uncertainty at the end of the reporting period, that have a significant risk of
causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next
reporting period, except for:
Impairment of goodwill arising on acquisition
The Group reviews the carrying amount of goodwill arising on acquisition annually and at other
times when impairment indicators exist. The recoverable amount of the goodwill arising on
acquisition has been determined on the basis of its value in use.
85
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
36
Significant judgement involves in selecting the discount rate to be applied in the recoverable amount
calculation and assumptions supporting the underlying cash flow projections. Cash flows that are
projected based on assumptions may have a significant effect on the Group’s financial position and
results if the actual cash flows are less than the carrying amount of goodwill arising on acquisition.
The carrying amount of goodwill arising on acquisition and key assumptions used to determine the
recoverable amounts are disclosed in in Note 11.
Valuation of biological assets
In measuring the fair value of biological assets, estimates are required which included the
observable market price and survival rate of prawn. Observable market prices is derive through
historical data. Changes to any of these assumptions would affect the fair value of the biological
assets.
The carrying value for biological assets is disclosed in Note 15.
Valuation of trade and other receivables
The Group and the Company assess impairment losses for trade and other receivables based on
assumptions about risk of default and expected loss rate. Significant judgement is required in
making these assumptions and selecting inputs to the impairment calculation, based on the Group’s
and the Company’s past history, existing market conditions as well as forward looking estimates at
the end of the reporting period.
Information about the valuation of trade and other receivables are disclosed in Note 17.
Income taxes
Liability for taxation is recognised based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be payable.
The estimation process includes seeking advice of whether additional taxes will be payable. When
the final outcome of the tax payable is determined with the tax authority, the amount might be
different from the initial estimate of the tax payable. Such difference may impact the income tax in
the period when such determination is made. The Group and the Company will adjust for the
differences as over- or under provision of income tax in the period in which those differences arise.
As at 30 June 2024, the Group has tax recoverable and tax liabilities of RM515,590 (2023:
RM448,764) and RM63,518 (2023: RM Nil), respectively.
Impairment of investment in subsidiary companies
The Company review impairment of investment in subsidiary companies whenever the events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the investment in subsidiary
companies may not be recoverable.
When such indication exists, the management determine the recoverable amount based on present
value of the estimated future cash flows expected to be derived from the subsidiary companies. In
estimating the present value of the estimated cash flows, the management applied a suitable discount
rate and assumptions supporting the underlying cash flow projections. Cash flows that are projected
based on assumptions may have a significant effect on the Group’s financial position and results if
the actual cash flows are less than carrying amount for investments in subsidiary companies.
The carrying amount for investments in subsidiary companies is disclosed in Note 12.
86
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
37
5. REVENUE
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At a point in time:
Trading of prawns 305,074 201,637 - -
Dividend income - - - 3,965
305,074 201,637 - 3,965
Including in revenue, RM2,863,623 (2023: RMNil) is attributed to the joint operation with Pegagau
Aquaculture Sdn. Bhd..
6. FINANCE COSTS
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Interest expense on:
Bank borrowings 7,453 8,609 - -
Lease liabilities 566 569 - -
Redeemable preference
shares 4,324 4,319 4,324 4,319
Amount due to a director - 212 - -
12,343 13,709 4,324 4,319
7. PROFIT/(LOSS) FROM OPERATIONS
Profit/(Loss) before tax for the financial year is arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Auditors’ remuneration
Statutory audit:
Current financial year
Auditors of the
Company 325 308 157 155
Other auditors 38 - - -
Underprovision in
previous financial
year
Other auditors 27 51 - 61
Other services
Auditors of the
Company 5 5 5 5
Other auditors 20 20 20 20
87
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
38
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Accretion of interest on
loan to a former
subsidiary company (7,545) (2,588) - -
Amortisation of
intangible assets 1,581 1,581 - -
Depreciation of
property, plant and
equipment 12,021 10,228 - -
Dividend income - - - 3,965
Fair value loss/(gain)
on:
Biological assets 8,781 (1,153) - -
Other investments 163 (560) - -
(Gain)/Loss on
disposal of property,
plant and equipment (13) 52 - -
Gain on remeasurement
of redeemable
preference shares - (4,183) - (4,183)
Impairment loss on:
Investment in a
subsidiary company - - 100 -
Trade receivables 1,722 - - -
Interest income (5,546) (5,280) - -
Loss/(Gain) on foreign
exchange:
Unrealised 1,387 9,472 - -
Realised (50) (123) - -
Reversal of impairment
loss on trade
receivables - (251) - -
Property, plant and
equipment written off - 219 - -
Staff costs 5,627 7,136 1,097 1,026
Waiver of debt - (2,430) (1,703) -
Included in staff costs of the Group and of the Company are directors’ remuneration of RM1,098,000 (2023:
RM1,026,000) and RM287,000 (2023: RM212,000), respectively as further disclosed in Note 27.
Staff costs include salaries, bonuses, contributions to Employees Provident Fund (“EPF”) and all other staff
related expenses. Contributions to EPF by the Group during the financial year amounted to RM238,000
(2023: RM258,000).
88
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
39
8. INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Estimated tax payable:
Current financial year 453 524 - -
(Over)/Under provision
in prior financial years (75) 45 4 -
378 569 4 -
Deferred tax (Note 24):
Current financial year 12,346 10,554 - -
Realisation of deferred
tax (705) (705) - -
(Over)/Under provision
in prior financial years (687) 775 - -
10,954 10,624 - -
11,332 11,193 4 -
A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit/(loss) before tax at the applicable statutory income
tax rate to income tax expense at the effective income tax rate of the Group and of the Company are as
follows:
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Profit/(Loss) before tax 44,028 45,344 (3,741) 1,744
Taxation at statutory rate of
24% (2023: 24%) 10,567 10,900 (878) 400
Effect of tax rates in foreign
jurisdictions (230) (226) - -
Tax effects of:
Non-taxable income (2,564) (2,005) - (1,916)
Expenses not deductible 5,026 2,409 878 1,516
Realisation of deferred tax (705) (705) - -
(Over)/Under provision in
prior financial years:
Estimated tax payable (75) 45 4 -
Deferred tax (687) 775 - -
11,332 11,193 4 -
89
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
40
9. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the Group’s profit for the
financial year attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares
in issue during the financial year.
Group
2024 2023
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (RM’000) 34,347 34,163
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (’000) 1,663 1,498
Basic earnings per share (sen) 2.07 2.28
Diluted
Diluted earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the Group’s profit for
the financial year attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary
shares that would have been issued upon full exercise of the outstanding warrants, adjusted by the number
of such shares that would have been issued at fair value as follows:
Group
2024 2023
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (RM’000) 34,347 34,163
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (’000) 1,663 1,498
Effect of dilution:
Warrant B (’000) * *
Warrant C (’000) 36 48
Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares (’000) 1,699 1,546
Diluted earnings per share (sen) 2.02 2.21
* Exercise of Warrant B has no dilutive effect as the average market price of the ordinary share was lower
than the exercise price of Warrant B.
90
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
41
10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Leasehold
land Buildings
Ponds and
farm
improve-
ments
Plant and
machinery
Office
equipment
Lease of
premises
Motor
vehicles
Work-in
progress
Factory and
farm
equipment Renovation Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Cost
As at 1 July 2022 23,554 9,971 231,879 17,438 204 1,744 1,852 13,625 1,332 58 301,657
Addition - - 14,107 701 15 6,500 97 12,575 2,239 - 36,234
Disposal - - - (120) - - - - - - (120)
Expiry of leases - - - - - (67) - - - - (67)
Written off - - - (253) (34) - (34) - - - (321)
Reclassification - - 13,265 - - - - (13,265) - - -
As at 30 June 2023/ 1
July 2023 23,554 9,971 259,251 17,766 185 8,177 1,915 12,935 3,571 58 337,383
Addition - 4,660 77,946 1,150 84 324 281 - 2,297 - 86,742
Disposal - - - - - - - - (149) - (149)
Transfer - - 12,575 - - - - (12,575) - - -
As at 30 June 2024 23,554 14,631 349,772 18,916 269 8,501 2,196 360 5,719 58 423,976
91
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
42
Leasehold
land Buildings
Ponds and
farm
improve-
ments
Plant and
machinery
Office
equipment
Lease of
premises
Motor
vehicles
Work-in
progress
Factory and
farm
equipment Renovation Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Accumulated
Depreciation
As at 1 July 2022 1,811 1,472 13,197 7,108 69 388 265 - 162 18 24,490
Charge for the
financial year 1,146 499 5,553 2,046 26 442 282 - 228 6 10,228
Disposal - - - (38) - - - - - - (38)
Expiry of leases - - - - - (67) - - - - (67)
Written off - - - (65) (28) - (9) - - - (102)
As at 30 June 2023/ 1
July 2023 2,957 1,971 18,750 9,051 67 763 538 - 390 24 34,511
Charge for the
financial year 1,146 531 7,062 2,066 23 441 379 367 6 12,021
Disposal - - - - - - - - (13) - (13)
As at 30 June 2024 4,103 2,502 25,812 11,117 90 1,204 917 - 744 30 46,519
Net carrying
amount
As at 30 June 2023 20,597 8,000 240,501 8,715 118 7,414 1,377 12,935 3,181 34 302,872
As at 30 June 2024 19,451 12,129 323,960 7,799 179 7,297 1,279 360 4,975 28 377,457
92
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
43
Included in property, plant and equipment of the Group are motor vehicles under finance lease
arrangements with net book value RM1,168,286 (2023: RM1,231,737). These motor vehicles have been
charged to local licensed banks for finance lease obligations as disclosed in Note 22.
The leasehold land has been pledged to financial institutions as securities for the term financing-i and cash
line-i facilities granted to subsidiary companies as disclosed in Note 21.
Right-of-use assets
The information about leases for which the Group are lessee is presented below:
Leasehold
land
Plant and
machinery
Lease of
premises
Motor
vehicles Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Cost
As at 1 July 2022 23,554 490 1,744 1,727 27,515
Addition - - 6,500 - 6,500
Expiry of leases - - (67) - (67)
As at 30 June 2023/ 1
July 2023 23,554 490 8,177 1,727 33,948
Addition - - 324 278* 602
Expiry of leases - - - (95) (95)
At 30 June 2024 23,554 490 8,501 1,910 34,455
Accumulated
Depreciation
As at 1 July 2022 1,811 41 388 229 2,469
Charge for the financial
year 1,146 82 442 266 1,936
Expiry of leases - - (67) - (67)
As at 30 June 2023/ 1
July 2023 2,957 123 763 495 4,338
Charge for the financial
year 1,146 82 441 290 1,959
Expiry of leases - - - (44) (44)
As at 30 June 2024 4,103 205 1,204 741 6,253
Net carrying amount
As at 30 June 2023 20,597 367 7,414 1,232 29,610
As at 30 June 2024 19,451 285 7,297 1,169 28,202
* Obligations under finance lease
The lease term for right-of-use assets ranges from 2 to 7 (2023: 1 to 7) years. The Group has options to
extend the lease term for 1 year (2023: 1 year) at the end of the lease term.
93
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
44
11. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Goodwill arising
on acquisition
Technology
know-how Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Cost
As at 1 July 2022/30 June 2023/ 1 July
2023/30 June 2024 87,839 60,065 147,904
Accumulated Amortisation
As at 1 July 2022 - 1,581 1,581
Charge for the financial year - 1,581 1,581
As at 30 June 2023/1 July 2023 - 3,162 3,162
Charge for the financial year - 1,581 1,581
As at 30 June 2024 - 4,743 4,743
Net carrying amount
At 30 June 2023 87,839 56,903 144,742
At 30 June 2024 87,839 55,322 143,161
Goodwill arising on acquisition
The carrying amount of goodwill arising on acquisition allocated to an individual CGU.
The recoverable amount is determined based on “value-in-use” where management make an estimate of
the expected future cash flows covering a five-years (2023: five-years) period. The key assumptions for
the value-in-use calculation are as below:
Group
2024 2023
Growth rate of market price of prawn 2.0% 0.0%
Survival rate 75.0%
to
78.0%
55.0%
to
79.0%
Expected harvest cycle (times) 2.3 to 2.5
per year
1.5 to 2.0 per
year
Pre-tax discount rate 8.5% 7.8%
The Group has conducted an analysis on the sensitivity of the impairment test to changes in the key
assumptions used to determine the recoverable amount. The directors believe that any reasonably change
in the key assumptions on which recoverable amount is based would not cause the aggregate carrying
amount to exceed the aggregate recoverable amount.
Technology know-how
Relates to technology know-how for the prawn aquaculture, food processing and manufacturing businesses
of North Cube Sdn. Bhd. (“NCSB”) and its subsidiary companies, which were arising from the farming
techniques, processing and manufacturing processes. Technology know-how and the experience in these
industries were acquired by the Group through acquisition of NCSB and its subsidiary companies.
The amortisation of the technology know-how of the Group amounted to RM1,580,647 (2023:
RM1,580,647) is included in “administrative expenses” in the statements of profit or loss and other
comprehensive income of the Group and the amortisation rate used is based on the estimated useful lives
of 38 years.
94
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
45
12. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARY COMPANIES
Company
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Unquoted shares - at cost:
As at 1 July 466,116 416,116
Addition - 50,000
As at 30 June 466,116 466,116
Less: Impairment loss during the financial year (100) -
466,016 466,116
Non-cumulative convertible redeemable preference shares*
As at 1 July/30 June 59,902 59,902
525,918 526,018
* The shares in Supreme Global Group Limited were subscribed by the Company in prior years for
settlement of RM59,901,002 due to the Company.
Details of the subsidiary companies are as follows:
Place of
Effective equity interest
Name of Company incorporation 2024 2023 Principal activities
% %
Direct subsidiary
companies
MAG Marine Food Sdn.
Bhd. (“MAG MF”)
Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
Supreme Global Group
Limited (“SGGL”) *
Hong Kong
Special
Administrative
Region of
The People’s
Republic of China
100 100 Investment holding
MAG Aquaculture Sdn.
Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Prawn aquaculture
North Cube Sdn. Bhd.
(“NCSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Prawn aquaculture
95
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
46
Place of Effective equity interest
Name of Company incorporation 2024 2023 Principal activities
% %
Indirect subsidiary
companies held through
SGGL
Anyang Herun Oil
Technical Service
Company Limited [安
阳市合润油脂技术服
务有限公司]
(“AHOT”)*
The People’s
Republic of China
100 100 Investment holding
Indirect subsidiary
companies held through
MAG MF
Sea Tuna Industry Sdn.
Bhd. (“STI”)^
Malaysia 52 52 Dormant
Indirect subsidiary
companies held through
NCSB
North Cube Food Sdn.
Bhd. (“NCFSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Food processing,
manufacturing
and export of prawns
North Cube Aquaculture
Sdn. Bhd. (“NCASB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
* Audited by auditors other than the auditors of the Company
^ Currently undergoing liquidation exercise and the financial statements are prepared on break-up
basis.
13. OTHER INVESTMENTS
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Unquoted shares measured at fair value through profit or loss
As at 1 July 51,360 50,800
Fair value gain - 560
As at 30 June 51,360 51,360
Quoted shares measured at fair value through profit or loss
As at 1 July - -
Addition 3,274 -
Disposal (26)
Fair value loss (163) -
As at 30 June 3,085 -
54,445 51,360
96
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
47
The investment in unquoted shares represents 19.86% (2023: 19.86%) equity interest in Henan Xinghe Oil
and Fat Company Limited (“HXOF”). In prior financial year, the major shareholder of HXOF has indicated
his intention to acquire the remaining 19.86% equity interest in HXOF owned by the Group for a total
consideration of RM51 million (equivalent to CNY 80 million). The indicative offer price of RM51 million
(equivalent to CNY 80 million) by the major shareholder of HXOF is valid for three (3) years until 2024,
which has been extended until 2029.
Investment in quoted shares refers to the purchase of stocks traded on Bursa Malaysia. The fair values of
these quoted shares are determined based on published price quotations in an active market.
14. LOAN TO A FORMER SUBSIDIARY COMPANY
This loan was granted to HXOF on 1 October 2019 when it was still a subsidiary company of the Group
and is unsecured and collectible in five years on 30 September 2024, which has approved by directors to
further extended to 30 September 2029. This loan was interest-free for the period from 1 October 2019 to
31 March 2020 and bears interest at 1.75% per annum with effect from 1 April 2020. The interest is
receivable annually in arrears. This deferred receivable is measured at amortised cost at imputed interest
rate of 2.75% per annum.
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
As at 1 July 267,718 270,461
Add/(Less):
Accretion of interest 7,545 2,588
Interest income 5,435 5,244
Foreign exchange difference 1,460 (5,331)
14,440 2,501
Less: Repayment (5,435) (5,244)
As at 30 June 276,723 267,718
The maturity of loan to a former subsidiary company is as follows:
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Receivable later than 1 year but not later than 5 years - 267,718
Receivable later than 5 years 276,723 -
276,723 267,718
15. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
At fair value:
Live prawns 9,580 9,215
97
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
48
Movement of the live prawns at fair value can be analysed as follows:
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
As at 1 July 9,215 14,100
Additions 82,224 21,710
Changes in fair value (8,781) 1,153
Transferred to inventories (73,078) (27,748)
9,580 9,215
Additions of biological assets include cost of fry, feeds and farm consumables. The remaining costs such
as pond maintenance, labour costs and utilities are recognised to the statement of profit or loss as incurred.
As at 30 June 2024, the Group held 102 (2023: 138) active ponds with an estimated harvestable produce of
520,592 KGs (2023: 609,802 KGs) of live prawns. The Group is exposed to risks arising from fluctuations
in the price and survival rate affecting production volume of live prawns.
In measuring the fair value of biological assets, the management has relied upon independent valuer’s
estimates and judgements to the selling price and estimated survival rates. No deductions are made for sales
expenses/costs to sell, as these are not observable on the market, where such expenses are also deemed
immaterial.
The fair values of the biological assets are categorised at Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy and were
estimated using observable and unobservable inputs for the assets. There was no transfer between hierarchy
during the financial year ended 30 June 2024. The following table shows the quantitative information used
in the determination of fair values within Level 3:
Key inputs used
Significant unobservable
inputs
Inter-relationship between
key inputs and fair value
Selling price The historical and most recent
market transaction price
The higher the market
transaction price or market
prices, the higher the fair value
of the biological assets.
Survival rates Historical survival rates
according to sizes of live prawns
The higher the survival rates, the
higher the fair value of the
biological assets.
16. INVENTORIES
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
At cost:
Finished goods 3,161 3,309
Packaging materials 693 628
Consumables materials 1,129 2,136
Goods in transit - 421
4,983 6,494
The Group recognised inventories as cost of sales amounted to RM234,861,019 (2023: RM122,794,294).
Goods in transit in previous financial year consist of purchases of prawn feeds and consumables materials
that are yet to be received at the end of the reporting period.
98
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
49
17. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Trade receivables 151,972 108,336 - -
Less: Allowance of
impairment losses (1,886) (164) - -
Trade receivables, net 150,086 108,172 - -
Other receivables 3,152 34 - -
Amount due from a former
subsidiary company 17,249 17,386 - -
Amount due from
shareholder of a subsidiary
company - 1,728 - -
Amount due from
subsidiary companies - - 66,078 57,174
Deposits 1,971 8,312 1,241 1,076
Prepayments 31 3,753 - -
22,403 31,213 67,319 58,250
172,489 139,385 67,319 58,250
The credit period granted to customers ranges from 90 days (2023: 90 days).
The Group applies a simplified approach in calculating loss allowances for trade receivable at an amount
equal to lifetime ECL.
The Group does not hold any collateral or other credit enhancements over trade receivable balances.
The movement of allowance for impairment during the financial year is as follows:
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
As at 1 July 164 415
Charge for the financial year 1,722 -
Reversal during the financial year - (251)
As at 30 June 1,886 164
In determining the recoverability of the trade receivables, the Group considers any change in the credit
quality of the trade receivables from the date credit was initially granted up to the end of the reporting
period.
99
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
50
Gross trade
receivables Individually
assessed
Total
ECL
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
2024
Neither past due nor impaired 90,768 - -
Past due but not impaired:
1 to 30 days 29,927 - -
31 days to 60 days 15,258 - -
61 days to 90 days 14,133 - -
59,318 - -
Past due and impaired:
More than 90 days 1,886 1,886 1,886
151,972 1,886 1,886
2023
Neither past due nor impaired 85,961 - -
Past due but not impaired:
1 to 30 days 9,578 - -
31 days to 60 days 4,692 - -
61 days to 90 days 4,890 - -
More than 90 days 3,051 - -
22,211 - -
Past due and impaired:
More than 90 days 164 164 164
108,336 164 164
Receivables that are neither past due nor impaired
Trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are creditworthy receivables with good payment
records with the Group.
Receivables that are past due but not impaired
Trade receivables that were past due but not impaired relate to customers that have a good track record with
the Group. Based on past experience and no adverse information to date, the directors of the Company are
of the opinion that no provision for impairment is necessary in respect of these balances as there has not
been a significant change in the credit quality and the balances are still considered recoverable.
Amount due from a former subsidiary company, which arose mainly from advances is unsecured, interest
free and repayable on demand.
Amount due from shareholder of a subsidiary company is non-trade in nature, unsecured, interest-free and
will be set off against capital to be returned to shareholders upon completion of the liquidation exercise of
a subsidiary company, as shown in Note 12.
Amount due from subsidiary companies, which arose mainly from advances is unsecured, interest free and
repayable on demand.
100
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
51
Included in the deposits of the Group and of the Company is an amount of RM1,221,105 (2023:
RM1,046,520) being deposits paid to an external party for the Group’s proposed investment in Lim Shrimp
Aquapolis Pte. Ltd. and joint venture with PT Gerbang NTB Emas for shrimp farming and processing in
Sumbawa, Indonesia. The proposed investment had been terminated on 16 November 2023 and the refund
is in the process.
18. FIXED DEPOSITS WITH LICENSED BANKS AND CASH AND BANK BALANCES
The Group’s fixed deposits with licensed banks have been pledged to licensed financial institutions for
banking facilities granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 22.
Fixed deposits with licensed banks earn interest at rates ranging from 2.60% to 3.45% (2023: 2.00% to
3.45%) per annum. Fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group have maturity terms ranges from 1
month to 12 months (2023: 1 month to 12 months).
Included in cash and bank balances of the Group are bank balances amounted to RM167,889,328 (2023:
RM162,146,029) placed with financial institutions located in the People's Republic of China (“PRC”).
19. SHARE CAPITAL
Group and Company
Number of ordinary shares Amount
2024 2023 2024 2023
’000 ’000 RM’000 RM’000
Issued and fully paid:
Ordinary shares
As at 1 July 1,590,838 1,443,323 534,154 508,386
Issuance of ordinary shares
pursuant to:
Private placement - 144,332 - 25,258
Warrants C exercised 77,062 3,183 12,330 510
As at 30 June 1,667,900 1,590,838 546,484 534,154
(a) Ordinary Shares
During the financial year, the Company had increased its issued and paid-up capital from
RM534,153,805 to RM546,483,669 through exercise of 77,061,650 Warrants C at an exercise price
of RM0.16 per Warrant totaling RM12,329,864.
In prior year, the Company had increased its issued and paid-up capital from RM508,386,356 to
RM534,153,805 by way of the following for working capital purposes:
(i) issuance of 120,001,300 new ordinary shares on 9 February 2023 at RM0.175 per ordinary
share totalling RM21,000,228 pursuant to a private placement.
(ii) issuance of 24,331,000 new ordinary shares on 15 February 2023 at RM0.175 per ordinary
share totalling RM4,257,925 pursuant to a private placement; and
(iii) exercise of 3,183,100 Warrants C at an exercise price of RM0.16 per Warrant totalling
RM509,296.
101
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
52
(b) Warrants B
On 2 September 2020, the Company issued 333,387,142 free warrants (“Warrant B”) on the basis of
one (1) Warrant B for every two (2) ordinary shares. Each Warrant B entitles the holder of the right
to subscribe for one (1) new ordinary share in the Company at an exercise price of RM0.23 per Warrant
B.
The salient features of the Warrants B are as follows:
(i) The issue date of the Warrants B is 2 September 2020 and the expiry date is 1 September 2023.
Any warrants not exercised at the expiry date will lapse and cease to be valid for any purpose;
(ii) Each Warrant B entitles the registered holder to subscribe for one (1) new ordinary share in the
Company at an exercise price of RM0.23 per Warrant B;
(iii) The Warrants B may be exercisable at any time within three (3) years commencing from and
including the date of issuance of Warrant B and ending 5pm on the expiry date. The expiry
date is a day falling immediately before the 3rd anniversary of the date of issuance of the
Warrant B and if such date is not a market day, then on the preceding market day;
(iv) The exercise price and the number of Warrants B is subject to adjustments in the event of
alteration to the share capital of the Company in accordance with the provisions of Deed Poll.
However, no adjustment shall be made in any event whereby the exercise price would be
reduced to below the par value of ordinary share in the Company; and
(v) All new ordinary shares to be issued pursuant to the exercise of the Warrants B will rank pari
passu in all respects with the then ordinary shares of the Company except that such new
ordinary shares shall not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and other distributions
on or prior to the date of allotment of the new ordinary shares concerned.
The Warrants B had expired and lapsed on 1 September 2023, and the movement is as follows:
Group and Company
2024 2023
’000 ’000
As at 1 July 333,387,142 333,387,142
Expired and lapsed (333,387,142) -
As at 30 June - 333,387,142
(c) Warrants C
On 16 November 2021, the Company issued 352,080,075 free warrants (“Warrant C”) on the basis of
one (1) Warrant C for every four (4) ordinary shares. Each Warrant C entitles the holder the right to
subscribe for one (1) ordinary share in the Company at an exercise price of RM0.16 per Warrant C.
The salient features of the Warrants C are as follows:
(i) The issue date of the Warrants C is 30 September 2021 and the expiry date is 1 September
2024. Any warrants not exercised at the expiry date will lapse and cease to be valid for any
purpose;
(ii) Each Warrant C entitles the registered holder to subscribe for one (1) new ordinary share in the
Company at an exercise price of RM0.16 per Warrant C;
102
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
53
(iii) The Warrants C may be exercisable at any time within three (3) years commencing from and
including the date of issuance of Warrant C and ending 5pm on the expiry date. The expiry
date is a day falling immediately before the 3rd anniversary of the date of issuance of the
Warrant C and if such date is not a market day, then on the preceding market day;
(iv) The exercise price and the number of Warrants C is subject to adjustments in the event of
alteration to the share capital of the Company in accordance with the provisions of Deed Poll.
However, no adjustment shall be made in any event whereby the exercise price would be
reduced to below the par value of ordinary share in the Company; and
(v) All new ordinary shares to be issued pursuant to the exercise of the Warrants C will rank pari
passu in all respects with the then ordinary shares of the Company except that such new
ordinary shares shall not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and other distributions
on or prior to the date of allotment of the new ordinary shares concerned.
The movement in the Company’s Warrants C during the financial year is as follows:
Group and Company
2024 2023
’000 ’000
As at 1 July 348,896,975 352,080,075
Exercised (77,061,650) (3,183,100)
As at 30 June 271,835,325 348,896,975
20. RESERVES
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Non-distributable:
Translation reserve 49,714 46,148 - -
Distributable:
Retained earnings/
(Accumulated losses) 219,905 187,158 (34,705) (29,360)
269,619 233,306 (34,705) (29,360)
Translation reserve
Exchange differences arising from translation of foreign controlled entities’ financial statements are taken to
the translation reserve as described in the accounting policies.
103
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
54
21. BANK BORROWINGS
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Secured
Cash Line-i 994 1,000
Share margin financing 1,509 -
Term financing-i 92,765 97,703
Trade working capital financing-i 13,492 12,167
108,760 110,870
Current
Cash Line-i 994 1,000
Share margin financing 1,509 -
Term financing-i 8,834 9,596
Trade working capital financing-i 13,492 12,167
24,829 22,763
Non-Current
Term financing-i 83,931 88,107
108,760 110,870
The weighted average effective interest rates for bank borrowings (per annum) as at reporting date are as
follows:
Group
2024 2023
% %
Cash Line-i 8 8
Share margin financing 8 -
Term financing-i 4.81 - 6.70 3.82 - 6.75
Trade working capital financing-i 5.50 - 6.75 3.40 - 6.25
The bank borrowings are secured by way of:
(i) First party legal charge on the leasehold lands of the Group as disclosed in Note 10;
(ii) Debenture over fixed and floating charge on the assets, both present and future;
(iii) Corporate guarantee by the Company;
(iv) Personal guarantee by a director of the Company;
(v) Corporate guarantee by a subsidiary company;
(vi) Fixed deposit with licensed bank as disclosed in Note 18; and
(vii) Guarantee by Syarikat Jaminan Pembiayaan Perniagaan (“SJPP”) with guarantee limit of 80%
from the Term financing-I limit of RM0.5 million.
104
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
55
22. LEASE LIABILITIES
The maturity analysis of the lease liabilities are as follows:
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Minimum lease payments:
Less than one year 8,022 877
Later than one year but not later than five years 649 9,061
Later than five years 985 81
Total minimum lease payments 9,656 10,019
Less: Unearned interest (678) (1,184)
Present value of lease liabilities 8,978 8,835
The lease liabilities component is analysed as follows:
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Current 7,454 535
Non-current 1,524 8,300
8,978 8,835
The Group does not face a significant liquidity risk with regard to their lease liabilities.
The lease liabilities comprise leasehold land, plant and machinery, lease of premises and obligations under
finance lease on motor vehicles.
Leasehold land, plant and machinery and lease of premises
The Group applied the incremental borrowing rate to the lease liabilities ranging from 6.98% to 10.5% (2023:
6.98% to 10.92%) per annum.
Obligations under finance lease
The Group’s obligations under finance lease bear effective interest at rate ranging from 2.12% to 4.78%
(2023: 2.12% to 3.99%) per annum. The obligations under finance lease are secured by a charge over the
property, plant and equipment as disclosed in Note 10.
23. REDEEMABLE PREFERENCE SHARES (“RPS”)
Group and Company
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
As at 1 July 72,061 74,325
Remeasurement - (4,183)
Accretion of interest 4,324 4,319
RPS interest payable (2,800) (2,400)
73,585 72,061
105
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
56
The fair value of the RPS was calculated on the assumption that the profit guarantee can be met during the
guarantee period and was remeasured in previous financial year due to changes in the expected full
redemption in financial year ending 2027, the interest rate remains as 3.0% per annum.
The redemption amount and dividend cash flows are discounted based on cost of borrowing of 6%.
The salient features of the RPS are as follows:
Issue price RM0.20 per RPS
Size 400,000,000 RPS
Tenure 5 years commencing from and inclusive of the date of issuance of the RPS
Maturity date The day immediately preceding the 5th anniversary from the date of issue of the
RPS. If such a day fall on a non-market day, then the maturity date will be the
preceding market day
Voting rights Restricted to any resolution on winding-up and/or any resolution directly affecting
the rights of the RPS holders
Notices The RPS holders shall be entitled to receive notices of general meetings, reports
and audited accounts of the Company and other information which may be
reasonably sought
Dividend 3.0% per annum on the Issue Price of RPS, payable semi- annually, subject to the
provisions of the Act
Form and
denomination
The RPS are to be issued in registered form and constituted by the Constitution
of the Company
Conversion right The RPS are not convertible into new Company Shares
Ranking of the RPS The RPS shall, upon allotment and issuance, rank equally without any preference
or priority among themselves and in priority to the Company’s shares, but shall
rank behind all secured and unsecured obligations of the Company. In the event
of liquidation, dissolution, winding-up or other repayment of capital (other than
on redemption):
(i) the RPS shall confer on the RPS holders the right to receive in priority to
the holders of all other class of securities in the share capital of the
Company, cash repayment in full of the amount (and the amount of any
coupon that has fallen due and remaining in arrears) of up to 100% of the
Issue Price of the RPS, provided that there shall be no further right to
participate in any surplus capital or surplus profits of the Company;
(ii) the RPS shall not confer on the RPS holders thereof the right to participate
in the distribution of surplus assets or profits; and
(iii) in the event that the Company has sufficient assets to permit payment of
the full issue price to the RPS holders, the assets of the Company shall be
distributed proportionally to the RPS holders in proportion to the amount
that each RPS holder would otherwise be entitled to receive.
106
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
57
Redemption The RPS is redeemable at the Issue Price of the RPS at any time after the
Guarantee Period and the auditors of NCSB having issued a certificate
confirming the actual profit after tax (“PAT”) of NCSB for the Guarantee Period,
and during the tenure of the RPS, at the option of the Company, subject to not
less than 7 business days' notice in writing being given prior to the Redemption
In the event of any Shortfall, the amount of the Shortfall shall be set-off against
the redemption of the equivalent value of RPS
Any RPS not redeemed by the Company or surrendered by the RPS holders at the
Maturity Date shall be redeemed by the Company at the Issue Price of the RPS
Redemption price The redemption price is at the Issue Price of the RPS together with arrears of
dividend payments (if any) up to the date of redemption
Transferability Non-transferable
Listing The RPS will not be listed on any stock exchange
24. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
As at 1 July 40,523 29,899
Charged to profit or loss (Note 9):
Property, plant and equipment 9,994 2,026
Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities (444) 692
Unabsorbed capital allowances 841 8,611
Fair value adjustment in respect of acquisition of subsidiary
company 563 (705)
10,954 10,624
As at 30 June 51,477 40,523
The deferred tax in the financial statements is in respect of the tax effects on the following:
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Deferred tax assets (before offsetting):
Temporary differences arising from:
Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities 417 -
Unabsorbed capital allowances 10,785 11,626
11,202 11,626
Offsetting (11,202) (11,626)
Deferred tax assets (after offsetting) - -
107
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
58
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Deferred tax liabilities (before offsetting):
Temporary differences arising from:
Property, plant and equipment 44,141 34,147
Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities - 27
Fair value adjustment in respect of acquisition of subsidiary
company 18,538 17,975
62,679 52,149
Offsetting (11,202) (11,626)
Deferred tax liabilities (after offsetting) 51,477 40,523
At the end of the reporting period, the Group has unabsorbed capital allowances that are available for
offsetting against future taxable profits, subject to the agreement with the tax authorities.
The details of unabsorbed capital allowances are as follows:
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Unabsorbed capital allowances 44,938 49,517
The unabsorbed capital allowances do not expire under current tax legislation.
25. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Trade payables 86,162 58,416 - -
Other payables 39,289 2,671 183 29
Amount due to a former
subsidiary company 2,733 2,733 2,733 2,733
Amount due to subsidiary
companies - - 514 2,249
Amounts due to related
companies 14,236 14,127 - -
Amounts due to a director 6,519 6,502 - -
Warrants conversion
monies 224 72 224 72
Accruals 6,428 5,363 4,482 3,000
69,429 31,468 8,136 8,083
155,591 89,884 8,136 8,083
Trade payables comprise mainly amounts outstanding for goods delivered by suppliers. The credit period
granted to the Group is 30 days (2023: 30 days).
108
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
59
Amount due to a former subsidiary company, subsidiary companies and related companies represent
advances and payments made on behalf for the Group and the Company which are unsecured, interest-free
and are repayable on demand.
As at 30 June 2023, included in amount due to a director of the Group is an amount of RM6,480,000, which
is payable at year 3 commencing from year 2020 and the payment arrangement had expired in financial year
ended 2023. The deferred payable is measured at amortised cost at imputed interest rate of 6.75% per annum.
As of 30 June 2024, the amount due to a director is unsecured, interest-free and are repayable on demand.
Included in accruals of the Group and of the Company is an amount of RM2,800,000 (2023: RM2,400,000)
being 3% RPS interest payable as disclosed in Note 23.
26. DIVIDEND
A final single tier dividend of 0.10 sen per ordinary share amounting to RM1,599,695 which was proposed
in the previous financial year and dealt with in the previous directors’ report was declared and paid in cash
by the Company during the current financial year.
27. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
(a) Identify related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group and
to the Company if the Group and Company have the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the
party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or
vice versa, or where the Group and the Company and the party are subject to common control.
Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
Related parties also include key management personnel. Key management personnel are defined as
those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the
activities of the Group and of the Company either directly or indirectly. The key management
personnel of the Group and of the Company include Executive Directors of the Company.
(b) Significant related party transactions and balances
Related party transactions have been entered in the normal course of business under negotiated
terms. In addition to the related party balances disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the
related party transactions of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Former subsidiary
company:
Interest income
5,435 5,244 - -
Subsidiary
companies:
Dividend income
- - - 3,965
109
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
60
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
The remuneration of key management personnel during the financial year are as follows:
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Executive directors:
Salaries and other
emoluments 720 723 - -
Defined
contribution
plans 91 91 - -
811 814 - -
Non-executive
directors:
Fees 264 199 264 199
Other
emoluments 23 13 23 13
287 212 287 212
1,098 1,026 287 212
28. SEGMENT REPORTING
Information about operating segments has not been reported separately as the Group’s activities are mainly
confined to a single operating segment which predominantly operates in Malaysia. The Group is
principally involved in trading of prawns.
29. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Approved and contracted for:
Ponds and farm improvements 34,970 127,328
30. RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
The table below details changes in the Group’s liabilities arising from financing activities, including both
cash and non-cash changes. Liabilities arising from financing activities are those for which cash flows were,
or future cash flows will be, classified in the Group’s statements of cash flows as cash flows (used in)/from
financing activities.
110
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
61
Bank borrowings
(Note 21)
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
As at 1 July 110,870 114,460
Investment in quoted shares 3,248 -
Net repayments of bank borrowings (5,358) (3,590)
Interest expense incurred (Note 6) 7,453 8,609
Interest expense paid (7,453) (8,609)
As at 30 June 108,760 110,870
Lease liabilities
(Note 22)
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
As at 1 July 8,835 2,730
Additions to right-of-use assets 524 6,500
Repayments of lease liabilities (381) (395)
Interest expense incurred (Note 6) 566 569
Interest expense paid (566) (569)
As at 30 June 8,978 8,835
Amount due to related
companies
(Note 25)
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
As at 1 July 14,127 15,171
Advance from/Repayment to related companies 109 (1,044)
As at 30 June 14,236 14,127
Amount due to a director
(Note 25)
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
As at 1 July 6,502 8,851
Waiver of debt - (2,430)
Interest expense - 212
Advance from/(Repayment to) a director 17 (131)
As at 30 June 6,519 6,502
111
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
62
31. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Classification of financial instruments
The following table analyses the financial assets and liabilities in the statements of financial position by
the class of financial instruments to which they are assigned, and therefore by the measurement basis:
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Financial assets
Fair value through profit
or loss
Other investments 54,445 51,360 - -
At amortised cost
Trade and other
receivables 172,458 135,632 67,319 58,250
Loan to a former
subsidiary company
276,723 267,718
- -
Fixed deposit with
licensed bank 3,452 5,380 - -
Cash and bank balances
171,751 163,668 263 670
Financial Liabilities
At amortised cost
Trade and other payables 155,591 89,884 7,912 8,011
Bank borrowings 108,760 110,870 - -
Lease liabilities 8,978 8,835 - -
RPS 73,585 72,061 73,585 72,061
Financial Risk Management Objectives and Policies
The Group and the Company are exposed to financial risk arising from its operations and the use of financial
instruments. The key financial risks include credit risk, liquidity risk and market risk.
The following sections provide details regarding the Group’s and the Company’s exposure to the above-
mentioned financial risks and the objectives, policies and processes for the management of those risks.
(i) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group and to the company that may arise if a customer
or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations. The Group’s
exposure to credit risk mainly from trade and other receivables, loan to a former subsidiary company
and financial guarantee given to licensed banks and third parties whereas the Company’s exposure to
credit risk mainly from amount other receivables and financial guarantee given to licensed banks.
The management has in place a credit procedure to monitor and minimise the exposure of default.
Receivables are monitored on a regular and an ongoing basis. Credit evaluations are performed on all
customers requiring credit over certain amount.
For cash and cash equivalents, the Group and the Company minimise credit risk by dealing exclusively
with high credit rating counterparties.
112
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
63
The Company provides advances to subsidiary companies and monitors the results of the subsidiary
companies regularly.
Concentration profile
Concentration of credit risk arises when a number of customers are engaged in similar business
activities or activities within the same geographic region, or when they have similar risk
characteristics that would cause their ability to meet contractual obligations to be similarly affected
by changes in economic or other conditions. The Group monitors various portfolios to identify and
assess risk concentration.
The Group’s major concentration of credit risk relates to the amount due from two (2023: two)
receivables which constituted 97% (2023: 98%) of its trade receivables at the end of the reporting
period.
Exposure to credit risk
The carrying amount of the financial assets recorded on the statements of financial position at the
end of the reporting period represents the Group’s and the Company’s maximum exposure to credit
risk in relation to financial assets. No financial assets carry a significant exposure to credit risk.
In addition, the Company is exposed to credit risk in relation to financial guarantee given to licensed
banks and third parties for credit facilities and supply of goods respectively granted to subsidiary
companies. The financial guarantees have not been recognised in the financial statements since the
fair value on initial recognition was not material as the financial guarantees provided by the
Company did not contribute towards credit enhancement of the subsidiary companies’ borrowings
in view of the securities pledged by the subsidiary companies. At the end of the reporting period, no
events have arisen which may cause the financial guarantees provided by the Company to be called
upon or claimed by any counterparty pursuant to the relevant contracts entered by the Company.
At the end of the reporting period, the Company’s maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to
the financial corporate guarantees given are as below:
Company
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Bank borrowings 96,967 48,576
Trade payables 2,069 2,310
(ii) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company encounter difficulty in meeting its
obligations due to shortage of funds. The Group’s and the Company's exposure to liquidity risk
arises primarily from trade and other payables, bank borrowings, lease liabilities and RPS.
The Group’s and the Company’s funding requirements and liquidity risk are managed with the
objective of meeting business obligations on a timely basis. The Group and the Company manage
liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves and banking facilities by continuously monitoring
forecast and actual cash flows, and by matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and
liabilities.
113
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
64
Analysis of financial instruments by remaining contractual maturities
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period based on undiscounted contractual
payments:
Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
Total
carrying
amount
On demand or
within 1 year
Within 2 to 5
years
More than 5
years
Total
undiscounted
cash flows
% RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
2024
Non-interest bearing:
Trade payables and other payables 155,591 155,591 - - 155,591
Interest bearing:
Bank borrowings 3.40 - 7.60 108,760 30,107 69,958 36,738 136,803
Lease liabilities 2.12 - 10.50 8,978 8,022 649 985 9,656
RPS 3 73,585 - 92,000 - 92,000
346,914 193,720 162,607 37,723 394,050
114
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
65
Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
Total
carrying
amount
On demand or
within 1 year
Within 2 to 5
years
More than 5
years
Total
undiscounted
cash flows
% RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2023
Non-interest bearing:
Trade payables and other payables 89,884 89,884 - - 89,884
Interest bearing:
Bank borrowings 3.40 - 7.60 110,870 26,897 55,635 46,948 129,480
Lease liabilities 2.12 - 10.92 8,835 877 9,061 81 10,019
RPS 3 72,061 - 92,000 - 92,000
281,650 117,658 156,696 47,029 321,383
Company
2024
Non-interest bearing:
Trade payables and other payables 8,136 8,136 - - 8,136
Financial guarantees* - 99,036 - - 99,036
Interest bearing:
RPS 3 73,585 - 92,000 - 92,000
81,721 107,172 92,000 - 199,172
115
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
66
Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
Total
carrying
amount
On demand or
within 1 year
Within 2 to 5
years
More than 5
years
Total
undiscounted
cash flows
% RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Company
2023
Non-interest bearing:
Trade payables and other payables 8,083 8,083 - - 8,083
Financial guarantees* - 50,886 - - 50,886
Interest bearing:
RPS 3 72,061 - 92,000 - 92,000
80,144 58,969 92,000 - 150,969
* This exposure to liquidity risk is included for illustration purpose only as the related guarantees have not yet crystallised.
116
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
67
(iii) Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest
rates risk will affect the Group’s and the Company’s financial position or cash flows.
Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument
will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
The Group has not entered into forward foreign exchange contracts during the current financial
year.
The Group is exposed to currency translation risk arising from the inter-company transactions in
PRC subsidiary company denominated in Chinese Yuan (“CNY”) and Hong Kong subsidiary
company denominated in Hong Kong Dollar (“HKD”) and United States Dollar (“USD”) for trade
receivables and cash and bank balances. This inter-company transaction is not hedged as the
currency position in CNY and HKD are considered to be long-term in nature.
Foreign exchange exposures in transactional currency other than functional currency of the Group
is kept to an acceptable level.
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Group’s significant exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than functional
currency of the respective Group entity) risk, based on carrying amounts as at end of the reporting
period was:
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Denominated in USD
Trade receivables 3,082 1,870
Cash and bank balances 8 8
3,090 1,878
Denominated in CNY
Other receivables 171,197 145,296
Loan to a former subsidiary company 276,723 267,718
Cash and bank balances 167,888 162,145
615,808 575,159
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity analysis of the Group’s profit after tax to reasonably
possible changes in HKD and USD exchange rate against the functional currencies of the other
Group entities, with all other variables being constant.
117
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
68
Group
(Decrease)/lncrease in
Profit net of
tax
Profit net of
tax
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
USD/RM
strengthened 3% (70) (43)
weakened 3% 70 43
HKD/CNY
strengthened 3% (14,040) (11,114)
weakened 3% 14,040 11,114
Interest Rate Risk
Interest rate risk is the risk of fluctuation in fair value or future cash flows of the Group’s financial
instruments as a result of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk
arises primarily from the bank borrowing with floating interest rates.
The interest rate profile of the Group’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments, based on
carrying amounts at the end of the reporting period was:
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Floating rate instruments
Bank borrowings 108,760 110,870
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
The following table details the sensitivity analysis on the floating rate instruments to a reasonably
possible change in the interest rate as at the end of the reporting period with all other variables held
constant:
Group
lncrease/(Decrease) in
Profit net of
tax/ equity
Profit net of
tax/ equity
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Increase of 100 basis points (827) (843)
Decrease of 100 basis points 827 843
118
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
69
Equity Price Risk
The group is exposed to equity price risk arising from investment in quoted shares.
Equity price risk sensitivity analysis
The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the exposure to equity price risks at
the end of the reporting period.
If equity prices had been RM0.01 higher/lower, the profit net of tax would increase/decrease by
RM23,445 (2023: RMNil) as a result of the changes in fair value of the investments in quoted shares.
Fair values of financial instruments
The following table provides the fair value measurement hierarchy of the Group’s assets and liabilities.
Level 3
Total fair
value
Carrying
amount
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
2024
Assets
Other investments 51,360 51,360 51,360
2023
Assets
Other investments 51,360 51,360 51,360
Level 3:
The fair value of investment in unquoted shares was determined based on the indicative offer price from the
major shareholder of HXOF as disclosed in Note 13.
The fair value measurement hierarchies used to measure non-financial assets at fair values in the statements
of financial positions are disclosed in Notes 13.
There was no material transfer between Level 1, Level 2 and Level 3 during the financial year.
Financial instrument other than those carried at fair value
Financial instruments that are not carried at fair value and whose carrying amounts are reasonable
approximation of fair values.
The carrying amount of long-term floating rate loans approximates their fair value as the loans will be re-
priced to market interest rate on or near reporting date.
The carrying amounts of short-term receivables and payables, investment in quoted shares and cash and cash
equivalents approximate their fair values due to the relatively short-term nature of these financial instruments
and the insignificant impact of discounting.
119
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
70
32. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The objective of the Group’s capital management is to safeguard the Group’s ability to continue as a going
concern while maximising the return to shareholders through the optimisation of debt and equity balance.
The Group’s overall strategy remains unchanged during the current financial year.
The capital structure of the Group consists of debt (as disclosed in Notes 21 and 22).
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Debt 117,738 119,705
Equity attributable to Owners of the Company 816,103 767,460
Debts to equity ratio 0.14 0.16
Debt consists of bank borrowings and lease liabilities.
Debt to equity ratio is not applicable to the Company as the Company has no debt at the end of the reporting
period.
33. MATERIAL LITIGATION
(i) High Court of Kuala Lumpur Case No. WA-22NCC-437-09/2020. Ng Min Lin (“1st Plaintiff”) and
North Cube Sdn Bhd (“NCSB or 2nd Plaintiff”) v Reymee Bin Mohamed Hussein (“Reymee or 1st
Defendant”) and Wondeux (M) Sdn Bhd (“WMSB or 2nd Defendant”)
1st Plaintiff and NCSB were claiming for compensation amounting to RM2,000,000 arising from the
alleged breaches by Reymee and WMSB of the terms of the Funding Agreement dated 8 January 2019
entered into between NCSB and WMSB (“Funding Agreement”). 1st Plaintiff and NCSB further seek
a series of declarations, inter alia that the Funding Agreement had lapsed, and that Reymee was not
the Chief Corporate Officer of NCSB.
The trial came up on 23 August 2021 to 27 August 2021, 4 to 8 April 2022, 12 to 14 April 2022 and
5 to 9 September 2022 before the Judge. The decision of this matter had been delivered on 5 January
2023 and had been consolidated with WA-22NCC-43-0112021 under Note 33(ii).
(ii) High Court of Kuala Lumpur Case No. WA-22NCC-43-01/2021. Reymee Bin Mohamed Hussein
(“Reymee or 1st Plaintiff” v Ng Min Lin (“1st Defendant”) and North Cube Sdn Bhd (“NCSB or 2nd
Defendant”)
Reymee was seeking for declarations that the validity period of the Funding Agreement was mutually
extended, and there was an oral collateral contract between Reymee and 1st Defendant and NCSB that
3% of the NCSB’s shares had been assigned to Reymee. Reymee was further seeking a declaration
that he was the Chief Corporate Officer of NCSB and 1st Defendant and NCSB were jointly and
severally liable to him for the sum of RM2,700,000, being the value of 3% of NCSB’s shares.
The matter had undergone a joint trial on 23 August 2021 to 27 August 2021, 4 to 8 April 2022, 12 to
14 April 2022 and 5 to 9 September 2022 before the Judge.
On 5 January 2023, the learned High Court Judge delivered a joint Judgement for both cases listed
under Note 33(i) & Note 33(ii). The Court dismissed Reymee’s claim in case No WA-22NCC-43-
01/2021 with costs of RM75,000 to be paid by Reymee and Wondeux. By virtue of dismissal, it was
no longer necessary for the Court to deal with Case No. WA-22NCC-437-09/2020 [Note 33(i)], and
therefore, this case was also dismissed with costs of RM15,000.
120
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
71
Reymee filed an appeal against the dismissal of Suit 43 via Putrajaya Court of Appeal Civil Appeal
No: W-02(NCC)(W)-183-02/2023. The Appeal was fixed for hearing/decision on 17 January 2024.
The Court of Appeal on 17 January 2024 had decided to dismiss Appeal 183 with costs of RM30,000.
The dismissal of Appeal 183 meaned that the decision of High Court in Suit: WA-22NC-43-01/2021
was upheld. There had been no further appeals in respect of this matter, and there is no financial
impact to NCSB.
(iii) High Court of Kuala Lumpur Case No. WA-22/P-38-07/2020. Ng Min Lin (“1st Plaintiff'”) and North
Cube Sdn Bhd (“NCSB or 2nd Plaintiff'”) v Steven Mak (“Steven or 1st Defendant”) and Wondeux
(M) Sdn Bhd (“WMSB or 2nd Defendant”)
1st Plaintiff and NCSB were claiming for compensation amounting to RM2,000,000 arising from the
alleged breaches by Steven and WMSB of the terms of the Funding Agreement. 1st Plaintiff and
NCSB further seek a series of declarations, inter alia that the Funding Agreement had lapsed, that
Steven is not the Chief Marketing Officer of NCSB, and further that Steven did not own the copyrights
and trademarks of NCSB.
The matter had been consolidated with WA-22IP-43-08/2020 under Note 33(iv).
(iv) High Court of Kuala Lumpur Case No. WA-22/P-43-08/2020. Steven Mak (“Steven or 1st Plaintiff'”)
v Ng Min Lin (“1st Defendant'” and North Cube Sdn Bhd (“NCSB or 2nd Defendant'”)
Steven was seeking for declarations that the validity period of the Funding Agreement was mutually
extended, and that Steven was owed the sum of RM405,900 (payment order) being works done for
NCSB. Steven was further seeking a declaration that he was the Chief Marketing Officer or an
employee of NCSB, and that Steven owned the copyrights and trademarks of “North Cube”, and was
further claiming damages of RM5,000,000 from 1st Defendant and NCSB for breach of his intellectual
property’s trademarks and copyrights. In addition, Steven was also seeking an injunction to prohibit
NCSB from using his copyright and trademarks, a mandatory injunction for NCSB to produce NCSB’s
book of accounts. 1st Defendant and NCSB’s interlocutory application for interrogatories against
Steven was allowed on 9 February 2021. Steven had responded to the interrogatories.
The matter had been consolidated with WA-22IP-38-07/2020 under Note 33(iii) and had undergone
full trial on 5, 6, 12 and 13 June 2024 before YA Puan Adlin Binti Abdul Majid while the remaining
trial was on 10 September 2024. 1st Defendant and NCSB had obtained a Security for Costs of
RM40,000 against Steven Mak pending the disposal of both matters. After the trial on 10 September
2024, the case is now pending for Court’s decision. The directors are of the opinion that the outcome
will be favourable to NCSB.
34. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
(i) Investment in a subsidiary company
On 1 July 2024, the Company incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary company, named MAG Capital
Venture Sdn. Bhd., with 100,000 ordinary shares at RM1.
(ii) Loan extension agreement with a former subsidiary company
On 1 October 2019, AHOT granted an unsecured, interest-bearing loan at a rate of 1.75% per annum
to its former subsidiary, HXOF, with a maturity date of 30 September 2024. On 21 August 2024,
AHOT entered into an agreement to extend the loan for an additional five years, now maturing on
30 September 2029.
121
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
72
(iii) Exercise of Warrants C
Subsequent to the financial year end, a total of 151,606,593 units of Warrants C at an exercise price
of RM0.16 were exercised amounted to RM24,257,054.88. As at the date of the financial statements
of the Group and of the Company were authorised by Board of Directors for issuance, 30 October
2024, the total numbers of Warrants C that remain unexercised amounted to 120,228,732 units.
(iv) Dividend
On 29 October 2024, the directors of the Company proposed a final single tier dividend of 0.10 sen
per ordinary share for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 which is subject to the shareholders’
approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company.
35. RECLASSIFICATION OF COMPARATIVE FIGURES
Certain comparative figures in prior year’s statements of financial position as shown below have been
reclassified to enhance comparability with current year’s presentation. As a result, certain line items have
been amended on the face of the statements of financial position and statements of cash flows. The items
reclassified were as follows:
As previously
stated Reclassification
As
reclassified
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Statements of financial position as at 30
June 2023
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 309,372 (6,500) 302,872
Current assets
Trade and other receivables 121,823 17,562 139,385
Fixed deposit with licensed bank 1,342 4,038 5,380
Capital and Reserves
Share capital 534,226 (72) 534,154
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 74,712 15,172 89,884
Statements of cash flow for the
financial year ended 30 June 2023
Cash flow from operating activities
Trade and other receivables (46,711) (2,462) (49,173)
Trade and other payables 2,325 72 2,397
Interest paid (8,980) 8,980 -
Cash flow used in investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment (36,234) 6,500 (29,734)
Placement of fixed deposits with licensed
banks (34) (4,038) (4,072)
122
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Notes to the Financial Statements
(cont’d)
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
73
As previously
stated Reclassification
As
reclassified
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares 25,840 (72) 25,768
Repayments of lease liabilities (593) 198 (395)
Interest paid - (9,178) (9,178)
Company
Statements of financial position as at 30
June 2023
Capital and Reserves
Share capital 534,226 (72) 534,154
Current liabilities
Trade and other payables 8,011 72 8,083
Statements of cash flow for the
financial year ended 30 June 2023
Cash flow from operating activities
Trade and other payables (1,940) 72 (1,868)
Cash flow from financing activities
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares 25,840 (72) 25,768
123
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Address
Description/
existing use Tenure
Land
Area
Age of
buildings
Net Book
Value
RM’000
Date of
Acquisition
Wakuba Farm
CL105466466
Kampung Wakuba
Daerah Tawau, Sabah
An aquaculture
farm with 102
shrimp ponds,
buildings,
structures,
and plant and
machinery
99-year
leasehold
interest
(expiring on 31
December
2088).
97.90
hectares
9 - 22
years
158,257 12.12.2019
Umas Farm
CL105571971
Kampung Umas-umas
Daerah Tawau, Sabah
An aquaculture
farm with 151
shrimp ponds,
buildings,
structures,
and plant and
machinery
99-year
leasehold
interest
(expiring on 31
December
2078)
120.52
hectares
17 years 120,929 3.5.2019
LIST OF
PROPERTIES
AS AT 30 JUNE 2024
124
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2024
Number of Issued Shares : 1,693,238,340 ordinary shares
Class of Shares : Ordinary shares
Voting Rights : One vote per ordinary share held
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDERS
		 Number of 		 Number of
Size of shareholdings		 Shareholders % Shares %
1 - 99 		 584 12.40 22,999 0.00*
100 - 1,000 		 517 10.98 217,652 0.01
1,001 - 10,000 		 1,394 29.60 7,130,658 0.42
10,001 - 100,000 		 1,678 35.63 61,694,085 3.64
100,001 - 84,661,916** 		 536 11.38 1,493,648,146 88.21
84,661,917 and above*** 		 1 0.02 130,524,800 7.71
TOTAL		 4,710 100.00 1,693,238,340 100.00
Notes:
* The percentage of shares is negligible.
** Less than 5% of issued holdings
*** 5% and above of issued shares
DIRECTORS' SHAREHOLDINGS
(Based on the Registrar of Directors' Shareholdings)
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
			 Number		Number
Name of Directors Nationality of Shares % of Shares %
1. Ng Min Lin Malaysia 465,817,797 27.51 – –
2. Yeoh Wooi Kia Malaysia – – – –
3. Collin Goonting
	  a/l O.S. Goonting Malaysia – – – –
4. Datuk Lim Si Cheng Malaysia 80,000 0.01 – –
5. Wan Mohd Hazrie
	  bin Wan Mokhtar Malaysia – – – –
6. Melvin Lim Chun Woei Malaysia 47,650,652 2.81 – –
7. Wong Jo Ann Malaysia 6,816,600 0.40 – –
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
(Based on the Registrar of Substantial Shareholders)
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
Name of Substantial		 Number 		 Number
Shareholders Nationality of Shares % of Shares %
1. Ng Min Lin Malaysia 465,817,797 27.51 – –
125
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNT HOLDERS
(Based on the Record of Depositors)
(Without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)
No. Name of Holders				
Number of Shares %
1. Affin Hwang Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 130,524,800 7.71
Pledged Securities Account for Ng Min Lin
2. Hsu, Ching-fu				 80,413,700 4.75
3. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 75,230,000 4.44
Pledged Securities Account for Ng Min Lin
4. CIMB Group Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 70,000,000 4.13
Pembangunan Sumber Manusia Berhad
5. MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 66,250,100 3.91
Pledged Securities Account for Ng Min Lin (CTS-NML0003CI)
6. HLB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 61,599,000 3.64
Pledged Securities Account for Agrobulk Holdings Sdn. Bhd.
7. Mercsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 57,457,500 3.39
Pledged Securities Account for Ng Min Lin (NAF231)
8. M & A Nominee (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 56,101,700 3.31
Pledged Securities Account Majestic Salute Sdn. Bhd.
	  for Megan Mezanin Sdn. Bhd. (M&A)
9. HLB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 55,599,000 3.28
Pledged Securities Account for Tang & Co Sdn. Bhd.
10. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 48,500,000 2.86
Pledged Securities Account - AmBank (M) Berhad
	  for Ng Min Lin (Smart)
11. Melvin Lim Chun Woei				 41,650,652 2.46
12. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 33,828,950 2.00
Pledged Securities Account for Ng Min Lin
13. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 30,000,000 1.77
Pledged Securities Account for Ooi Chen Seng
14. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Asing) Sdn. Bhd. 25,000,000 1.48
CGS International Securities Singapore PTE. LTD. (Prop A/C)
15. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 25,000,000 1.48
Pledged Securities Account for Ooi Chieng Sim (E-BBB)
16. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd. 23,000,000 1.36
Societe Generale Paris
17. Maybank Nominees (Asing) Sdn. Bhd. 22,963,900 1.36
Chang Mei Jung
Analysis Of Shareholdings
(cont’d)
126
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNT HOLDERS (Cont’d)
(Based on the Record of Depositors)
(Without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)
No. Name of Holders				
Number of Shares %
18. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 22,000,000 1.30
Rakuten Trade Sdn. Bhd. for Lee Seng Teck
19. Bimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 20,782,000 1.23
Pledged Securities Account for Ng Min Lin (MGNM88833)
20. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 20,500,000 1.21
Rakuten Trade Sdn. Bhd. for Soo San Hem
21. Lee Choon Hooi				 20,000,000 1.18
22. Phillip Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 19,131,713 1.13
Pledged Securities Account for Megan Mezanin Sdn. Bhd.
23. Fiamma Holdings Berhad				 18,000,000 1.06
24. Cimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 15,995,400 0.94
CIMB for Sim Keng Chor (PB)
25. Lagenda Perdana Sdn. Bhd.				 15,000,000 0.89
26. Lai Choon Meng				 15,000,000 0.89
27. TA Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 14,284,000 0.84
Pledged Securities Account for Lee Wai Mun
28. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 13,950,000 0.82
Pledged Securities Account for Ng Min Lin (MY3571)
29. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 13,555,600 0.80
Pledged Securities Account for Teo Yek Ming (0129944)
30. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 12,514,000 0.74
Pledged Securities Account for Ng Min Lin
Analysis Of Shareholdings
(cont’d)
127
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
ANALYSIS OF
WARRANTS C HOLDINGS
AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2024
Number of outstanding Warrants C : 246,497,500 Warrants C
Exercise Price : RM0.16
Exercise Period   : 10 November 2021 to 08 November 2024
Exercise Rights : No voting rights
Voting Rights : EachWarrantsCentitlestheholderduringtheExercisePeriodtosubscribe
		 for one (1) new ordinary share in the Company at the Exercise Price
DISTRIBUTION OF WARRANTS C HOLDERS
Number of
		 Warrants C		 Number of
Size of Warrants C holders		 Holders % Warrants C %
1 - 99 		 1,309 31.66 44,987 0.02
100 - 1,000 		 869 21.02 423,007 0.17
1,001 - 10,000 		 1,308 31.64 4,833,957 1.96
10,001 - 100,000 		 480 11.61 17,328,963 7.03
100,001 - 12,324,874* 		 165 3.99 159,301,986 64.63
12,324,875 and above** 		 3 0.07 64,564,600 26.19
TOTAL 		 4,134 100.00 246,497,500 100.00
Notes:
* Less than 5% of issued holdings
** 5% and above of issued holdings
DIRECTORS' WARRANTS C HOLDINGS
(Based on the Registrar of Directors' Warrant C Holdings)
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
			 Number of		 Number of
Name of Directors Nationality Warrants C % Warrants C %
1. Ng Min Lin Malaysia 50,320,948 20.41 – –
2. Yeoh Wooi Kia Malaysia – – – –
3. Collin Goonting
a/l O.S. Goonting Malaysia – – – –
4. Datuk Lim Si Cheng Malaysia 20,000 0.01 – –
5. Wan Mohd Hazrie
bin Wan Mokhtar Malaysia – – – –
6. Melvin Lim Chun Woei Malaysia – – – –
7. Wong Jo Ann Malaysia 980,712 0.40 – –
128
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
THIRTY (30) LARGEST WARRANTS C HOLDERS
(Based on the Record of Depositors)
(Without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)
			 Number of
No. Name of Warrants C Holders 			 Warrants C %
1. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 30,000,000 12.17
Pledged Securities Account - AmBank (M) Berhad
for Ng Min Lin (Smart)
2. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 22,000,000 8.93
Rakuten Trade Sdn. Bhd. for Lee Seng Teck
3. Kingsley Lim Fung Wang 			 12,564,600 5.10
4. Pelican Prospect Sdn. Bhd. 			 10,613,000 4.31
5. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 10,500,000 4.26
Rakuten Trade Sdn. Bhd. for Soo San Hem
6. Ng Min Lin 10,246,987 4.16
7. Megan Mezanin Sdn. Bhd. 			 9,475,900 3.84
8. Pelican Prospect Sdn. Bhd. 			 8,070,000 3.27
9. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 6,250,000 2.54
Pledged Securities Account for Ooi Chieng Sim (E-BBB)
10. Sea Sanctuary Sdn. Bhd. 			 4,029,700 1.63
11. Lagenda Perdana Sdn. Bhd. 			 3,750,000 1.52
12. Ang Yee Hooi 			 3,259,900 1.32
13. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad 3,150,000 1.28
Exempt an for Aham Asset Management Berhad (TSTAC/CLNTT)
14. Lim Wee Yang 			 3,000,000 1.22
15. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 3,000,000 1.22
Pledged Securities Account for Chow Choon Futt (E-TCS)
16. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 2,591,000 1.05
Pledged Securities Account for Ng Min Lin
17. RHB Capital Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.   2,500,000 1.01
Gan Seong Liam
18. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 2,487,500 1.01
Pledged Securities Account for Ng Min Lin (MY3571)
19. Lee Hock Lee 			 2,300,000 0.93
20. Goh Lipton 			 2,249,300 0.91
Analysis Of Warrants C Holdings
(cont’d)
129
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
THIRTY (30) LARGEST WARRANTS C HOLDERS (Cont’d)
(Based on the Record of Depositors)
(Without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)
			 Number of
No. Name of Warrants C Holders 			 Warrants C %
21. Yong Boon Chieh 			 2,200,000 0.89
22. Lim Siew Lee 			 2,000,000 0.81
23. AMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 1,945,703 0.79
Pledged Securities Account for Ng Min Lin
24. Mercsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd. 1,939,375 0.79
Pledged Securities Account for Ng Min Lin (NAF231)
25. Tan Jayne Qi   1,900,000 0.77
26. Gan Siok Yen 			 1,800,000 0.73
27. VC Marine Sdn. Bhd. 			 1,701,775 0.69
28. Megan Mezanin Sdn. Bhd. 			 1,668,900 0.68
29. Ting Seafood and Machinery Sdn. Bhd. 			 1,548,525 0.63
30. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn. Bhd.   1,500,000 0.61
Roger Phiong Yoon Sam
Analysis Of Warrants C Holdings
(cont’d)
130
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT THAT the 19th Annual General Meeting (AGM) of MAG Holdings Berhad (MAG
or the Company) will be held at Balai Tunku Abdul Rahman, The Royal Commonwealth Society, No. 4, Jalan Birah,
Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, W.P. Kuala Lumpur on Tuesday, 26 November 2024 at 9.00 a.m. or at
any adjournment thereof to consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions with or without modifications:
AGENDA
Ordinary Business
1. To receive the audited financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June
2024 (FYE 2024) together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.
(See Explanatory Note 1)
2. To approve the payment of a Final Single Tier Dividend of 0.1 sen per ordinary
share for the FYE 2024.
Ordinary Resolution 1
(See Explanatory Note 2)
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees from the conclusion of the 19th AGM
until the conclusion of the next AGM for:
Ordinary Resolution 2
(See Explanatory Note 3)
(i) RM3,500 per month for the Non-Executive Members of the Board of Directors
(Board); and
(ii) RM1,000 per month for the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Management
Committee (ARMC).
(each of the foregoing payments being exclusive of the other).
4. To approve the payment of daily meeting attendance allowance of RM500 to
the Non-Executive Directors from the conclusion of the 19th AGM until the
conclusion of the next AGM.
Ordinary Resolution 3
(See Explanatory Note 4)
5. To re-elect Mr. Ng Min Lin who retires pursuant to Article 106 of the Company’s
Constitution (Constitution) and who has offered himself for re-election.
Ordinary Resolution 4
(See Explanatory Note 5)
Datuk Lim Si Cheng who retires pursuant to Article 106 of the Constitution,
indicated his intention of not seeking re-election. Hence, he will remain in office
until the conclusion of this AGM.
6. To appoint Messrs. Morison LC PLT as auditors of the Company for the financial
year ending 30 June 2025 at such remuneration to be determined by the Directors.
Ordinary Resolution 5
(See Explanatory Note 6)
Special Business
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolution, with or without
modification:
7. Authority to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the
Companies Act 2016 (CA 2016) (Proposed General Mandate)
Ordinary Resolution 6
(See Explanatory Note 7)
“THAT subject always to Sections 75 and 76 of the CA 2016, the Constitution, the
ACE Market Listing Requirements (AMLR) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(Bursa Securities) and the approval of any governmental and/or regulatory
authorities, the Directors be and are hereby authorised to allot and issue shares
in the Company at any time and upon such terms and conditions and for such
purposes as the Directors may, in their absolute discretion deem fit, provided
that the aggregate number of shares to be issued pursuant to this resolution
does not exceed 10% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury
shares) of the Company at the time of issuance and such authority under this
resolution shall continue in force until the conclusion of the next AGM or when
it is required by law to be held, whichever is earlier, AND THAT the Directors be
and are empowered to obtain the approval for the listing of and quotation for the
additional shares so issued on Bursa Securities.
NOTICE OF 19TH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
131
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
THAT the existing shareholders of the Company hereby waive their pre-emptive
rights to be offered new shares ranking equally to the existing issued shares in
the Company pursuant to Section 85 of the CA 2016 read together with Article
52 of the Constitution arising from any issuance of new shares of the Company
pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the CA 2016.
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to
implement, finalise, complete and take all necessary steps and to do all acts
(including execute such documents as may be required), deeds and things in
relation to the Proposed General Mandate.”
8. To transact any other ordinary business of which due notice shall have been
given in accordance with the Constitution and the CA 2016.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD
WONG YUET CHYN (MAICSA 7047163)
(SSM PC No. 202008002451)
Company Secretary
30 October 2024
Kuala Lumpur
Notes:
1. A depositor shall not be regarded as a member entitled to attend this AGM or at any adjournment thereof and
to speak and vote thereat unless his/her/its name appears on the Record of Depositors as at 18 November
2024 (which is not less than three clear market days before the date of this AGM) issued by Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn. Bhd. (Bursa Depository) in accordance with the rules of Bursa Depository.
2. A member who is a holder of 2 or more shares shall be entitled to appoint up to 2 proxies to attend and vote
at this AGM. Where a member appoints 2 proxies, the appointments shall be invalid unless he/she/it specifies
the proportions of his/her/its holdings to be represented by each proxy. Provided that having appointed a
proxy to attend in his/her/its stead, if such member personally attends this AGM, his/her/its proxy shall be
precluded from the meeting.
3. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company and there shall be no restriction as to the qualification
of the proxy.
4. Where a member is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories)
Act 1991 (SICDA), it may appoint at least 1 proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary
shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
5. Where a member is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple
beneficial owners in one securities account (omnibus account) as defined under SICDA, there is no limit to the
number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or his/her attorney duly
authorised in writing or, if the appointor is a corporation, either under its common seal or signed by an officer
or attorney so authorised.
7. The Form of Proxy and the duly completed instrument appointing a proxy or the power of attorney or other
authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power or authority must be
lodged at the Company’s registered office at A3-3-8, Solaris Dutamas, No. 1, Jalan Dutamas 1, 50480 Kuala
Lumpur, W.P. Kuala Lumpur or fax to 03-6413 3270 or email to infosr@wscs.com.my not less than forty-eight
(48) hours before the time appointed for holding this AGM or at any adjournment meeting at which the person
named in the instrument, proposes to vote or, in the case of a poll, not less than twenty-four (24) hours before
the time appointed for the taking of the poll, otherwise the person so named shall not be entitled to vote in
respect thereof.
8. Pursuant to Rule 8.31A(1) of the AMLR of Bursa Securities, all resolutions set out in this Notice of AGM shall
be put to vote by poll.
Notice Of 19Th Annual General Meeting
(cont’d)
132
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Explanatory Notes
1. Audited financial statements for the FYE 2024
This item of the Agenda is for discussion purposes only, as Section 340(1)(a) of the CA 2016 does not require the
shareholders to approve the audited financial statements formally. Hence, this item will not put forward for voting.
2. Ordinary Resolution 1 - Notice of Dividend Entitlement and Payment
Notice is also hereby given that subject to the approval of the shareholders at the 19th AGM, a Final Single
Tier Dividend of 0.1 sen per ordinary share will be paid 23 January 2025 to the shareholders whose names
appear in the Record of Depositors at the close of business on 14 January 2025.
A depositor shall qualify for entitlement only in respect of:
(a) shares transferred to the Depositors’ Securities Account before 4.30 p.m. on 14 January 2025 in
respect of ordinary transfers; and
(b) shares bought on Bursa Securities on a cum entitlement basis according to the AMLR of Bursa
Securities.
3. Ordinary Resolution 2 - Payment of Directors’ fees from the conclusion of the 19th AGM until the
conclusion of the next AGM
Section 230(1) of the CA 2016 and Article 92(1) of the Constitution provide that the Company shall determine
Directors’ Fees in general meeting.
The Remuneration Committee (RC) had recommended that the Directors’ fees remain unchanged, details as
follows:
		 Current Proposed
(i) Non-Executive Members of the Board RM3,500 per month RM3,500 per month
(ii) Chairman of the ARMC RM1,000 per month RM1,000 per month
The Board had accepted the RC’s proposal as it opined that it is fair and reasonable and in the Company’s
best interest.
The payment of fees to the Non-Executive Members of the Board is on a monthly basis. This is to
commensurate and compensate the Non-Executive Directors for their time and effort contributed to the
Company on an on-going basis throughout the year whereas the additional fee for the Chairman of the
ARMC is to commensurate and compensate him for his additional responsibilities as chairman of the ARMC.
4. Ordinary Resolution 3 - Payment of daily meeting attendance allowances to the Non-Executive
Directors from the conclusion of the 19th AGM until the conclusion of the next AGM
Section 230(1) of the CA 2016 provides that “any benefits” payable to the Directors of a listed company and
its subsidiaries shall be approved at a general meeting.
At the 18th AGM held on 29 November 2023, the shareholders of the Company had approved the payment
of daily meeting attendance allowances to the Non-Executive Directors from the conclusion of 18th AGM
until the conclusion of the 19th AGM. These allowances were intended to defray their travelling and other
incidental costs for attending Board, Board committees and shareholders’ meetings.
The Board had accepted the RC’s proposal as it opined that it is fair and reasonable.
Notice Of 19Th Annual General Meeting
(cont’d)
133
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Explanatory Notes (Cont’d)
5. Ordinary Resolution 4 - Re-election of Director pursuant to Article 106 of the Constitution
Article 106 of the Constitution expressly states that at every AGM, at least one-third of the Directors for the
time being, or the number nearest to one-third, shall retire from office. The said Article also states that all
Directors shall retire from office at least once in every three (3) years and that if there is only one (1) Director
who is subjected to retirement by rotation, he/she shall retire. All Directors who retire from office shall be
eligible for re-election.
Mr. Ng Min Lin (Mr. Ng) being eligible, has offered himself for re-election at this AGM pursuant to Article 106
of the Constitution.
Mr. Ng had undergone an annual assessment on their performance and contribution for FYE 2024 by the
Nomination Committee (NC) and based on the assessment, the Board recommends his re-election. He had
abstained from all deliberation and decision on his eligibility to stand for re-election at the relevant NC and/
or Board meetings and will continue to abstain from all deliberation and decision on their eligibility to stand
for re-election at this AGM.
Datuk Lim Si Cheng who is due to retire pursuant to Article 106 of the Constitution, has intimated his intention
of not seeking re-election. Hence, he will remain in office until the conclusion of this AGM.
6. Ordinary Resolution 5 - Appointment of auditors
Pursuant to Section 273(b) of the CA 2016, the term of office of the present auditors, Messrs. Morison LC
PLT (Morison), shall lapse at the conclusion of this AGM unless they are reappointed by the shareholders to
continue in office. Morison, have indicated their willingness to be appointed as auditors for the financial year
ending 30 June 2025. The appointment of Morison as auditors has been considered by the ARMC, against
the relevant criteria prescribed by Rule 15.21 of the AMLR.
This Ordinary Resolution 5, if passed, will also give the Directors, the authority to determine the remuneration
of the auditors.
7. Ordinary Resolution 6 - Authority to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the CA
2016
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 6 is proposed for the purpose of renewing the general mandate for
issuance of shares by the Company under Sections 75 and 76 of the CA 2016. The proposed Ordinary
Resolution 6, if passed, will give the Directors of the Company authority to allot and issue shares at any time
to such persons in their absolute discretion without convening a general meeting provided that the aggregate
number of the shares issued does not exceed 10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company.
The Proposed General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company to raise additional funds expeditiously
and efficiently during this challenging time, to meet its funding requirements including but not limited to
funding future investment project(s), working capital and/or acquisitions.
By approving the allotment and issue of the Company’s shares pursuant to the Proposed General Mandate
which will rank the equally with the existing issued shares in the Company, the shareholders of the Company
are deemed to have waived their pre-emptive rights pursuant to Section 85 of the CA 2016 and Article 52
of the Constitution of the Company to be first offered the Company’s Shares which will result in a dilution to
their shareholdings percentage in the Company.
As at the date of this notice, no shares had been allotted and issued since the general mandate granted to
the Directors at the last AGM held on 29 November 2023 and this authority will lapse as the conclusion of
this AGM of the Company.
The Board, having considered the current and prospective financial position, needs and capacity of the Group,
is of the opinion that the Proposed General Mandate is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders.
Notice Of 19Th Annual General Meeting
(cont’d)
134
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Explanatory Notes (Cont’d)
8. Personal Data Privacy
By registering for the meeting via remote participation and electronic voting and/or submitting an instrument
appointing proxy(ies) and/or representatives to attend, speak and vote at the AGM and/or any adjournment
thereof, a member of the Company: (i) consents to the processing of the member’s personal data by the
Company (or its agents): (a) for processing and administration of proxies and representatives appointed for
the AGM; (b) for preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating
to the AGM (which includes any adjournments thereof); and (c) for the Company’s (or its agents) compliance
with any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively the Purpose); (ii) warrants
that he/she has obtained such proxy(ies)’ and/or representative(s)’ prior consent for the Company’s (or its
agents’) processing of such proxy(ies)’ and/or representative(s)’ personal data for the Purposes; and (iii)
agrees that the member will indemnify the Company for any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses
and damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty.
Note: The term “processing” and “personal data” shall have the meaning as defined in the Personal Data
Protection Act, 2010.
Notice Of 19Th Annual General Meeting
(cont’d)
135
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2024
1. Further details of individuals who are standing for election as Directors (excluding Directors standing for re-
election)
No individual is seeking election as Director at the forthcoming 19th AGM.
2. Proposed General mandate for issue of securities in accordance with Rule 6.04(3) of the AMLR
The details of the proposed authority for Directors to issue shares in the Company pursuant to Sections 75
and 76 of the CA 2016 are set out in Explanatory Note 7 of the Notice of AGM.
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
PURSUANT TO RULE 8.29(2) OF THE AMLR
This page has been intentionally left blank
✄
I/We, ____________________________________________ CDS Account No. ________________________________________
of ________________________________________________________________________________________________________
being a Member/Members of MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD, hereby appoint ________________________________________
_____________________________________________________ of __________________________________________________
______________________________________________ or failing him/her, ____________________________________________
of ________________________________________________________________________________________________________
or failing him/her, the Chairman of the Meeting as my/our proxy to vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the 19th Annual
General Meeting (AGM) of the Company to be held at Balai Tunku Abdul Rahman, The Royal Commonwealth Society, No.
4, Jalan Birah, Damansara Heights, 50490 Kuala Lumpur, W.P. Kuala Lumpur on Tuesday, 26 November 2024 at 9.00
a.m. and at any adjournment thereof. My/Our proxy is to vote as indicated below:
Ordinary Business
Ordinary
Resolutions For Against
1. To approve the payment of a Final Single Tier Dividend of 0.1 sen per
ordinary share for the financial year ended 2024
Resolution 1
2. To approve the payment of the Directors’ fees from the conclusion of the
19th AGM until the conclusion of the next AGM on the basis as set out in
the Notice of this AGM
Resolution 2
3. To approve the payment of daily meeting attendance allowance to the
Non-Executive Directors from the conclusion of the 19th AGM until the
conclusion of the next AGM
Resolution 3
4. To re-elect Mr. Ng Min Lin as Director Resolution 4
5. To appoint Messrs Morison LC PLT as auditors of the Company for the
financial year ending 30 June 2025 at such remuneration to be determined
by the Directors
Resolution 5
Special Business
6. To authorise the Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections 75
and 76 of the Companies Act 2016
Resolution 6
(Please indicate with a “x” as to how you wish your vote/s to be cast. If no specific direction as to voting is given, the proxy
will vote or abstain from voting at his/her discretion).
Where two (2) proxies are appointed, please indicate below the proportion of your shareholdings to be represented by
each proxy.
First named proxy_______________ % Second named proxy_______________ %
Dated this_____________ day of ________________ , 2024
____________________________________________________________________
Signature
(If shareholder is a corporation, this part should be executed under seal)
Notes:
1. A depositor shall not be regarded as a member entitled to attend this AGM or at any adjournment thereof and to speak and vote thereat unless his/her/
its name appears on the Record of Depositors as at 18 November 2024 (which is not less than three clear market days before the date of this AGM)
issued by Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. (Bursa Depository) in accordance with the rules of Bursa Depository.
2. A member who is a holder of 2 or more shares shall be entitled to appoint up to 2 proxies to attend and vote at this AGM. Where a member appoints 2
proxies, the appointments shall be invalid unless he/she/it specifies the proportions of his/her/its holdings to be represented by each proxy. Provided
that having appointed a proxy to attend in his/her/its stead, if such member personally attends this AGM, his/her/its proxy shall be precluded from the
meeting.
3. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company and there shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy.
4. Where a member is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991 (SICDA), it may appoint at least 1
proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
5. Where a member is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account
(omnibus account) as defined under SICDA, there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of
each omnibus account it holds.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or his/her attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointor
is a corporation, either under its common seal or signed by an officer or attorney so authorised.
7. The Form of Proxy and the duly completed instrument appointing a proxy or the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed
or a notarially certified copy of that power or authority must be lodged at the Company’s Registered Office at A3-3-8, No. 1, Jalan Dutamas, Solaris
Dutamas, 50480 Kuala Lumpur, W.P. Kuala Lumpur or fax to 03-6413 3270 or email to infosr@wscs.com.my not less than forty-eight (48) hours before
the time appointed for holding this AGM or at any adjournment meeting at which the person named in the instrument, proposes to vote or, in the case
of a poll, not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll, otherwise the person so named shall not be entitled
to vote in respect thereof.
8. Pursuant to Rule 8.31A(1) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all resolutions set out in the Notice of this AGM
shall be put to vote by poll.
Personal Data Privacy
By submitting an instrument appointing proxy(ies) and/or representative(s), the member accepts and agrees to the personal data privacy terms set out in the
Notice of AGM dated 30 October 2024.
FORM OF PROXY Number of ordinary shares held
AFFIX
STAMP
Fold this flap for sealing
Then fold here
1st fold here
The Company Secretary
MAG HOLDINGS BERHAD
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
A3-3-8, No. 1, Jalan Dutamas
Solaris Dutamas
50480 Kuala Lumpur
W. P. Kuala Lumpur
MAG Holdings Berhad
Registration No. 200401004611 (643114-X)
Registered Office
A3-3-8, Solaris Dutamas, No. 1, Jalan Dutamas 1
50480 Kuala Lumpur, W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel : +603-6413 3271 Fax : +603-6413 3270
Principle Place of Business
B-03-12, Gateway Corporate Suites
Gateway Kiaramas, No. 1, Jalan Desa Kiara, Mont Kiara
50480 Kuala Lumpur, W.P. Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel : +603-6419 1385 Fax : +603-6419 1386
www.magholdings.com.my
