ANNUAL REPORT
2022
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Registration No. 201101021398 (949536-X)
(Incorporated in Malaysia under the Companies Act, 1965)
Contents
50 Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control
53 Audit Committee Report
56 Additional Compliance Information
58 Financial Statements
166 List of Properties
168 Analysis of Shareholdings
171 Analysis of ICPS Shareholdings
174 Notice of Twelfth (12th) Annual General Meeting
Enclosed Proxy Form
2 About Bioalpha
4 Bioalpha’s Core Values
5 Corporate Information
6 Corporate Structure
7 Financial Highlights
9 Profiles of Directors   
17 Management Discussion and Analysis   
25 Sustainability Statement
32 Corporate Governance Overview Statements
49 Statement of Directors’ Responsibility
Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“Bioalpha” or “the Company”)
is an investment holding company with its subsidiaries (“the
Group”) principally involved in manufacturing and sale of health
supplement products. Founded in 2005, Bioalpha has grown to
become an integrated health supplement company with businesses
comprising all segments of the supply chain, including the cultivation
of herbal plants as a source of raw materials for the in-house production
of its products, research and development (“R&D”), manufacturing,
distribution and operating a retail pharmacy chain under the brand
“Constant”. The Group’s health supplement products are manufactured and
sold under original design manufacturing (“ODM”) basis to its clients as well
as under its own proprietary house brands. All of Bioalpha’s health supplement
products are Halal-certified and are sold in Malaysia with Indonesia and China as
main export markets.
A B O U T
BIOALPHA
Agriculture
To secure the quality, supply and
pricing of our raw materials via
ownership of herb farms and
undertaking related R&D activities.
Shareholders
To build industry leading shareholder
value through revenue diversification,
cost optimisation and appropriate
investment policies.
Corporate Governance
To be a responsible corporate
citizen that embraces integrity,
ethics and exemplary corporate
governance to deliver value to our
stakeholders.
Products
To continuously improve and expand
the quality and range of our products
for total health and wellness.
Distribution & Retail
To develop our competency
in health supplements retail
via strategic partnerships and
investments. To engage with
customers through various
channels.
People
To create a conducive and
rewarding working environment
by promoting teamwork, creativity,
integrity and performance.
Customers
To address our customers’ needs
by being proactive, innovative and
exceeding all expectations.
To be commercially-minded and
customer-driven in the area of
product development.
Certification & Accreditation
To achieve international
recognition in product R&D, herb
planting and production processes.
R&D
To continuously improve our
extraction methodologies and
to discover new medicinal
mushroom species and herbs for
commercialisation.
R&D (cont’d)
To reinforce research collaboration
and strategic partnerships with
local and regional experts in the
fields of biotechnology and herbal
supplements related research.
To be technologically-driven,
innovative and cost-conscious
in the development of new
fermentation techniques,
production and cultivation
methods.
Regional Expansion
To expand our regional footprint via
strategic partnerships and mergers
& acquisitions.
Branding
To strengthen our brand by
delivering effective and innovative
products, building consumer
awareness and appropriate
market positioning.
VISION
As a regional health supplement group
to improve the total well-being of people
through innovative culture, and the adoption
of technology and best practices in research,
products and human capital development.
MISSION
To increase the breadth and depth of our
integrated business model by capitalising on
emerging opportunities and being risk-sensitive.
A b o u t B i oa l p h a
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
3
bioalpha's core values
iACT
INNOVATION
Think ahead and
offer new ideas.
CUSTOMER FOCUS
Deliver products & services
with benefits to customers for
maximal satisfaction.
TEAMWORK
Inter-department working
relationship to be smooth in
order to achieve the target.
Communication is essential to
our organisation.
ACCOUNTABILITY
Ownership towards our task
and ensuring the best results
for ourselves and others.
bioalpha’s
core values
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
4
Board of Directors
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed
Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Hon Tian Kok @ William
Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer
Datuk Chong Loong Men
Executive Director
Ho Tze Hiung
Executive Director
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah
Independent Non-Executive Director
Kang Jimmi
Independent Non-Executive Director
Yee Yit Yang
Independent Non-Executive Director
Goh Siow Cheng
Group Chief Financial Officer/
Finance Director
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah
(Chairman)
Kang Jimmi
Yee Yit Yang
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Kang Jimmi (Chairman)
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah
Yee Yit Yang
RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
Yee Yit Yang (Chairman)
Ho Tze Hiung
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah
INVESTMENT COMMITEE
Ho Tze Hiung (Chairman)
Datuk Chong Loong Men
Goh Siow Cheng
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Kang Jimmi (Chairman)
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah
Yee Yit Yang
share issuance
scheme (“sis”) option
committee
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin
Bin Syed Salim (Chairman)
Hon Tian Kok @ William
Ho Tze Hiung
Goh Siow Cheng
Company Secretaries
Tan Tong Lang (MAICSA 7045482)
(PC No. 202208000250)
Thien Lee Mee (LS0010621)
(PC No. 201908002254)
Registered Office
B-21-1, Level 21, Tower B,
Northpoint Mid Valley City,
No. 1, Medan Syed Putra Utara,
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel. No. : (603) 9770 2200
Fax No. : (603) 9770 2239
PRINCIPAL Banker
OCBC Bank (Malaysia) Berhad
Menara OCBC,
18, Jalan Tun Perak,
50050 Kuala Lumpur
Tel. No. : (603) 2034 5251
Fax No. : (603) 2698 4363
HEAD OFFICE
No. 1, Jalan Perindustrian Suntrack,
Hub Perindustrian Suntrack,
Off Jalan P1A, Seksyen 13,
Bandar Baru Bangi, 43000 Kajang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel. No. : (603) 8922 2286
Fax. No. : (603) 8922 2287
Email : info@bioa.com.my
Website : www.bioa.com.my
Auditors
CHENGCO PLT
Wisma Cheng & Co,
No 8-2 & 10-2, Jalan 2/114,
Kuchai Business Centre,
58200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel. No. : (603) 2242 3780    
Fax. No. : (603) 2242 2780
Share Registrar
Boardroom Share Registrars
Sdn Bhd
11th Floor, Menara Symphony,
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13,
46200 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor
Tel. No. : (603) 7890 4700
Fax. No. : (603) 7890 4670
STOCK EXCHANGE
LISTING
Ordinary Shares
ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
Stock Name: BIOHLDG
Stock Code: 0179
ICPS
Stock Name: BIOHLDG-PA
Stock Code: 0179PA
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
5
BIOALPHA (HAINAN)
DEVELOPMENT
LTD
(China)
77%
CORPORATE
structure
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY (AMPANG) SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT MANAGEMENT SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY (DESA TASIK) SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT DYNAMIC SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY (KLANG) SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY (PUCHONG) SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY (SEA PARK) SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY (TAMAN DESA) SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY (TTDI) SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
BIOALPHA
(HK) LIMITED
(Hong Kong)
100%
BIOALPHA R&D
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
BIOALPHA
WELLNESS
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
BIOALPHA
INTERNATIONAL
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
BOTANICAL
DISTRIBUTION
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
MEDICONSTANT
HOLDING
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
BIOALPHA
(HAINAN) HEALTH
BIOTECHNOLOGY
LTD
(China)
100%
BIOALPHA (HK)
INVESTMENT
LIMITED
(Hong Kong)
100%
PT HERBAL
MALINDO
MAKMUR
(Indonesia)
60%
BIOALPHA
AGRO SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
72%
BIOALPHA
(JOHOR HERBAL)
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
70%
SUZHOU BIOMEDIC
BIOTECHNOLOGY
CO. LTD
(China)
81%
RS BIO SDN BHD
(FKA ALPHACARE
SDN BHD)
(Malaysia)
51%
BIOALPHA
EAST COAST
AGRO SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
BHK DEVELOPMENT
LIMITED
(Hong Kong)
100%
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
6
FINANCIAL
HIGHLIGHTS
For Financial
Year Ended
31/12/22
RM
For Financial
Year Ended
31/12/21
RM
For Financial
Year Ended
31/12/20
RM
Financial Results
Revenue 35,796,829 96,719,364 36,462,419
EBITDA (36,418,300) 9,631,282 (28,306,919)
Loss before taxation (48,829,663) (2,772,090) (41,452,433)
Loss after taxation (48,793,678) (1,524,496) (42,224,447)
Net loss attributable to:
Owners of the parent (47,830,550) (1,286,499) (41,148,447)
Non-controlling interests (963,128) (237,997)    (1,076,000)
Financial Position
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 59,427,489 71,587,396 63,604,405
Goodwill on consolidation 5,334,030 5,334,030 5,384,030
Intangible assets 51,810,908 50,938,236 46,623,238
Biological assets 175,000 691,731 693,391
Other assets 83,902,177 88,912,099 69,838,378
Total assets 200,649,604 217,463,492 186,143,442
Equity
Share capital 179,939,010 153,233,258 135,824,495
ICPS 9,141,569 9,141,569 -
Reserves    (21,222,103) 24,299,391 25,096,474
Total equity attributable to
owners of the company 167,858,476 186,674,218 160,920,969
Non-controlling interests 128,601 (335,548) (1,380,060)
Liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 7,310,126 7,455,396 8,713,379
Lease liabilities 4,723,945 5,204,224 5,376,233
Bank borrowings 6,951,968 9,343,023 6,277,659
Other liabilities 13,676,488 9,122,179 6,235,262
Total equity and liabilities 200,649,604 217,463,492 186,143,442
Weighted average no. of ordinary shares 1,260,849,697 1,155,508,426 973,498,643
Financial Indicators
Earnings per share (sen) (3.80) (0.11) (4.23)
Net assets per share (RM) 0.13 0.16 0.16
Return on equity (%) (28.49) (0.69)   (25.57)
Share price as at financial year end (RM) 0.105 0.190 0.280
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
7
PROFILES OF
DIRECTORS
Academician Emeritus Professor Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed
Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim (“Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed
Jalaludin”) was appointed to our Board on 8 July 2014.
Subsequently, he re-designated from Independent
Non-Executive Director to Independent Non-Executive
Chairman on 25 January 2022. He is also the Chairman
of SIS Option Committee and the Chairman of Risk
Management Committee.
He graduated with a Bachelor’s of Veterinary Science
from the University of Punjab in 1967, followed by
a Master of Philosophy and a Doctor of Philosophy
(PhD) from the University of London, United Kingdom
in 1969 and 1977 respectively. He was also conferred
seven (7) honorary degrees, namely Doctor of Science
from University of Hull in 1999, Doctor, Honoraris Causa
from Soka University in 2000, Doctor of Agriculture
Technology from Thaksin University in 2005, Doctor of
Science from Open Universiti Malaysia in 2007, Doctor
of Engineering from Universiti Malaysia Perlis in 2008,
Doctor of Veterinary Medicine University of Malaysia
Kelantan in 2015 and Doctor of Arts, Eastern Asia
University in 2020.
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin began his career as
an assistant lecturer in the Faculty of Agriculture in
University of Malaya in 1969. He later joined Universiti
Putra Malaysia (“UPM”) as a lecturer in the Faculty of
Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science in 1975 before
retiring as Vice Chancellor of UPM in 2001. During his
academic career, he was bestowed with the National
Science Laureate in 1993 and National Academic
Laureate in 2008. He is also a founder and senior fellow
(which carries the title of academician) of the Academy
of Sciences Malaysia. Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin
has also been conferred Emeritus Professorship by
Universiti Terengganu Malaysia and UPM. He is still
active in the academic sector as Pro Chancellor of
the Board of Directors of UPM and Chairman of Asia
TAN SRI DATO’
DR. SYED JALALUDIN
BIN SYED SALIM
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Chairman and Share Issuance Scheme (“SIS”)
Option Committee
Aged Nationality Gender
79 Malaysian Male
eUniversity. In addition, he is the Chairman of Board of
Governors of University College Fairview and he is also
the Chancellor of Taylor’s University. He is a member of
the Executive Committee and Governing Board of the
International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance
(“INCEIF”).
He is also an Independent Non-Executive Chairman
of SL Innovation Capital Berhad and PT Resources
Holdings Berhad.
He has no family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company, has never been
convicted of any offence within the past 5 years other
than traffic offences, if any, and does not have any
conflict of interest with the Company. He has never
been imposed with any public sanction or penalty by
the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 31 December 2022.
He has informed the Company that he does not wish
to seek for re-election. He will retain office until the
conclusion of the 12th Annual General Meeting and will
retire in accordance with Clause 105(1) of the Company’s
Constitution.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
9
profil es o f d irecto rs
(cont’d)
Mr. Hon Tian Kok @ William (“Mr. William Hon”) is
our Founder, Substantial Shareholder, Promoter and
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer. He was
appointed to our Board on 21 June 2011 and also a
member of SIS Option Committee. He is responsible
for overseeing our Group’s performance and strategic
direction.Mr.WilliamHonobtainedhisqualificationfrom
the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants in
1998 and has been a member of the Malaysia Institute
of Accountants since 2002.
Mr. William Hon has an extensive background and
experience in Finance, Audit, Strategic Planning,
Marketing, International Business Relations and
Biotechnology industry.
He began his career as an Auditor with an accounting
firm in 1995 and later joined commercial company as an
Assistant Finance Manager in the same year. In 1998,
he joined an educational and business consultancy
firm, as a Consultant. He subsequently left and joined
a public listed company in 2000 as Vice President of
Business Development, where he was responsible
for identifying and/or assessing new business
HON TIAN KOK @ WILLIAM
Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer
Member of SIS Option Committee
Aged Nationality Gender
47 Malaysian Male
opportunities for the group in the property investment
and development industry as well as other new
ventures such as biotechnology. In 2003, he worked as
a freelance consultant with a few companies, including
companies in the healthcare industry, during which he
gained further knowledge of the biotechnology industry
and enabled him to establish Bialpha International Sdn.
Bhd. (“BISB”) in 2005.
He does not hold any directorship in any other public
companies and listed issuers.
He has no family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company, has never been
convicted of any offence within the past 5 years other
than traffic offences, if any, and does not have any
conflict of interest with the Company. He has never
been imposed with any public sanction or penalty by
the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 31 December 2022.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
10
Datuk Chong Loong Men (“Datuk Chong”) was
appointed to the Board on 1 June 2022 as an Executive
Director. He is also a member of Investment Committee.
Datuk Chong graduated from the University of London
(external) with a Bachelor in Law (LLB). In addition, he
possessed a Certificate of Legal Practice and a higher
diploma in Quantity Surveying.
Datuk Chong started his career with the Attorney
General’s Chambers as Deputy Public Prosecutor before
joining the Enforcement Division of the Securities
Commission Malaysia in 2007. He started his private
practice as a lawyer in 2011 with Messrs. Lim, Chong,
Phang & Amy, Advocates & Solicitors, a legal firm that
he co-founded. Subsequently, he had also co-founded
Messrs. Chong + Kheng Hoe. He was a partner of
Messrs. Chong + Kheng Hoe until he took a sabbatical
leave from legal practice since 30 July 2022.
He has vast experience in commercial crimes including
corporate and accounting fraud, market manipulation,
corruption and criminal breach of trust and corporate
disputes. He also has vast experience in advising listed
companiesonforeignandlocalstockexchangeinlisting,
rights issues, private placements, acquisitions and
other corporate transactions. Datuk Chong experiences
include helping clients who may be facing significant
and unusual challenges, including governance disputes,
regulatory and other business crises.
DATUK CHONG LOONG MEN
Executive Director
Member of Investment Committee
Aged Nationality Gender
44 Malaysian Male
Datuk Chong currently sits on the Board of LKL
International Berhad, Vizione Holdings Berhad and
Parlo Berhad.
He has no family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company, has never been
convicted of any offence within the past 5 years other
than traffic offences, if any, and does not have any
conflict of interest with the Company. He has never
been imposed with any public sanction or penalty by
the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 31 December 2022.
p ro f i l e s o f d i r e c to r s
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
11
profil es o f d irecto rs
(cont’d)
Mr. Ho Tze Hiung is our Executive Director and was
appointed to our Board on 21 June 2011. As our
Operations Director, he is responsible overseeing the
Group’s production operations. He is the member
of the SIS Option Committee and Risk Management
Committee and the Chairman of the Investment
Committee.
Mr. Ho Tze Hiung completed his Bachelor of Business,
majoring in Business and Management from Oxford
Brooks University in 1999 and began his career as a
Marketing Executive in the same year. In 2000, he joined
a seafood processing industry as a Sales Supervisor.
In 2002, he became a Operations Manager in a grocery
and frozen food wholesale company. He subsequently
joined a multinational insurance company as a Trainer in
2003. In 2004, he joined a health supplement company
as a Marketing Manager. Subsequently in 2005, he
joined Bioalpha International Sdn. Bhd. (“BISB”) as a
Marketing Director and was promoted to Operations
Director in 2012.
HO TZE HIUNG
Executive Director
Chairman of Investment Committee
Member of Risk Management Committee and
SIS Option Committee
Aged Nationality Gender
46 Malaysian Male
He does not hold any directorship in any other public
companies and listed issuers.
He has no family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company, has never been
convicted of any offence within the past 5 years other
than traffic offences, if any, and does not have any
conflict of interest with the Company. He has never
been imposed with any public sanction or penalty by
the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 31 December 2022.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
12
En. Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah (“En. Mohd Nasir”) was
appointed to our Board on 12 February 2015. He is
the Chairman of the Audit Committee and member
of the Nomination Committee and Risk Management
Committee.
En. Mohd Nasir obtained his Diploma in Accountancy
from Universiti Teknologi MARA in 1989 and
subsequently graduated with a Bachelor of Accountancy
(Hons) from the same university in 1996. He is a
member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
since 1996 and the Malaysian Association of Tax
Accountants since 2012. He is a licensed tax agent from
Ministry of Finance since 2017. En. Mohd Nasir began
his career with Sahir & Co, an accounting firm, as an
Audit Associate in 1989 where he gained his first audit
experience. He later joined Lembaga Tabung Angkatan
Tentera as Finance Officer in 1992 and Arastu Sdn Bhd
as Finance Manager in 1997. In 1998, he left to join
KuantanPortConsortiumSdnBhdasaFinanceManager
and later assumed the role of Internal Audit Manager
in 2000. In 2005, he joined NACC Corporate Services
Sdn Bhd as a Director where he was responsible for
the accounting, secretarial and management services.
He subsequently joined two (2) accounting firms, Wan
Ali Jaafar & Associates as a Senior Associate in 2008
and AT Konsortium as an Audit Manager in 2012, to
further gain his audit experience. With his accounting
and audit background, En. Mohd Nasir established
MN Associates, an accounting firm which provides
accounting, secretarial and management services, in
2013.
MOHD NASIR BIN ABDULLAH
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman of Audit Committee
Member of Nomination Committee,
Remuneration Committee and
Risk Management Committee
Aged Nationality Gender
57 Malaysian Male
He does not hold any directorship in any other public
companies and listed issuers.
He has no family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company, has never been
convicted of any offence within the past 5 years other
than traffic offences, if any, and does not have any
conflict of interest with the Company. He has never
been imposed with any public sanction or penalty by
the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 31 December 2022.
He has informed the Company that he does not wish
to seek for re-election. He will retain office until the
conclusion of the 12th Annual General Meeting and will
retire in accordance with Clause 105(1) of the Company’s
Constitution.
p ro f i l e s o f d i r e c to r s
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
13
profil e o f d irecto rs
(cont’d)
Mr. Kang Jimmi was appointed to our Board as
Independent Non-Executive Director on 22 May 2020
and subsequently, he was appointed as Chairman of
Nomination and Remuneration Committee on 1 June
2022. He graduated with Bachelor of Science from
Binus University, Jakarta.
Currently, Mr. Kang Jimmi as a founder and lead a
company listed in the Indonesian Stock Exchange. He
leads for operation and maintenance for Powerplant
Company with total capacity 42 MW including Diesel
PowerplantandMinihydroPowerplant.Heisexperienced
as a leader in IPP Development Processes which
require experience in cross-functional management
skills with hundreds of employees, in addition with deep
knowledge of utility power plant infrastructure system
as well as producing good financial results for the
company. His background focus established strategic
partnership with others party and/or company.
KANG JIMMI
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman of Nomination Committee and
Remuneration Committee
Member of Audit Committee
Aged Nationality Gender
43 Indonesian Male
He does not hold any directorship in any other public
companies and listed issuers.
He has no family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company, has never been
convicted of any offence within the past 5 years other
than traffic offences, if any, and does not have any
conflict of interest with the Company. He has never
been imposed with any public sanction or penalty by
the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 31 December 2022.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
14
p ro f i l e s o f d i r e c to r s
(cont’d)
Mr. Yee Yit Yang (“Mr. Yee”) was appointed to our
Board as an Independent Non-Executive Director on
1 June 2022. He also a member of Audit Committee,
Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee.
He is a member of the Australian CPA and Malaysia
Institute of Accountants. He graduated with Bachelor of
Economics (Major: Accounting & Finance) from Latrobe
University, Australia.
He began his career with Deloitte Tohmatsu, an
international accounting firm upon his graduation in
Australia in 1990. After spending approximately 3 years
with them, he joined the corporate finance division
of Affin Investment Bank in which he was involved in
various assignments, such as IPO, regional mergers
and acquisitions as well as fund raising for both listed
and non-listed companies. After approximately 7 years
with Affin Investment Bank, he left to join a leading
listed supermarket chain stores in Malaysia as Head
of Corporate Planning. During his tenure with them,
he was instrumental in raising the corporate profile by
raising funds for the purpose of acquisition of related
businesses. In 2008, he left the Group to join another
listed company, which is principally involved in property
investment and health care business as Head of
Corporate Finance. During his stay with them, he had
completed a fund-raising exercise for the purpose of
consolidating the property investment division as well
as the acquisition of a renowned healthcare company
based in USA.
YEE YIT YANG
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman of Risk Management Committee
Member of Audit Committee,
Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee
Aged Nationality Gender
56 Malaysian Male
Currently, Mr. Yee is involved in a private corporate
consultancy business. He also sits on the board of
AE Multi Holdings Berhad, Key Alliance Group Berhad,
Brahim’s Holdings Berhad and Joe Holding Berhad as
Independent and Non-Executive Director.
He has no family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company, has never been
convicted of any offence within the past 5 years other
than traffic offences, if any, and does not have any
conflict of interest with the Company. He has never
been imposed with any public sanction or penalty by
the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 31 December 2022.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
15
profil es o f d irecto rs
(cont’d)
Ms. Goh Siow Cheng (“Ms. Goh”) was appointed to
our Board on 6 March 2020. Ms Goh is the Group Chief
Financial Officer of Bioalpha and has been working with
the Group since 2014. She also a member of SIS Option
Committee and Investment Committee.  
She graduated with Bachelor of Business (Accounting
& Finance) from University of Technology Sydney,
Australia and a member of CPA Australia.
She is one of the key senior staff who is involved in the
listing exercise of the Group. She has responsibly and
effectively led her team to take on various corporate
exercises, investment and acquisition projects for the
Group.
Ms. Goh has more than 10 years of experience in audit
and assurance from a large international accounting
firm where she was involved in audits for both private
limited companies and public listed companies across
various industries, including manufacturing, trading,
property development, information technology and
plantation.
Aged Nationality Gender
41 Malaysian Female
She does not hold any directorship in any other public
companies and listed issuers.
She has no family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company, has never been
convicted of any offence within the past 5 years other
than traffic offences, if any, and does not have any
conflict of interest with the Company. She has never
been imposed with any public sanction or penalty by
the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
ended 31 December 2022.
GOH SIOW CHENG
Group Chief Financial Officer/Finance Director
Member of SIS Option Committee and
Investment Committee
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
16
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
Dear Valued Shareholders,
I am pleased to present the Management Discussion and Analysis (“MD&A”) of
Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“Bioalpha” or “the Group”) for the financial year ended
31 December 2022 (“FY2022”), providing insights into Bioalpha’s financial and
operational performance during the year, as well as our prospects for 2023.
ECONOMIC LANDSCAPE
In 2022, global economies started to recover and regained momentum as the effects of the COVID-19 dissipated
with countries re-opening borders and adapting to the new normal. Nonetheless, the onset of the Russia-Ukraine
conflict disrupted global supply chains, pushing energy and goods prices upwards. This presented a new set of
challenges for businesses, contributing to a soft macroeconomic landscape. Against this backdrop, the global
economy grew by an estimated 3.4% in 2022 according to the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”).
Zooming into Malaysia, we entered the transition-into-endemic phase from 1 April 2022 onwards with the easing of
lockdown restrictions, which saw the re-opening of international borders and resumption of most businesses. As a
result of the increased activities, Malaysia’s gross domestic product (“GDP”) expanded by 8.7% in 2022, exceeding
the previous year’s economic growth of 3.1%.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
17
ECONOMIC LANDSCAPE (CONT’D)
Over in China, which is Bioalpha’s other key market, GDP grew by 3.0% in 2022 based on figures published by
the National Bureau of Statistics of China. This was lower than the initial forecast of 5.5%, mainly due to the
implementation of strict COVID-19 measures with restricted travel and business activities across the country. On
a brighter note, China began relaxing its restrictions in December 2022, before reversing its zero-COVID policy
altogether in January 2023, allowing economic sectors to resume operations.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW AND HIGHLIGHTS
Founded in 2015, Bioalpha is an integrated nutraceutical and health supplement group with businesses covering
all segments of the value chain, from the cultivation of herbal raw materials to research & development (“R&D”),
manufacturing of nutritional and healthcare products, trading, distribution, and retail pharmacy operations under
Constant Pharmacy chain.
Herbal Farming
Bioalpha engages in upstream planting activities to ensure a consistent supply of raw materials for the Group’s
in-house production of herbal-based health supplements offerings. Our farming operations are undertaken at the
Group’s two herbal parks in Pasir Raja, Terengganu, and Desaru, Johor. Both parks are accredited with the Malaysian
Good Agriculture Practices (“MyGAP”) certification by the Ministry of Agriculture and Food Security (“MAFS”),
confirming that our processes meet the required standard of quality, safety and sustainability.
A wide variety of herbs and spices are grown at the herbal parks, including Tongkat Ali, Kacip Fatimah, Misai Kucing,
Hempedu Bumi, roselle, and soursop, to name a few. By sourcing raw materials from our own parks, we are able to
maintain strict quality control standards, from planting to harvesting and processing.
The Group’s planting activities are carried out according to the established standard operating procedures (“SOPs”),
encompassing various aspects such as the type of fertilisers used, harvesting methods and avoiding pesticide
usage, among others. We also make a conscious effort to minimise environmental impact by using organic
alternatives for chemicals used in the farming process.
MANAGE M E NT D ISCUSSIO N A N D A N A LYSIS
(cont’d)
Research & Development (“R&D”)
R&D is at the heart of what we do at Bioalpha. Our in-house R&D team is committed to
creating and customising formulations to meet the specific needs of the Group’s customers.
These R&D activities are conducted at the Group’s laboratory, which boasts internationally
recognised ISO 9001 standards. To date, we have produced more than 300 proprietary
formulations that serve as the foundation to develop the Group’s health supplement
products.
In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, we are seeing greater awareness amongst the public on the importance
of maintaining good health. Recognising this shift in consumer behaviour, Bioalpha focused on rolling out new
formulations in sought-after categories, including immunity. This allows us to capture the growing demand for
health products, whilst contributing to improving public health.
At the same time, we continue to pursue commercialisation of formulations in China to leverage on the significant
market potential there.
Processing and Manufacturing
The Group’s manufacturing operations are conducted at our main manufacturing plant in Bangi, Selangor, as well
as at our second plant in Semenyih, Selangor.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
18
M AN AGE ME N T D ISCUSSION A N D A N A LYSIS
(cont’d)
BUSINESS OVERVIEW AND HIGHLIGHTS (CONT’D)
Processing and Manufacturing (Cont’d)
The primary plant in Bangi has the capacity to manufacture a diverse range of products, from health supplements to
functional foods. It boasts seven production lines with various output formats including sachet or liquid in sachets,  
teabag, capsule, tablet, blister, and bottle. Designed according to international standards, the Bangi facility ensures
our products meet rigorous health and safety standards and are of the highest quality.
The facility has been awarded several accreditations, including Good Manufacturing Practices (“GMP”), Hazard
Analysis and Critical Control Points (“HACCP”) and Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab Industri (“MeSTI”), along
with the Halal certification from the Department of Islamic Development Malaysia (“JAKIM”). The plant is also
registered with the United States Food and Drug Administration (“US FDA”), besides being accredited as a “Quality
and Safe Plant” by CAIQTEST Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. The latter validates that products manufactured at this plant is
safe and of quality to be exported to China.
In addition to our manufacturing operations, we also operate a Collection, Processing & Packaging Centre (“CPPC”)
at our herbal farm in Pasir Raja, and a primary processing plant in Desaru. These facilities allow us to process the
raw materials sourced from our own farms.
Trading
Bioalpha is involved in the supply of health food ingredients to Guizhou province, China. These ingredients are
utilised for the preparation of nutritional meals to be distributed to the public and private sectors in the province.
Following China’s relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions beginning of December 2022, the Group has gradually resumed
the delivery to customers.
The Group has localised operations in China to improve and streamline our processes in the country. We have
established an office in the Yangpu Economic Development Zone in the Hainan province to facilitate orders; a
warehouse and processing centre in Guizhou to store and expedite deliveries to customers; as well as procurement
teams in Guizhou and Hainan to source for high-quality ingredients. Through these efforts, we aim to deepen our
presence in the Chinese market and provide the best service to customers.
Products and Distribution
At Bioalpha, we produce a wide array of product offerings comprising herbal and non-herbal health supplements,
along with functional food products. These are mostly sold on Original Design Manufacturing (“ODM”) basis to our
commercial customers. Besides that, the Group has its own proprietary house brand, Apotec, where the products
are available for sale through our own retail pharmacy chain.
Malaysia
Locally, our priority remains on meeting the demands of our ODM customers, who are primarily renowned
multinational corporations in the health supplement industry. In 2022, we catered to our customers’ requirements
and commercialised a number of new products targeting various categories including general health; men’s and
women’s health; children’s nutrition; beauty & skin health; as well as anti-ageing.
China
We are committed on strengthening our presence in China with the planned commercialisation of new health
formulations to stimulate market demand. We remain positive on potential opportunities in China and intend to
leverage on our resources and infrastructure in the country to gain a foothold.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
19
The Group’s manufacturing of nutritional products segment generated turnover of RM12.7 million in FY2022,
against RM26.8 million in FY2021. The slower performance was mainly attributed to cautious order volume by
customers amid the uncertain economic environment. Within this segment, domestic manufacturing revenue came
in at RM10.7 million in FY2022.
Meanwhile, sales for our trading operations stood at RM10.9 million for the year under review (FY2021: RM55.5
million), as deliveries of health food ingredients to customers were hampered by China’s stringent COVID-19
restrictions.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW AND HIGHLIGHTS (CONT’D)
Retail Pharmacy
Bioalpha operates a retail pharmacy chain under the brand Constant
Pharmacy (“Constant”). With 10 outlets across Malaysia as at end-
2022, Constant Pharmacy is a full-fledged pharmacy chain serving the
surrounding local communities. At our pharmacies, we offer a broad
range of healthcare products, including prescription and over-the-counter
medications, vitamins and supplements, and personal care items. A licensed pharmacist is also available in every
outlet to provide personalised advice to customers. With a focus on convenience and accessibility, Constant is
committed to serve the communities we operate in.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW
Revenue
The operating landscape in FY2022 was rife with challenges, such as the prevailing geopolitical tensions, supply
chain disruptions, rising inflationary pressures and escalating raw material costs, among others. These factors had,
unfortunately, resulted in an adverse impact on the Group’s performance for the year under review.
Sales Mix by Segment
Manufacturing
35.5% Retail Pharmacy
34.0%
Trading
30.4%
Others
0.1%
For the year under review, Group revenue amounted
to RM35.8 million, as compared to RM96.7 million
in the preceding year (“FY2021”), on the back of
lower contributions across the Group’s three key
segments.
MANAGE M E NT D ISCUSSIO N A N D A N A LYSIS
(cont’d)
As for our retail pharmacy business,
revenue dipped to RM12.2 million
in FY2022 from RM14.4 million
a year ago. This is primarily due
to major shortages in various
prescription and over-the-counter
drugs in Malaysia, which affected
our pharmacy sales.
In terms of segmental breakdown,
contributions from the three
divisions are fairly balanced. The
Group’s manufacturing arm made
up 35.5% of FY2022 revenue,
followed closely by the retail
pharmacy operations at 34.0%, with
the trading division contributing
30.4%, and the remaining 0.1% is
from other services.
Group Revenue FY2022
RM
35.8million
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
20
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW (CONT’D)
Gross Loss
In FY2022, the Group recorded a gross loss of RM6.0 million, as compared to a gross profit of RM14.1 million in
the prior year. Besides the lower revenue base, our financial performance was also dragged by higher cost of sales
amounting to RM41.8 million during the year.
Net Loss Attributable to Owners of the Company (“Net Loss”)
During the year, we conducted a review on the economic value of our assets and in consultation with our auditors,
made a careful decision to recognize several one-time impairments to reflect more accurately the revenue-
generating ability of the assets. This was also in accordance with current accounting practice. We believe such
efforts are necessary to reset our financial position and create a more stable foundation for future growth.
All these aforementioned factors culminated in Bioalpha registering a net loss of RM47.8 million in FY2022 against
a net loss of RM1.3 million a year ago. The one-off impairments amounted to RM19.2 million, which included the
allowance for expected credit losses on trade receivables; property, plant and equipment (“PPE”), bad debts, as well
as inventories written off; fair value adjustment of biological assets, and plantation expenditure; the impairment of
PPE; and also provision of slow-moving inventories.
Despite posting a loss for FY2022, we are encouraged by the Group’s operating performance in the fourth quarter
of FY2022, which showed improvements across all key segments. Barring unforeseen circumstances, we anticipate
2023 to be a recovery year for Bioalpha.
FINANCIAL POSITION
Bioalpha’sbalancesheetremainedrobustas
deposit, cash and bank balances amounted
to RM39.8 million as at 31 December
2022. At the same time, the Group’s total
borrowings had reduced to RM7.0 million
from RM9.3 million as at end-2021 as we
pared down our debts. We are in a net cash
position with net cash per share of 3.2 sen
as at end-2022. Meanwhile, shareholders’
equity amounted to RM167.9 million, while
net assets per share was 13.3 sen.
Deposit, Cash & Bank
Balances FY2022
RM
39.8million
As we progress, we continue to take a prudent approach to managing our capital resources and expenditures, while
carefully considering our operating commitments. Our focus is on maintaining financial stability and maximizing
returns for our stakeholders through effective allocation of resources.
ANTICIPATED RISKS
Operational Disruptions
The continued success of Bioalpha relies heavily on the seamless and efficient execution of our operations. External
factors, such as pandemics, natural disasters, and civil unrest, to name a few, are beyond our control and could
potentially cause disruptions that may adversely impact our business. These disturbances might lead to supply
chain issues and an increase in raw material costs, which could ultimately affect our profit margins.
Nonetheless, other risks that could influence our business operations, such as fire hazard and workplace accidents,
are mitigated with appropriate measures put in place. For example, we have established sufficient insurance
coverage and conducted regular employee trainings to reduce the risks associated with fires and workplace
injuries respectively. These efforts demonstrate our dedication to minimizing potential disruptions to our business
operations arising from such hazards.
M AN AGE ME N T D ISCUSSION A N D A N A LYSIS
(cont’d)
Net Cash Per Share
FY2022
3.2sen
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
21
ANTICIPATED RISKS (CONT’D)
Changes in Regulatory Frameworks and Public Policies
Considering the specific nature of our business, which encompasses the production and distribution of functional
foods and health supplements, we are subject to rigorous oversight by regulatory bodies compared to many
other sectors. Furthermore, our operations span multiple countries, including Malaysia and China, necessitating
compliance with their respective legal frameworks that may vary. As a result, any substantial shifts in these
regulations could influence our capacity to function, distribute, or market our products.
To address these regulatory challenges, we engage in consistent communication with relevant authorities to
stay informed about the regulatory environment and any foreseeable changes that could impact our industry.
Additionally, we implement cautious strategies to ensure adherence to current regulations, thereby reducing any
potential negative consequences on our operations and financial performance.
Product Liability Risk
Being in the nutraceutical and health supplement industry, we are exposed to the potential risks associated with
product liability. Any flaws or unintentional contamination of our health supplement products may result in legal
action and extensive product recalls. These events not only have financial repercussions in the short to medium
term but also jeopardise Bioalpha’s brand and reputation, significantly hindering our capacity to market future
products effectively.
To manage these risks, we have implemented comprehensive SOPs pertaining to our formulation and manufacturing
processes. Our primary manufacturing facility in Bangi holds GMP and HACCP certifications. Moreover, we have
secured adequate product liability insurance coverage to protect us from potential financial damage. As of now, we
have not encountered any personal injury claims resulting from alleged product defects.
DIVIDENDS
Bioalpha aims to balance providing returns to shareholders and retaining capital to guarantee the long-term viability
of our business. In view of current uncertainties surrounding the full recovery of the global economy, and in light of
our ongoing strategic endeavours, the Board of Directors (the “Board”) has opted not to recommend any dividend
payments for the year under review after a long deliberation.
MOVING AHEAD
The nutraceutical and health supplements sector has seen significant growth in recent years as consumers are
increasingly health-conscious and prioritize their well-being. Looking ahead, the global dietary supplement market
is projected to expand at a compound annual growth rate (“CAGR”) of 6.3% from 2022 to 2030 to reach USD620.8
billion, based on the findings by research and consulting firm Grand View Research. The growth is expected to be
driven by various factors, including increasing health awareness with rising dependence on supplements to fulfil
nutrients requirements.
In Malaysia, we see similar uptrend with more consumers taking preventive health measures as they seek
supplements that boost immune system. According to the Malaysian Dietary Supplement Association, Malaysia
presentssignificantgrowthprospectswithlessthan30%ofthepopulationcurrentlyconsumingdietarysupplements.
This indicates that there is considerable potential for growth, as compared to other Asian counterparts, such as
South Korea (60% - 70%) and Taiwan (40% - 50%). Meanwhile, the nutritional supplements industry in China is
forecasted to grow to USD87.7 billion at a CAGR of 14.5% from 2020 to 2027, according to Research Nester.
At Bioalpha, we are riding the wave on these emerging opportunities, while remaining resilient in navigating external
headwinds. For our domestic manufacturing operations, we are enhancing our offerings with more immunity-related
products to capitalise on the rising health awareness among the masses. We anticipate demand to continue to pick
up in tandem with improving consumer sentiment. In line with this, we are also actively expanding our clientele
base.
MANAGE M E NT D ISCUSSIO N A N D A N A LYSIS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
22
MOVING AHEAD (CONT’D)
As for the Group’s trading activities in China, our efforts are centred on maintaining smooth delivery of health food
ingredients to customers in Guizhou. Our focus is to ensure timely order fulfilment while also offering premium
products that provide higher profit margins. In fact, we have set up a procurement team in Foshan, Guangdong
province to source for high-quality ingredients. With China having lifted its COVID-19 restrictions and reopened its
economy, we expect this division to chart more meaningful contribution in 2023.
In addition to our health supply venture, Bioalpha plans to develop a Malaysian Agricultural Hub (the “Hub”) in
Hainan, China. Spanning across 21 acres of land, the Hub will focus on the upstream and downstream activities
such as formulation, manufacturing and commercialisation of functional food products using Malaysian indigenous
and tropical herbs. We are pleased to update that a development plan has been endorsed by the local authority, and
we are working on the next steps to kick off the project.
In view of the Group’s increased activities in China, we have expanded our headcount and recruited new experienced
talents in the country. As we invest in our capabilities, we can better position Bioalpha for growth in China.
For the Group’s retail pharmacy business, we aim to expand Constant’s physical reach in line with the anticipated
recovery in the retail market. Our plan is to open up 20 new outlets this year via the franchise model, undertaken by
the Group’s master franchise partners. We are targeting newer townships and areas with rapid population growth,
such as Setia Alam, Paramount, Bukit Raja, Puncak Alam, Rimbayu, Cyberjaya, Sri Serdang, Kajang and Cheras.
All in all, we remain vigilant and adaptable to the ever-changing market landscape, as we continue to focus on
expanding capabilities and offerings to maintain our competitiveness. As we forge ahead, we are committed to
delivering value to our stakeholders and enhancing the quality of life for individuals through our products and
services.  
SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS
Sustainability is at the forefront of Bioalpha’s business practices. Recognising the importance of conducting
business in a way that supports environmental protection, social responsibility, and economic viability. Through
the Group’s sustainability initiatives, we strive to reduce our carbon footprint, conserve natural resources, promote
diversity and inclusion, and engage with our stakeholders to build stronger, more resilient communities. We
recognize that sustainability is an ongoing journey, and we are committed to continually improving our practices
and reporting on our progress. By embedding sustainability into our operations, we seek to create long-term value
for all our stakeholders and contribute to a more sustainable future. For more information on our sustainability
progress, please refer to the Sustainability Statement of this Annual Report.
APPRECIATION
On behalf of the management team, I would like to conclude my message by expressing my deepest gratitude for
the dedication demonstrated by everyone at Bioalpha throughout the past year. Undoubtedly, it has been a year filled
with numerous challenges both externally and internally. However, the unwavering support and hard work from each
of you has made this journey possible.
My heartfelt appreciation also goes out to our stakeholders, including but not limited to our shareholders, clients,
suppliers, bankers, regulators, and government agencies, for their steadfast support.
To the Board of Directors, I express my sincere gratitude for your valuable counsel and insights throughout 2022.
I would like to welcome Yang Berbahagia Datuk Chong Loong Men as the Executive Director and Mr. Yee Yit Yang
as the Independent Non-Executive Director. Their extensive experience and expertise in their respective fields will
undoubtedly enhance the value of Bioalpha. We look forward to their contributions to our organization.
M AN AGE ME N T D ISCUSSION A N D A N A LYSIS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
23
APPRECIATION (CONT’D)
On behalf of the Board, I would like to extend a special recognition to Yang Berbahagia Tan Sri Abdul Rahman
bin Mamat, who stepped down from his position as Independent Non-Executive Chairman in January 2022, after
serving with us for nine years. We appreciate his invaluable guidance during his tenure. In the same spirit, we would
also like to acknowledge Yang Berbahagia Dato’ Norhalim Bin Yunus, who resigned from his position as a Non-
Independent Non-Executive Director, for his contribution. We wish both of them the best in their future endeavours.
Hon Tian Kok @ William
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer
MANAGE M E NT D ISCUSSIO N A N D A N A LYSIS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
24
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“Bioalpha”) is pleased to present our Sustainability Statement. This statement
encompasses our material Environment, Economy and Social (“EES”) matters for the financial year. Our sustainability
initiatives reflect our continuous drive towards maximising opportunities for strong fiscal growth and optimising
operational efficiency in tandem with long-term value creation based on EES considerations.
Bioalpha is committed to building a sustainable business with integrity. As an integrated health supplement
company in healthcare supplement sectors, we are mindful of good sustainability practices are integral to our long-
term business growth. To this end, the Board strives to embed a strong governance culture, socially responsible
values and sound environmental practices throughout the Group.
Stakeholder Engagement
We recognise that our stakeholders are important to the Group’s long-term growth and success. Although external
stakeholders were not engaged specifically to examine most material EES factors, we have regular interactions with
them which allow us to glean information on areas they may have the most concerns. Our key stakeholders and
their areas of interest based on our various engagements with them and are set out below:
Stakeholders Engagement methods
Investors and shareholders • Annual Report
• Quarterly Bursa announcements
• AGM for shareholders
• Corporate website with Investor Relation updates
• Media News/ releases
• Analyst Reports/ Interview
• Email communications – investorrelations@bioa.com.my
Employees • Employee handbook-code of conduct
• New Staff Orientation
• Trainings, teambuilding and company event
• Whistle blowing policy
•    Anti-Bribery Policy
Customers • Engagement with sales personnel
• Factory visits
• Exhibition/ Trade show
• Awareness programmes and health forums
Suppliers • Supplier selection process
• Suppliers’ assessment
• Meetings with suppliers
Regulators • Seminar/ updates received from local government agencies
• Internal processes in place to ensure compliance with local government laws
and regulations
Local communities • Compliance with local government laws and regulations such as pollution at
surrounding factory areas, chemical discharge to drainage, etc.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
25
SUSTAINA BILITY STATEM E N T
(cont’d)
Our Commitment
We perceived corporate sustainability as our commitment to create long term value to our shareholders, environment
and society through innovation and overall operational excellence. We understand our choices today have an impact
on our stakeholder i.e. customers and suppliers and the success of their businesses in the future. Our business
imperative is to carry out our activities responsibly and with integrity. Our people are expected to behave in an
ethical manner in accordance with our policies, code of conduct and guidelines.
Mindful of the need to be a corporately responsible organisation, the Group undertook various steps to play its part
in contributing to the welfare of the society and communities in the environment it operates. The Group recognises
that for long term sustainability, its strategic orientation will need to look beyond the financial parameters.
Within this context we have defined our commitment to corporate sustainability across three material areas:
Environmental Initiatives
Manufacturing Process
We understand that our operations and activities have an environmental footprint and it is our responsibility to
minimise these through continuous improvement of our manufacturing facilities. We ensure that our manufacturing
processes comply with GMP, HACCP, MeSTI and ISO requirements. To meet these requirements, quality assurance
principal is to ensure the quality and safety of our products and we believe that this commitment can best be
delivered through the following policies:
• To comply with all relevant environmental laws and regulations.
• To prevent environmental pollution whenever possible and implement waste minimization through 3’R
principles (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle)
• To raise awareness among employees towards the environment and encourage them to act in a more
responsible manner towards the environment.
• To improve and enhance environmental care responsibilities in this company from time to time
• To implement an effective emergency response plan to address any incidents involving pollution to the
environment.
Our processes and equipment used for fermentation of medicinal mushrooms and manufacturing of products have
been inspected by JAKIM, which have enabled us to obtain Halal certifications for our products in relation to the
manufacturing process.
Our manufacturing facilities adhere to strict regulations and procedures to ensure that materials and energy
resources are used efficiently to minimise waste. These include monitoring energy consumption, materials planning
and waste management. Such resulted in reduction in energy consumption of approximately 39,000 kWh or 10%
comparing FYE2022 with that of FYE2021.
Economy Initiatives
We remain committed and maintain open dialogue with shareholders, the investment community and stakeholders.
Annual general meetings are the principal forum for dialogue with shareholders and provide them the opportunity
to raise questions and seek clarifications on the Group’s operations, performance and strategies. All Directors were
present in person to engage virtually with the shareholders of the Company during the annual general meetings
held in 2022.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
26
SUSTA I N A BILIT Y STATE ME NT
(cont’d)
ECONOMY INITIATIVES (CONT’D)
Research & Development (R&D)
Given our reach in the pharmaceutical arena, we are dedicated to maintaining the affordability and accessibility of
health supplement while upholding our standards of safety, quality and efficacy. We are able to ensure this through
our commitment to R&D into high quality and cost competitive health supplement products for various segments.
As such,  we continuously developed and register new product in year 2022 as shown below.
Marketplace
The Group is continuously committed to promote and maintain transparency, accountability and ethics in the
conduct of its business and operations with the stakeholders, including Malaysian government and authorities,
shareholders and investors, customers, suppliers, employees and communities. This includes the implementation
of internal control systems such as a financial authority framework and risk management framework.
The Group strive to continuously improve our relationships, trust, mutual respect, understanding with our
stakeholders who have an effect on, or is affected by our businesses. The Group has introduced various channels
to engage with our stakeholders to understand and respond to their expectations and interests with regard to our
services and operations.
The Group works closely with the suppliers to create a high-quality, reliable supply chain that meets our standards.
The Group has had regular engagement sessions with suppliers to identify areas and methods for improvement
and to resolve issues.
55%
45%
NEW PRODUCT
Product Registered
Product Developed
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
27
SUSTAINA BILITY STATEM E N T
(cont’d)
ECONOMY INITIATIVES (CONT’D)
Business Expansion
Collaboration Agreement
Bioalpha (Hainan) Development Ltd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad had entered into a
Collaboration Agreement with Gaolin Village Council to jointly develop Gaolin Village in Hainan Province, China
into Malaysian Agricultural Hub. Gaolin Village is strategically located with easy accessibility to Hainan’s capital
city of Haikou and central of Ding’an county via various expressways. Persuant to the Agreement, 21 acres of land
within Gaolin Village hall be earmarked for the development of Malaysian Agricultural Hub with the purpose of
development of the overall rural village and to be spearheaded by Bioalpha.
The initial phase focuses on the upstream and downstream activities with local and international accreditation with
complete integrated process for high-value products using Malaysian indigenous plant. Concurrently, the Hub aims
to assist prospective Malaysian companies involving in the production of local products seeking to expand their
products to China market by providing relevant assistance.
Social Initiatives
Our People
We believe we are only as good as our people, hence our employees has essential roles in ensuring the sustainability
and success of the Group. As such, we are focused on attracting and retaining a highly skilled workforce while
prioritising the wellbeing of our people.
We believe in the inherent strength of a diversified workforce. Hence, we take into account the current diversity and
strive for equality in the gender, age and race/ethnicity of the existing workforce. This is integral to our employee
value proposition and helps to attract the best talents.
Besides that, we believe providing equal remuneration regardless of gender inspires our employees to feel valued
and trusted to the group and in return are more engaged with their work. Hence, we embedded equal remuneration
into the business culture as a core and business function.
The brief information of the Company’s workforce for Year 2022 is tabulated below:
DIVERSITY
Racial gender
Top Management Employee
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
22%
60%
22%
10%
8%
78%
Malay Chinese Indian Others
Top Management Employee
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
56% 57%
43%
44%
Male Female
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
28
SUSTA I N A BILIT Y STATE ME NT
(cont’d)
SOCIAL INITIATIVES (CONT’D)
Training and Development
The Group believe in providing continuous learning and development opportunities towards career development
for the employees through inhouse training, attending seminar, workshops and talks to help them realise their true
potential, as well as to benefit from better performance and productivity. This will equip them with the latest job-
related updates and knowledge/know-how. The total budget allocated for training on year 2023 is RM251,800 which
included training for directors among the employees.
Festive Celebrations 2022
Program Date
Festival Open House
- CNY Festival Celebration 12th Feb 2022
- Hari Raya Festival Celebration 14th May 2022
- Deepavali Festival Celebration 31st Oct 2022
Occupational Safety and Health
We recognise that the very nature of our business itself involves occupational health and safety risks. The safety and
health of our employees as well as the safety of our contractors, service providers and visitors to our manufacturing
facilities remain a priority through our commitment to:
• Comply with local Occupational Safety and Health regulations.
• Comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations.
• Implement Safety, Health & Environment (SHE) training programs to ensure adequate training of all employees
and contractors.
• Continue to identify potential hazards and implement appropriate measures.
• Investigate all incidents, diseases and dangerous occurrences and ensure appropriate action to prevent
recurrence.
• Communicate and update all employees and contractors on worker safety and asset protection.
• Ensure that appropriate Emergency Response Plans are in place.
• Continuously improve our environment management system.
Chairman
Secretary
Member
Member
Member
Member
SAFETY, HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
29
SUSTAINA BILITY STATEM E N T
(cont’d)
SOCIAL INITIATIVES (CONT’D)
Community
As an organisation with its business deeply rooted in the community that it serves, Bioalpha is aware of its social
obligations to the community. Bioalpha is privileged to have been able to support communities in need and make
a difference in their lives.
During the year under the review, the Group initiated several cultural and welfare activities as follows:-
1. Donation to Charity Bodies
Welfare Items Date
i. St. John Ambulance Malaysia
(Kawasan Selangor Selatan)
Kid Supplements March 2022
ii. Lions Education Assistance for the Needy
(LERrN) Fund
Cash Donations September 2022
iii. Openhands Fellowship Care Center, Kajang
(Orphanage)
Christmas Gift December 2022
iv. Shephards Center Foundation Malaysia,
Selangor (Orphanage)
Health supplement,
groceries, and household
products
November 2022 to
December 2022
v. Rumah Sejahtera, Batu Pahat
(Old Folks Home)
Daily necessities &
birthday cake monthly
January 2022 to
December 2022
vi. Batu Pahat Orphanage Health supplement, daily
necessities & birthday
cake monthly
January 2022 to
December 2022
Moving Forward
The Board will work progressively towards improving the Group’s sustainability reporting in relation to the
management of our Economic, Environment and Social risks and opportunities.
This Sustainability Statement is prepared in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 25 April
2023.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
30
KUALA LUMPUR
CHERAS:
83, Jalan 34/154,
Taman Dahlia, Cheras,
56000 Kuala Lumpur.
Tel: 03-9101 7018
Whatsapp/SMS: 016-886 1679
SETAPAK:
33, Jalan 45A/26,
Taman Sri Rampai,
Setapak, 53300 Kuala Lumpur.
Tel: 03-4149 7018
Whatsapp/SMS: 016-886 1845
SUNGAI BESI:
24, Jalan Tasik Selatan 20C/146,
Taman Desa Tasik, Sungai Besi,
57000 Kuala Lumpur.
Tel: 03-9059 2018
Whatsapp/SMS: 016-886 1842
GENTING KELANG:
195-G, Ground Floor,
Jalan Genting Kelang,
53300 Kuala Lumpur.
Tel: 03-4031 7018
Whatsapp/SMS: 012-321 6773
SELANGOR
PUNCAK ALAM:
No 40-G, Jalan Eco Grandeur 1/19A,
Eco Grandeur, Puncak Alam,
42300 Selangor.
Tel : 03-58713015
Whatsapp/SMS : 012-363 7018
RIMBAYU, TELOK PANGLIMA GARANG:
No 16-G, Ground Floor, Jalan Flora 1/1,
Blossom Square, Bandar Rimbayu,
42500 Telok Panglima Garang, Selangor.
Tel : 03-51316723
Whatsapp /SMS : 012-295 7018
BUKIT RAJA , KLANG
No 6, Ground Floor, Jalan Astaka 1C/KU2,
Bandar Bukit Raja,
41050 Klang, Selangor.
Tel : 03-33595759
Whatsapp /SMS : 012-290 7018
PUCHONG:
Pusat Perdagangan Puchong Prima,
F-01-04, Blok F, Jalan Prima 5/3,
Taman Puchong Prima,
47100 Selangor.
Tel: 03-8061 4018
Whatsapp/SMS: 016-886 1840
AMPANG POINT, AMPANG:
89, Lorong Mamanda 1,
Ampang Point, Jalan Ampang,
68000 Ampang, Selangor.
Tel: 03-4252 8018
MERU, KLANG:
145, Jalan Susur, Off Jalan Meru,
41050 Klang, Selangor.
Tel: 03-3343 6579
Whatsapp/SMS: 016-886 1792
PERSIARAN RAJA MUDA MUSA, KLANG:
2984, Persiaran Raja Muda Musa,
41100 Klang, Selangor.
Tel: 03-3372 8891
Whatsapp/SMS: 016-886 1795
SERI KEMBANGAN:
No. 88-GF, Jalan PUJ 3/2,
Taman Puncak Jalil, Bandar Putra Permai,
43300 Sri Kembangan, Selangor.
Tel/ Fax: 03-8082 4018
D-G-35, Pusat Perdagangan Bukit Serdang,
Jalan BS 14/1, Taman Bukit Serdang,
Seksyen 14, Seri Kembangan,
43300 Selangor.
Tel: 03-8938 5219
CONSTANT RETAIL OUTLETS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
The Board of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“the Company”) recognises the importance of good corporate governance
and fully supports the principles and best practices promulgated in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance
(“MCCG”) to enhance business prosperity and maximize shareholders’ value. The Board will continuously evaluate
the Group’s corporate governance practices and procedures, and where appropriate will adopt and implement the
best practices as enshrined in MCCG to the best interest of the shareholders of the Company.
Below is an overview statement and description in general on how the Group has applied the principles and complied
with the best practice provisions as laid out in MCCG throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2022 (“FYE
2022”) pursuant to Rule 15.25 of the ACE Market Listing Requirements (“AMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and its is to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report of the Company
which is available at the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
Part I - Board Responsibilities
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of our Company and the delivery of sustainable
value to its stakeholders. In discharging its fiduciary duties and leadership functions, the Board governs and sets
strategic directions for the Company whilst exercising an oversight on management. The Board plays a critical
role in setting the appropriate supervision at the top, providing uncompromising leadership and championing good
governance and ethical practices throughout the Company.
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS
1.1 Set Strategic Aims, Values and Standards for the Company
TheBoardhasfullcontrolofandisresponsiblefor,theGroup’soverallstrategy,acquisitionanddivestment
policies, capital expenditure, annual budget, review of financial and operational performance, and
internal controls as well as investment and risk management processes. The Group’s overall strategic
direction, development, implementation and control remain as primary importance to the Board.
The Board is leading and managing the Group in an effective and responsible manner. Each Director
has a legal duty to act in the best interests of the Group. The Directors, individually and collectively, are
aware of their responsibilities to shareholders and stakeholders for the manner in which the affairs of
the Company are managed.
The Board is entrusted with the responsibility to promote the success of the Group by directing and
supervising the Group’s affairs. Hence, to develop corporate objectives and position descriptions
including the limits to management’s responsibilities, which the management are aware of and are
responsible for achieving.
The details of the roles and responsibilities of the Board and matters reserved for the Board for decision
are defined in the Board Charter, which is available on the Company at www.bioa.com.my.
In discharging its fiduciary duties, the Board has delegated specific tasks to six (6) Board Committees
namely the Audit Committee (“AC”), Nomination Committee (“NC”), Remuneration Committee (“RC”), Risk
Management Committee (“RMC”), Share Issuance Scheme (“SIS”) Option Committee and Investment
Committee (“IC”). The primary functions of which are to assist the Board in overseeing the affairs of
the Company. These Committees have been entrusted with specific responsibilities and authority, the
authorities and functions of these Board committees are properly set out in their respective Terms of
Reference.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
32
CO RPO RAT E G OV E R N A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part I - Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS (CONT’D)
1.2 Appointment of Chairman
Tan Sri Tan Sri Abdul Rahman Bin Mamat has decided to step down as Independent Non-Executive
Chairman of the Company on 25 January 2022 after having served the Company for almost 9 years and
in place thereof, Tan Sri Dato’ Dr Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim has been re-designated as Independent
Non-Executive Chairman.
The Chairman leads the Board with a keen focus on governance and compliance and acts as a
facilitator at Board meetings to ensure that contributions by Directors are forthcoming on matters being
deliberated and that no Board member dominates any discussion. Together with the other Independent
Non-Executive Directors, he leads the discussion on the strategies and policies recommended by
Management. He chairs the meetings of the Board and the shareholders thus ensuring effective
communication with the shareholders as well as the relevant stakeholders.
The Chairman of the Board is not a member of the Board Committees.
The Chairman holds an Independent Non-Executive role and his roles and responsibilities have been
clearly specified in the Board Charter, which is available on the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
1.3 The Positions of Chairman and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer are held by Different
Individuals
The positions of the Chairman and the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer are held by different
individuals. Tan Sri Dato’ Dr Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim was the Independent Non-Executive
Chairman during the period under review whilst Mr Hon Tian Kok @ William is the Managing Director/
Chief Executive of the Company.
The Board recognises the importance of having a clear separation of responsibilities between the
Chairman and the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer to promote accountability, ensure an
appropriate balance of roles, and facilitate the division of responsibilities between them so as to ensure
no one individual can influence the Board’s discussions and decison making. The distinct and separate
roles of the Chairman and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer ensure an appropriate balance of
roles, responsibilities and accountability at Board level.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer are
provided in the Board Charter, which is available on the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
1.4 Qualified and competent Company Secretaries
In compliance with MCCG, the Board is supported by qualified and competent Company Secretaries.
The Company Secretaries of the Company are qualified to act as Company Secretary under Section
235 of the Companies Act 2016. The Company Secretaries have been providing guidance to the Board,
particularly on corporate governance issues and compliance with relevant policies and procedures, rules,
and regulatory requirements and ensuring good information flow within the Board, Board Committees
and Management.
The Company Secretaries attend all meetings of the Board and Board Committees and ensure that all
Board and Board Committee meetings are properly convened, and that accurate and proper records of
proceedings and resolutions passed are recorded and maintained in the statutory register.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
33
C ORPOR AT E G OV ERN A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N T S
(cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part I - Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS (CONT’D)
1.4 Qualified and competent Company Secretaries (Cont’d)
The Company Secretaries also keep abreast of the evolving capital market environment, regulatory
changes and developments in corporate governance through continuous training and guide the Directors
on the requirements encapsulated in the Company’s Constitution and legislative promulgations such as
the Companies Act 2016, AMLR, etc.
The Company Secretaries shall continue to guide the Directors on the requirements to be observed
arising from new regulations and guidelines issued by authorities.
1.5 Access to information and advice
All Directors may seek independent professional advice at the Company’s expense on specific issues
to enable them to discharge their duties, where necessary. Board Meetings for the ensuring year are
scheduled in advance before the end of the current financial year, in order for the Directors to plan ahead
and ensure full attendance. The notice of agenda, together with minutes of the previous meeting and
other relevant information, will be circulated to the Board at least five (5) days before the meetings.
Notices of the closed periods for trading in the Company’s securities in accordance with Chapter 14 of
the AMLR are served on the Directors prior to the commencement of the closed periods.
The Board papers contain all relevant information and reports on financial, operational, corporate,
regulatory, and market developments, as well as minutes of meetings. These documents are
comprehensive and include qualitative and quantitative information to enable the Board members to
make informed decisions.
The Company Secretaries are entrusted to record the Board’s deliberations, in terms of issues
discussed, ensure that the deliberations at Board and Board Committee meetings are documented, and
subsequently communicate those deliberations to Management for appropriate actions.
The minutes of the previous Board and Board Committee meetings are distributed to the Directors/
Board Committees prior to the meeting for their perusal before confirmation of the minutes at the
commencement of the following Board and Board Committee meeting.
To facilitate productive and meaningful deliberations, the Directors will comment or request clarification
before the minutes are tabled for confirmation as a correct record of the proceedings of the meeting.
The Management provides Directors with complete and timely information prior to meetings and an
ongoing basis to enable them to make informed decisions.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
34
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part I - Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
2. DEMARCATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
The Board acknowledges the importance of the demarcation of responsibilities between the Board, Board
Committees and management. In order to achieve the aim of the clarity in the authority of the Board, Board
Committees and individual directors, the Board has formalised and adopted a Board Charter.
2.1 Board Charter
The Board Charter was adopted by the Board sets out the role, functions, composition, operation and
processes of the Board and is to ensure that all Board members acting on behalf of the Company are
aware of their duties and responsibilities as Board members. The Board Charter will be reviewed when
necessary and updated in accordance with the needs of the Company and any new regulations that may
have an impact on the discharge of the Board’s responsibilities. The Board Charter is available on the
corporate website - www.bioa.com.my.
3. GOOD BUSINESS CONDUCT AND CORPORATE CULTURE
The Board is committed to promote good business conduct and maintaining a healthy corporate culture that
engenders integrity, transparency and fairness.
The Board, management, employees and other stakeholders of the Group are clear on what is considered
acceptable behaviour and practice in Bioalpha Group.
3.1 Code of Ethics & Conduct
The Group is committed to achieving and monitoring high standards of behaviour at work.
The Board adhered strictly to the Code of Ethics and Conduct for Company Directors (“the Codes”) in
discharging its oversight role effectively. The Board will review the Codes when necessary to ensure they
remain relevant and appropriate.
The Codes require all Directors and Employees to observe high ethical business standards, to apply
these values to all aspects of the Group’s business and professional practice, and to act in good faith in
the best interests of the Group and its shareholders.
The details of the Code of Conduct and Ethics are available for reference on the Company’s website at
www.bioa.com.my.
3.2 Whistle Blowing Policy
The Board has adopted a Whistle Blowing Policy for the Group as a measure to promote the highest
standard of corporate governance. The whistleblowing policy outlines the avenues for the Directors,
employees and stakeholders to raise concerns or disclose in good faith any improper conduct within
the Group and to enable prompt corrective action and measures to resolve them effectively. The Whistle
Blowing Policy can be assessed at the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
3.3 Anti-Bribery Management System Policy
The Company had adopted the Anti-Bribery Management System Policy that set out the policies and
adequate procedures against bribery and corruption activities in the conduct of its business under the
gazetted Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (Amendment) Act 2018. The said
Policy can be assessed at the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
CO RPO RAT E G OV E R N A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
35
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part II - Board Composition
In order to achieve the intended outcome of the MCCG, the Board decisions are made objectively in the best
interests of the Company taking into account diverse perspectives and insights, our Group has met most of the
good practices recommended by the MCCG as follows: -
4. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY
4.1 Composition of the Board
The Company is managed by a well-balanced Board which consists of members with wide range of
business, technical and financial background. This brings diversity and insightful depth to the company
leadership and management.
The Board consists of eight (8) members, as designated below:
one (1) Independent Non-Executive Chairman;
one (1) Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer;
two (2) Executive Directors;
one (1) Group Chief Financial Officer/Finance Director; and
three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The present composition of the Board is in compliance with Rule 15.02 of the AMLR and MCCG Practice
4.1 that requires at least half of the Board members to be Independent Directors. The profile of each
Director is set out in the Profiles of Directors of this Annual Report.
The Board is aware of the importance of independence and objectivity in relation to the decision-making
process and the effectiveness of the Board’s function. The Board, therefore, has adopted the same
criteria for “independence” in tandem with the definition of “Independent Director” as prescribed by the
AMLR.
The Board members are persons of high calibre and integrity, and provide a wealth of knowledge,
experience, and skills in the key areas of accountancy, business operations and development, finance
and risk management amongst others.
4.2 Tenure of Independent Directors
The NC carries out the evaluation of independence for each Independent Director annually.
The NC has undertaken a review and assessment of the level of independence of the Independent
Directors during FYE 2022 and is satisfied that they are able to discharge their responsibilities in an
independent manner. The independence of Directors is measured based on the criteria prescribed under
the AMLR of Bursa Securities, in which a director should be independent and free from any business or
other relationship that could interfere with the exercise of independent judgement or the ability to act in
the best interests of the Company.
The Independent Directors have also declared their independence to the Board under the annual Board
evaluation process during the FYE 2022.
Following the amendment to AMLR of Bursa Securities, which restricts the tenure of an Independent
Director to twelve (12) years. Consequent thereto, none of the Independent Directors has exceeded a
cumulative term of twelve (12) years as at the date of this Statement.
C ORPOR AT E G OV ERN A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N T S
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
36
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
4. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
4.2 Tenure of Independent Directors (Cont’d)
The Company do not have a policy which limits the tenure of its independent directors to nine (9) years.
However, the Board takes note that the MCCG recommends that the tenure of an Independent Director
shall not exceed a cumulative term of nine (9) years unless shareholders’ approval is obtained to retain
such Director as an Independent Director. The Company has adopted approach that upon completion
of nine (9) years, an Independent Directors may continue to serve on the Board subject to the director’s
re-designation as a Non-Independent Director. In the event, the Board intends to retain the Independent
Directors who has served the Company exceeding a cumulative term of nine (9) years, the Board
will need to justify and seek shareholders’ approval at the AGM through a two-tier voting process in
accordance with the MCCG.
		
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim who has served the Independent Director for a cumulative
term of nine (9) years since his appointed as Independent Director on 8 July 2014. He has decided not
to seek for re-election. He will retain office until the conclusion of the 12th Annual General Meeting and
will retire in accordance with Clause 105(1) of the Company’s Constitution.
4.3 Diverse Board and Senior Management Team
The members of the Board are professionals with calibre and entrepreneurs equipped with industry
specific knowledge and experience. This wide spectrum of skills and experience provide the strength
that is needed to lead the Company to meet its objectives. The Board is of the opinion that the directors,
with their different background and specialisations, collectively bring with them the required expertise
and experience to discharge the Board’s duties and responsibilities.
In assessing suitability of candidates to the Board and Senior Management Team, consideration will be
given based on core competencies, commitment, contribution and performance of the candidates to
ensure that there is a range of professional knowledge, skills, experience and diversity (including gender
diversity). Understanding of the Business, the Market and the Industry in which the Group operates and
the accounting, finance and legal matter.
4.4 Gender Diversity
The Board has not set gender diversity target as of the reporting period. The Board is of the view that the
appointment of Board member or management should be determined based on objective criteria, merit
and with due regard for diversity in skills, experience and other qualities regardless of gender but will
nevertheless consider appointing more directors of the female gender where suitable to be in line with
the MCCG’s target.
The Board currently has one female director among its seven members, namely Ms Goh Siow Cheng.
The Board opined that gender should not be the basis of evaluation and given the current state of the
Group’s business and lifecycle, it is more important to have the right mix of skills, knowledge, experience
and expertise on the Board rather than to attaining the threshold as stipulated in MCCG.
The NC evaluates and matches the criteria of the candidate, and will consider diversity, including gender,
where appropriate, and recommends to the Board for appointment. In its effort to promote boardroom
diversity, the NC has taken various steps to ensure that women candidates are sought from various
sources as part of its recruitment exercise.
Nevertheless, the Board supports the initiative to include woman representation on the Board to achieve
a more gender diversified Board, henceforth, the Board is on the look for potential women Directors and
shall appoint additional women Directors as and when suitable candidates are identified. No timeframe
has been set for the search concerned.
CO RPO RAT E G OV E R N A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
37
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
4. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
4.5 Appointment of Directors
The appointment of new Directors is the responsibility of the full Board after considering the
recommendations of the NC. As a whole, the Company maintains an adequate number of Board
members. The Board appoints its members through a formal and transparent selection process which
is consistent with Constitution of the Company. This process has been reviewed, approved and adopted
by the Board. New appointees will be considered and evaluated by the NC. The NC will then recommend
the candidates to be approved and appointed by the Board. The Company Secretaries will ensure that
all appointments are properly met.
Generally, the Board adopts a flexible approach when selecting and appointing new directors depending
upon the circumstances and timing of the appointment. The NC will help assesses and recommends to
the Board, the candidature of directors, appointment of directors to board committees, review of Board’s
succession plans and training programmes for the Board.
In identifying of suitable new candidates, the NC will not solely rely on recommendations from existing
Board members, Management or Major Shareholders, but will consider of utilising independent sources.
4.6 Re-election of retiring Director
In accordance with the Company’s Constitution states that an election of Directors shall take place
each year at the annual general meeting of the Company, where one-third of the Directors for the time
being, or, if their number is not three (3) or a multiple of three (3), then the number nearest to one-third
shall retire from office and be eligible for re-election, PROVIDED ALWAYS that Directors shall retire
from office once at least in each three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election. A retiring Director
shall retain office until the close of the meeting at which he retires. The Directors to retire each year are
the Directors who have been longest in office since their last appointment on re-election.
Pursuant to Clause 105(1) of the Company’s Constitution, Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaluddin, Mohd Nasir
Bin Abdullah and Mr Hon Tian Kok @ William are subject to retirement by rotation pursuant to Clause
105 of the Company’s Constitution at the forthcoming Twelfth Annual General Meeting (“12th AGM”) and
Mr Hon Tian Kok @ William has expressed his willingness to seek re-election. The profiles of retiring
Director standing for re-election are set out in the Directors’ Profile in the Annual Report 2022.
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaluddin and Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah have expressed their intention not to seek
for re-election. They will retain office until the conclusion of the 12th Annual General Meeting and will
retire in accordance with Clause 105(1) of the Company’s Constitution.
The NC and the Board have considered the results of the annual assessment for Mr. Hon Tian Kok @
William and agreed that they can each meet the criteria of character, experience, integrity, competence,
and time required to effectively discharge his roles as Director.
The Board approved the NC’s recommendation that these Director who retire in accordance with the
Company’s Constitution are eligible to stand for re-election.
C ORPOR AT E G OV ERN A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N T S
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
38
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
4. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
4.7 NC
The Company has established the NC comprising exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, with the
responsibilities of assessing the balance composition of Board members, nominate the proposed
Board member by looking into his skills and expertise for contribution to the Company on an ongoing
basis. The appointment of new Directors is the responsibility of the full Board after considering the
recommendations of the NC. The NC is aware of their duties and responsibilities.
The composition of NC comprised three (3) Non-Executive Directors. The present members of the NC
are as follows:
Name Designation Directorship
Kang Jimmi (re-designated as
 Chairman of NC on 1 June 2022)
Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah Member Independent Non-Executive Director
Yee Yit Yang (appointed on
 1 June 2022)
Member Independent Non-Executive Director
The Terms of Reference of the NC can be viewed on the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
The summary activities undertaken by the NC in the discharge of its duty for FYE 2022 are as follows:
i) Reviewed and recommended the appointment of new Executive Director and Independent Non-
Executive Director to the Board for approval;
ii) Reviewed the size, structure and composition of the Board;
iii) Assessed and reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and the
contributions of the individual directors;
iv) Assessed and reviewed the independent of the independent directors;
vi) Assessed and reviewed the performance of AC and members of the AC;
v) Recommended the re-election of the Directors who are due for retirement by rotation at the 12th
AGM.
The NC had undertaken a review and assessment of the Independent Directors during FYE 2022 based
on the independence criteria as defined in the AMLR and is satisfied that they are able to discharge their
responsibilities in an independent manner.
The NC was satisfied that the Board has the right size and the Board composition is well balanced
having considered the appropriate mix of skills, experience, strength and independence and the diversity
required to meet the current and future needs of the Company.
CO RPO RAT E G OV E R N A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
39
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
5. OVERALL BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
5.1 Annual assessment of the Directors, Board as a whole and Board Committees
		
The NC is required to assess the Board’s effectiveness in terms of its composition, roles and
responsibilities, and whether the Board Committees have discharged their functions and duties in
accordance with the terms of reference. The NC assesses on annual basis the composition of the
Board to ensure that the Board has the appropriate mix of expertise and experience, and collectively
possesses the necessary core competencies for effective functioning and informed decision making.
All assessments and evaluations carried out by the NC in discharging its functions have been well
documented.
The Board has, through the NC, conducted the following annual assessments in the FYE 2022:-
a) Directors’ self-assessment;
b) Evaluation on the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and Board Committees;
c) Assessment of Independent Directors; and
d) Review of the term of office and performance of Audit Committee and each of its members.
The annual assessment of individual Directors, Board as a whole and Board Committees which
commences with the completion of a set of self-assessment form detailing all assessment criteria to
be completed by all Directors for evaluation by the NC. Criteria for the self-assessment includes self-
ratings on the Director’s knowledge, support of the goals of the Company, time commitment, and active
participation on the Board.
Based on the assessments conducted for the FYE 2022, the NC was satisfied with the performance of
the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and each individual Director.
5.1.1 Time Commitment and Directorship in Other Public Listed Companies
Under the Board Charter, the directorships in other public listed companies in Malaysia held
by any Board members at any one time shall not exceed any number as may be prescribed
by the relevant authorities. In addition, at the time of appointment, the Board shall obtain the
Director’s commitment to devote sufficient time to carry out his responsibilities. Directors are
required to notify the Chairman before accepting any new directorship(s). The notification
would include an indication of time that will be spent on the new appointment(s). Any Director
is, while holding office, at liberty to accept other Board appointment in other companies so
long as the appointment is not in conflict with the Company’s business and does not affect the
discharge of his/ her duty as a Director of the Company. To ensure that the Directors have time
to focus and fulfill their roles and responsibilities effectively, one (1) criterion as agreed by the
Board is that they must not hold directorships at more than five (5) public listed companies as
prescribed in Rule 15.06 of the AMLR of Bursa Securities.
C ORPOR AT E G OV ERN A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N T S
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
40
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
5. OVERALL BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
5.1 Annual assessment of the Directors, Board as a whole and Board Committees (Cont’d)
5.1.1 Time Commitment and Directorship in Other Public Listed Companies (Cont’d)
Each Board member is required to achieve at least 50% attendance of total Board Meetings in
any applicable financial year with appropriate leave of absence be notified to the Chairman and/
or Company Secretaries, where applicable.
The Directors have demonstrated their ability to devote sufficient time and commitment to their
roles and responsibilities as Directors of the Company. This is evidenced by the attendance
record of the Directors as set out in the section below.
During FYE 2022, there were seven (7) Board Meetings were held and the attendance record of
the current Board members is reflected as follows:-
Name of Directors Attendance
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim (re-designated as 7/7
 Independent Non-Executive Chairman on 25 January 2022)
Hon Tian Kok @ William 7/7
Datuk Choong Loong Men (appointed on 1 June 2022) 2/3
Ho Tze Hiung 7/7
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah 7/7
Kang Jimmi 7/7
Yee Yit Yang (appointed on 1 June 2022) 3/3
Goh Siow Cheng 7/7
Dato’ Norhalim Bin Yunus (Resigned on 1 August 2022) 4/4
Tan Sri Abd Rahman Bin Mamat (Resigned on 25 January 2022) 1/1
5.1.2 Continuing Education Programs/ Directors’ Training
All Directors save for newly appointed Director have undergone the Mandatory Accreditation
Program (“MAP”) prescribed by Bursa Securities. Although the Board does not have a policy
requiring each Director to attend a specific number and types of training sessions each year, the
Directors are encouraged to attend continuous education programmes/seminars/ conferences
and shall as such receive further training from time to time to keep themselves abreast of
the latest development in statutory laws, regulations and best practices, where appropriate,
in line with the changing business environment and enhance their business acumen and
professionalism in discharging their duties to the Group.
The Board has undertaken an assessment of the training needs of each of the Director and
ensured that all the Directors undergo the necessary training programme to enable them to
effectively discharge their duties.
CO RPO RAT E G OV E R N A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
41
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
5. OVERALL BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
5.1 Annual assessment of the Directors, Board as a whole and Board Committees (Cont’d)
5.1.2 Continuing Education Programs/ Directors’ Training (Cont’d)
All Directors save for newly appointed Director have undergone the Mandatory Accreditation
Program (“MAP”) prescribed by Bursa Securities. Although the Board does not have a policy
requiring each Director to attend a specific number and types of training sessions each year, the
Directors are encouraged to attend continuous education programmes/seminars/ conferences
and shall as such receive further training from time to time to keep themselves abreast of
the latest development in statutory laws, regulations and best practices, where appropriate,
in line with the changing business environment and enhance their business acumen and
professionalism in discharging their duties to the Group.
The Board has undertaken an assessment of the training needs of each of the Director and
ensured that all the Directors undergo the necessary training programme to enable them to
effectively discharge their duties.
Details of seminars / conferences / training programmes attended by the Board members
during FYE 2022 are as listed below:
Director
Seminars / Conferences / Training
Programmes Attended
Datuk Choong Loong Men 1. Briefing on the Key Amendments to the ACE Market
Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
relating to Director Appoinment, Independence and Other
Amendments.
2. Briefing on the Amendments to ACE Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad in
relation to Enhanced Sustainability Reporting Framework
3. The Secrets Behind Corporate Actions
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah 1. LHDN Audit & Capital Statement Workshop
2. SSM National Conference 2022 - Corporate Governance
And Sustainability
Yee Yit Yang 1. Baker Tilly Malaysia Tax & Budget
2. MIA Webinar Series : Accounting for Biological Assets:
MFRS and MPERS
3. Compliance with LR - Reporting of Financial Statements
4. Updated Malaysian Code On Corporate Governance 2021
5. Key Amendments to The Main Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
relating to Director Appointment, Independence and Other
Amendments
Goh Siow Cheng 1. Value Proposition Canvas
2. Standard Chartered Global
Research Briefing 1H2023: A year of two halve
Save as disclosed above, Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim, Hon Tian Kok @
William, Ho Tze Hiung and Kang Jimmi were not able to attend any seminars and/or training
programmes during the financial year due to their busy work schedule. However, they have
kept themselves abreast on financial and business matters through readings and attending
overseas meetings to enable them to contribute to the Board. They are also aware of their
duties and responsibilities and will continue to undergo other relevant training programmes
to keep abreast with new regulatory developments and requirements in compliance with the
AMLR on continuing education.
In addition to the above, the Directors would be updated on recent developments in the areas
of statutory and regulatory requirements from the briefing by the External Auditors, the Internal
Auditors and the Company Secretaries during the Board Committee and/or Board meetings.
C ORPOR AT E G OV ERN A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N T S
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
42
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part III - Remuneration
The Board acknowledges the level and composition of remuneration of directors and senior management take into
account the Company’s desire to attract and retain the right talent in the Board and senior management to drive the
Company’s long-term objectives. In order to achieve the aim, the Board has established Remuneration Committee
and developed the remuneration policy to assist the Board in discharging its duties and responsibilities in the
matters relating to the remuneration of the Board and senior management.
6. LEVEL AND COMPOSITION OF REMUNERATION
6.1 Remuneration Policies and Procedures
The Board believes the remuneration policy fairly supports the Directors’ responsibilities and fiduciary
duties in steering the Group to achieve its long-term goals and enhance shareholders’ value. The Board
offers a competitive remuneration package in order to attract, develop and retain talented individuals to
serve as directors.
The determination of the remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is a matter of the Board as a whole.
The level of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors reflects the amount paid by other comparable
organisations, adjusted based on the experience and levels of responsibilities undertaken by the
particular Non-Executive Director concerned. The remuneration package of Non-Executive Directors will
be a matter to be deliberated by the Board, with the Director concerned abstaining from deliberations
and voting on deliberations in respect of his individual remuneration. In addition, the Company also
reimburses reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by all the Non-Executive Directors in the
course of their duties as Directors of the Company. The aggregate annual Directors’ fees and other
benefits payable are to be approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting based on the
recommendations by the Board.
6.2 RC
The RC consists of entirely Independent Non-Executive Directors in order to assist the Board in
determining Directors’ remuneration. The present members of the RC are as follow: -
Name Designation Directorship
Kang Jimmi (re-designated as  
 Chairman of RC on 1 June 2022)
Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah Member Independent Non-Executive Director
Yee Yit Yang
 (appointed on 1 June 2022)
Member Independent Non-Executive Director
The RC’s principal objective is to evaluate, deliberate and recommend to the Board a remuneration
policy for Executive Directors that is fairly guided by market norms and industry practice. The RC also
recommends the Executive Directors’ remuneration and benefits based on their individual performances
and that of the Group.
The RC held a meeting during FYE 2022 to review the proposed remuneration package of the Executive
DirectorsandtheDirectorfeepayabletotheNon-ExecutiveDirectorsandrecommendedtheremuneration
packages and fees to the Board for approval. The RC also reviews the remuneration package of the
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer and recommends adjustments in remuneration and/or
reward payments that reflect the respective contributions for the year and achievement goals and/or
quantified organisational targets established by the Company.
The Terms of Reference of the RC can be viewed at the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
CO RPO RAT E G OV E R N A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
43
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part III - Remuneration (Cont’d)
7. REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
7.1 Details of Directors’ Remuneration
		
The details of Director’s remuneration are set out below:
Fees
Salaries and Other
Emoluments Total
Executive Directors – 1,922,186 1,922,186
Non-Executive Directors 169,750 39,748 209,498
* Other emoluments include the meeting allowance for the Directors’ attendance in Board and Board’s
Committee Meetings.      
The breakdown of the detailed Directors’ fees and other benefits paid during FYE 2022 is disclosed
in the Corporate Governance Report which is accessible to the public for reference at the Company’s
website at www.bioa.com.my.
PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Part I – AC
8. EFFECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT AC
8.1 Chairman of AC
		
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah, who is an Independent Non-Executive Director, is the Chairman of the AC. He
is a member of Malaysian Institute of Accountants. The Company complied with Practice 8.1 of the
MCCG which stipulates that the Chairman of the AC is not the Chairman of the Board as Mohd is not the
Chairman of the Board.
8.2 Former Key Audit Partner
None of the Board member is the former key audit partner of the External Auditors and the Directors
do not foresee any new appointment of former key audit partner to the Board. However, the Board will
observe the cooling-off period before appointing the former key audit partner, if any.
8.3 Assessment of Suitability and Independence of External Auditors
The Company has established a transparent arrangement with the External Auditors to meet their
professional requirements. From time to time, the External Auditors highlight to the AC and Board of
Directors on matters that require the Board’s attention.
The AC is responsible for reviewing the audit, recurring audit-related and non-audit services provided by
the External Auditors. The AC has explicitly accorded the power to communicate directly with both the
External Auditors and Internal Auditors. The terms of engagement for services provided by the External
Auditors are reviewed by the AC prior to submission to the Board for approval. The effectiveness and
performance of the External Auditors are reviewed annually by the AC.
C ORPOR AT E G OV ERN A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N T S
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
44
PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
Part I – AC (Cont’d)
8. EFFECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT AC (Cont’d)
8.3 Assessment of Suitability and Independence of External Auditors (Cont’d)
In assessing or determining the suitability and independence of the External Auditors, the AC has taken
into consideration of the following:
i) the adequacy of the experience and resources of the External Auditors;
ii) the External Auditor’s ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to issues in a
timely manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
iii) the nature of the non-audit services provided by the External Auditors and fees paid for such
services relative to the audit fee; and
iv) whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity and
independence of the audit arising from the provision of non-audit services or tenure of the External
Auditors.
Every year, the AC will meet with the External Auditors without the presence of Executive Director and
members of management to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors are
not compromised and matters of concerns expressed by the AC are duly recorded by the Company
Secretaries.
On 19 October 2022, the Company’s External Auditors has resigned as Auditors of the Company and in
place by Messrs. ChengCo PLT as the external auditors of the Company with effect from the date of their
consent to act dated 8 November 2022.
The Board approved the AC’s recommendation for the shareholders’ approval to be sought at the Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”) on the re-appointment of Messrs. ChengCo PLT as the External Auditors of the
Company for the financial year ending 31 December 2023.
8.4 Composition of the AC
The AC consists entirely of three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors. During FYE 2022, the
composition of the AC are Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah (Chairman), Kang Jimmi and Yee Yit Yang. This
composition of the AC complied with the requirement of Rule 15.09(1)(a) and (b) of the AMLR.
The terms of reference and summary of activities of the AC are set out in the AC Report.
Part II – Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
9. EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
The Board is entrusted with the overall responsibility of continually maintaining a sound system of internal
control, which covers not only financial controls but also operational and compliance controls as well as
risk management, and the need to review its effectiveness regularly in order to safeguard shareholders’
investments and the Company’s assets. The internal control system is designed to access current and
emerging risks, respond appropriate to risks of the Group.
As an effort to enhance the system of internal control, the Board together with the assistance of external
professional Internal Audit firm adopted on-going monitoring and review to the existing risk management
process in place within the various business operations, with the aim of formalising the risk management
functions across the Group. This function also acts as a source to assist the AC and the Board to strengthen
and improve current management and operating style in pursuit of best practices.
As an ongoing process, significant business risks faced by the Group are identified and evaluated and
consideration is given on the potential impact of achieving the business objectives. This includes examining
principal business risks in critical areas, assessing the likelihood of material exposures and identifying the
measures taken to mitigate, avoid or eliminate these risks.
CO RPO RAT E G OV E R N A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
45
PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
Part II – Risk Management and Internal Control Framework (Cont’d)
9. EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK (Cont’d)
The details of the Group’s risk management and internal control framework is elaborated in page 50 to 52 of
the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control of this Annual Report 2022, which has been reviewed
by the External Auditors.
9.1 RMC
The Board has set up a RMC with effect from 20 April 2018 and the present members of the RMC are as
follow: -
Chairman: Yee Yit Yang (appointed on 1 June 2022) (Independent Non-Executive Director)
Members: Ho Tze Hiung (Executive Director)
			 Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah (Independent Non-Executive Director)
10. INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The details of the Group’s internal audit function is elaborated in page 55 on the AC Report of this Annual
Report 2022.
PRINCIPLE C - INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS
Part I – Communication with Stakeholders
There is continuous communication between the Company and stakeholders to facilitate mutual understanding of
each other’s objectives and expectations. Stakeholders are able to make informed decisions with respect to the
business of the Company, its policies on governance, the environment and social responsibility.
11. CONTINUOUS COMMUNICATION BETWEEN COMPANY AND STAKEHOLDERS
The Board recognises the importance of keeping the shareholders informed and updated of development
concerning the Group. In this regard, the Group strictly adheres to the disclosure requirements of Bursa
Securities. The Group practices open communication with its investors.
In order to maintain its commitment of effective communication with shareholders, the Group embrace the
practice of comprehensive, timely and continuing disclosures of information to its shareholders as well as the
general investing public.
The Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my incorporates an Investor Relations section which provides all
relevant information on the Company accessible to the public. This section enhances the Investor Relations
function by including all announcements made by the Company and its annual reports.
The quarterly financial results are announced via Bursa LINK after the Board’s approval. This is important in
ensuring equal and fair access to information by the investing public. Shareholders and investors may also
forward their queries to the Company via email to investorrelations@bioa.com.my.
In addition to the dissemination of information to shareholders and other interested parties via announcements
to Bursa Securities, its website, circulars and press releases, the Board is of the view that the annual and any
extraordinary general meetings as ideal opportunities to communicate with shareholders.
C ORPOR AT E G OV ERN A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N T S
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
46
PRINCIPLE C - INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)
Part II – Conduct of General Meetings
General meetings serve as important and effective platforms for directors and the senior management to
communicate with the shareholders. Shareholders are able to participate, engage the Board and senior management
effectively and make informed voting decisions at general meetings.
12. SHAREHOLDER PARTICIPATION AT GENERAL MEETINGS
General meeting serves as a principal platform for the Board and Senior Management to engage with
shareholders and encourage effective shareholders’ communication on the Company’s performance,
corporate and business developments and any other matters affecting shareholder interests.
The Company has been practicing sending Notice of AGM to shareholders at least 28 days prior to the meeting
and the Notice is also advertised in nationally circulated English daily newspaper. The Board recognises that
a longer notice allows ample time for shareholders to consider the resolutions before exercising their voting
rights, and to make arrangement to attend AGM either personally, through proxy or corporate representative.
The Notice of an AGM also provides information to the shareholders with regard to, amongst others their
entitlement to attend the AGM, the right to appoint a proxy and also the qualifications of a proxy.
The Company dispatched its notice of 11th AGM dated 28 April 2022 to shareholders at least 28 days before 11th
AGM held on 28 June 2022, which is in line with Practice 12.1 of the MCCG. This is to enable the shareholders
have sufficient time to read and understand the Company’s financial and non-financial performance before
the meeting.
The 11th AGM of the Company held on 28 June 2022 was conducted on a fully virtual basis via live streaming
and through the Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities. Shareholders who attended the 11th
AGM could submit their questions during the meeting, which would be addressed by the Board and/or the
Management during the AGM.
All the Directors were present at the 11th AGM to engage directly with shareholders and responded to all
questions raised and provided clarification as required by the shareholders. The Chairman of the Board
ensured that sufficient opportunities were given to shareholders and proxies to raise questions relating to the
affairs of the Company and that adequate responses were given.
In line with good corporate governance practice, the notice of the forthcoming 12th AGM, the Form of Proxy
and the Annual Report would be issued to the shareholders at least twenty-eight (28) days before the AGM.
This is to ensure that shareholders are given sufficient time to read and consider the resolutions to be
resolved. All the Directors of the Company will endeavour to attend all general meetings and the Chair of the
Board Committee will provide a meaningful response to questions addressed to them.
CO RPO RAT E G OV E R N A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
47
PRINCIPLE C - INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)
Part II – Conduct of General Meetings (Cont’d)
13. ATTENDANCE OF THE CHAIR OF THE BOARD COMMITTEES AT THE AGM
The general meeting also serves as an avenue for the Chairman and the Board members to engage in a two-
way communication with shareholders where the shareholders are encouraged to participate in the question-
and-answer session with the Board personally and exercise their right to vote on the proposed resolutions.
The Board will ensure that all Board members, particularly the chairperson of each Board committee will make
their endeavours to attend general meeting to facilitate engagement with shareholders and to address any
relevant questions and concerns raised by the shareholders.
The external auditors will be present at the AGM to respond to any queries from shareholders on the audit
conducted, the preparation and content of the auditors’ report, the accounting policies adopted by the
Company, and the independent audit review of the Company’s financial position.
At the fully virtual 11th AGM of the Company held on 28 June 2022, all members of the Board attended the fully
virtual 11th AGM, the representatives of the management and the external auditors were attended the meeting
to respond to the questions raised by the shareholders or proxies.
14. POLL VOTING
The Company conducts a poll voting on each resolution tabled during the general meetings to support
shareholders participation. As the number of shareholders of the Company is not large, the Company currently
conducts a manual poll voting instead of electronic poll voting. With the poll voting, each shareholder presents
in person or represented by proxy at the general meeting will be entitled to vote on a one-share, one-vote basis.
Independent scrutineer is appointed to validate the votes cast at the meeting.
In line with Rule 8.31A of the AMLR of Bursa Securities, the Company will ensure that any resolution set out in
the notice of any general meeting, or in any notice of resolution which may properly be moved and is intended
to be moved at any general meeting, is voted by poll. At the same time, the Company will appoint at least one
(1) independent scrutineer to validate the votes cast at the general meeting.
As for voting in absentia and remote shareholders’ participation, the existing proxy form authorizing proxies or
Chairman of meeting is an alternative measure adopted by the Company. Shareholders are allowed to appoint
any person(s) as their proxies to attend, participate, speak and vote in his/her stead at a general meeting.
All resolutions set out in the Notice of 11th AGM were put to vote by poll and the votes cast were validated by
an independent scrutineer appointed by the Company. The outcome of all resolutions proposed at the general
meeting is announced to Bursa Securities at the end of the meeting day.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Board has deliberated, reviewed and approved this Corporate Governance Overview Statement. The Board
considers and is satisfied that the Company has fulfilled its obligation under MCCG, AMLR and all applicable laws
and regulations throughout the FYE 2022.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 25 April 2023.
C ORPOR AT E G OV ERN A N C E OV E RV I E W S TAT E ME N T S
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
48
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
IN RELATION TO THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors are required by the Companies Act, 2016 to prepare the financial statements for each financial year which
have been made out in accordance with the applicable approved accounting standard in Malaysia.
The Directors are responsible to ensure that the financial statements is given a true and fair view of the financial
position of the Group and of the Company at the end of the financial year, and of the results and cash flows of the
Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have observed the following criteria:
• overseeing the overall conduct of the company’s business and that of the group;
• identifying principal risks and ensuring that an appropriate system of internal control exists to manage these
risks;
• reviewing the adequacy and integrity of internal controls system and management information system in the
company and within the group;
• adopting suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
• making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
• ensuring that the financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis and in compliance with
all applicable approved accounting standard in Malaysia subject to any material departures, if any, were
disclosed.
The Directors are satisfied that in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company for the financial
year ended 31 December 2022, appropriate accounting policies were used and applied consistently, and adopted
to include new and revised Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards where applicable. The Directors are also of
the view that relevant approved accounting standards have been followed in the preparation of these financial
statements.
The Directors are also responsible for taking such reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to
minimize fraud and other irregularities.
This Statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 25 April 2023.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
49
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
A. INTRODUCTION
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“Bioalpha” or the “Group”) is pleased to make
the following statement which outlines the key elements of the internal control system within the Group. The
Risk Management and Internal Control Statement is made in compliance with Rule 15.26(b) of Ace Market
Listing Requirements (“AMLR”) and Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for
Directors of listed Issuers (“Internal Control Guideline”).
B. BOARD RESPONSIBILITY
The Board affirms its overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and risk management to
maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders ‘investments and the Group’s assets
and also for reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the system. Notwithstanding, due to the limitations
that are inherent in any system of internal control, Group’s internal control system is designed to manage,
rather than eliminate, the risk of not adhering to the Group’s policies, and achieving objectives within the risk
tolerance established by the Board and Management. Therefore, the system provides reasonable, but not
absolute assurance against the occurrence of any material misstatement, loss or fraud.
C. RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board recognises that risk management is an integral part of the Group’s business operations and that
the identification and management of risks will affect the achievement of the Group’s business objectives.
the Board is thus committed to continually promote the culture of risk awareness and builds the necessary
knowledge in identifying, evaluating, mitigating, monitoring and managing the significant risks on an on-going
basis. In discharging its responsibilities, the Board has taken into account the guidance of the Malaysian Code
on Corporate Governance 2017 (“MCCG 2017”).
The key risk management initiatives undertaken include among others:
(i) The responsibilities of the Board and the Management are clearly defined in the organisational structure
to ensure the effective discharge of the roles and responsibilities of the parties in overseeing the conduct
of the Group’s business;
(ii) Formation of operational policies and procedures by the Management with a view of establishing group
wide operational standards in order for all operating units to work cohesively towards achieving the
business objectives of the Group. For accounting systems and financial processes, efforts are being
taken to ensure consistency in the Group as a whole;
(iii) Frequent on-site visits to the operating units by senior management so as to acquire a first-hand view
on various operational matters and addressing the issues accordingly;
(iv) The Board gathers and reviews key financial and operating statistics on a monthly basis and constantly
keep track and monitor the achievement of the Group’s performance;
(v) Regular visit by internal auditors which provide independent assurance on the effectiveness of the
Group’s system of internal control and advising the Management on the areas for further improvement;
(vi) The AC reviews on a quarterly basis the quarterly unaudited financial results to monitor the Group’s
progress towards achieving the Group’s business objectives. Authority is given to the AC members to
investigate and report on any areas of improvement for the betterment of the Group; and
(vii) Regular interactive meetings between the external and internal auditors to identify and rectify any
weakness in the system of internal controls. The Board on a timely basis would be informed of any
matters brought up in the ARMC meetings.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
50
S TAT E ME N T O N R I S K MA N AG E ME NT
A N D I N T E R N A L C O N T ROL
(cont’d)
D. SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal controls that
provides assurance of effective and efficient operations and compliance with laws and regulations and also
its internal procedures and guidelines. The size and complexity of the operations may give rise to risks of
unanticipated or unavoidable losses.
The Board outsources the internal audit function to an independent professional firm. The firm is appointed
by AC and reports directly to the AC. Its role us to provide the AC with regular assurance on the continuity,
integrity and effectiveness of the internal control system through regular monitoring and review of the internal
control framework and management processes.
The system of internal controls is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk
of material errors, frauds or losses occurring. AC reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal controls,
which covers financial, operational and compliance controls, and also risk management.
The total cost incurred by the IA function is at RM27,000 for the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
E. ACCOUNTABILITY & AUDIT
The Board endeavours to present a balance and clear assessment of the Group’s financial position and
prospects through unaudited quarterly financial reporting via the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, annual
audited financial statements, the Chairman Statement and Management Review in the annual reports.
The AC reviews the quarterly financial statements and the annual financial statements before they are
submitted to the Board for approval. A statement of the Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the financial
statements is set out on page 49 of this annual report.
F. OTHER KEY ELEMENTS OF INTERNAL CONTROL
The other key elements of the Group’s System of internal control are:
a) Management Structure
The Group maintains a formal organisation structure with clear lines of accountability and responsibility.
The daily running of the businesses is entrusted to the executive Directors and their Management
teams. The heads of each operating subsidiary and department of the Group are empowered with the
responsibility of managing their respective operations.
b) Strategic Business Plan and Annual Budget
The Board constructively challenges and contributes to the development of the Group’s strategic
directions and annually reviews the Group’s strategic business plan. The Board probes the Management
to ensure the Management has taken into consideration the varying opportunities and risks whilst
developing the strategic business plan.
The Group’s annual strategic business plan and budget is reviewed, deliberated and approved by the
Board.
The expectations of the Board are clearly discussed with, and understood by, the Management. The
Board is also responsible for monitoring the implementation of the strategic business plan and for
assessing the actual performance of the Group against the annual strategic business plan and budget
as well as to provide guidance to the Management.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
51
F. OTHER KEY ELEMENTS OF INTERNAL CONTROL (CONT’D)
c) Reporting and Review
Periodic operational and financial reports are prepared and presented to the Board for discussion and
review based on the established reporting hierarchy within the Group. Ad-hoc and scheduled meetings
are held at operational and management levels to identify operational issues, discuss and review the
business plans, budgets, financial and operational performances of the Group, and etc.
d) Quality Compliance
The Group’s plant is certified as Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) compliance by the Ministry of
Health, Malaysia, which affirms that the Group has adopted the required standards in the manufacturing
processes and facilities, i.e. production of health supplements. Moreover, the GMP and the products are
Certified Halal by the Department of Islamic Development Malaysia.
e) Internal Policies and Procedures
Policy and procedures, handbook, guidelines and authority limits have been established to guide
personnel on day-to-day operational activities.
f) Related Party Transactions
Related party transactions (if any) are disclosed, reviewed and monitored by the ARMC and presented
to the Board on a periodical basis.
G. ADEQUACY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE GROUP’S RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL
CONTROL
The Board has received assurance from the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief
Financial Officer of the Company that the Group’s risk management and internal control system is operating
adequately and effectively in all material aspects, based on the risk management and internal control system
of the Group.
H. REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT
Pursuant to Rule 15.23 of the AMLR, the external Auditors have reviewed this Risk Management and Internal
Control Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December
2022 and reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention that causes them to believe that
this statement is inconsistent with their understanding of the process adopted by the Board in reviewing the
adequacy and integrity of the system of internal controls.
I. BOARD CONCLUSIONS
The Board is satisfied that, during the year under review, the existing system of internal controls and risk
management is sound and adequate to safeguard the Group’s assets at the existing level of operations of
the Group. The Board recognises that the development of internal control system is an ongoing process.
Therefore, in striving for continuous improvement, the Board will continue to take appropriate action plans to
further enhance the Group’s system of internal control.
This statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board dated 25 April 2023.
STATEME N T O N RISK M A N AG E ME N T
AND INT ERN A L CO NT RO L
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
52
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
AC REPORT
The Board of Directors is pleased to present the Audit Committee (“AC”) Report for the financial year ended 31
December 2022 in accordance with Rule 15.15 of the AMLR of Bursa Securities.
COMPOSITION
The current composition of the AC is set out below:
1) Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah (Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director)
2) Kang Jimmi (Member, Independent Non-Executive Director)
3) Yee Yit Yang (Member, Independent Non-Executive Director)(appointed on 1 June 2022)
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah, being a member of Malaysian Institute of Accountants, fulfils the requirement of Rule
15.09(1)(c) of the AMLR.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The terms and reference of the AC is made available on the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
ATTENDANCE OF MEETINGS
A total of five (5) meetings were held in FYE 2022. Details of attendance of the AC members are as follows:
Name of Members Total Meetings Attended
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah 5/5
Kang Jimmi 5/5
Yee Yit Yang (appointed on 1 June 2022) 2/2
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim has been re-designated as the Chairman of the Board on 1 June 2022
and hence, he has relinquished his office as Member of the AC in compliance with Practice 1.4 of the MCCG 2021.
Subsequent thereto, Mr Yee Yit Yang was appointed as the member of the AC with effect from 1 June 2022.
At the invitation of the AC, the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, relevant Management, External and
Internal Auditors attended the AC meetings and presented their reports on financial results, audit findings and other
matters for the information and/or approval of the AC.
The Company Secretaries acts as Secretary to the AC and shall circulate the minutes of meetings of the AC to all
members of the AC. Detailed audit reports by the Internal Auditors and the respective management response are
circulated to the members of the AC before each Meeting at which the said reports are tabled. The AC Chairman
later updated the Board relevant and salient issues with the recommendations of the AC for Board’s consideration
and approval.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
53
SUMMARY ACTIVITIES OF THE AC
The AC met at scheduled times during the year, with due notices of meetings issued, and with agendas planned and
itemised so that matters were deliberated and discussed in a detailed manner. Apart from the scheduled meetings,
adhoc meetings were also called at the discretion of the AC. The minutes of each meeting held were distributed to
each member of the Board at subsequent Board Meetings. The AC Chairman reported on each meeting to members
of the Board.
The activities of the AC during the financial year ended 31 December 2022 include the following:
a) Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results of the Group and the Company including the announcements
pertaining thereto, before recommending to the Board for their approval and release of the Group’s results to
Bursa Securities;
b) Reviewed with External Auditors on their audit planning memorandum on the statutory audit of the Group for
the financial year ended 31 December 2022;
c) Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the Group before recommending to the Board for their
approval and release of the Group’s results to Bursa Securities;
d) Reviewed and discussed with the external auditors of their audit findings inclusive of system evaluation, audit
fees, issues raised, audit recommendations and management’s response to these recommendations;
e) Evaluated the performance of the External Auditors for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 covering
areas such as calibre, quality processes, audit team, audit scope, audit communication, audit governance and
independence and considered and recommended the re-appointment of the external auditors;
f) Reviewed the proposed appointment of new External Auditors, Messrs. ChengCo PLT in place of Messrs. TGS
TW PLT for the financial year ending 31 December 2022 and recommended to the Board’s for approval;
g) Reviewed and assessed the adequacy of the scope and functions of the internal audit plan;
h) Reviewed the internal audit reports presented and considered the findings of internal audit through the review
of the internal audit reports tabled and management responses thereof;
i) Reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control;
j) Reviewed the proposed fees for the external auditors and internal auditors in respect of their audit of the
Company and the Group;
k) Reviewed related party transactions and conflict of interest situation that may arise within the Company or the
Group;
l) Reviewed the Company’s compliance with the AMLR, applicable Approved Accounting Standards and other
relevant legal and regulatory requirements;
m) Reviewed the Audit Committee Report and Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control before
recommending to the Board for approval and inclusion in the Annual Report; and
n) Report to the Board on its activities and significant findings and results.
AUD IT C O M M IT T EE REPO R T
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
54
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTIONS
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to Governanceadvisory.com Sdn Bhd (“GA”), an independent
professional firm engaged in risk advisory and internal audit services. The primary responsibility of the internal
audit function is to provide independent, objective assessment on the adequacy and effectiveness of governance,
risk and processes implemented by the management. The internal auditor adopts a risk-based approach to plan
and prioritise audit work on high risk auditable areas.
The Internal Auditors reports directly to the AC quarterly by presenting their audit reports which included their findings
and recommendations for improvements to the AC for review and deliberation. The AC evaluated the adequacy of
the responses, actions and measures taken by the management within the required timeframe in resolving the
audit issues reported. The Internal Auditors also carried out follow-up reviews to monitor the implementation of the
said actions plans and measures reported to the AC. The AC Chairman then briefed the Board on the internal audit
reports on any major findings.
Presently, there are 10 internal auditors with relevant qualifications within GA. Mr Jason Tee who has 14 years’
experience and reports directly to the AC to ensure impartiality and independence leads the head of GA. Being
an external internal audit firm, all internal auditors are free from any relationships and conflict of interest with the
Group which could impair their objectivity and independence, GA carried out Conflict of Interest Declaration yearly
to ensure their independence. The Internal Auditors adopts International Professional Practices Framework for their
audit works.
The cost incurred for the Internal Audit Function during FYE 2022 is approximately RM27,000.
During the financial year, the following activities were carried out by the internal auditors in discharge of its
responsibilities:
i) Human Resource Management
• To ensure manpower requirements are planned/ budgeted for; and approved by the Management.
• To ensure suitable candidates are recruited/ employed accordance to requester requirement and
budget.
• To ensure the resigning employee’s last working date is communicated to the respective departments
for amongst others, return of company’s assets, timely deactivation of user access in application
system(s), etc.
• To ensure salary and benefits incurred are supported and are for valid employee working with the
company.
• To ensure salary, benefits and claims are checked and approved by the authorised personnel prior to
remittance.
• To confirm statutory contributions and deduction are timely remitted to the statutory body (i.e., EPF and
SOCSO).
ii) Standard Operating Policy and Procedure
• To review documented policies & procedures for China operations.
• To make recommendations for overall operational control and improvements
The AC and the Board agreed that the internal audit review was done in accordance with the audit plan and the
coverage is adequate.
For further details on the risk management, internal controls and internal audit functions, please refer to the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control on pages 50 to 52 in this Annual Report 2022.
AU D I T C O MMI T T E E R E P O RT
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
55
ADDITIONAL
COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
1.	UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS
July 2020 Placement
The Company has issued a total of 94,309,700 new Bioalpha Shares at RM0.105 each and raised proceeds
approximately RM9.90 million and was completed on 17 July 2020.
The status of utilisation of proceeds is as follows:
					 Balance as
			 Proposed Actual at 31 Dec Intended time
			Usage	Utilisation 2022 Frame for
No. Purpose RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 	Utilisation
			
(a) Digitalisation expenses 3,000 (2,000) 1,000 Within 24 months
(b) Development expenditure 3,762 (3,762) – Within 24 months
(c) Marketing and advertising
		  expenses 3,037 (2,237) 800 Within 24 months
(d) Expenses for the private
		  placement 104 (104) – Within 1 month
		 Total 9,903 8,103 1,800		
2. AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES PAID TO EXTERNAL AUDITORS
The amount of audit and non-audit fees paid to the firm or corporation affiliated to the External Auditors by the
Company and the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 are as follows:
					
Company Group
					
(RM) (RM)
Audit Services Rendered				 61,500 212,289
Non-Audit Services Rendered
(a) Review of Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control		 5,000 5,000
(b) Review of foreign subsidiaries report for consolidation purpose		 19,000 19,000
3. MATERIAL CONTRACTS OR LOANS INVOLVING THE INTERESTS OF THE DIRECTORS, CHIEF
EXECUTIVE WHO IS NOT A DIRECTOR OR MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS
There were no material contracts or loans between the Company and its subsidiary that involve the interests
of the Directors, Chief Executive who is not a Director or Major Shareholders.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
56
A D D IT I O N A L C O MP L I A N C E I N F O R MAT I ON
(cont’d)
4. SHARE ISSUANCE SCHEME
The Share Issuance Scheme of the Company (“SIS”) is governed by the SIS By-Laws and was approved by
shareholders on 19 August 2016 and shall be in force for a period of five (5) years and may be extended for
such further period, at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board upon the recommendation by the SIS
Committee, provided always that the Initial Scheme Period above and such extension of the scheme made
pursuant to the Bylaws shall not in aggregate exceed a duration of ten (10) years or such other period as may
be prescribed by Bursa Securities or any other relevant authorities from the effective date of the SIS.
The Company had on 6 January 2022 extended the existing SIS which expired on 11 January 2022 for another
2 years from 12 January 2022 to 11 January 2024 in accordance with the Clause 21 of the SIS Bylaws.
The Company had on 24 March 2022 cancelled unexercised 153,000 SIS Options at exercise price of RM0.225
per share, which was granted to eligible persons on 10 September 2021 and on 6 October 2022, the Company
further cancelled outstanding SIS Options amounting to 75,000,000 SIS Options at an exercise price of RM0.14
per share which was granted to eligible persons on 17 May 2022.
Movement of the number of share options and the weighted average exercise prices are as follows: -
				
Number of options over Ordinary Shares
		 Exercise At				 At
Date of offer Price 1.1.2022 Adjustment# Granted Exercised 31.12.2022
		 (RM) (‘000) (‘000) (’000) (’000) (‘000)
27 February 2017 0.205 1,989 – – – 1,989
16 April 2020 0.105 2,276 – – – 2,276
10 September 2021 0.225 153,000 (153,000) – – –
17 May 2022 0.140 – (75,000) 243,000 (168,000) –
11 October 2022 0.090 – – 125,000 – 125,000
# Adjustment on options unit due to the cancellation of SIS during the financial year
Please refer to page 135 and page 136 of the Annual Report 2022 for the further details on the Share Issuance
Scheme.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
57
59 Directors’ Report
66 Statement by Directors
66 Statutory Declaration
67 Independent Auditors’ Report
72 Statements of Financial Position
74 Statements of Profit or Loss and
Other Comprehensive Income
76 Statements of Changes in Equity
80 Statements of Cash Flows
84 Notes to the Financial Statements
financial
statements
directors’
report
The directors hereby submit their report together with the audited financial statements of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are detailed
in Note 5 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
RESULTS
				
Group Company
				
RM RM
			
Net loss for the financial year 				 (46,664,827) (905,520)
			
Attributable to: 			
Owners of the Company				 (45,689,355) (905,520)
Non-controlling interest 				 (975,472) –
				 (46,664,827) (905,520)
			
DIVIDENDS
No dividends have been paid or declared by the Company since the end of the previous financial year. The directors
do not recommend the payment of any dividend in respect of the current financial year.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
During the financial year, the Company increase its share capital from RM153,233,258 to RM179,939,010 by way of:
(a) On 3 January 2022 and 6 January 2022, issuance of 12,921,886 and 10,700 new ordinary shares as a result
of exercise of warrants by the registered holders of Warrant at issue price of RM0.22 to RM2,842,815 and
RM2,354 respectively;
(b) On 13 June 2022, issuance of 168,000,000 new ordinary shares as a result of the exercise of SIS at issue price
of RM0.1420 amounted to RM23,860,583.
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary
shares of the Company.
The Company did not issue any new debentures during the financial year.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
59
directors’ report
(cont’d)
WARRANTS
The warrants were constituted under the Deed Pool dated 23 November 2016 as disclosed in the Note 18(b) to the
financial statements.
The movement of the warrants during the financial year is as follows:
Number of units
		At			At
		 1.1.2022 Exercised Expired 31.12.2022
				
Warrants		 123,547,041 (12,932,586) (110,614,455) –
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
At extraordinary general meeting held on 19 August 2016, the Company’s shareholders approved the establishment
of SIS of not more than 30% of the issued share capital of the Company at any point of time throughout the duration
of the SIS to eligible Directors and employees of the Group.
The SIS shall be in force for a period of 5 years from 12 January 2017 to 10 January 2022. The Company had on
6 January 2022 extended the existing SIS which expired on 11 January 2022 for another 2 years from 12 January
2022 to 11 January 2024 in accordance with the Clause 21 of the SIS Bylaws.
The salient feature and other term are disclosed in the Note 18(b) to the financial statements.
As at 31 December 2022, the SIS offered to take up unissued ordinary shares and the exercise prices are as follows:
Exercise At		
Number of options		 At
Date of offer price 1.1.2022 Cancellation Granted Exercised 31.12.2022
RM
27 February 2017 0.205 1,988,899 – – – 1,988,899
16 April 2020 0.105 2,275,863 – – – 2,275,863
10 September 2021 0.225 153,000,000 (153,000,000) – – –
17 May 2022 0.140 – (75,000,000) 243,000,000 (168,000,000) –
11 October 2022 0.090 – – 125,000,000 – 125,000,000
DIRECTORS
The directors in office during the financial year and during the year from the end of the financial year to the date of
the report are:
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim
Hon Tian Kok @ William *
Datuk Chong Loong Men (appointed on 1 June 2022)
Ho Tze Hiung *
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah
Kang Jimmi
Yee Yit Yang (appointed on 1 June 2022)
Goh Siow Cheng
Tan Sri Abdul Rahman Bin Mamat (resigned on 25 January 2022)
Dato’ Norhalim Bin Yunus (resigned on 1 August 2022)
* Director of the Company and of its subsidiaries
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
60
directors ’ report
(cont’d)
DIRECTORS (CONT’D)
The Directors who held office in the subsidiaries (excluding Directors who are also Directors of the Company)
during the financial year up to the date of this report:
Abd Rahman Bin Yasir
Dato’ Ng Ah Know (alternative Director to Ng Yau Loong)
Haji Ahmad Bin Haji Ma’in (resigned on 1 July 2022)
Ng Yau Loong
The information required to be disclosed pursuant to Section 253 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia is deemed
incorporated herein by such reference to the financial statements of the respective subsidiaries and made a part
hereof.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The interest and deemed interest in the shares, options, warrants and ICPS over shares of the Company and of its
related corporation of those who were Directors at financial year end (including their spouses or children) according
to the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings are as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
		 At Bought/		 At
		 1.1.2022 Conversion Sold 31.12.2022
						
Interest in the Company						
Direct Interest						
Hon Tian Kok @ William		 112,538,464 173,361,635 (235,549,900) 50,350,199
Ho Tze Hiung		 – 8,000,000 (8,000,000) –
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah		 100,000 – – 100,000
Goh Siow Cheng		 – 8,000,000 (8,000,000) –
		
Indirect Interest						
Hon Tian Kok @ William		 9,020,800 5,079,200 (14,100,000) –
					
Number of warrants
		At			At
		 1.1.2022 Bought Exercised 31.12.2022
Interest in the Company						
Direct Interest						
Goh Siow Cheng		 64 – (64) –
						
				
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
61
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS (CONT’D)
The interest and deemed interest in the shares, options, warrants and ICPS over shares of the Company and of
its related corporations of those who were Directors at financial year end (including their spouses or children)
according to the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings are as follows: (cont’d)
Number of ICPS
		At			At
		 1.1.2022 Bought Sold 31.12.2022
Interest in the Company						
Direct Interest						
Hon Tian Kok @ William		 131,361,736 139,800,000 (34,000,000) 237,161,736
Goh Siow Cheng		 10,000,000 – – 10,000,000
						
Indirect Interest						
Hon Tian Kok @ William		 105,000,000 – (105,000,000) –
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, no director of the Company has received or become entitled to receive
any benefit (other than benefits included in the aggregate amount of emoluments received or due and receivable by
the directors as disclosed in directors’ remuneration in this report) by reason of a contract made by the Company or
a related corporation with the director or with a firm of which the director is a member, or with a company in which
the director has a substantial financial interest other than any deemed benefit which may arise from transactions
as disclosed in Note 32(c) to the financial statements.
Neither during, nor at the end of the financial period, was the Company a party to any arrangements where the
object is to enable the directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM RM RM RM
Executive Directors						
Salaries and other emoluments 		 1,272,260 994,762 759,063 885,930
Social security contributions		 3,216 2,504 2,214 2,504
Defined contribution plan 		 130,972 77,960 87,038 77,960
Share based payment		 515,738 287,317 515,738 287,317
		 1,922,186 1,362,543 1,364,053 1,253,711
						
directors’ report
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
62
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM RM RM RM
Non-executive Directors						
Salaries and other emoluments 		 44,100 44,500 44,100 44,500
Fee 		 169,750 184,493 157,750 184,493
Share based payment		 (4,352) 22,985 (4,352) 22,985
		 209,498 251,978 197,498 251,978
Total directors’ remuneration 2,131,684 1,614,521 1,561,551 1,505,689
The numbers of directors of the Group whose total remuneration during the financial year fell within the following
bands is analysed below:						
			
Number of directors
				
2022 2021
				 RM RM
			
Executive directors:			
RM150,001 - RM200,000				 1 –
RM250,001 - RM300,000				 1 –
RM450,001 - RM500,000				 2 –
Non-executive directors:			
RM1 - RM50,000				 3 –
RM50,001- RM100,000				 1 –
			
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
Before the financial statements of the Group and the Company were prepared, the directors took reasonable steps:
(a) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
allowance for doubtful debts, and had satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and
the adequate allowance had been made for doubtful debts; and
(b) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including
the values of current assets as shown in the accounting records of the Group and the Company have been
written down to an amount which the current assets might be expected so to realise.
						
directors ’ report
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
63
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (CONT’D)
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(a) which would render the amounts written off for bad debts or the amount of the allowance for doubtful debts
inadequate to any substantial extend in the financial statements of the Group and the Company; or
(b) which would render the values attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and the
Company misleading; or
(c) which have arisen and render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the
Group and the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(d) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which would render any amount stated in
the financial statements of the Group and the Company misleading.
At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(a) any charge on the assets of the Group and the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year
which secures the liabilities of any other person; or
(b) any contingent liability of the Group and the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.
No contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable within the year of twelve
months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the directors, will or may substantially affect the
ability of the Group and the Company to meet its obligations as and when they fall due.
In the opinion of the directors, no item, transaction, or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the
interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect substantially the
results of the operations of the Group and the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.
INDEMNITIES TO DIRECTORS, OFFICERS OR AUDITORS
During the financial year, the total amount of indemnity insurance coverage and insurance premium paid for all
directors and certain officers of the Company were RM1,000,000 and RM5,500 respectively.
No indemnity was given to or insurance effected for auditors of the Group during the financial year.
AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The auditors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company are amounted to RM212,289 and RM61,500 (2021:
RM173,302 and RM60,000) during the financial year.
SUBSIDIARIES
The details of the subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
The detail of the significant events during the financial year are disclosed in Note 39 to the financial statements.
directors’ report
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
64
Auditors
The auditors, CHENGCO PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Signed on behalf of the board of directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors,
HON TIAN KOK @ WILLIAM
Director
HO TZE HIUNG
Director
Kuala Lumpur
Date:
directors ’ report
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
65
STATEMENT
BY DIRECTORS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2016
We, Hon Tian Kok @ William and Ho Tze Hiung, being the two of the directors of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad, do
hereby state that in opinion of directors, the financial statements set out on pages 72 to 165 are drawn up in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of
the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2022 and of the results of its financial performance and its cash
flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the board of directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors,
HON TIAN KOK @ WILLIAM HO TZE HIUNG
Director Director
Kuala Lumpur
Date:
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1)(b) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2016
I, Hon Tian Kok @ William (MIA Membership No: 32907), being the director primarily responsible for the financial
management of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set
out on pages 72 to 165, are to the best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared at )
)
on this )
Before me,
Samuel John A/L Ponniah
Membership no.: B437
HON TIAN KOK @ WILLIAM
Director
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
66
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD, which comprise the statements of
financial position as at 31 December 2022 of the Group and of the Company, and the statement of profit or loss
and other comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and
of the Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of
significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 72 to 165.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2022, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for
the financial year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for
the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice)
of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’
International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA
Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. The key audit matters
for the audit of the financial statements of the Group are described below. These matters were addressed in the
context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and
we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description of how our audit
addressed the matter is provided in that context.
We have fulfilled the responsibilities described in the Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial
statements section of our report, including in relation to these matters. Accordingly, our audit included the
performance of procedures designed to respond to our assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the
financial statements. The results of our audit procedures, including the procedures performed to address the
matters below, provide the basis of our audit opinion on the accompanying financial statements.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
67
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
Key Audit Matters (Cont’d)
1. Goodwill impairment review
As at 31 December 2022, the carrying amount of the Group’s goodwill on consolidation amounted to
RM5,334,030 mainly arising from acquisition of Mediconstant Holding Sdn. Bhd.. The risk arise from the
potential impairment of goodwill.
In addressing this, we have involved the group auditors in performing, amongst others, the following audit
procedures:
- We reviewed the measurement method adopted by the Group in accordance to the requirements of
MFRS 136 Impairment of Assets;
- We tested the mathematical accuracy of the impairment assessment;
- We obtained and assessed the discounted cash flow by comparing the cash flow projections to available
business plan; and comparing the actual results with previous budget to assess the performance of the
business and reliability of forecasting process.
2. Intangible assets impairment review
As at 31 December 2022, the carrying amount of the Group’s intangible assets on consolidation amounted
to RM51,810,908. The intangible assets included development expenditure, patent, and software. The risk
arising from the potential impairment of intangible assets.
In addressing this, we have involved the group auditors in performing, amongst others, the following audit
procedures:
- We reviewed the appropriateness of the estimated useful lives in relation to its industry and nature of
the assets;
- We checked reasonableness of the amortisation charge during the financial year for the selected
categories; and
- We have review and determine whether the indication that the intangible assets may be impaired exists.
Where impairment losses are identified, ascertain that they are accounted for and disclosed.
3. Trade receivables impairment review
The Group’s trade receivables amounting to RM8,944,684, representing approximately 10.6% of the Group’s
total current assets as at 31 December 2022. The assessment of recoverability of receivables involved
judgements and estimation uncertainty in analysing historical bad debts, customer concentration, customer
creditworthiness and customer payment terms.
In addressing this, we have involved the group auditors in performing, amongst others, the following audit
procedures:
- We obtained and evaluated the Group’s credit risk policy, and tested the processes used by management
to assess credit exposures; and
- We assessed the recoverability of trade receivables by checking past payment trend and assessing the
receipts during the financial year and subsequent to year end collections; and
- We have reviewed the appropriateness of the disclosures made in the financial statements.
INDEPEN D ENT AU D ITO RS ’ R E P O R T
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
68
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information include in the directors’ and annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to
read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the directors’ report,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also
responsible for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing
the Group’s and of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related
to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the
Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error
and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
I N D E P E N D E N T AU D I TO R S ’ R E P O RT
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
69
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s and of the Company’s internal control.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
and related disclosures made by the directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the
related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date
of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to
continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
activities within the Group and the Company to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the Group audit.
We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
INDEPEN D ENT AU D ITO RS ’ R E P O R T
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
70
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Section 266(2)(c) of Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia, we also report
that the subsidiaries of which we have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 5. to the financial statements.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the member of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person
for the content of this report.
The financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 were audited by another firm of Chartered
Accountants whose report dated 25 April 2022 expressed an unqualified opinion on those statements.
CHENGCO PLT HOO DE WEI
201806002622 03625/12/2023 J
(LLP0017004-LCA) & AF0886 Chartered Accountant
Chartered Accountants
Kuala Lumpur
Date:
I N D E P E N D E N T AU D I TO R S ’ R E P O RT
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
71
STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION			
As at 31 December 2022			
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
Notes RM RM RM RM
ASSETS						
Non-current asset						
Property, plant and equipment 4 59,427,489 71,587,396 300,806 242,112
Investment in subsidiaries 5 – – 13,716,436 13,716,436
Goodwill on consolidation 6 5,334,030 5,334,030 – –
Intangible assets 7 51,810,908 50,938,236 – –
Amount due from subsidiaries 8 – – 104,068,533 73,973,895
		 116,572,427 127,859,662 118,085,775 87,932,443
Current assets						
Biological assets 9 175,000 691,731 – –
Inventories 10 8,497,538 10,132,081 – –
Trade receivables 11 8,944,684 23,966,989 – –
Other receivables 12 16,668,049 18,390,396 52,369 41,204
Amount due from subsidiaries 8 – – 84,001,000 90,100,000
Tax recoverable		 1,001,601 472,349 23,832 19,834
Other investments 13 9,026,826 11,906 – –
Fixed deposits with licensed banks 14 22,791,034 11,624,318 7,500,000 9,500,000
Cash and cash equivalents 15 16,972,445 24,314,060 198,125 2,486,835
		 84,077,177 89,603,830 91,775,326 102,147,873
TOTAL ASSETS		 200,649,604 217,463,492 209,861,101 190,080,316
						
			
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
72
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
Notes RM RM RM RM
						
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES						
Equity attribute to owners of
 the Company						
Share capital 16 179,939,010 153,233,258 179,939,010 153,233,258
ICPS 17 9,141,569 9,141,569 9,141,569 9,141,569
Reserves 18 (21,222,103) 24,299,391 (578,588) 159,071
		 167,858,476 186,674,218 188,501,991 162,533,898
Non-controlling interests		 128,601 (335,548) – –
TOTAL EQUITY		 167,987,077 186,338,670 188,501,991 162,533,898
LIABILITIES						
Non-current liability						
Loan and borrowings 19 2,965,804 4,519,302 – –
Lease liabilities 20 4,171,162 4,093,384 – –
Deferred tax liabilities 21 7,310,126 7,455,396 – –
Contract liabilities 22 – 30,000 – –
Other payables 23 – 171,020 – –
		 14,447,092 16,269,102 – –
Current liabilities						
Contract liabilities 22 1,189,840 1,084,269 – –
Trade payables 24 4,789,633 4,508,043 – –
Other payables 23 7,258,173 3,309,515 419,237 696,545
Amount due to subsidiaries 8 – – 20,939,873 26,849,873
Loan and borrowings 19 3,986,164 4,823,721 – –
Lease liabilities 20 552,783 1,110,840 – –
Tax payable		 438,842 19,332 – –
		 18,215,435 14,855,720 21,359,110 27,546,418
TOTAL LIABILITIES		 32,662,527 31,124,822 21,359,110 27,546,418
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES		 200,649,604 217,463,492 209,861,101 190,080,316
S TAT E ME N T S O F F I N A N C I A L P O S I T I ON
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
73
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME				
For the financial year ended 31 December 2022
Group Company
			(Restated) 		(Restated)
		2022 2021 2022 2021
Notes RM RM RM RM
					
Revenue 25 35,796,829 96,719,364 5,000,000 4,000,000
Cost of sales		 (41,778,647) (82,666,093) – –
Gross profit		 (5,981,818) 14,053,271 5,000,000 4,000,000
Other operating income 26 1,242,381 1,683,822 308,816 414,578
Administration expenses		 (31,858,381) (18,936,919) (2,177,398) (3,103,134)
Net (loss)/gain on
 impairment of financial assets		 (11,462,167) 995,181 (3,974,350) (1,913,257)
Loss from operation		 (48,059,985) (2,204,645) (842,932) (601,813)
Finance costs 27 (769,678) (567,445) – –
Loss before tax 28 (48,829,663) (2,772,090) (842,932) (601,813)
Taxation 29 35,985 1,247,594 (62,588) (35,742)
Loss for the financial year		 (48,793,678) (1,524,496) (905,520) (637,555)
						
					
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
74
Group Company
			(Restated) 		(Restated)
		2022 2021 2022 2021
Notes RM RM RM RM
						
Items that are may be
 reclassified
 subsequently to profit or loss						
Exchange differences
 on translation of foreign operation		 2,128,851 52,392 – –
Other comprehensive
 income for the financial year,
 net of tax		 2,128,851 52,392 – –
Total comprehensive
 loss for the financial year		 (46,664,827) (1,472,104) (905,520) (637,555)
Loss for the financial
year attributable to:						
Owners of the Company		 (47,830,550) (1,286,499) (905,520) (637,555)
Non-controlling interests		 (963,128) (237,997) – –
		 (48,793,678) (1,524,496) (905,520) (637,555)
Total comprehensive
 loss for the financial
 year attributable to:						
Owners of the Company		 (45,689,355) (1,236,248) (905,520) (637,555)
Non-controlling interests		 (975,472) (235,856) – –
		 (46,664,827) (1,472,104) (905,520) (637,555)
Loss per share:						
		
Basic (sen) 30 (a) (3.80) (0.11)
			
Diluted (sen) 30 (b) (2.74) (0.11)
				
S TAT E ME N T S O F P RO F I T O R LO S S
AN D OT H E R C O MP R E H E N S I V E I N C O M E
(cont’d)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
75
STATEMENTS OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY			
For the financial year ended 31 December 2022
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-distributable
							
Foreign
					
SIS		
currency				
Non-
		
Share		
Warrant option Merger translation Other Retained		
controlling Total
		 capital ICPS reserve reserve deficits reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
Notes RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
											
Group												
At 1 January 2021		 135,824,495 – 16,853,263 227,925 (4,569,128) 226,530 (16,853,263) 29,211,147 160,920,969 (1,380,060) 159,540,909
												
Loss for the financial year		 – – – – – – – (1,286,499) (1,286,499) (237,997) (1,524,496)
Foreign exchange
 translation reserve		 – – – – – 50,251 – – 50,251 2,141 52,392
Total comprehensive
 income/(loss) for
 the financial year		 – – – – – 50,251 – (1,286,499) (1,236,248) (235,856) (1,472,104)
												
Transation with owners:												
Issuance of ordinary shares 16 14,806,278 – – – – – – – 14,806,278 – 14,806,278
Share options granted
 under SIS 18 – – – 439,595 – – – – 439,595 – 439,595
Exercised of SIS 18 262,300 – – (32,300) – – – – 230,000 – 230,000
Exercsised of warrants 18 2,340,185 – (1,336,010) – – – 1,336,010 – 2,340,185 – 2,340,185
Issuance of ICPS 17 – 9,141,569 – – – – – – 9,141,569 – 9,141,569
Acquisition from NCI		 – – – – – – – 31,870 31,870 (66,370) (34,500)
Incorporation of a
 subsidiary		 – – – – – – – – – 616,930 616,930
Dilution in a subsidiary		 – – – – – – – – – 729,808 729,808
Transaction with owners		 17,408,763 9,141,569 (1,336,010) 407,295 – – 1,336,010 31,870 26,989,497 1,280,368 28,269,865
At 31 December 2021		 153,233,258 9,141,569 15,517,253 635,220 (4,569,128) 276,781 (15,517,253) 27,956,518 186,674,218 (335,548) 186,338,670
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
76
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-distributable
							
Foreign		
Retained
					
SIS		
currency		
earnings/		
Non-
		
Share		
Warrant option Merger translation Other (Accumulated		
controlling Total
		 capital ICPS reserve reserve deficits reserve reserve losses) Total interests equity
Notes RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group												
At 1 January 2022		 153,233,258 9,141,569 15,517,253 635,220 (4,569,128) 276,781 (15,517,253) 27,956,518 186,674,218 (335,548) 186,338,670
												
Loss for the financial year		 – – – – – – – (47,830,550) (47,830,550) (963,128) (48,793,678)
Foreign exchange
translation reserve		 – – – – – 2,141,195 – – 2,141,195 (12,344) 2,128,851
Total comprehensive
income/(loss) for
the financial year		 – – – – – 2,141,195 – (47,830,550) (45,689,355) (975,472) (46,664,827)
												
Transation with owners: 											
Share options granted
under SIS 18 – – – 1,100,085 – – – – 1,100,085 – 1,100,085
Exercised of SIS 18 23,860,583 – – (340,583) – – – – 23,520,000 – 23,520,000
Cancellation of SIS 18 – 		 – (591,641) – – – – (591,641) – (591,641)
Exercsised of warrants 18 2,845,169 – (1,634,679) – – – 1,634,679 – 2,845,169 – 2,845,169
Expired of warrant 		 – – (13,882,574) – – – 13,882,574 – – – –
Dilution in a subsidiary		 – – – – – – – – – 1,439,621 1,439,621
Transaction with owners		 26,705,752 – (15,517,253) 167,861 – – 15,517,253 – 26,873,613 1,439,621 28,313,234
At 31 December 2022		 179,939,010 9,141,569 – 803,081 (4,569,128) 2,417,976 – (19,874,032) 167,858,476 128,601 167,987,077
												
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
S TAT E ME N T S OF
C H A N G E S I N E Q U I TY
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
77
								
(Accumulated
							
SIS losses)/
			 Share Warrant option Other Retained Total
			 capital ICPS reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
		 Notes RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
									
Company									
At 1 January 2021			 135,824,495 – 16,853,263 227,925 (16,853,263) 161,406 136,213,826
									
Loss for the financial year,
 representing total
 comprehensive loss for
 the financial year			 – – – – – (637,555) (637,555)
									
Transation with owners:									
Issuance of ordinary shares		 16 14,806,278 – – – – – 14,806,278
Share options granted
 under SIS		 18 – – – 439,595 – – 439,595
Exercised of SIS		 18 262,300 – – (32,300) – – 230,000
Exercsised of warrants		 18 2,340,185 – (1,336,010) – 1,336,010 – 2,340,185
Issuance of ICPS		 17 – 9,141,569 – – – – 9,141,569
Transaction with owners			 17,408,763 9,141,569 (1,336,010) 407,295 1,336,010 – 26,957,627
At 31 December 2021			 153,233,258 9,141,569 15,517,253 635,220 (15,517,253) (476,149) 162,533,898
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEME N T S O F
C HANGE S IN EQ UIT Y
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
78
								
(Accumulated
						
SIS		
losses)/
			 Share Warrant option Other Retained Total
			 capital ICPS reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
		 Notes RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Company									
At 1 January 2022			 153,233,258 9,141,569 15,517,253 635,220 (15,517,253) (476,149) 162,533,898
									
Loss for the financial year,
 representing total
 comprehensive loss for
 the financial year			 – – – – – (905,520) (905,520)
									
Transation with owners:									
Share options granted
 under SIS			 – – – 1,100,085 – – 1,100,085
Exercised of SIS			 23,860,583 – – (340,583) – – 23,520,000
Cancellation of SIS			 – – – (591,641) – – (591,641)
Exercsised of warrants			 2,845,169 – (1,634,679) – 1,634,679 – 2,845,169
Expired of warrant 			 – – (13,882,574) – 13,882,574 – –
Transaction with owners			 26,705,752 – (15,517,253) 167,861 15,517,253 – 26,873,613
At 31 December 2022			 179,939,010 9,141,569 – 803,081 – (1,381,669) 188,501,991
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
S TAT E ME N T S OF
C H A N G E S I N E Q U I TY
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
79
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS				
For the financial year ended 31 December 2022
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
Notes RM RM RM RM
Cash flows from operating activities						
Loss before tax		 (48,829,663) (2,772,090) (842,932) (601,813)
Adjustments for:						
 Amortisation of intagible assets		 2,417,572 2,342,080 – –
 Amortisation of deferred capital grant		 (405,019) (368,391) – –
 Bad debts written off		 356,705 796,910 – –
 Biological assets written off		 – 1,660 – –
 Depreciation of property, plant
  and equipment		 10,156,011 10,238,215 1,306 1,305
 Dividend income		 – – (5,000,000) (4,000,000)
 Share based payment		 508,444 439,595 508,444 439,595
 Loss on disposal of property,
  plant and equipment		 2,522 10,400 – –
 Loss on dilution of a subsidiary		 1,439,621 239,808 – –
 Fair value loss on 						
  plantation expenditure		 2,114,958 – – –
 Fair value loss on 						
  biological assets		 516,731 – – –
 Allowance of expected credit losses					
  - Trade receivables		 10,930,843 12,411 – –
  - Other receivables		 – 659,279 – –
  - Amount due from subsidiaries		 – – 3,974,350 1,913,257
 Reversal of allowance for
  expected credit losses						
  - Trade receivables		 (293,785) (1,666,871) – –
  - Other receivables		 (47,725) – – –
 Impairment losses on goodwill
  on consolidation		 – 50,000 – –
 Impairment of property, plant and						
  equipment		 620,520 – – –
 Interest expenses		 769,678 567,445 – –
 Interest income		 (526,879) (375,977) (307,992) (250,103)
 Provision of slow-moving inventories		 580,730 75,548 – –
 Reversal of provision of
  slow-moving inventories		 – (617,181) – –
 Inventories written off		 758,789 246,016 – –
 Gain on modification of lease
  contract		 – (1,600) – –
 Gain on early termination of lease
  contract		 (83,717) – – –
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
80
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
Notes RM RM RM RM
Cash flows from operating
 activities (cont’d)						
 Property, plant and equipment
  written off		 3,289,959 814,742 – –
 Rent concession related to COVID-19		 – (40,540) – –
 Unrealised loss/(gain) on
  foreign exchange		 981,193 (269,967) 147,815 (164,475)
Operating (loss)/profit before
 working capital changes		 (14,742,512) 10,381,492 (1,519,009) (2,662,234)
Change in working capital:						
 Bill payables		 – (504,000) – –
 Contract liabilities		 – 559,336 – –
 Revolving credit		 – 1,000,000 – –
 Inventories		 295,024 (2,521,265) – –
 Receivables		 6,302,195 (15,151,106) (11,164) 6,924
 Payables		 4,539,818 2,818,393 (277,307) 246,494
		 11,137,037 (13,798,642) (288,471) 253,418
Cash used in operations		 (3,605,475) (3,417,150) (1,807,480) (2,408,816)
 Interest paid		 – (61,542) – –
 Tax refund		 – 50,307 – –
 Tax paid		 (219,025) (278,698) (66,586) (29,326)
Net cash used in operating activities		 (3,824,500) (3,707,083) (1,874,066) (2,438,142)
Cash flows from investing activities						
 Acquisition of intangible assets A (3,696,202) (5,910,846) – –
 Purchase of property, plant and
  equipment B (3,128,431) (9,910,261) (60,000) (240,000)
 Acquisition of biological assets		 – – – –
 Increased in short-term placement		 (9,014,920) – – –
 Proceed from diluted of shares in
  invesmtent in subsidiary		 1 – – –
 Net cash outflows arising from
  acquisition from non-controlling
  interest (“”NCI””)		 – (34,500) – –
 Proceeds from disposal of
  property, plant and equipment		 42,150 47,000 – –
 Proceeds from issuance of
  shares in subsidiaries to NCI		 – 1,106,930 – –
 Placement of other investments		 – (227) – –
 Interest received		 526,879 379,520 307,992 251,904
 Dividend received		 – – 5,000,000 4,000,000
Net cash (used in)/from investing
 activities		 (15,270,523) (14,322,384) 5,247,992 4,011,904
					
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
S TAT E ME N T S OF
CA S H F LOWS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
81
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
Notes RM RM RM RM
Cash flows from financing
 activities						
 Repayments to subsidiaries		 – – (33,879,988) (27,575,935)
 Withdrawal/(Placement) in fixed
  deposits pledged and maturity
  more than 3 months		 – 7,476,208 – –
 Proceed from exercise of SIS		 23,520,000 230,000 23,520,000 230,000
 Proceed from issuance of shares		 – 14,806,278 – 14,806,278
 Proceed from issuance of shares
  upon exercise of warrants		 2,845,167 2,340,185 2,845,167 2,340,185
 Proceed from issues of ICPS		 – 9,141,569 – 9,141,569
 Decrease in short-term deposits
  pledged with licensed bank		 (20,690) – – –
 Repayments of lease liabilities C (1,290,651) (1,222,168) – –
 Repayments of term loans		 (2,391,055) (710,436) – –
 Drawdown of term loans		 – 2,300,000 – –
 Interest paid		 (769,678) (505,903) – –
Net cash from/(used in) financing
 activities		 21,893,093 33,855,733 (7,514,821) (1,057,903)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and
 cash equivalents		 2,798,070 15,826,266 (4,140,895) 515,859
Effect of exchange translation
 differences		 1,006,341 (197,370) (147,815) –
Cash and cash equivalents at
 beginning of financial year		 27,314,060 11,685,164 4,486,835 3,970,976
Cash and cash equivalents at
 end of financial year		 31,118,471 27,314,060 198,125 4,486,835
Cash and cash equivalents at the end						
 of the financial year comprises:						
Cash and bank balances 		 16,972,445 24,314,060 198,125 2,486,835
Fixed deposits with licensed banks		 22,791,034 11,624,318 7,500,000 9,500,000
		 39,763,479 35,938,378 7,698,125 11,986,835
Less: Fixed deposit pledged with 						
licensed banks		 (1,145,008) (1,124,318) – –
Less: Fixed deposit maturity more						
than 3 months		 (7,500,000) (7,500,000) (7,500,000) (7,500,000)
		 31,118,471 27,314,060 198,125 4,486,835
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEME N T S O F
CASH FLOW S
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
82
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
NOTE TO STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS					
Group Company
		2022 2021 2022 2021
Notes RM RM RM RM
		
A. Acquisition of intagible
assets						
Total addition 7 3,696,202 6,644,994 – –
Transferred from other
receivables		 – (734,148) – –
Cash payment		 3,696,202 5,910,846 – –
B. Purchase of property, plant
and equipment						
Total addition 4 4,902,489 18,923,056 60,000 240,000
Purchase through
lease arrangements		 (1,774,058) (1,127,683) – –
Purchase through term loans
receivables		 – (979,800) – –
Transferred from other receivables		 – (6,905,312) – –
Cash payment		 3,128,431 9,910,261 60,000 240,000
C. Cash outflows for leases as
a lessee						
Included in net cash from
operating activities:						
Payment relating to low
  value assets 28 – 13,520 – –
Payment relating to short-term
  leases 28 – 391,196 – –
		 – 404,716 – –
 Included in net cash from
operating activities: 					
Payment of lease liabilities		 1,290,651 1,222,168 – –
Payment on interest of lease liabilities		 162,891 145,046 – –
		 1,453,542 1,367,214 – –
		 1,453,542 1,771,930 – –
S TAT E ME N T S OF
CA S H F LOWS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
83
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 31 December 2022
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia, and is listed on
the ACE Market of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The principal place of business of the Company is
located at No. 1, Jalan Perindustrian Suntrack, Hub Perindustrian Suntrack, Off Jalan P1A, Seksyen 13, Bandar
Baru Bangi, 43000 Kajang, Selangor Darul Ehsan and the registered office of the Company is located at B-21-1,
Level 21, Tower B, Northpoint Mid Valley City, No. 1, Medan Syed Putra Utara, 59200 Kuala Lumpur Wilayah
Persekutuan.
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding. There have been no significant changes in the
nature of these activities of the Company. The principal activities of its subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to
the financial statements.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution
of the directors on
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
2.1 Basis of preparation
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards (“MFRS”), International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
2.2 Basis of measurement
The financial statements, which are expressed in Ringgit Malaysia (‘‘RM’’), have been prepared under the
historical cost basis except as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
2.3 Adoption of new and amended standards
The Group and the Company has adopted the following MFRS and Interpretations (collectively referred
to as “MFRSs’), issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) and effective for the
financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022;
MFRSs, Interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January
2022
• Amendments to MFRS 1, First-time Adoption of Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (Annual
Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018-2020 Cycle)
• Amendments to MFRS 3, Reference to the Conceptual Framework, (Business Combinations)
• Amendments to MFRS 9, Financial Instruments (Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018-
2020 Cycle)
• MFRS 116, Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds Before Intended Use
• Amendments to MFRS 137, Onerous Contracts – Cost of Fulfilling a Contract
• Amendments to MFRS 141, Agriculture (Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018-2020
Cycle)
The adoption of the above accounting standards and/or interpretations (including the consequential
amendments, if any) did not have any material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
84
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.4 Standards issued but not yet effective
The Company has not adopted the following standards that have been issued as of the reporting date
but are not yet effective:
MFRSs, Interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January
2023
• MFRS 17, Insurance Contracts
• Amendments to MFRS 17, Insurance Contracts
• Amendments to MFRS 108, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors –
Definition of Accounting Estimates
• Amendments to MFRS 101, Presentation of Financial Statements – Disclosures of Accounting
Estimates
• Amendments to MFRS 112, Income Tax – Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising
from a Single Transaction
MFRSs, Interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January
2024
• Amendments to MFRS 16, Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
• Amendments to MFRS 101, Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
MFRSs, Interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after a date yet to
be confirmed
• Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128, Consolidated Financial Statements and Investments
in Associates and Joint Ventures - Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its
Associate or Joint Venture
2.5 Functional and presentation currency
The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are measured using the currency of
the primary economic environment in which they operate (“the functional currency”). The consolidated
financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the Company’s functional
currency, and has been rounded to the nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.
2.6 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries. The financial statements of the subsidiaries and associates used in the preparation of
the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting period as the Company.
Consistent accounting policies are applied to like transactions and events in similar circumstances.
(a) Subsidiaries and business combination
Subsidiaries are entities (including structure entities) over which the Group is exposed, or has
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the acquirees and has the ability to affect
those returns through its power over the acquirees.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements
from the date the Group obtains control of the acquirees until the date the Group loses control of
the acquirees.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
85
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.6 Basis of consolidation (Cont’d)
(a) Subsidiaries and business combination (Cont’d)
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations from the
acquisition date.
For a new acquisition, goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the following:
• the fair value of the consideration transferred, calculated as the sum of the acquisition date
fair value of assets transferred (including contingent consideration), the liabilities incurred
to former owners of the acquiree and the equity instruments issued by the Group. Any
amounts that relate to pre-existing relationships or other arrangements before or during
the negotiations for the business combination, that are not part of the exchange for the
acquiree, will be excluded from the business combination accounting and be accounted for
separately; plus
• the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value
or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the acquisition date
(the choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis); plus
•		
if the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the
previously held equity interest in the acquiree; less
•		
the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities (including contingent
liabilities) assumed at the acquisition date.
The accounting policy for goodwill is set out in Note 2.31 to the financial statements.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss
at the acquisition date.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the
Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the Group remeasures the previously held equity
interest in the acquiree to its acquisition-date fair value, and recognises the resulting gain or loss,
if any, in profit or loss. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date
that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit
or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings on the same basis as would be required if the
acquirer had disposed directly of the previously held equity interest.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period
in which the business combination occurs, the Group uses provisional fair value amounts for the
items for which the accounting is incomplete. The provisional amounts are adjusted to reflect
new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date,
including additional assets or liabilities identified in the measurement period. The measurement
period for completion of the initial accounting ends as soon as the Group receives the information
it was seeking about facts and circumstances or learns that more information is not obtainable,
subject to the measurement period not exceeding one year from the acquisition date.
Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the
former subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to
the former subsidiary from the consolidated statement of financial position. Any gain or loss
arising on the loss of control is recognised in profit or loss. If the Group retains any interest in
the former subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value at the date that control is lost.
Subsequently, it is accounted for as an associate, a joint venture or a financial asset.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
86
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.6 Basis of consolidation (Cont’d)
(a) Subsidiaries and business combination (Cont’d)
Changes in the Group’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control
are accounted for as equity transactions. The difference between the Group’s share of net assets
before and after the change, and the fair value of the consideration received or paid, is recognised
directly in equity.
(b) Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in subsidiaries not attributable, directly or indirectly,
to owners of the Company and are presented separately in the consolidated statements of
financial position within equity.
Losses attributable to the non-controlling interests are allocated to the non-controlling interests
even if the losses exceed the non-controlling interests.
(c) Associates
Associates are entities over which the Group has significant influence, but not control, to the
financial and operating policies.
Investment in associates is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the
equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in associates is initially recognised at cost. The cost of
investment includes transaction costs. Subsequently, the carrying amount is adjusted to recognise
changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate.
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the carrying amount of that
interest including any long-term investments is reduced to zero, and the recognition of further
losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments
on behalf of the associate.
When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any retained interest in
the former associate at the date when significant influence is lost is measured at fair value and
this amount is regarded as the initial carrying amount of a financial asset. Any difference between
the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the
retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss.
When the Group’s interest in an associate decrease but does not result in a loss of significant
influence, any retained interest is not remeasured. Any gain or loss arising from the decrease
in interest is recognised in profit or loss. Any gains or losses previously recognised in other
comprehensive income are also reclassified proportionately to the profit or loss if that gain or
loss would be required to be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or
liabilities.
(d) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from
intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted associates are eliminated
against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are
eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of
impairment.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
87
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.7 Separate financial statements
In the Company’s statement of financial position, investment in subsidiaries and associates are
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held
for sale or distribution. The cost of investment includes transaction costs. The policy for the recognition
and measurement of impairment losses shall be applied on the same basis as would be required for
impairment of non-financial assets as disclosed in Note 2.17(b) to the financial statements.
Contributions to subsidiaries are amounts for which the settlement is neither planned nor likely to
occur in the foreseeable future is, in substance, considered as part of the Company’s investment in the
subsidiaries.
2.8 Foreign currency transactions and operations
(a) Translation of foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions are translated to the respective functional currencies of the Group
entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction dates.
At the end of each reporting date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are
retranslated at the exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are
retranslated at the rates prevailing at the dates the fair values were determined. Non-monetary
items denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at historical cost are translated at the
historical rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on settlement or retranslation of monetary items are
recognised in profit or loss except for monetary items that are designated as hedging instruments
in either a cash flow hedge or a hedge of the Group’s net investment of a foreign operation. When
settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned
nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss
in the separate financial statements of the parent company or the individual financial statements
of the foreign operation. In the consolidated financial statements, the exchange differences are
considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised initially in
other comprehensive income until its disposal, at which time, the cumulative amount is reclassified
to profit or loss.
The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value is treated in
line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item (i.e. translation
differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income
or profit or loss are also recognised in other comprehensive income or profit or loss, respectively).
(b) Translation of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations denominated in the functional currency different
fromthepresentationcurrency,includinggoodwillandfairvalueadjustmentsarisingonacquisition,
are translated into the presentation currency at exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at exchange rates at the dates of
the transactions.
Exchange differences arising on the translation are recognised in other comprehensive income.
However, if the foreign operation is a non-wholly owned subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate
share of the translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
88
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.8 Foreign currency transactions and operations (Cont’d)
(b) Translation of foreign operations (Cont’d)
Whenaforeignoperationisdisposedofsuchthatcontrol,significantinfluenceislost,thecumulative
amount in foreign exchange translation reserves related to that foreign operation is reclassified
to profit or loss. For a partial disposal not involving loss of control of a subsidiary that includes a
foreign operation, the proportionate share of cumulative amount in foreign exchange translation
reserve is reattributed to non-controlling interests. For partial disposals of associates that do not
result in the Group losing significant influence, the proportionate share of the cumulative amount
in foreign exchange translation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
2.9 Current versus non-current classification
Assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position are presented based on current/non-current
classification.
An asset is current when it is:
(i) Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in the normal operating cycle;
(ii) Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
(iii) Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting periods; or
(iv) Cash or cash equivalents unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability
for at least twelve months after the reporting period
A liability is current when:
(i) It is expected to be settled in the normal operating cycle;
(ii) It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
(iii) It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting periods; or
(iv) There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve
months after the reporting period
All other assets and liabilities are classified as non-current.
2.10 Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised in the statements of financial position when, and only when, the
Group and the Company become a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
Except for the trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the
Group has applied the practical expedient, the financial instruments are recognised initially at its fair
value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit
or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset
and financial liability. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are
expensed in profit or loss. Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for
which the Group has applied the practical expedient are measured at the transaction price determined
under MFRS 15.
An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract and accounted for as a
derivative if, and only if, it is not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host
contract; it is a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the
definition of a derivative; and the hybrid contract is not measured as fair value through profit or loss.
The host contract, in the event an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in
accordance with the policy applicable to the nature of the host contract.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
89
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.10 Financial instruments (Cont’d)
A derivative embedded within a hybrid contract containing a financial asset host is not accounted for
separately. The financial asset host together with the embedded derivative is required to be classified in
its entirety as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss.
(a) Subsequent measurement
The Group and the Company categorise the financial instruments as follows:
(i) Financial assets
For the purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in four
categories:
• Financial assets at amortised cost
• Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income with recycling of
cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition
• Financial assets designated at fair value through other comprehensive income with no
recycling of cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition
• Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
The classification depends on the entity’s business model for managing the financial assets
and the contractual cash flows characteristics of the financial assets.
The Group and the Company reclassify financial assets when and only when their business
models for managing those assets change.
Debt instruments
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s and the Company’s
business model for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There
are three measurement categories into which the Group and the Company classify their debt
instruments:
• Amortised cost
Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and those cash
flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised
cost. Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the
effective interest method and are subject to impairment. The policy for the recognition
and measurement of impairment is in accordance with Note 2.17(a) to the financial
statements. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the financial asset
is derecognised, modified or impaired.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
90
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.10 Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(a) Subsequent measurement (Cont’d)
The Group and the Company categorise the financial instruments as follows: (Cont’d)
(i) Financial assets (Cont’d)
Debt instruments (Cont’d)
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s and the Company’s
business model for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There
are three measurement categories into which the Group and the Company classify their debt
instruments: (Cont’d)
• Fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”)
Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the
financial assets, and the assets’ cash flows represent solely payments of principal and
interest, are measured at FVOCI. For debt instruments at FVOCI, interest income, foreign
exchange revaluation and impairment losses or reversals are recognised in profit or
loss and computed in the same manner as for financial assets measured at amortised
cost. The remaining fair value changes are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The policy for the recognition and measurement of impairment is in accordance with
Note 2.18(a) to the financial statements. Upon derecognition, the cumulative fair value
change recognised in other comprehensive income is recycled to profit or loss. The
Group and the Company have not designated any financial asset as financial assets at
FVOCI.
• Fair value through profit or loss (“FVPL”)
Financial assets at FVPL include financial assets held for trading, financial assets
designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss, or financial assets
mandatorily required to be measured at fair value. Financial assets are classified as
held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the
near term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified
as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Financial assets with cash flows that are not solely payments of principal and interest
are classified and measured at fair value through profit or loss, irrespective of the
business model. Notwithstanding the criteria for debt instruments to be classified at
amortised cost or at FVOCI, as described above, debt instruments may be designated
at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition if doing so eliminates, or
significantly reduces, an accounting mismatch.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the statements of
financial position at fair value with net changes in fair value recognised in the profit or
loss.
Equity instruments
Upon initial recognition, the Group and the Company can make an irrevocable election to
classify its equity investments that is not held for trading as equity instruments designated
at FVOCI. The classification is determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
Gains and losses on these financial assets are not recycled to profit or loss. Dividends
are recognised as other income in the profit or loss when the right of payment has been
established, except when the Group and the Company benefit from such proceeds as a
recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded
in other comprehensive income. Equity instruments designated at FVOCI are not subject
to impairment assessment. The Group and the Company have not designated any equity
instruments designated as FVOCI.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
91
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.10 Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(a) Subsequent measurement (Cont’d)
The Group and the Company categorise the financial instruments as follows (Cont’d):
(ii) Financial liabilities
The Group and the Company classify their financial liabilities in the following measurement
categories:
• Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
• Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for
trading, including derivatives (except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee contract
or a designated and effective hedging instrument) or financial liabilities designated into this
category upon initial recognition.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are
measured at fair value with the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss
are designated at the initial date of recognition, and only if the criteria in MFRS 9 Financial
Instruments are satisfied. The Group and the Company have not designated any financial
liability as at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Subsequent to initial recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost
using effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the
financial liabilities are derecognised and through the amortisation process.
(b) Financial guarantee contracts
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when
due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, net of transaction
costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequent to initial
recognition, the liability is measured at the higher of the amount of the loss allowance determined
in accordance with Section 5.5 of MFRS 9 and the amount initially recognised, when appropriate,
the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of MFRS 15.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
92
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.10 Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(c) Derecognition
A financial asset or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when:
(i) the contractual rights to receive the cash flows from the financial asset expire; or
(ii) the Group and the Company have transferred their rights to receive cash flows from the asset
or have assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to
a third party and either (a) the Group and the Company have transferred substantially all the
risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group and the Company have neither transferred
nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but have transferred control
of the asset.
The Group and the Company evaluate if, and to what extent, they have retained the risks and
rewards of ownership. When they have neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the
risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Group and the Company
continue to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of their continuing involvement. In that
case, the Group and the Company also recognise an associated liability. The transferred asset and
the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the
Group and the Company have retained.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured
at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration
that the Group and the Company could be required to repay.
On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount (measured at
the date of derecognition) and the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less
any new liability assumed) is recognised in profit or loss.
A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified
in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. On derecognition of a financial liability, the
difference between the carrying amount and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets
transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
(d) Offsetting of financial instruments
Financialassetsandfinancialliabilitiesareoffset,andthenetamountispresentedinthestatements
of financial position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts
and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities
simultaneously.
In accounting for a transfer of a financial asset that does not qualify for derecognition, the entity
shall not offset the transferred asset and the associated liability.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
93
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.11 Property, plant and equipment
Operating tangible assets that are used for more than one accounting period in the production and
supply of goods and services, for administrative purpose or for rental to others are recognised as
property, plant and equipment when the Company obtains control of the asset. The assets, including
major spares, stand-by equipment and servicing equipment, are classified into appropriate classes
based on the nature. Any subsequent replacement of a significant component in an existing asset is
capitalised as a new component in the asset and the old component is derecognised.
All property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. For a purchased asset, cost comprises
purchases price plus all directly attributable costs incurred in bringing the asset to its present location
and condition for management’s intended use.
		
All property, plant and equipment are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and
accumulated impairment losses All plant and equipment are depreciated by allocating the depreciable
amount over the remaining useful life. The depreciation methods used and useful lives of the respective
classes of property, plant and equipment are as follows:
		 Method	Useful life
Freehold building Straight-line 50 years
Leasehold land and building Straight-line 50 years
Computer system and peripherals Straight-line 5 to 10 years
Lab and office equipment, furniture and fittings Straight-line 5 to 10 years
Motor vehicles Straight-line 5 years
Plant and machineries Straight-line 5 to 10 years
Renovations Straight-line 5 to 10 years
Signage and display items Straight-line 5 to 10 years
Infrastructure expenditure Straight-line 10 years
Plantation expenditure Straight-line 9 months - 15 years
Warehouse, shoplot, factory and building Straight-line Over the lease term
Leasehold land Straight-line Over the lease term
At the end of each reporting period, the residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods for the
property, plant and equipment are reviewed for reasonableness. Any change in estimate of an item is
adjusted prospectively over its remaining useful life, commencing in the current financial year.
2.12 Biological assets
Biological assets comprise living herbal plantation and produce growing on bearer plants. Biological
assets are measured at fair value less costs of disposal. Any gain or losses arising from changes in
fair value less costs disposal net of transfer to produce stocks are recognised net in profit or loss. Fair
value is determined based on the present value of expected net cash flows from the biological assets.
The expected net cash flows are estimated using the expected output method and the estimated market
price of the biological assets.
Biological assets are classified as current assets for bearer plants that are expected to be harvested and
livestock that are expected to be sold or used for production on a date not more than 12 months after
the reporting date.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
94
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.13 Leases
(a) Definition of lease
At inception of a contract, the Group and the Company assess whether a contract is, or contains,
a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an
identified asset for a period in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys
the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group and the Company assess whether:
• the contract involves the use of an identified asset;
• the Group and the Company have the right to obtain substantially all the economic benefits
from use of the asset throughout the period of use; and
• the Group and the Company have the right to direct the use of the asset.
(b) Lessee accounting
At the lease commencement date, the Group and the Company recognise a right-of-use asset and
a lease liability with respect to all lease agreements in which it is the lessee, except for short-term
leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value assets.
The Group and the Company present right-of-use assets and lease liabilities as separate lines in
the statements of financial position.
Right-of-use asset
The right-of-use asset is initially recognised at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the
lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus
any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying
asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives
received.
The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses and adjust for any remeasurement of the lease liabilities. The
right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date
to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term.
The depreciation starts from the commencement date of the underlying asset. The policy for the
recognition and measurement of impairment losses is in accordance with Note 2.17(b) to the
financial statements.
Long term leasehold land is measured at fair value, based on valuations by external independent
valuers, less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment recognised after the
date of revaluation. Valuations are performed with sufficient regularity to ensure that the fair
value of the long-term leasehold land does not differ materially from the carrying amount. Any
accumulated depreciation as at the date of revaluation is eliminated against the gross carrying
amount of the asset and the net amount is restated to the revalued amount of the asset.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
95
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.13 Leases (Cont’d)
(b) Lessee accounting (Cont’d)
Lease liability
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid
at the commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot
be readily determined, the Group and the Company use their incremental borrowing rate.
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise:
• fixed lease payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives;
• the exercise price of a purchase option, if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that
option; and
• payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee
exercising an option to terminate the lease.
The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest
on the lease liability and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made.
The Group and the Company remeasure the lease liability (and makes a corresponding adjustment
to the related right-of-use asset) whenever:
• the lease term has changed or there is a change in the assessment of exercise of a purchase
option, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease
payments using a revised discount rate.
• a lease contract is modified and the lease modification is not accounted for as a separate
lease, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease
payments using a revised discount rate.
The Group and the Company have elected not to separate non-lease components and account for
the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
Short-term leases and leases of low value assets
The Group and the Company have elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities
for short-term leases and leases of low value assets. The Group and the Company recognise the
lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless
another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits
from the leased asset are consumed.
(c) Lessor accounting
A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards
incidental to ownership. All other leases that do not meet this criterion are classified as operating
leases.
When the Group and the Company are intermediate lessors, they account for the head lease and
the sublease as two separate contracts. The sublease is classified as a finance or operating lease
by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease. If a head lease is a short-term
lease to which the Group applies the exemption described in Note 2.13(b), then it classifies the
sub-lease as an operating lease.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
96
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.13 Leases (Cont’d)
(c) Lessor accounting (Cont’d)
If an entity in the Group is a lessor in a finance lease, it derecognises the underlying asset and
recognises a lease receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in the lease. Finance
income is recognised in profit or loss based on a pattern reflecting a constant periodic rate of
return on the lessor’s net investment in the finance lease.
If an entity in the Group is a lessor in an operating lease, the underlying asset is not derecognised
but is presented in the statements of financial position according to the nature of the asset. Lease
income from operating leases is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the lease
term, unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which use
benefit derived from the leased asset is diminished.
When a contract includes lease and non-lease components, the Group and the Company apply
MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers to allocate the consideration under the contract
to each component.
2.14 Intangible asset
(i) Internally-generated intangible assets - research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditures on an individual project are
recognised as an intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate:
• the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available
for use or sale;
• its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset;
• how the asset will generate future economic benefits;
• the availability of resources to complete; and
• the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development
The amount initially recognised for internally generated intangible assets is the sum of the
expenditure incurred from the date when the intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria
listed above. Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development
expenditure is recognised in profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at
cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of
the asset begins when development is complete and the asset is available for use. Amortisation
is recognised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives
and amortisation methods are reviewed at the end of each reporting date, with the effect of any
changes in estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
97
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.14 Intangible asset (Cont’d)
(ii) Intangible assets acquired separately
Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is recognised on a
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives and amortisation
methods are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in
estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives
that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
(iii) Derecognition of intangible assets
An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected
from use or disposal. Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset, measured
as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, are
recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
Refers accounting policy Note 2.17(b) to the financial statements on impairment of non-financial
assets for intangible assets.
2.15 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of raw material, consumables, finished goods, seedlings, trading goods and work-in-progress
consists of the expenditure incurred in bringing the inventories and other costs in bringing them to their
existing location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated
costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
2.16 Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, bank
balances and deposits and other short-term, highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months
or less, that are readily convertible to known amount of cash and which are subject to an insignificant
risk of changes in value. Cash and cash equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts.
2.17 Impairment of assets
(a) Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets measured at amortised cost, lease receivables, contract assets, and financial
guarantee contracts will be subject to the impairment requirement in MFRS 9 Financial Instruments
which is related to the accounting for expected credit losses on the financial assets. Expected
credit losses are the weighted average of credit losses with the respective risks of a default
occurring as the weights.
The Group and the Company measure loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected
credit loss, except for the following, which are measured as 12-month expected credit loss:
• debt securities that are determined to have low credit risk at the reporting date; and
• other debt securities and bank balances for which credit risk (i.e. risk of default occurring
over the expected life of the financial instrument) has not increased significantly since initial
recognition.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
98
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.17 Impairment of assets (Cont’d)
(a) Impairment of financial assets (Cont’d)
For trade receivables and contract assets, the Group applies the simplified approach permitted by
MFRS 9 to measure the loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses.
When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since
initial recognition and when estimating expected credit loss, the Group and the Company consider
reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort.
This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based on the Group’s
and the Company’s historical experience and informed credit assessment and including forward-
looking information.
The Group and the Company assume that the credit risk on a financial asset has increased
significantly if it is more than 90 days past due.
The Group and the Company consider a financial asset to be in default when:
• the borrower is unable to pay its credit obligations to the Group and the Company in full,
without taking into account any credit enhancements held by the Group and the Company; or
• the contractual payment of the financial asset is more than 90 days past due unless the
Group and the Company have reasonable and supportable information to demonstrate that
a more lagging default criterion is more appropriate.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default
events over the expected life of a financial instrument.
12-month expected credit losses are the portion of lifetime expected credit losses that represent
the expected credit losses that result from default events on a financial instrument that are
possible within the 12 months after the reporting date.
The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum
contractual period over which the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.
Expected credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses (i.e. the present value
of all cash shortfalls) over the expected life of the financial instrument. A cash shortfall is the
difference between the cash flows that are due to an entity in accordance with the contract and
the cash flows that the entity expects to receive.
Expected credit losses are discounted at the effective interest rate of the financial assets.
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at
amortised cost is credit-impaired. A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events
that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of that financial asset have
occurred. Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired include observable data about the
following events:
• significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower;
• a breach of contract, such as a default of past due event;
• the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s
financial difficulty, having granted to the borrower a concession(s) that the lender(s) would
not otherwise consider;
• it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial
reorganisation;
• the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial
difficulties; or the purchase or origination of a financial asset at a deep discount that reflects
the incurred credit losses.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
99
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.17 Impairment of assets (Cont’d)
(a) Impairment of financial assets (Cont’d)
The amount of expected credit losses (or reversal) shall be recognised in profit or loss, as an
impairment gain or loss.
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the extent
that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group and the
Company determine that the debtor does not have assets or source of income that could generate
sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial assets that
are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with the Group’s
and the Company’s procedure for recovery of amounts due.
(b) Impairment of non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of non-financial assets (except for inventories, contract assets and deferred
tax assets) are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether there is any
indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the Group and the Company make an
estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of
assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash
inflows of non-financial assets or cash-generating units (“CGUs”). The goodwill acquired in a
business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to a CGU or a group of
CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of business combination.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal
and its value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU. In determining the fair value less
costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can
be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceed its recoverable amount, the carrying amount of
asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses recognised in respect of a CGU
or groups of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to
those units or groups of units and then, to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the
unit or groups of units on a pro-rata basis.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss, except for assets that were previously revalued
with the revaluation surplus recognised in other comprehensive income. In the latter case, the
impairment is recognised in other comprehensive income up to the amount of any previous
revaluation.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed. For other assets, an assessment is made
at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment
losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. An impairment loss is reversed only if there
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the
last impairment loss was recognised. Reversal of impairment loss is restricted by the asset’s
carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for
the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss unless the asset is measured
at revalued amount, in which case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
100
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.18 Share capital
(a) Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares are equity instruments. An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a
residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Ordinary shares
are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental transaction costs.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared.
(b) ICPS
Preference share is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable, or is redeemable but only at the
Company’s option, and any dividends are discretionary. Dividends thereon are recognised as
distributions within equity.
Preference share is classified as financial liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the
option of the equity holders, or if dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends thereon are
recognised as interest expenses in profit or loss as accrued.
(c) Warrants
Warrants are classified as equity instruments and its value is allocated based on the Black-Scholes
model upon issuance. The issuance of the ordinary shares upon exercise of warrants is treated
as new subscription of ordinary shares for the consideration equivalent to the exercise price of
the warrants. Upon exercise of warrants the proceeds are credited to share capital. The warrants
reserve in relation to the unexercised warrants at the expiry of the warrants will be reversed.
(d) Treasury shares
When issued share of the Company are repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid,
including directly attributable costs, net of any tax effects, is recognised as a deduction from
equity as treasury shares until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. No gain or loss
is recognised in profit or loss on the sale, re-issuance or cancellation of the treasury shares.
When treasury shares are distributed as share dividends, the cost of the treasury shares is
deducted against the retained earnings of the Company.
When treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently, the difference between the sales
consideration, net of directly attributable costs and the carrying amount of the treasury shares is
recognised in equity
2.19 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past
event, when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current best
estimate. If it is no longer probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the
obligation, the provision is reversed. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are
discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a
finance cost.
Any reimbursement that the Company can be virtually certain to collect from a third party with respect
to the obligation is recognised as a separate asset. However, this asset may not exceed the amount of
the related provision. The expense relating to any provision is presented in the statements of profit or
loss and other comprehensive income net of any reimbursement.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
101
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.20 Employee benefits
(i) Short-term employee benefits
Wages, salaries, bonuses and social security contributions are recognised as an expense in the
reporting period in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Company.
Short-term accumulating compensated absences such as paid annual leave are recognised
when services are rendered by employees that increase their entitlement to future compensated
absences. Short-term non-accumulating compensated absences such as sick and medical leave
are recognised when the absences occur.
The expected cost of accumulating compensated absences is measured as additional amount
expected to be paid as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the
reporting period.
(ii) Defined contribution plans
As required by law, companies in Malaysia contribute to the state pension scheme, the Employees
Provident Fund (“EPF”). Such contributions are recognised as an expense in the profit or loss as
incurred. Once the contributions have been paid, the Company has no further payment obligations.
Pursuant to the relevant regulations of the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) government, the
Group participates in a local municipal government retirement benefits scheme (the “Scheme”),
whereby the Group in the PRC is required to contribute a certain percentage of the basic salaries
of their employees to the Scheme to fund its retirement benefits. The local municipal government
undertakes to assume the retirement benefits obligations of all existing and future retired
employees of the subsidiaries. The only obligation of the Group with respect to the Scheme is to
pay the ongoing required contributions under the Scheme mentioned above.
Contributions under the Scheme are charged to profit or loss as incurred. There are no provisions
under the Scheme whereby forfeited contributions maybe used to reduce future contributions.
(iii) Equity settled share-based payment transactions
The Group and the Company operate an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan for the
employees of the Group and of the Company. Employee services received in exchange for the
grant of the share options is recognised as an expense in the profit or loss over the vesting periods
of the grant with a corresponding increase in equity.
For options granted to the employees of the subsidiaries, the fair value of the options granted is
recognised as cost of investment in the subsidiaries over the vesting period with a corresponding
adjustment to equity in the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair
value of the share options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions
(for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included
in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to be vested. At the end of each
reporting period, the Group and the Company revise their estimates of the number of share options
that are expected to be vested. It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any,
in the profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
When the options are exercised, the Company issues new shares. The proceeds received net
of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital when the options are
exercised. When options are not exercised and lapsed, the share option reserve is transferred to
retained earnings.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
102
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.21 Revenue
(i) Revenue from contract with customers
Revenue is recognised when the Company satisfied a performance obligation (“PO”) by transferring
a promised good or service to the customer, which is when the customer obtains control of the
good or service. A PO may be satisfied at a point in time or over time. The amount of revenue
recognised is the amount allocated to the satisfied PO.
The Company recognises revenue from the following major sources:
(a) Sales of goods
The Company produces and sells the good in local and oversea markets. Revenue from sales
of goods is recognised when control of the products has transferred, being the products are
delivered to the customers.
Following delivery of the goods to the customers’ location, the customers have full discretion
over the manner of distribution and price to sell the goods, and bear the risk of obsolescence
and loss in relation to the goods.
Revenue is recognised based on the price specified in the contract net of the rebates,
discount and taxes.
A receivable is recognised by the Company when the goods are delivered as this represents
the point in time at which the right to consideration is unconditional, because only the
passage of time is required before payment is due. No element of financing is deemed
present as the revenue recognised with a credit term of 90 to 180 day, which is consistent
with market practice.
(b) Management fee
Management fee is recognised on accrual basis when services are rendered.
(ii) Rental income
Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. The aggregate costs
of incentives provided to lessees are recognised as a reduction of rental income over the lease
term on a straight-line basis.
(iii) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to receive payment is established.
(iv) Interest income
Interest income is recognised on accruals basis using the effective interest method.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
103
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.22 Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Company will comply
with the conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be received.
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis over
the periods in which the Company recognises as expenses the related costs for which the grants are
intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to an asset, it is recognised as deferred income and
transferred to profit or loss on a systematic basis over the useful lives of the related asset.
Government grants that are receivable as compensation for expenses or losses already incurred or
for the purpose of giving immediate financial support to the Group with no future related costs are
recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they become receivable.
Where the Company receives non-monetary government grants, the asset and the grant are recorded at
nominal amount and transferred to profit or loss on a systematic basis over the life of the depreciable
asset by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
2.23 Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset
are capitalised as part of the cost of the assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial
period of time to get ready for theirs intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of those
assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. All other
borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. Borrowing costs
consist of interest and other costs that the Group incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds.
The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when
expenditure for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are
necessary to prepare the asset for their intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing
costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying
asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure
on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation.
2.24 Contract liabilities
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer good services to a customer for which the company
has received consideration (or an amount of consideration is due) from the customer. If a customer
pays consideration before the Group transfer goods or services to the customer, a contract liability is
recognise when the payment is made or the payment is due (whichever is earlier). Contract liabilities are
recognised as revenue when the Group perform under the contract.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
104
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.25 Income taxes
Income tax expense in profit or loss comprises current and deferred tax. Current and deferred tax
are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items
recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income.
(a) Current income tax
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the
amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax
laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted at the
reporting date, in the countries where the Company operates and generates taxable income.
Current income taxes are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that the tax relates to
items recognised outside profit or loss, either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations
in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where
appropriate.
(b) Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the end of the
reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for
financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, except:
(i) Where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction,
affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
(ii) In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in associates,
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is
probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of
unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be
available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax
credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except:
(i) Where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the
initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination
and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or
loss; and
(ii) In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in associates,
deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary
differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
		
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the reporting date and reduced to the
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part
of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at the
reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable
profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
105
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.25 Income taxes (Cont’d)
(b) Deferred tax (Cont’d)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the
year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have
been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or
loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity and deferred tax arising from a business combination
is adjusted against goodwill on acquisition.
2.26 Earnings per share
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS
is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares
held.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects
of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
2.27 Operating segments
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the
chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decisionmakers are responsible for allocating
resources and assessing performance of the operating segments and make overall strategic decisions.
The Group’s operating segments are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the
products and services provided, with each segment representing a strategic business unit that offers
different products and serves different markets.
2.28 Contingent
Where it is not probable that an inflow or an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount
cannot be estimated reliably, the asset or the obligation is disclosed as a contingent asset or contingent
liability, unless the probability of inflow or outflow of economic benefits is remote. Possible obligations,
whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more future
events, are also disclosed as contingent assets or contingent liabilities unless the probability of inflow
or outflow of economic benefits is remote.
2.29 Related parties
A related party is defined as follows:
(a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related to the Company if that person:
- has control or joint control over the Company; or
- has significant influence over the Company; or
- is a member of the key management personnel of the Company or of a parent of the
Company.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
106
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.29 Related parties (Cont’d)
A related party is defined as follows: (Cont’d)
(b) An entity is related to the Company if any of the following conditions applies:
- The entity and the Company are members of the same Company (which means that each
parent, subsidiary, and fellow subsidiary is related to the others).
- One entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an associate or joint venture
of a member of a Company of which the other entity is a member).
- Both entities are joint ventures of the same third party.
- One entity is a joint venture of the third entity and the other entity is an associate of the third
entity.
- The entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of employees of either the
Company or an entity related to the Company. If the Company is itself such a plan, the
sponsoring employers are also related to the Company.
- The entity is controlled or joint-controlled by a person identified in (a) above.
- The entity or any member of a Company of which it is a part, provides key management
personnel services to the Company or to the parent of the Company.
2.30 Fair value measurements
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is determined
as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a
principal market, in the most advantageous market.
For a non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability
to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another
market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group and the Company use observable
market data as far as possible. Fair value is categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy
based on the input used in the valuation technique as follows:
Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group
and the Company can access at the measurement date.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or
liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
There were no transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy during the financial year.
2.31 Goodwill
Goodwill arising from business combinations is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the
aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, and
any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. After initially
recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. The policy for the
recognition and measurement of impairment losses is in accordance with Note 2.17(b) to the financial
statements.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
107
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS
Thepreparationoffinancialstatementsinconformity withMFRSsrequirestheuseof certaincriticalaccounting
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of the
revenue and expenses during the reporting period. It also requires directors to exercise their judgement in
the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies. Although these estimates and
judgement are based on the directors’ best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results may differ.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity that have the most significant effect on the
Group’s and the Company’s financial statements, or areas where assumptions and estimates that have a
significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements
within the next financial year are disclosed as follows:
3.1 Judgement and assumption applied
The following are the accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts
recognised in the financial statements:
Functional currency
The Group measures foreign currency transactions in the respective functional currencies of the
Company and its subsidiaries. In determining the functional currencies of the entities in the Group,
judgement is required to determine the currency that mainly influences sales prices for goods and
services and of the country whose competitive forces and regulations mainly determines the sales
prices of its goods and services. The functional currencies of the entities in the Group are determined
based on management’s assessment of the economic environment in which the entities operate and
the entities’ process of determining sales prices.
Management has assessed those prices are mainly denominated and settled in the respective local
currency of the entities of the Group. In addition, most of the entities’ cost base is mainly denominated
in their respective local currency. Therefore, management concluded that the functional currency of the
entities of the Group is their respective local currency.
Determining the lease term of contracts with renewal and termination options Group and Company as
lessee
The Group and the Company determines the lease term as the non-cancellable term of the lease,
together with any periods covered by an option to extend the lease if they are reasonably certain to be
exercised, or any periods covered by an option to terminate the lease, if they are reasonably certain to
be exercised.
The Group and the Company apply judgement in evaluating whether they are reasonably certain
whether or not to exercise the option to renew or terminate the lease. That is, they consider all relevant
factors that create an economic incentive for it to exercise either the renewal or termination. After
the commencement date, the Company reassesses the lease term if there is a significant event or
change in circumstances that is within its control and affects its ability to exercise or not to exercise the
option to renew or to terminate (e.g., construction of significant leasehold improvements or significant
customisation to the leased asset).
The Group includes the renewal period as part of the lease term for leases of land and building with non-
cancellable period included as part of the lease term as these are reasonably certain to be exercised
because there will be a significant negative effect on operation if a replacement asset is not readily
available. Furthermore, the periods covered by termination options are included as part of the lease
term only when they are reasonably certain not to be exercised.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
108
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS (CONT’D)
3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The measurement of some assets and liabilities requires directors to use estimates based on various
observable inputs and other assumptions. The areas or items that are subject to significant estimation
uncertainties of the Company are in measuring:
(a) Impairment of goodwill on consolidation
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires
an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use amount requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future
cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to
calculate the present value of those cash flows. The key assumptions used to determine the value
in use is disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements.
(b) Development costs
The Group capitalises development costs for a project in accordance with the accounting policy.
Initial capitalisation of development costs is based on management’s judgement that technological
and economic feasibility is confirmed, usually when a product development project has reached
a defined milestone according to an established project management model. In determining the
amounts to be capitalised, management makes assumptions regarding the expected future cash
generations of the project, discount rates to be applied and the expected period of benefits. The
carrying amount at the reporting date for development costs is disclosed in Note 7 to the financial
statements.
(c) Recoverability of development costs
During the financial year, the Directors considered the recoverability of the Group’s development
cost arising from its on-going development of 2 high-value herbal products for diabetes and
hormone replacement therapy, and the products development for the formulation of health
supplement products. The Group had completed the required submission documents to the
National Pharmaceutical Regulatory Agency to obtain for the commencement of phase 1 clinical
studied on the botanical drugs.
The project continues to progress in a satisfactory manner, and customer reaction has reconfirmed
the Directors’ previous estimates of anticipated revenues from the project. However, increased
competitor activity has caused the Directors to reconsider their assumptions regarding future
market share and anticipated margins of this product. Detailed sensitivity analysis has been
carried out and the Directors are confident that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered
in full, even if returns are reduced. This situation will be closely monitored, and adjustments
made in future periods, if market activity indicates that such adjustments are appropriate. The
carrying amount at the reporting date for development costs is disclosed in Note 7 to the financial
statements.
(d) Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses, unabsorbed capital allowances
and other deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit
will be available against which the unused tax losses, unabsorbed capital allowances and other
deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required
to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely
timing and level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
109
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS (CONT’D)
3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty (Cont’d)
The measurement of some assets and liabilities requires directors to use estimates based on various
observable inputs and other assumptions. The areas or items that are subject to significant estimation
uncertainties of the Company are in measuring: (Cont’d)
(e)	Useful lives of property, plant and equipment
The Group and the Company regularly review the estimated useful lives of property, plant and
equipment based on factors such as business plan and strategies, expected level of usage and
future technological developments, Future results of operations could be materially affected by
changes in these estimates brought about by changes in the factors mentioned above. A reduction
in the estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment would increase the recorded
depreciation and decrease the value of property, plant and equipment. The carrying amount at the
reporting date for property, plant and equipment is disclosed in Note 4 to the financial statements.
(f) Inventories valuation
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The Group estimates the
net realisable value of inventories based on an assessment of expected sales prices. Demand
levels and pricing competition could change from time to time. If such factors result in an adverse
effect on the Group’s products, the Group might be required to reduce the value of its inventories.
Details of inventories are disclosed in Note 10 to the financial statements.
(g) Provision for expected credit loss of financial assets at amortised cost
The Group and the Company reviews the recoverability of its receivables, include trade and other
receivables and amount due from immediate holding company at each reporting date to assess
whether an impairment loss should be recognised. The impairment provisions for receivables are
based on assumptions about risk of default and expected loss rates.
TheGroup and theCompany use a provision matrix to calculate expected credit loss for receivables.
The provision rates are based on number of days past due.
The provision matrix is initially based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical observed default
rates. The Group and the Company will calibrate the matrix to adjust the historical credit loss
experience. At every report date, the historical observed default rates are updated and changes in
the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
The assessment of the correlation between historical observed default rates, forecast economic
conditions and expected credit loss in a significant estimate. Information about the expected
credit loss is disclosed in Notes 8, 11 and 12 to the financial statements.
(h) Determination of transaction prices
The Group is required to determine the transaction price in respect of each of its contracts
with customers. In making such judgement the Group assesses the impact of any variable
consideration in the contract in the contract due to discounts or penalties, the existence of any
significant financing component and any non-cash consideration in the contract.
There is no significant financing as the period between the transfer of control or good or service
to a customer and the payment date is always less than one year, and no non-cash consideration
noted in the contracts with customers.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
110
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS (CONT’D)
3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty (Cont’d)
The measurement of some assets and liabilities requires directors to use estimates based on various
observable inputs and other assumptions. The areas or items that are subject to significant estimation
uncertainties of the Company are in measuring: (Cont’d)
(i) Employee share options
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by reference to the
fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are granted. Estimating fair value
for share-based payment transactions requires determining the most appropriate valuation
model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate also require
determining the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of
the share option, volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions about them. Details of
assumptions made in respect of the share-based payment scheme are disclosed in Note 18(b) to
the financial statements.
(j) Discount rate used in leases
Where the interest rate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined, the Group and the
Company uses the incremental borrowing rate to measure the lease liabilities. The incremental
borrowing rate is the interest rate that the Group and the Company would has to pay to borrow over
a similar term, the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use asset
in a similar economic environment. Therefore, the value to the right0of0use asset in a similar
economic environment. Therefore, the incremental borrowing rate requires estimation, particularly
when no observable rates are available or when they need to be adjusted to reflect the terms and
conditions of the lease. The Group and the Company estimates the incremental borrowing rate
using observable inputs when available and is required to make certain entity-specific estimates.
(k) Income taxes
Judgement is involved in determining the provision for income taxes.There are certain transactions
and computations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course
of business.
The Group and the Company recognises liabilities for expected tax issues based on estimates
of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different
from the amounts that were initially recognised, such differences will impact the income tax and
deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
111
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
					
Lab and
					 office							 Warehouse,
			
Leasehold Computer equipment,				
Signage		
Plantation shoplot,		
Capital
		 Freehold land and system and furniture Motor Plant and		 and display Infrastructure expenditure factory and Leasehold work-in-
		 building building peripherals and fittings vehicles machineries Renovations items expenditure (a) building land progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
															
Cost															
At 1 January 2021 1,725,900 7,667,130 2,349,399 4,242,970 3,053,142 48,330,978 18,837,614 1,301,560 7,076,309 1,814,024 4,653,242 2,869,276 1,506,967 105,428,511
Additions – – 162,134 965,380 113,105 7,714,961 5,585,906 12,104 160,015 2,841,768 1,127,683 – 240,000 18,923,056
Disposals – – (102,589) (11,715) (123,000) – – – – – – – – (237,304)
Written off – – (8,099) (91,464) – (3,907,521) (311,118) (9,680) – (505,834) – – – (4,833,716)
Expiration of lease contract – – – – – – – – – – (377,528) – – (377,528)
Modification of lease term – – – – – – – – – – (101,553) – – (101,553)
Reclassification – 5,150,493 – – – – (3,643,526) – – – – – (1,506,967) –
Exchange differences – – 184 (994) 1,004 21,554 165,064 – – – 49,939 – – 236,751
At 31 December 2021 and
 1 January 2022 1,725,900 12,817,623 2,401,029 5,104,177 3,044,251 52,159,972 20,633,940 1,303,984 7,236,324 4,149,958 5,351,783 2,869,276 240,000 119,038,217
Additions – – 51,229 156,226 201,286 904,733 1,692,557 – 62,400 – 1,774,058 – 60,000 4,902,489
Disposals – – – (9,996) (74,490) – – (79,661) – – – – – (164,147)
Written off – – (643,218) (929,025) (904,539) (3,400,000) (2,486,480) (225,677) (2,903,614) – – – – (11,492,553)
Fair value adjustment – – – – – – – – – (2,114,958) – – – (2,114,958)
Expiration of lease contract – – – – – – – – – – (2,016,772) – – (2,016,772)
Reclassification – – – – – (18,660) – – – – – – – (18,660)
Exchange differences – – (264) 24,926 (1,392) (13,636) – – – – 11,426 – – 21,060
At 31 December 2022 1,725,900 12,817,623 1,808,776 4,346,308 2,265,116 49,632,409 19,840,017 998,646 4,395,110 2,035,000 5,120,495 2,869,276 300,000 108,154,676
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
112
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
					
Lab and
					 office							 Warehouse,
			
Leasehold Computer equipment,				
Signage		
Plantation shoplot,		
Capital
		 Freehold land and system and furniture Motor Plant and		 and display Infrastructure expenditure factory and Leasehold work-in-
		 building building peripherals and fittings vehicles machineries Renovations items expenditure (a) building land progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group															
															
Accumulated depreciation													
At 1 January 2021 227,156 609,488 1,773,584 2,770,194 2,085,172 22,237,964 5,519,442 1,002,861 2,644,952 367,104 1,940,602 645,587 – 41,824,106
Charge for the fhe financial year 34,929 169,951 169,307 538,225 388,360 5,122,799 1,656,426 101,939 718,111 121,824 1,120,700 95,644 – 10,238,215
Disposals – – (102,589) (11,715) (65,600) – – – – – – – – (179,904)
Written off – – (6,138) (24,209) – (3,907,521) (77,788) (3,043) – (275) – – – (4,018,974)
Expiration of lease contract – – – – – – – – – – (377,528) – – (377,528)
Modification of lease term – – – – – – – – – – (61,181) – – (61,181)
Reclassification – 699,976 – – – – (699,976) – – – – – – –
Exchange differences – – 124 631 541 13,935 6,625 – – – 4,231 – – 26,087
At 31 December 2021 and
 1 January 2022 262,085 1,479,415 1,834,288 3,273,126 2,408,473 23,467,177 6,404,729 1,101,757 3,363,063 488,653 2,626,824 741,231 – 47,450,821
Charge for the fhe financial year 34,918 238,449 151,373 585,660 279,311 4,933,890 2,138,001 51,376 605,022 – 1,042,368 95,643 – 10,156,011
Disposals – – – (6,338) (33,476) – – (79,661) – – – – – (119,475)
Written off – – (617,849) (921,813) (904,539) (2,720,000) (1,450,122) (203,016) (1,385,255) – – – – (8,202,594)
Expiration of lease contract – – – – – – – – – – (624,577) – – (624,577)
Reclassification – – – – – (18,660) – – – – – – – (18,660)
Exchange differences – – (222) (2,601) (1,055) (7,596) 93,947 – – – 3,188 – – 85,661
At 31 December 2022 297,003 1,717,864 1,367,590 2,928,034 1,748,714 25,654,811 7,186,555 870,456 2,582,830 488,653 3,047,803 836,874 – 48,727,187
															
At 31 December 2021 1,463,815 11,338,208 566,741 1,831,051 635,778 28,692,795 14,229,211 202,227 3,873,261 3,661,305 2,724,959 2,128,045 240,000 71,587,396
At 31 December 2022 1,428,897 11,099,759 441,186 1,418,274 516,402 23,977,598 12,653,462 128,190 1,812,280 1,546,347 2,072,692 2,032,402 300,000 59,427,489
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
113
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
				 Computer
		 Office system and Capital work
			 equipment peripherals -in-progress Total
			 RM RM RM RM
Company					
Cost						
At 1 January 2021		 1,049 6,005 – 7,054
Additions		 – – 240,000 240,000
At 31 December 2021 and
 1 January 2022		 1,049 6,005 240,000 247,054
Additions		 – – 60,000 60,000
At 31 December 2022		 1,049 6,005 300,000 307,054
Accumulated depreciation					
At 1 January 2021		 735 2,902 – 3,637
Charge for the fhe financial year		 105 1,200 – 1,305
At 31 December 2021 and
 1 January 2022		 840 4,102 – 4,942
Charge for the fhe financial year		 – 1,306 – 1,306
At 31 December 2022		 840 5,408 – 6,248
At 31 December 2021		 209 1,903 240,000 242,112
At 31 December 2022		 209 597 300,000 300,806
						
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
114
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
(a) Including in plantation expenditure as follows:
		 Mature Immature
								
		 Herbal Fruit		
Herbal Fruit		
		 plants plants Total plants plants Total Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Cost								
At 1 January 2021 1,650,387 29,184 1,679,571 132,316 2,137 134,453 1,814,024
Additions – – – 2,840,876 892 2,841,768 2,841,768
Written off (3,091) (2,656) (5,747) (499,338) (749) (500,087) (505,834)
Reclassification 2,390,029 758 2,390,787 (2,390,029) (758) (2,390,787) –
At 31 December 2021 and
 1 January 2022 4,037,325 27,286 4,064,611 83,825 1,522 85,347 4,149,958
Written off (2,114,958) – (2,114,958) – – – (2,114,958)
At 31 December 2022 1,922,367 27,286 1,949,653 83,825 1,522 85,347 2,035,000
Accumulated depreciation							
At 1 January 2021 362,900 4,204 367,104 – – – 367,104
Charge for the fhe financial year 119,499 2,325 121,824 – – – 121,824
Written off – (275) (275) – – – (275)
At 31 December 2021,
 1 January 2022 and
 31 December 2022 482,399 6,254 488,653 – – – 488,653
At 31 December 2021 3,554,926 21,032 3,575,958 83,825 1,522 85,347 3,661,305
At 31 December 2022 1,439,968 21,032 1,461,000 83,825 1,522 85,347 1,546,347
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
115
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
(b) Including in net carrying amount of plantation expenditure are staff costs capitalised as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
			
Staff cost				 – 178,259
(c) Including in net carrying amount of property, plant and equipment are right-of-use assets as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Motor vehicles				 246,276 399,033
Warehouse, shoplot, factory and building			 2,072,692 2,724,959
Leasehold land				 2,032,402 2,128,045
Leasehold land and building				 11,099,759 11,338,208
					 15,451,129 16,590,245
(d) Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets are as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Motor vehicles				 152,757 239,469
Warehouse, shoplot, factory and building 		 1,042,368 1,120,700
Leasehold land				 95,643 95,644
Leasehold land and building				 238,449 169,951
					 1,529,217 1,625,764
(e) Additions to the right-of-use assets are as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Warehouse, shoplot, factory and building 		 1,774,058 1,127,683
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
116
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
(f) Property, plant and equipment pledged to licensed bank as security for the related lease liabilities are as
follow:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Motor vehicles				 70,148 210,385
(g) Property, plant and equipment pledged to non-financial institution as security for the lease liabilities are as
follow:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Motor vehicles				 176,128 188,648
(h) Property, plant and equipment pledged to financial institution as security for the related term loan are as
follow:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Freehold building				 1,428,897 1,463,815
Leasehold land and building				 9,661,291 9,831,241
					 11,090,188 11,295,056
(i) Property, plant and equipment pledged to non-financial institution as security for the related term loan are
as follow:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Plant and machineries				 270,000 300,000
(j) The motor vehicle of the Group with a total cost of RM579,728 (2021: RM929,728) which carrying
amount amounted to RM230,796 (2021: RM352,576) are being held in trust by Directors.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
117
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
		 Company
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
At cost			
Unquotes share			
- In Malaysia				 12,719,230 12,719,230
- Outside Malaysia				 997,206 997,206
					 13,716,436 13,716,436
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of company
Place of
business /
Country of
incorporation
Effective interest
(%) Principal activities
2022 2021
BioalphaInternational
 Sdn. Bhd. (“BISB”)		
Malaysia 100 100 Research and development and  
 manufacturers, importers, exporters,  
 distribution and traders of nutritional
 and healthcare products
Bioalpha R&D Sdn. Bhd.
 (“BRDSB”)		
Malaysia 100 100 Research and development and
 manufacturers, suppliers,
 distributions, wholesales or retailers
 of healthcare and nutritional
 products
Botanical Distribution
 Sdn. Bhd. (“BDSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Suppliers, distributors, direct selling
 agents, wholesaler, retailer or
 conduct advertising and promotion
 activities which related to health
 supplements and nutrition products
Bioalpha (HK) Limited *
(“BHKL”)
China
(Hong Kong)
100 100 Research and development,
 manufacturers, importers, exporters,  
 distribution and traders of nutritional
 and healthcare products
Bioalpha Wellness
Sdn. Bhd.
(“BWSB”)
Malaysia 100 100  Distributing and trading, research and
 development activities,
 manufacturing, importing and
 exporting of personal care and
 healthcare products, conduct
 advertising and promotional  
 activities related to personal care and  
 healthcare products		
		
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
118
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows: (Cont’d)
Name of company
Place of
business /
Country of
incorporation
Effective interest
(%) Principal activities
2022 2021
Held through Bioalpha International Sdn. Bhd.:			
Bioalpha Agro
 Sdn. Bhd. (“BASB”)
Malaysia 72 72 Import, export, cultivate, manufacture,
 distribute and trade in variety of agro
 products and medical herbs
Bioalpha East
 Coast Argo
 Sdn. Bhd. (“BECASB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Planters, growers, and merchant in all  
 kinds of herb, fruits, agricultural,
 agro and organic products
PT Herbal Malindo
 Makmur *
 (“PTHMM”)
Indonesia 60 60 General trade, wholesale and retail 		
 trade or pharmaceutical and 		
 traditional medicine		
Held through Botanical Distribution Sdn. Bhd.:				
RS Bio Sdn. Bhd.
 (Formerly known
 as Alphacare Sdn.Bhd.)  
 (“RSBSB”)
Malaysia 51 51 Concept shop operators, general		
 merchants, online trading agents 		
 franchisors, whole saler or retailer
 of healthcare, nutritional products,
 food & beverages		
Mediconstant
 Holding Sdn. Bhd.
 (“MHSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding and provision of  
 management services		
Held through Bioalpha (HK) Limited .:
Bioalpha (Hainan)
 Health Biotechnology
 Limited *@ (“BHHBL”)
China 100 100 Procurement and sales of agricultural
 products
BHK Developent
 Limited * (“BHKDL”)
China
(Hong Kong)
100 100 Research and development and 		
 activities, manufacturing, import and  
 export and trading of goods including
 functional foods or healthcare 		
 products and land development
 which included the construction of a
 new facility for processing and		
 warehousing facilities		
Bioalpha (HK)
 Investment Limited *
 (“BHKIL”)
China
(Hong Kong)
100 100 Investment holding
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
119
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows: (Cont’d)
Name of company
Place of
business /
Country of
incorporation
Effective interest
(%) Principal activities
2022 2021
Held through Bioalpha Agro Sdn. Bhd.:
Bioalpha (Johor Herbal)  
 Sdn. Bhd. (“BJHSB”)
Malaysia 50.4 50.4 Planters, growers, and merchant in all  
 kinds of herbs, fruits, agricultural,		
 agro and organic products
Held through Bioalpha (Hainan) Health Biotechnology Limited:		
Bioalpha (Guizhou)
 Supply Chain Co.
 Ltd. # (“BGSCCL”)
China – 100 Supply chain management services  
 that involved food processing and  
 productions, food management,  
 general trading which includes  
 import and exports, agricultural
 related services and warehousing
Suzhou Biomedic
 Biotechnology
 Co. Ltd. *@ (“SBBCL”)
China 81.02 81.02 Import and export of medicines and
 edible bacteria and food selling on
 internet		
Held through Bioalpha (HK) Investment Limited:
Bioalpha (Hainan)
 Development
 Ltd *@ (“BHDL”)
China 77.3 100 Research and development activities,
 manufacturing, import and export  
 and trading of goods including  
 functional foods or healthcare  
 products and land development  
 which included the construction of
 a new facility for processing and  
 warehousing facilities
Held through Mediconstant Holding Sdn. Bhd.:
Mediconstant
 Pharmacy Sdn.Bhd.  
 (“MPSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and chemicals
Mediconstant
 Pharmacy
 (Ampang) Sdn. Bhd.  
 (“MPASB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and chemicals
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
120
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows: (Cont’d)
Name of company
Place of
business /
Country of
incorporation
Effective interest
(%) Principal activities
2022 2021
Held through Mediconstant Holding Sdn. Bhd.: (cont’d)					
Mediconstant
 Management Sdn. Bhd.  
 (“MMSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Provision of management and		
 consulting services, and trading of
 pharmaceutical, healthcare and 		
 nutrition products		
Mediconstant
 Pharmacy (Desa Tasik)  
 Sdn. Bhd.
 (“MPDTSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and chemicals
Mediconstant
 Dynamic Sdn. Bhd.  
 (“MDSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and chemicals
Mediconstant
 Pharmacy (Klang)
 Sdn. Bhd.
 (“MPKSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and chemicals
Mediconstant
 Pharmacy
 (Puchong) Sdn. Bhd.  
 (“MPPSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and chemicals
Mediconstant
 Pharmacy (Sea
 Park) Sdn. Bhd.  
 (“MPSPSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and chemicals
Mediconstant
 Pharmacy
 (Taman Desa)
 Sdn. Bhd. (“MPTDSB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and chemicals
Mediconstant
 Pharmacy
 (TTDI) Sdn. Bhd.
 (“MPTTDISB”)
Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and chemicals
* Subsidiaries not audited by CHENGCO PLT
# Subsidiary is under strike off process, the date of Gazette at 21 April 2022
@ Special audit by CHENGCO PLT for consolidation purposes
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
121
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows: (Cont’d)
(a) Material partly-owned subsidiaries
Set out below are the Group’s subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interest:
		 Proportion of
		 ownership
		 interests and voting Profit allocated Accumulated
		 rights held by non- to non-controlling non-controlling
Name of company controlling interests interests interests
		 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 % % RM RM RM RM
BASB		 28 28 (103,007) (21,368) (388,355) (285,348)
PTHMM 40 40 (126,215) (140,185) (401,040) (274,825)
RSBSB 49 49 (253,803) (200,544) 280,072 533,875
BJHSB 49.6 49.6 (415,566) 124,333 (1,346,405) (930,839)
SBBCL 18.98 18.98 (47,573) (233) 574,016 621,589
BHDL		 22.7 – (29,308) – 1,410,313 –
				 (975,472) (237,997) 128,601 (335,548)
Summarised financial information for each subsidiary that has non-controlling interest that are material
to the Group is set out below. The summarised financial information below represents amounts before
inter-company eliminations.
(i) Summarised statement of financial position
		 BASB PTHMM RSBSB BJHSB SBBCL BHDL
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2022						
Non-current assets 437,301 171,917 223,037 767,967 – 507,394
Current assets 3,107,605 1,493,584 364,795 273,600 6,208,050 5,719,435
Non-current liabilities – – – – – –
Current liabilities (4,931,894) (2,668,106) (16,252) (3,756,096) (3,183,900) (13,989)
Net (liabilities)/assets (1,386,988) (1,002,605) 571,580 (2,714,529) 3,024,150 6,212,840
2021						
Non-current assets 553,358 346,506 301,255 1,068,077 – –
Current assets 3,296,783 1,385,780 837,734 569,680 3,274,786 –
Non-current liabilities (11,511) (4,485) – (109,392) – –
Current liabilities (4,857,735) (2,414,867) (49,443) (3,405,058) – –
Net (liabilities)/assets (1,019,105) (687,066) 1,089,546 (1,876,693) 3,274,786 –
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
122
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
(a) Material partly-owned subsidiaries (Cont’d)
(ii) Summarised statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income
		 BASB PTHMM RSBSB BJHSB SBBCL BHDL
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2022						
Revenue 253,188 9,868 – 349,455 – –
Loss for the						
 financial year (367,883) (315,539) (517,966) (837,836) (250,636) (129,105)
Other comprehensive						
 income/(loss) for						
 the financial year – 10,382 – – (19,938) (2,788)
Total comprehensive						
 loss for the						
 financial year (367,883) (305,157) (517,966) (837,836) (270,574) (131,893)
2021						
Revenue 500,050 126,206 498,511 1,175,548 – –
(Loss)/Profit for the						
 financial year (76,315) (350,463) (383,666) 250,669 (1,225) –
Other comprehensive						
 (loss)/income for						
 the financial year – (6,878) – – 25,771 –
Total comprehensive						
 (loss)/income for						
 the financial year (76,315) (357,341) (383,666) 250,669 24,546 –
(iii) Summarised statement of cash flows				
		 BASB PTHMM RSBSB BJHSB SBBCL BHDL
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2022						
Net cash (used in)/generated						
 from operating activities (245,047) (360,910) (53,444) (256,475) 3,013,367 (137,984)
Net cash used in						
 investing activities – – – – – (507,394)
Net cash generated						
 from financing activities 79,484 345,814 – 224,876 – 6,481,000
Net (decrease)/increase						
 in cash and cash						
 equivalents (165,563) (15,096) (53,444) (31,599) 3,013,367 5,835,622
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
123
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
(a) Material partly-owned subsidiaries (Cont’d)
(iii) Summarised statement of cash flows (Cont’d)
		 BASB PTHMM RSBSB BJHSB SBBCL BHDL
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2021						
Net cash generated						
 from/(used in)						
 operating activities 29,901 976,611 (682,733) 321,588 (30,709) –
Net cash used in						
 investing activities – (63,798) – (302,290) – –
Net cash generated						
 from/(used in)						
 financing activities 139,034 (934,824) 1,000,110 56,395 3,250,240 –
Net increase/(decrease)						
 in cash and cash						
 equivalents 168,935 (22,011) 317,377 75,693 3,219,531 –
(b) Dilution of shares of a subsidiary
On 30 August 2022, BHKIL, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company entered into a share transfer
agreement with an independent third party and disposed of 22.7% equity interest in BHDL to that
independent third party at a cash consideration of RMB1.
The effect of the dilution of shares of BHDL on the financial position of the Group as at the date of
dilution was as follows:
						
RM
Property, plant and equipment 					 517,938
Cash and cash equivalent					 5,815,039
Trade and other receivables 					 24,150
Trade and other payables 					 (15,182)
Net assets 					 6,341,945
		
Non-controlling interest’s share of net assets				 1,439,622
Proceed from issuance of shares in a subsidiary of NCI			 1
Loss on dilution of a subsidiary					 1,439,621
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
124
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
6. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
At 1 January				 5,891,157 5,891,157
Accumulated impairment losses				 (557,127) (557,127)
At 31 December				 5,334,030 5,334,030
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (“CGU”) are as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Mediconstant Holding Sdn. Bhd. 			 5,334,030 5,334,030
(a) Recoverable amount on value in use
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of goodwill at the end of the financial
year was determined based on a value-in-use calculation by discounting the future cash flows generated
from the continuing use of cash generated unit (“CGU”) and was based on following assumptions:
(i) Pre-tax cash flow projection based on the most recent financial budgets covering a five (2021:
five) year period;
(ii) The anticipated annual revenue growth rate used in the cash flow budgets and plans of the CGU is
4.9% (2021: 5.6%); and
(iii) Pre-tax discount rate of 7.75% (2021: 18.76%) per annum has been applied in determining the
recoverable amount of the CGU. The discount rate was based estimated based on the Group’s
weighted average cost of capital.
The value assigned to the key assumptions represent management’s assessment of future trends in the
industry and are based on both external sources and internal sources.
The management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions
would cause the carrying value of the units to materially exceed their recoverable amount.
(b) Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The management believes that a reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions on which
management has based on its determination of the CGU’s recoverable amount would not cause the
CGU’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
125
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
7. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
			Development
		 expenditures Patents Software Total
			 RM RM RM RM
Group					
Cost						
At 1 January 2021		 65,783,081 920,777 54,231 66,758,089
Additions		 4,635,105 2,001,211 8,678 6,644,994
Exchange differences		 25,358 (15,314) 1,154 11,198
At 31 December 2021 and
 1 January 2022		 70,443,544 2,906,674 64,063 73,414,281
Additions		 3,036,367 657,442 2,393 3,696,202
Written off		 (1,538,016) – – (1,538,016)
Exchange differences		 276,645 (50,190) (903) 225,552
At 31 December 2022		 72,218,540 3,513,926 65,553 75,798,019
Accumulated depreciation					
At 1 January 2021		 20,062,145 67,247 5,459 20,134,851
Charge for the financial year		 2,139,697 186,128 16,255 2,342,080
Exchange differences		 – (1,009) 123 (886)
At 31 December 2021 and
 1 January 2022		 22,201,842 252,366 21,837 22,476,045
Charge for the financial year		 2,176,223 220,551 20,798 2,417,572
Written off		 (917,496) – – (917,496)
Exchange differences		 – 10,201 789 10,990
At 31 December 2022		 23,460,569 483,118 43,424 23,987,111
At 31 December 2021		 48,241,702 2,654,308 42,226 50,938,236
At 31 December 2022		 48,757,971 3,030,808 22,129 51,810,908
Development expenditures
Development expenditure represents the cost incurred in respect of the on-going development of 2 high
value herbal products for diabetes and hormone replacement therapy, and the products development for the
formulation of health supplement products.
(a) Recoverable amount on value in use
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of development expenditures at the
end of the financial year was determined based on a value in use calculation by discounting the future
cash flows generated from the continuing use of the cash generated unit (“CGU”) and was based on the
following assumptions:
(i) Pre-tax cash flow projection based on the most recent financial budgets covering five (2021: five)
years period;
(ii) The anticipated annual revenue growth rate used in the cash flow budgets and plans of the CGU is
range from 4.90% to 5.50% (2021: 6.00% to 6.10%); and
(iii) Pre-tax discount rate of 7.65% (2021:18.80%) per annual has been applied in determining the
recoverable amount of the CGU. The discount rate was based estimated based on the Group’s
weighted average cost of capital.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
126
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
7. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONT’D)
Development expenditures (Cont’d)
(b) Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The management believes that a reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which
management has based on its determination of the CGU’s recoverable amount would not cause the
CGU’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Patents
Patents relate to the Group in principal activities and have an average remaining amortisation of 15 years
(2021: 15 years).
Software
Software are assessed to have finite life of 2 years upon commercialisation. The amortisation period and
amortisation method are review at least annually for appropriateness.
8. AMOUNT DUE FROM/(TO) SUBSIDIARIES
		 Company
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
			
Amount due from subsidiaries			
Non-trade related			
- Non-current				 110,787,686 76,718,698
- Current				 84,001,000 90,100,000
					 194,788,686 166,818,698
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses (“ECLs”)			
- Non-current				 (6,719,153) (2,744,803)
					 188,069,533 164,073,895
Amount due to subsidiaries			
Non-trade related			
- Current				 (20,939,873) (26,849,873)
Amount due from/(to) subsidiaries are unsecured and non-interest bearing.
The movement in allowance for ECLs of amount due from subsidiaries during the financial year is as follows:
		 Company
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
At 1 January				 2,744,803 831,546
Allowance for ECLs				 3,974,350 1,913,257
At 31 December				 6,719,153 2,744,803
			
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
127
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
8. AMOUNT DUE FROM/(TO) SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
The foreign currency profile of amount due from subsidiaries are as follows:
		 Company
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Hong Kong Dollar (“HKD”) 			 1,693,274 17,770,237
Chinese Yuan (“CNY”)				 28,311,674 15,321,246
United States Dollar (“USD”)				 17,827,665 12,360,025
9. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS
						
Group
						
RM
			
At 1 January 2021					 693,391
Written off					 (1,660)
At 31 December 2021 and 1 January 2022				 691,731
Fair value adjustment 					 (516,731)
At 31 December 2022					 175,000
		
Biological assets comprise living herbal plantation and produce growing on bearer plants. On maturity,
the plantations are stated at fair value less estimated point-of-sale costs, with any resultant gain or loss
recognised in the profit or loss. Point-of-sales costs included all costs that would be necessary to sell the
assets.
The biological assets have been stated at cost and accumulated impairment losses, if any, as there is currently
no active market of the biological asset nor reliable alternative estimates of fair value available.
At 31 December 2022, the Group has 1,303 acres (2021: 1,303 acres) of herbal plantations.
		
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
128
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
10. INVENTORIES
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
			
At cost			
Raw materials				 2,516,162 3,710,345
Consumables				 1,268,209 1,301,783
Finished goods				 667,640 450,225
Trading goods				 4,045,527 4,152,842
Work-in-progress				 – 516,886
					 8,497,538 10,132,081
Recognised in profit or loss			
Inventories recognised as cost of sales				 27,820,818 27,822,385
Inventories written off				 758,789 246,016
Provision of slow-moving inventories 			 580,730 75,548
Reversal of provision of slow-moving inventories			 – (617,181)
			
11. TRADE RECEIVABLES
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
			
Trade receivables				 24,852,261 29,610,598
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) 		 (15,907,577) (5,643,609)
					 8,944,684 23,966,989
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally from cash term to 180 days (2021: cash term to
180 days). They are recognised at their original invoice amounts which represent their fair values on initial
recognition.
The movement in allowance for ECLs of trade receivables during the financial year is as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
At 1 January				 5,643,609 7,286,915
Allowance for ECLs				 10,930,843 12,411
Reversal of allowance for ECLs 			 (293,785) (1,666,871)
Written off				 (381,736) –
Exchange difference				 8,646 11,154
At 31 December				 15,907,577 5,643,609
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
129
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
11. TRADE RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
The following table provide information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade receivables:
				 Gross Loss Net
				amount allowance amount
				RM RM RM
					
Group					
2022					
Neither past due nor impaired 		 722,894 (1,083) 721,811
					
1 to 30 days past due not impaired 		 354,145 – 354,145
31 to 60 days past due not impaired 		 487,397 – 487,397
61 to 90 days past due not impaired 		 6,732,214 (2,594,125) 4,138,089
More than 91 days past due not impaired		 4,602,205 (1,358,963) 3,243,242
				 12,898,855 (3,954,171) 8,944,684
Individually impaired			 11,953,406 (11,953,406) –
				 24,852,261 (15,907,577) 8,944,684
Group					
2021 				
Neither past due nor impaired			 4,736,951 (76,670) 4,660,281
					
1 to 30 days past due not impaired 		 7,587,917 (63,165) 7,524,752
31 to 60 days past due not impaired 		 1,607,016 (6,851) 1,600,165
61 to 90 days past due not impaired 		 3,140,525 (8,669) 3,131,856
More than 91 days past due not impaired		 7,263,101 (213,166) 7,049,935
			 24,335,510 (368,521) 23,966,989
Individually impaired			 5,275,088 (5,275,088) –
				 29,610,598 (5,643,609) 23,966,989
The foreign currency profile of trade receivables are as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Chinese Yuan (“CNY”)				 3,730,594 7,239,140
Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”)				 2,670 5,393
United States Dollar (“USD”)				 3,564,920 10,248,073
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
130
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
12. OTHER RECEIVABLES
		 Group Company
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			RM RM RM RM
Non-trade receivables		 6,575,371 7,162,252 261 260
Deposits		 971,070 7,702,019 – –
Less: Allowance for ECLs		 (509,694) (673,188) – –
			 7,036,747 14,191,083 261 260
Accrued income		 72,710 41,578 47,983 36,819
Prepayments 7,441,478 3,085,149 4,125 4,125
Goods and service tax
 (“GST”) recoverable		 – 103,887 – –
Value-added tax (“VAT”) recoverable		 64,173 67,139 – –
Advance to suppliers		 2,028,295 881,160 – –
Advance to staffs		 24,646 18,800 – –
Accrued rental income		 – 1,600 – –
			 16,668,049 18,390,396 52,369 41,204
		
Non-trade receivables are unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
The movement in allowance for ECLs of other receivables during the financial year is as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
At 1 January				 673,188 13,909
Allowance for ECLs				 – 659,279
Reversal of allowance for ECLs				 (47,725)
Written off 				 (115,769) –
At 31 December				 509,694 673,188
The currency profile of other receivables are as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Hong Kong Dollar (“HKD”)				 4,103 –
Chinese Yuan (“CNY”) 			 6,834,072 5,754,059
Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”) 			 1,606,042 1,426,693
United States Dollar (“USD”)				 4,552,840 7,140,886
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
131
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
13. OTHER INVESTMENTS		
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Current			
FVTPL:			
Money market fund				 9,026,826 11,906
The fair value of the financial asset at FVTPL is classified as at Level 1 fair value item for the purpose of fair
value hierarchy disclosures.
14. FIXED DEPOSITS WITH LICENSED BANKS
		 Group Company
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			RM RM RM RM
Fixed deposits with lisenced banks					
Maturity:					
- less than 3 months		 14,146,026 3,000,000 – 2,000,000
- more than 3 months		 7,500,000 7,500,000 7,500,000 7,500,000
Fixed deposits pledged with 					
 licensed banks		 1,145,008 1,124,318 – –
			 22,791,034 11,624,318 7,500,000 9,500,000
The interest rate of fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company range from 1.60% to
2.32% (2021: 1.60% to 1.80%) per annum and 1.60% to 2.32% (2021:1.60% to 1.80%) per annum respectively.
The maturities of fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company range from 30 to 365
days (2021:30 to 365 days).
The fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group amounted to RM1,145,008 (2021: RM1,124,318) are
pledged to licensed banks and non-financial institution respectively as securities for credit facilities granted
to subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 19 to the financial statements.
15. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
		 Group Company
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			RM RM RM RM
Hong Kong Dollar (“HKD”)		 565,442 589,882 20 20
Chinese Yuan (“CNY”)		 14,518,488 15,980,587 – –
Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”)		 13,281 53,174 – –
Singapore Dollar (“SGD”)		 33,984 32,564 – –
United States Dollar (“USD”)		 615,001 3,901,388 761 971
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
132
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
16. SHARE CAPITAL
		 Group and Company
		 Number of ordinary shares Amount
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			Unit	Unit RM RM
Issued and fully paid up
At 1 January 1,197,139,425 1,110,470,832 153,233,258 135,824,495
Issuance of shares					
- Rights issue		 – 74,031,388 – 14,806,278
- Exercise of SIS		 168,000,000 2,000,000 23,860,583 262,300
- Exercise of warrants		 12,932,586 10,637,205 2,845,169 2,340,185
At 31 December		 1,378,072,011 1,197,139,425 179,939,010 153,233,258
		
During the financial year, the Company increase its share capital from RM153,233,258 to RM 179,939,010 by
way of:
(a) On 3 January 2022 and 6 January 2022, issuance of 12,921,886 and 10,700 new ordinary shares
as a result of exercise of warrants by the registered holders of Warrant at issue price of RM0.22 to
RM2,842,815 and RM2,354 respectively;
(b) On 13 June 2022, issuance of 168,000,000 new ordinary shares as a result of the exercise of SIS at issue
price of RM0.1420 amounted to RM23,860,583.
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari passu in all respects with the existing
ordinary shares of the Company.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are entitled
to one vote per share at meetings for the Company. All ordinary shares rank equally with regards to the
Company’s residual assets.
17. ICPS
		 Group and Company
		 Number of ordinary shares Amount
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			Unit	Unit RM RM
Issued and fully paid up					
At 1 January		 457,078,472 – 9,141,569 –
Issuance of shares		 – 457,078,472 – 9,141,569
At 31 December		 457,078,472 457,078,472 9,141,569 9,141,569
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
133
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
18. RESERVES						
		 Group Company
			2022 2021 2022 2021
		 Note RM RM RM RM
Warrant reserve (a) – 15,517,253 – 15,517,253
SIS option reserve (b) 803,081 635,220 803,081 635,220
Merger deficits (c) (4,569,128) (4,569,128) – –
Foreign currency					
 translation reserve (d) 2,417,976 276,781 – –
Other reserve (e) – (15,517,253) – (15,517,253)
Retained earnings/					
(Accumulated losses)		 (19,874,032) 27,956,518 (1,381,669) (476,149)
			 (21,222,103) 24,299,391 (578,588) 159,071
(a) Warrant reserve
Warrants reserve represents reserve allocated to free detachable warrants issued with rights issue.
On 10 January 2017, the Company issued renounceable rights issue of up to 133,333,131 new ordinary
shares (“Rights Shares”) together with up to 133,333,131 free detachable warrants (“Warrants”) on the
basis of one (1) Rights Share together with one (1) Warranty for every one (1) existing Rights Share held.
The main features of the warrants are as follows:
						Exercise
			 Tenure Issue date Expiry date price
			years			 RM
					
Warrants		 5 10 January 2017 5 January 2022 0.22
The movements of the warrants are as follows:
		
		 Number of units
		 At 1				 At 31
		 January Adjustment* Exercised Expired December
2022					
Warrants 123,547,041 – (12,932,586) (110,614,455) –
2021					
Warrants 133,332,785 851,461 (10,637,205) – 123,547,041
* Adjustment on warrant unit due to the rights issue in last financial year.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
134
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
18. RESERVES (CONT’D)
(b) SIS option reserve
At an extraordinary general meeting held on 19 August 2016, the Company’s shareholders approved the
establishment of SIS for eligible Directors and employees of the Group.
The salient features of the SIS Options are as follows:
(a) Any employee of the Group shall be eligible if as ta the date of offer, the employee:
(i) Has attained at least eighteen (18) years of age;
(ii) Is an employee in a company within the Group, which is not dormant belonging to such
categories of employment as determined by the Option Committee; and
(iii) Who falls under such categories and criteria that the Option Committee may decide at its
absolute discretion from time to time.
(b) Any Director of the Group shall be eligible if as at the date of offer, the Director:
(i) Is at least eighteen (18) years of age; and
(ii) Has been appointed as a Director of a company within the Group, which is not dormant
(c) The maximum number of new shares to be issued pursuant to the exercise of the SIS Options
which may be granted under the SIS Shares shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the total
issued and paid-up share capital (excluding treasury shares, if any) of the Company at any point of
time throughout the duration of the SIS.
(d) The options granted may be exercised any time upon the satisfaction of vesting conditions of
each offer.
				
(e) The SIS shall be in force for a period of five (5) years from 12 January 2017 to 10 January 2022.
The Company had on 6 January 2022 extended the existing SIS which expired on 11 January 2022
for another two (2) years from 12 January 2022 to 11 January 2024 in accordance with the Clause
21 of the SIS Bylaws.
(f) The options granted may be exercised in full or in lesser number of ordinary shares provided that
the number shall be in multiples of and not less than 100 shares.
Movement in the number of share options and the weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
		 Number of options over ordinary shares
		 Exercise Brought				
Carried
Date of offer price forward Cancellation Granted Exercised forward
2022						
27 February 2017 0.205 1,988,889 – – – 1,988,889
16 April 2020 0.105 2,275,863 – – – 2,275,863
10 September 2021 0.225 153,000,000 (153,000,000) – – –
17 May 2022 0.140 – (75,000,000) 243,000,000 (168,000,000) –
11 October 2022 0.090 – – 125,000,000 – 125,000,000
		 Exercise Brought				
Carried
Date of offer price forward Adjustment* Granted Exercised forward
2021						
27 February 2017 0.205 2,175,000 13,889 – (200,000) 1,988,889
16 April 2020 0.105 4,050,000 25,863 – (1,800,000) 2,275,863
10 September 2021 0.225 – – 153,000,000 – 153,000,000
* Adjustment on options due to the right issue in last financial year
				
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
135
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
18. RESERVES (CONT’D)
(b) SIS option reserve (Cont’d)
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted during the financial year is based
on the fair value of share options granted, estimated by the management using Black-Scholes-Merton
model taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The weighted
average fair value of share options measured at grant date and the assumptions are as follow:
					27 16 11
					
February April October
					2017 2020 2022
					RM RM RM
					
Fair value				 0.0909 0.0079 0.0060
Weighted average share price 			 0.225 0.110 0.090
Weighted average exercise price			 0.205 0.105 0.090
Expected volatility				 39.88% 28.20% 70.75%
Expected life (years)				 5 years 1.18 years 5 years
Risk free rate(%)				 3.70 2.52 2.67
Expected dividend yield (%)				 Nil Nil Nil
		
The expected life of the share options is based on historical data, has been adjusted according to
management’s best estimate for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions (including the
probability of meeting the market conditions attached to the option), and behavioural consideration. The
expected volatility is based on the historical share price volatility, adjusted for unusual or extraordinary
volatility arising from certain economic or business occurrences which is not reflective of its long-
term average level. While the expected volatility is assumed to be indicative of future trends, it may not
necessarily be the actual outcome. No other features of the option grant were incorporated into the
measurement of fair value.
(c) Merger deficits
The merger deficit represents the difference between the nominal value of shares issued by the Company
and the nominal value of shares of subsidiaries accounted for rising the merger method.
(d) Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve represent exchange differences arising from the translation of
the financial statements of foreign operations whose functional currencies are different from that of the
Group’s presentation currency.
(e) Other reserve
This represents fair value allocated to the detachable warrants issued in conjunction with right issue
refer to Note 18(a) to the financial statements.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
136
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
19. LOAN AND BORROWINGS
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Secured 			
Bankers’ acceptances				 1,387,000 1,387,000
Revolving credit				 1,000,000 1,000,000
Term loans				 4,564,968 6,956,023
					 6,951,968 9,343,023
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Non-current			
Term loans				 2,965,804 4,519,302
Current			
Bankers’ acceptances 			 1,387,000 1,387,000
Revolving credit				 1,000,000 1,000,000
Term loans				 1,599,164 2,436,721
					 3,986,164 4,823,721
					 6,951,968 9,343,023
The above credit facilities obtained from licensed financial institution and non-financial institution are secured
on the following:
(a) Charge over certain freehold land and building, leasehold land and building, and plant and machineries
of the Group as disclosed in Note 4 to the financial statements;
(b) Charge on fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group as disclosed in Note 14 to the financial
statements;
(c) Joint and severally guaranteed by certain of Directors of the Company; and
(d) Corporate guarantee by the Company.
Term loan I is repayable by 240 monthly instalments commencing from January 2014.
Term loan II is repayable by 72 monthly instalments commencing from December 2016.
Term loan III is repayable by 120 monthly instalments commencing from May 2018.
Term loan IV is repayable by 36 monthly instalments commencing from August 2021.
Term loan V is repayable by 114 monthly instalments commencing from August 2021.
Banker’s acceptance facilities are repayable within 120 days.
Revolving credit facilities are repayable within 180 days.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
137
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
19. LOAN AND BORROWINGS (CONT’D)
The average effective interest rate are as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
% %
Banker’s acceptances				 2.59 - 5.00 2.11 - 3.80
Revolving credit				 3.84 - 4.12 3.80 - 3.90
Term loans				 4.00 - 5.13 4.50 - 5.13
20. LEASE LIABILITIES
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Non-current				 4,171,162 4,093,384
Current				 552,783 1,110,840
					 4,723,945 5,204,224
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities at the end of the reporting period:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Within 1 year				 1,401,143 1,256,595
Between 2 - 5 years				 1,827,605 2,052,222
More than 5 years				 2,676,821 3,281,381
					 5,905,569 6,590,198
Less: Future finance charges 			 (1,181,624) (1,385,974)
Present value of lease liabilities 			 4,723,945 5,204,224
The Group leases various property, land and building and motor vehicles. Lease terms are negotiated on an
individual basis and contain a wide range of different term and conditions.
21. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
At 1 January 				 7,455,396 8,713,379
Recognised in profit or loss 			 (2,229,865) (515,688)
Under/(Over) provision in prior financial years 		 2,084,595 (742,295)
At 31 December				 7,310,126 7,455,396
			
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
138
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
21. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
The net deferred tax assets and liabilities shown on the statements of financial position after appropriate
offsetting are as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Deferred tax liabilities				 13,903,250 13,313,485
Deferred tax assets				 (6,593,124) (5,858,089)
				 7,310,126 7,455,396
The components and movement of deferred tax assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting date prior to
offsetting are as follows:
				Accelerated
				 capital Development
Deferred tax liabilities 		 allowances expenditure Total
				 RM RM RM
			
Group			
At 1 January 2021			 2,545,871 8,340,536 10,886,407
Recognised in profit or loss			 (737,056) (130,098) (867,154)
Under provision in prior financial years 		 958,998 2,335,234 3,294,232
At 31 December 2021 and 1 January 2022		 2,767,813 10,545,672 13,313,485
Recognised in profit or loss			 51,833 (183,704) (131,871)
Under provision in prior financial years 		 525,881 195,755 721,636
At 31 December 2022			 3,345,527 10,557,723 13,903,250
		Unutilised	Unutilised	Unutilised
		 tax capital reinvestment
Deferred tax assets losses allowances allowances Others Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group					
At 1 January 2021 (92,144) – (2,080,884) – (2,173,028)
Recognised in profit or loss 159,032 668,997 (847,393) 370,830 351,466
Under provision in
 prior financial years (777,013) (1,110,625) (529,399) (1,619,490) (4,036,527)
At 31 December 2021
 and 1 January 2022 (710,125) (441,628) (3,457,676) (1,248,660) (5,858,089)
Recognised in profit or loss (693,848) (1,404,146) – – (2,097,994)
Over/(Under) provision in
 prior financial years 203,332 25,416 (114,449) 1,248,660 1,362,959
At 31 December 2022 (1,200,641) (1,820,358) (3,572,125) – (6,593,124)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
139
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
21. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
		 Group Company
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			RM RM RM RM
Property, plant and equipment		 (14,531,200) (793,250) (238) –
Unutilised business losses		 9,278,415 12,921,883 – –
Unutilised capital allowances 2,330,301 3,520,427 – –
Provisions		 – 6,372,224 – 2,744,803
			 (2,922,484) 22,021,284 (238) 2,744,803
In accordance with the provision of Finance Act 2018, the unutilised business losses could be carried forward
for a maximum of seven consecutive years of assessment and the unused reinvestment allowance could be
carried forward for a maximum of seven consecutive years of assessment after the expiry of the qualifying
periods. Any balance of the unutilised business losses and reinvestment allowance at the end of the seventh
year shall be disregarded.
The Finance Act 2021 stated that the time frame to carry forward unutilised business losses for year of
assessment 2019 and subsequent years of assessment be extended from seven to ten consecutive years of
assessment. The other temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items as they may not have sufficient
taxable profits to be used to offset or they have arisen in subsidiaries that have a recent history of losses.
22. CONTRACT LIABILITIES
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
			
Contract liabilities			
- Non-current				 – 30,000
- Current				 1,189,840 1,084,269
At 31 December				 1,189,840 1,114,269
The contract liabilities refer to advance received from a franchisee and customer for purchases of goods
which will be set off against future revenue made with the Group.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
140
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
22. CONTRACT LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
The Group expect revenue from unsatisfied performance obligation to be recognised in the financial years as
follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Financial years ending 31 December			
- 2022				 – 1,084,269
- 2023				 1,189,840 10,000
- 2024				 – 10,000
- 2025				 – 10,000
				 1,189,840 1,114,269
			
23. OTHER PAYABLES
		 Group Company
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			RM RM RM RM
Non-current					
Deferred capital grant		 – 171,020 – –
								
Current					
Non-trade payables		 2,100,023 1,799,377 230,777 526,491
Accruals		 1,842,658 1,140,441 188,460 170,054
Deferred capital grant		 64,813 298,812 – –
Deposit received		 3,171,215 2,872 – –
Sales and service tax (“SST”) payable		 79,464 68,013 – –
			 7,258,173 3,309,515 419,237 696,545
			 7,258,173 3,480,535 419,237 696,545
		
Deferred capital grant refers to government grant received from Malaysian Bioeconomy Development
Corporation Sdn. Bhd. (“MBDC”) and Malaysia Technology Development Corporation (“MTDC”) for the
acquisition of equipment for research activities. There are no unfulfilled conditions or contingencies attached
to this grant. The grant is being amortised over the useful life of the plant as recognised in profit or loss.
The movement of deferred capital grant is as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
At 1 January				 469,832 838,223
Amortised during the financial year				 (405,019) (368,391)
At 31 December				 64,813 469,832
Presented:					
Non-current				 – 171,020
Current				 64,813 298,812
					 64,813 469,832
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
141
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
23. OTHER PAYABLES (CONT’D)
The foreign currency profile of the other payables are as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Hong Kong Dollar (“HKD”)				 29,514 11,513
Chinese Yuan (“CNY”)				 4,440,681 138,558
Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”)				 60,705 72,828
United States Dollar (“USD”)				 – 253,454
24. TRADE PAYABLES
The normal trade credit terms granted to the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2021: 30 to 90 days) depending
on the term of the contracts.
25. REVENUE
		 Group Company
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			RM RM RM RM
Revenue from contracts with customers:				
Sales of goods		 35,754,329 96,671,133 – –
Franchise fee		 42,500 15,500 – –
Management fee		 – 32,731 – –
			 35,796,829 96,719,364 – –
Revenue from other sources:					
Dividend income		 – – 5,000,000 4,000,000
			 35,796,829 96,719,364 5,000,000 4,000,000
Timing of revenue recognition:					
At a point in time		 35,796,829 96,719,364 5,000,000 4,000,000
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
142
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
25. REVENUE (CONT’D)
Breakdown of the Group’s revenue from contracts with customers:
		 Major goods and services
			 Sales of Franchise Management 		
		 goods fee fee Total
			 RM RM RM RM
2022						
Trading 10,871,085 – – 10,871,085
Manufacturing 12,694,470 – – 12,694,470
Retail phamacy		 12,188,774 – – 12,188,774
Others		 – 42,500 – 42,500
			 35,754,329 42,500 – 35,796,829
Geographical market:				
Malaysia		 22,845,689 42,500 – 22,888,189
China		 10,868,954 – – 10,868,954
Indonesia		 382,586 – – 382,586
Others		 1,657,100 – – 1,657,100
			 35,754,329 42,500 – 35,796,829
2021						
Trading		 55,498,042 – – 55,498,042
Manufacturing		 26,791,172 – – 26,791,172
Retail phamacy		 14,381,919 – – 14,381,919
Others		 – 15,500 32,731 48,231
			 96,671,133 15,500 32,731 96,719,364
Geographical market:					
Malaysia		 32,782,753 15,500 32,731 32,830,984
China		 57,554,337 – – 57,554,337
Indonesia		 5,894,711 – – 5,894,711
Others		 439,332 – – 439,332
			 96,671,133 15,500 32,731 96,719,364
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
143
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
26. OTHER OPERATING INCOME					
		 Group Company
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			RM RM RM RM
Interest from fixed deposits					
 with licensed banks		 526,879 375,750 307,992 250,103
Interest from other investments		 – 227 – –
Foreign exchange gain:					
- realised 		 824 1,098 824 –
- unrealised 		 – 269,967 – 164,475
Rental income 		 27,600 27,600 – –
Wages subsidies 		 – 181,600 – –
Amortisation of deferred capital grant 		 405,019 368,391 – –
Gain on disposal of fixed assets 		 164 – – –
Rent concession related COVID-19		 – 40,540 – –
Other income 		 281,895 418,649 – –
			 1,242,381 1,683,822 308,816 414,578
27. FINANCE COSTS
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Finance costs					
Interest on bank overdraft				 5,266 1,676
Interest on bankers’ acceptance				 21,636 47,124
Interest on lease liabilities				 162,891 145,046
Interest on term loans				 551,158 359,181
Interest on revolving credit				 28,727 14,418
					 769,678 567,445
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
144
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
28. LOSS BEFORE TAX
Loss before tax is determined after charging/(crediting) amongst other, the following items:
		 Group Company
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			RM RM RM RM
Auditors’ remuneration					
- Current year		 212,289 173,302 61,500 60,000
- Non-audit 24,000 43,000 24,000 43,000
Allowance for expected credit
 losses on:				
- Trade receivables		 10,930,843 12,411 – –
- Other receivables		 – 659,279 – –
- Amount due from subsidiaries 		 – – 3,974,350 1,913,257
Reversal of allowance for
 expected credit losses:					
- Trade receivables		 (293,785) (1,666,871) – –
- Other receivables		 (47,725) – – –
Amortisation of intagible assets 2,417,572 2,342,080 – –
Bad debts written off		 356,705 796,910 – –
Biological assets written off		 – 1,660 – –
Fair value adjustment
 of biological assets 		 516,731 – – –
Depreciation of property,
 plant and equipment		 10,156,011 10,238,215 1,306 1,305
Loss on disposal of property,					
 plant and equipment		 2,522 10,400 – –
Impairment losses on goodwill				
 on consolidation		 – 50,000 – –
Inventories written off		 758,789 246,016 – –
Gain on early termination
 of lease contract		 (83,717) – – –
Fair value adjustment on
 plantation expenditure		 2,114,958 – – –
Provison of slow-moving inventories		 580,730 75,548 – –
Reversal of provision of
 slow-moving inventories		 – (617,181) – –
Impairment of property,
 plant and equipment 620,520 – – –
Property, plant and equipment
 written off		 3,289,959 814,742 – –
Staff costs (Note 31)		 8,896,701 9,207,446 1,558,609 1,639,854
Loss/(Gain) on foreign exchange					
- Realised		 824 (1,098) – –
- Unrealised		 981,193 (269,967) 147,815 (164,475)
Lease expenses relating to:					
- Low value assets (a)		 – 13,520 – –
- Short-term leases (a)		 – 391,196 – –
Share based payment		 508,444 439,595 508,444 439,595
Loss on dilution of a subsidiary 1,439,621 239,808 – –
(a) The Group leases a number of properties and equipment with contract terms of not more than one year.
These leases are short-term or leases of low value assets. The Group has elected not to recognised
right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for these leases.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
145
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
29. TAXATION
		 Group Company
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			RM RM RM RM
Tax expenses recognised in profit or loss				
Current tax					
Current financial year provision		 60,900 81,244 55,000 42,048
Under/(Over) provision in priors		 48,385 (70,855) 7,588 (6,306)
			 109,285 10,389 62,588 35,742
Deferred tax liabilities					
Origination and reversal of					
 temporary difference		 (2,229,865) (515,688) – –
Under/(Over) provision in priors					
 financial years		 2,084,595 (742,295) – –
			 (145,270) (1,257,983) – –
Total tax (income)/expense		 (35,985) (1,247,594) 62,588 35,742
A reconciliation of income tax expenses applicable to loss before tax at the statutory tax rate to income tax
expenses at the effective income tax of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
		 Group Company
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			RM RM RM RM
Loss before tax		 (48,829,663) (2,772,090) (842,932) (601,813)
Income tax calculated at tax
 rate of 24% (2021: 24%)		 (11,719,119) (665,302) (202,304) (144,435)
Expenses not deductible					
 for tax purposes		 7,086,089 3,147,389 1,457,135 687,301
Income not subject to tax		 (1,318,414) (1,021,121) (1,200,000) (960,000)
Income exempted under
 pioneer status		 – (68,826) – –
Deferred tax assets not utilised in
 respect of reinvestment allowance		 – (847,393) – –
Movement of deferred tax
 assets not recognised		 3,782,479 (979,191) 169 459,182
Under/(Over) provision of tax					
 expenses in priors financial years 48,385 (70,855) 7,588 (6,306)
Under/(Over) provision of deferred					
 tax in priors financial years 2,084,595 (742,295) – –
			 (35,985) (1,247,594) 62,588 35,742
A subsidiary has received an approval letter dated 20 December 2013 from Ministry of Agriculture and Agro-
Based Industry Malaysia in relation to its application for exemption of tax under paragraph 127(3)(b) of the
Income Tax Act 1967 for carrying out of herbs project. Pursuant to paragraph 127(3)(b), it has been granted
a 100% tax exemption of the statutory income for a period of 10 years commencing from its first statutory
income. As such, it is eligible for tax exemption on 100% of its statutory business income (if any) for the year
of assessment 2018 to year of assessment 2027.
						
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
146
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
30. LOSS PER SHARE
(a) Loss per share
The basic loss per share are calculated based on the consolidated loss for the financial year attributable
to owners of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the
financial year as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Loss attributable to owners of Company			 (47,830,550) (1,286,499)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue:			
Issued ordinary shares at 1 January			 1,155,508,426 1,110,470,832
Effect of ordinary shares issued during the financial year 		 105,341,271 45,037,594
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December 		 1,260,849,697 1,155,508,426
Basic loss per ordinary shares (in sen)			 (3.80) (0.11)
(b) Diluted loss per share
The diluted loss per share has been calculated based on the adjusted consolidated loss for the financial
year attributable to the owners of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in
issue during the financial year have been adjusted for the dilutive effects of all potential ordinary shares
as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Loss attributable to owners of Company			 (47,830,550) (1,286,499)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares			 1,260,849,697 1,155,508,426
Adjustment for incremental shares from
 assumed conversions:					
Warrants 				 – 12,564,677
SIS					
- Granted on 27 February 2017				 1,988,899 324,084
- Granted on 16 April 2020				 2,275,863 1,300,122
- Granted on 10 September 2021				 – 3,850,171
- Granted on 17 October 2022				 25,684,932 –
ICPS				 457,078,472 22,561,555
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 31 December
(diluted)				 1,747,877,863 1,196,109,035
Loss per ordinary shares (in sen)				 (2.74) (0.11)
						
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
147
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
31. STAFF COSTS
		 Group Company
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			RM RM RM RM
Salaries, wages and other emoluments 7,612,662 8,120,446 960,913 1,119,795
Social security contributions		 74,914 79,046 2,214 2,417
Defined contribution plans		 682,985 740,162 87,038 77,960
Employment insurance scheme		 17,696 6,456 – 87
Share based payment		 508,444 439,595 508,444 439,595
			 8,896,701 9,385,705 1,558,609 1,639,854
Less: Capitalised into:				
- Plantation expenditure (Note 4)		 – (178,259) – –
			 8,896,701 9,207,446 1,558,609 1,639,854
Included in employee benefits expense of the Group and the Company are executive directors’ remuneration
amounting to RM1,922,186 and RM1,364,053 (2021: RM1,362,543 and RM1,253,711) respectively.
32. RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
The table below show the details changes in the liabilities of the Group arising from financing activities,
including both cash and non-cash changes:
					
Lease Term
					
liabilities loans
					
RM RM
						
Group					
At 1 January 2022				 5,204,224 6,956,023
Drawdown				 1,756,021 –
Repayment				 (1,240,849) (2,391,055)
Modification of lease term				 (963,685) –
Foreign exchange translation				 (31,766) –
At 31 December 2022				 4,723,945 4,564,968
Group					
At 1 January 2021				 5,376,233 4,386,659
Drawdown				 1,127,683 3,279,800
Repayment				 (1,222,168) (710,436)
Modification of lease term				 (41,972) –
Rent concession related to COVID-19				 (40,540) –
Foreign exchange translation				 4,988 –
At 31 December 2021				 5,204,224 6,956,023
						
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
148
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
33. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
(a) Identifying related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group and the
Company if the Group and the Company have the ability, directly or indirectly, to control or join control
the party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or
vice versa, or where the Group and the Company and the party are subject to common control. Related
parties may be individuals or other entities.
Related parties also include key management personnel defined as those persons having authority and
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group and of the Company
either directly or indirectly. The key management personnel comprise the Directors and management
personnel of the Group and of the Company, having authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling the activities of the Group and of the Company directly or indirectly.
(b) Significant related party transactions
Related party transactions have been entered into the normal course of business under negotiated
terms. In addition to the related party balances disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the
significant related party transactions of the Company are as follows:
		 Company
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Transaction with a subsidiary				
- Dividend income				 5,000,000 4,000,000
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
The Group considers the directors to be the key management personnel. Disclosure of their remuneration
is made in directors’ remuneration to the directors’ report.
34. SEGMENT INFORMATION
For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services,
has three reportable segments as follows:
Trading : Procurement and sales of health food products
Manufacturing : Research, development, manufacture, importer, exporter, distribution and trader of
nutritional and health care products.
Retail pharmacy : Pharmacist, druggist and chemicals
Others : Investment holding and provision of management
Management monitors the operating result of its business units separately for the purpose of making decision
about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on profit
or loss and is measured consistently with profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements.
Transactions between segments are carried out on agreed terms between both parties. The effects of such
inter-segment transactions are eliminated on consolidation. The measurement basis and classification are
consistent with those adopted in the previous financial year.
Information about segment assets and liabilities are neither included in the internal management reports nor
provided regularly to the management. Hence, no disclosures are made on segment assets and liabilities.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
149
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
34. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONT’D)
								
Adjustment
					 Retail		 Total and
			 Trading Manufacturing pharmacy Others Segments eliminations Consolidated
		 Note RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group								
2022								
External customer		 10,871,085 12,694,470 12,188,774 42,500 35,796,829 – 35,796,829
Inter-segment		 – 1,085,501 410,855 5,000,000 6,496,356 (6,496,356) –
Total revenue		 10,871,085 13,779,971 12,599,629 5,042,500 42,293,185 (6,496,356) 35,796,829
Results								
Finance income		 10,528 206,471 1,888 307,992 526,879 – 526,879
Finance costs		 – (627,690) (141,928) (60) (769,678) – (769,678)
Depreciation on property,								
plant and equipment		 (439,432) (8,932,381) (772,671) (11,527) (10,156,011) – (10,156,011)
Amortisation on
 intangible asset		 (127,860) (2,289,712) – – (2,417,572) – (2,417,572)
Other non-cash item A (4,283,191) (14,885,421) (558,330) (1,543,827) (21,270,769) – (21,710,937)
Segment loss		 (2,926,367) (36,676,142) (3,851,529) (1,338,757) (44,792,795) (4,553,715) (49,346,510)
Assets								
Additions to non-current
 assets other that financial
 intruments deferred
 tax asssets B 567,803 7,626,974 321,519 82,395 8,598,691 – 8,598,691
Segment assets C 18,297,837 255,039,530 4,777,035 193,604,076 471,718,478 (271,068,874) 200,649,604
Liabilities 								
Segment liabilities D 10,370,957 244,843,370 12,264,356 2,659,033 270,137,716 (237,475,189) 32,662,527
									
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
150
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
34. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONT’D)
								
Adjustment
					 Retail		 Total and
			 Trading Manufacturing pharmacy Others Segments eliminations Consolidated
		 Note RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group								
2021								
External customer		 55,498,042 26,791,172 14,381,919 48,231 96,719,364 – 96,719,364
Inter-segment		 – 2,955,734 9,391,144 4,244,121 16,590,999 (16,590,999) –
Total revenue		 55,498,042 29,746,906 23,773,063 4,292,352 113,310,363 (16,590,999) 96,719,364
							
Results								
Finance income		 11,321 114,553 – 250,103 375,977 – 375,977
Finance costs		 – (415,915) (151,530) – (567,445) – (567,445)
Depreciation on property,								
plant and equipment		 (513,220) (8,909,650) (803,444) (11,901) (10,238,215) – (10,238,215)
Amortisation on intangible
 asset		 (120,305) (2,221,775) – – (2,342,080) – (2,342,080)
Other non-cash item A 112,704 1,340,782 (1,095,111) (275,120) 83,255 (465,074) (381,819)
Segment loss		 (1,656,264) (18,772,079) (13,527,886) (2,663,957) (36,620,186) 35,095,690 (1,524,496)
Assets								
Additions to non-current
 assets other that financial
 intruments deferred
 tax asssets B 1,688,351 22,678,668 956,031 245,000 25,568,050 – 25,568,050
Segment assets C 19,864,895 242,543,824 14,174,395 194,226,203 470,809,317 (259,152,204) 211,657,113
Liabilities 								
Segment liabilities D 9,348,400 192,749,240 25,294,320 28,837,200 256,229,160 (247,126,313) 9,102,847
								
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
151
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
34. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONT’D)
Adjustments and eliminations
Capital expenditure consists of additions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including
assets from the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
A. Other non-cash items consist of the following as presented in the respective notes to the financial
statements:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Other non-cash item:					
Amortisation of deferred capital grant			 405,019 368,391
Bad debts written off				 (356,705) (796,910)
Biological assets written off				 – (1,660)
Share based payment				 (508,444) (439,595)
Allowance for ECLs					
- Trade receivables				 (10,930,843) (12,411)
- Other receivables				 – (659,279)
Reversal allowance for ECLs				 – –
- Trade receivables				 293,785 1,666,871
- Other receivables				 47,725 –
Fair value adjustment on plantation expenditure			 (2,114,958) –
Fair value adjustment on biological assets			 (516,731) –
Impairment losses on goodwill on consolidation			 – (50,000)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment			 (620,520) –
Inventories written off				 (758,789) (246,016)
Provision of slow-moving inventories			 (580,730) (75,548)
Reversal of provision of slow-moving inventories			 – 617,181
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment			 (2,522) (10,400)
Propety, plant and equipment written off			 (3,289,959) (814,742)
Rent concession related to COVID-19			 – 40,540
Unrealised (loss)/gain on foreign exchange			 (981,193) 269,967
Gain on early termination of lease contract			 83,717 –
Gain on modification of lease contract			 – 1,600
Loss on dilution of a subsidiary				 (1,439,621) (239,808)
					 (21,270,769) (381,819)
B. Additions to non-current assets other than financial instruments consists of:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Property, plant and equipment				 4,902,489 18,923,056
Intangible assets				 3,696,202 6,644,994
					 8,598,691 25,568,050
						
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
152
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
34. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONT’D)
Adjustments and eliminations (Cont’d)
C. The following items are added to segment assets to arrive at total assets reported in the consolidated
statement of financial position.
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Segment assets				 194,313,973 211,657,113
Tax recoverable				 1,001,601 472,349
Goodwill				 5,334,030 5,334,030
Total assets				 200,649,604 217,463,492
D. Thefollowingitemsareaddedtosegmentliabilitiestoarriveattotalliabilitiesreportedintheconsolidated
statement of financial position.
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Segment liabilities				 13,237,646 9,102,847
Deferred tax liabilities				 7,310,126 7,455,396
Lease liabilities				 4,723,945 5,204,224
Loan and borrowings				 6,951,968 9,343,023
Tax payable				 438,842 19,332
Total liabilities				 32,662,527 31,124,822
Geographic information
Revenue information based on the geographical location of customer is as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Malaysia				 22,888,189 32,830,984
China				 10,868,954 57,554,337
Indonesia				 382,586 5,894,711
Others				 1,657,100 439,332
					 35,796,829 96,719,364
Major customer
There are 1 (2021: 1) major customer contributing to RM10,855,997 (2021: RM36,873,402) or more of total
revenue of the Group from trading segment.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
153
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(a) Classification of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured on an ongoing basis either at fair value or at
amortised cost. The principal accounting policies in Note 3 describe how the classes of financial
instruments are measured, and how income and expense, including fair value gains and losses, are
recognised.
The following table analyses the financial assets and liabilities in the statements of financial position by
the class of financial instruments to which they are assigned, and therefore by the measurement basis:
		 Group Company
			2022 2021 2022 2021
			RM RM RM RM
At amortised cost					
Financial assets					
Trade receivables		 8,944,684 23,966,989 – –
Other receivables		 7,134,103 14,253,061 48,244 37,079
Amount due from subsidiaries		 – – 188,069,533 164,073,895
Fixed deposits with licensed banks 22,791,034 11,624,318 7,500,000 9,500,000
Cash and cash equivalents		 16,972,445 24,314,060 198,125 2,486,835
			 55,842,266 74,158,428 195,815,902 176,097,809
At FVTPL					
Financial asset					
Other investments		 9,026,826 11,906 – –
At amortised cost					
Financial liabilities					
Loan and borrowings		 6,951,968 9,343,023 – –
Trade payables		 4,789,633 4,508,043 – –
Other payables 7,178,709 3,412,522 419,237 696,545
Amount due to subsidiaries		 – – 20,939,873 26,849,873
			 18,920,310 17,263,588 21,359,110 27,546,418
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
154
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objective and policies
The Group’s and the Company’s financial risk management policy is to ensure that adequate financial
resources are available for the development of the Group’s and of the Company’s operation within clearly
defined guidelines that are approved by the Board and the Group’s and the Company’s policy is not to
engage in speculative transactions.
The following sections provide details regarding the Group’s and the Company’s exposure to the above-
mentioned financial risks and the objectives, policies and processes for the management of these risks.
(i) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group and the Company if a customer or counterparty
to a financial instrument fails to meet their contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit
risk arises principally from the trade receivables, other receivables, fixed deposits with licensed
bank and cash and bank balances. The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from
the other receivables, amount due from subsidiaries, fixed deposits with licensed banks and cash
and bank balances. There are no significant changes as compared to previous financial year.
The Group and the Company have adopted a policy of only with creditworthy counterparties.
Management has a credit policy in place to control credit risk by dealing with creditworthy
counterparties and deposit with bank and financial institutions with good credit rating. The
exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis and action will be taken for long
outstanding debts.
The Company provides unsecured loans and advances to subsidiaries. It also provides financial
guarantee to banks for banking facilities granted to certain subsidiary. The Company monitors on
an ongoing basis the results of the subsidiaries and repayments made by the subsidiaries.
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether any of the receivables are
credit impaired.
The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partial or
full) when there is no realisctic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group
or the Company determine that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could
generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. Nevertheless, trade
receivables and that are written of could still be subject to enforcement activities.
The carrying amounts of the financial assets recorded on the statements of financial position
at the end of the financial year represent the Group’s and the Company’s maximum exposure
to credit risk except for financial guarantees provided to banks and non-financial institutions for
banking facilities.
There are no significant changes as compared to previous financial year.
As at the end of the finance year, the Group has 2 (2021:3) major customers and accounted for
approximately 57% (2021: 52%) of trade receivables outstanding		
			
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
155
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objective and policies (Cont’d)
(ii) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group and the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting
its financial obligations as they fall die. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk
arises primarily from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group’s and the Company’s funding requirement and liquidity risk are managed with the
objective of meeting business obligations on a timely basis. The Group and the Company finance
their liquidity through internally generated cash flows and minimises liquidity risk by keeping
committed credit lines available.
The following table analyses the remaining contractual maturity financial liabilities. The tables
have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the
earlies date on which the Group and the Company can be required to pay.
		 On demand			
Contractual Total
		 or within 2 to 5 More than cash carrying
		 1 year years 5 years flows amount
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group					
2022					
Non -derivative					
 financial liabilities
Term loans 1,891,163 2,409,205 1,160,340 5,460,708 4,564,968
Lease liabilities 1,401,143 1,827,605 2,676,821 5,905,569 4,723,945
Trade payables 4,789,633 – – 4,789,633 4,789,633
Other payables 7,178,709 – – 7,178,709 7,178,709
Bankers’ acceptance 1,387,000 – – 1,387,000 1,387,000
Revolving credit 1,000,000 – – 1,000,000 1,000,000
		 17,647,648 4,236,810 3,837,161 25,721,619 23,644,255
Financial guarantee* 200,000 – – 200,000
2021					
Non -derivative					
 financial liabilities
Term loans 2,727,452 3,710,375 1,472,985 7,910,812 6,956,023
Lease liabilities 1,256,595 2,052,222 3,281,381 6,590,198 5,204,224
Trade payables 4,508,043 – – 4,508,043 4,508,043
Other payables 3,241,502 171,020 – 3,412,522 3,412,522
Bankers’ acceptance 1,387,000 – – 1,387,000 1,387,000
Revolving credit 1,000,000 – – 1,000,000 1,000,000
		 14,120,592 5,933,617 4,754,366 24,808,575 22,467,812
Financial guarantee* 200,000 – – 200,000
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
156
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objective and policies (Cont’d)
(ii) Liquidity risk (Cont’d)
		 On demand			
Contractual Total
		 or within 2 to 5 More than cash carrying
		 1 year years 5 years flows amount
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Company					
2022					
Non -derivative					
 financial liabilities
Other payables 419,237 – – 419,237 419,237
Amount due to					
 subsidiaries 20,939,873 – – 20,939,873 20,939,873
		 21,359,110 – – 21,359,110 21,359,110
Financial guarantee* 4,000,000 – – 4,000,000
2021					
Non -derivative					
 financial liabilities
Other payables 696,545 – – 696,545 696,545
Amount due to					
 subsidiaries 26,849,873 – – 26,849,873 26,849,873
		 27,546,418 – – 27,546,418 27,546,418
Financial guarantee* 4,405,319 – – 4,405,319
* Based on the maximum amount that can be called for under the financial guarantee contract.
The Company provides unsecured financial guarantee to banks in respect of credit facilities granted
to certain subsidiaries and monitors on an ongoing basis the performance of the subsidiaries. At
end of the financial year, there was no indication that the subsidiaries would default on repayment.
Financial guarantee has not been recognised since the fair value on initial recognition was deemed
not material and the probability of the subsidiaries defaulting on the credit facilities is remote.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
157
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (Cont’d)
(iii) Market risk
(a) Foreign currency risk
The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions that are
denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currencies of Group entities.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are CNY, HKD, IDR, SGD and USD.
The Group and the Company have not entered into any derivative instruments for hedging or
trading purposes as the net exposure to foreign currency risk is not significant. However, the
exposure to foreign currency risk is monitored from time to time by management.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s and of the Company’s foreign currency denominated
financial assets and financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
					 Cash and
		 Trade Other Other bank
		 receivables receivables payables balances Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group					
2022					
Denominated in					
HKD		 – 4,103 (29,514) 565,442 540,031
CNY		 3,730,594 6,834,072 (4,440,681) 14,518,488 20,642,473
SGD		 – – – 33,984 33,984
IDR 2,670 1,606,042 (60,705) 13,281 1,561,288
USD		 3,564,920 4,552,840 – 615,001 8,732,761
		 7,298,184 12,997,057 (4,530,900) 15,746,196 31,510,537
2021					
Denominated in					
HKD		 – – (11,513) 589,882 578,369
CNY		 7,239,140 5,754,059 (138,558) 15,980,587 28,835,228
SGD		 – – – 32,564 32,564
IDR 5,393 1,426,693 (72,828) 53,174 1,412,432
USD 10,248,073 7,140,886 (253,454) 3,901,388 21,036,893
		 17,492,606 14,321,638 (476,353) 20,557,595 51,895,486
					
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
158
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (Cont’d)
(iii) Market risk (Cont’d)
(a) Foreign currency risk (Cont’d)
The carrying amounts of the Group’s and of the Company’s foreign currency denominated
financial assets and financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
(Cont’d)
				 Amount Cash and
				 due from bank
				subsidiaries balances Total
				 RM RM RM
Company					
2022					
Denominated in					
CNY				 28,311,674 – 28,311,674
HKD				 1,693,274 20 1,693,294
USD				 17,827,665 761 17,828,426
				 47,832,613 781 47,833,394
2021					
Denominated in					
CNY				 15,321,246 – 15,321,246
HKD				 17,770,237 20 17,770,257
USD				 12,360,025 971 12,360,996
				 45,451,508 991 45,452,499
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Group’s and of the Company’s loss
before tax for the financial year to a reasonably possible change in the CNY, HKD, IDR, SGD
and USD exchange rates against the functional currencies of the Group and of the Company,
with all other variables held constant.
					
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
159
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (Cont’d)
(iii) Market risk (Cont’d)
(a) Foreign currency risk (Cont’d)
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis (Cont’d)
Effect on
loss before tax
Change in currency rate
2022
RM
2021
RM
Group
HKD Strengthened 1% (2021: 1%)
Weakened 1% (2021: 1%)
5,400
(5,400)
5,784
(5,784)
CNY Strengthened 1% (2021: 1%)
Weakened 1% (2021: 1%)
206,425
(206,425)
288,352
(288,352)
IDR Strengthened 1% (2021: 1%)
Weakened 1% (2021: 1%)
15,613
(15,613)
14,124
(14,124)
SGD Strengthened 1% (2021: 1%)
Weakened 1% (2021: 1%)
340
(340)
326
(326)
USD Strengthened 1% (2021: 1%)
Weakened 1% (2021: 1%)
87,328
(87,328)
210,369
(210,369)
Company
CNY Strengthened 1% (2021: 1%)
Weakened 1% (2021: 1%)
283,117
(283,117)
153,212
(153,212)
HKD Strengthened 1% (2021: 1%)
Weakened 1% (2021: 1%)
16,933
(16,933)
177,703
(177,703)
USD Strengthened 1% (2021: 1%)
Weakened 1% (2021: 1%)
178,284
(178,284)
123,610
(123,610)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
160
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (Cont’d)
(iii) Market risk (Cont’d)
(b) Interest rate risk
The Group’s and the Company’s fixed rate deposits placed with licensed banks and
borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in their fair value due to changes in interest rates.
The Group’s and the Company’s variable rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in
cash flows due to changes in interest rates.
The Group and the Company manage the interest rate risk of its deposits with licensed
financial institutions by placing them at the most competitive interest rates obtainable,
which yield better returns than cash at bank and maintaining a prudent mix of short and
long-term deposits.
The Group and the Company manage their interest rate risk exposure from interest bearing
borrowings by obtaining financing with the most favourable interest rates in the market.
The Group and the Company constantly monitor their interest rates by reviewing its debts
portfolio to ensure favourable rates are obtained. The Group and the Company do not utilise
interest swap contracts or other derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
The interest rate profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s significant interest-bearing
financial instruments, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Fixed rate intruments			
Financial asset			
Fixed deposits with licensed banks 		 22,791,034 11,624,318
Financial liabilities			
Bankers’ acceptance 			 (1,387,000) (1,387,000)
Lease liabilities					 (351,050)
Revolving credit 			 (1,000,000) (1,000,000)
Term loans				 (85,022) (519,986)
					 (2,472,022) (3,258,036)
Net financial assets 			 20,319,012 8,366,282
Floating rate intruments			
Financial liability			
Term loans				 (4,479,946) (6,436,037)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
161
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (Cont’d)
(iii) Market risk (Cont’d)
(b) Interest rate risk (Cont’d)
The interest rate profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s significant interest-bearing
financial instruments, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:
		 Company
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Fixed rate intruments			
Financial asset			
Fixed deposits with licensed banks			 7,500,000 9,500,000
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
The Group and the Company do not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities
at fair value through profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the end of the
reporting period would not affect profit or loss.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for floating rate instruments
A change in 1% interest rate at the end of the reporting period would have increased/
(decreased) the Group’s loss before tax by RM44,799 (2021: RM64,360), arising mainly as a
result of lower/higher interest expense on floating rate loans and borrowings. This analysis
assumes that all other variables remain constant. The assumed movement in basis points
for interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently observable market environment.
(c) Fair value of financial instruments
The carrying amounts of short-term receivables and payables, cash and cash equivalents and short-
term borrowings approximate their fair value due to the relatively short-term nature of these financial
instruments and significant impact of discounting.
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value and carrying amounts shown in the
statements of financial positions.
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Fair value of financial intruments carried at fair value			
Level 1			
Financial asset			
Other investment				 9,026,826 11,906
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
162
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
35. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(c) Fair value of financial instruments (Cont’d)
		
(i) Policy on transfer between levels
The fair value of an asset to be transferred between levels is determined as of the date of the
event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer. There were no transfers between levels
during current and previous financial years.
(ii) Level 1 fair value
Level 1 fair value is derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets
or liabilities
(iii) Level 2 fair value
Level 2 fair value is estimated using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that
are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from
prices).
Non-derivative financial instruments
Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value
of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the end of
the reporting period.
(iv) Level 3 fair value
Level 3 fair value for the financial assets and liabilities are estimated using unobservable inputs.
The following table shows the value techniques used in the determination of fair values within
level 3, as well as key unobservable inputs used in the valuation method.
36. CAPITAL COMMITMENT
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Capital expenditure			
Authorised and contracted for:			
 Property, plant and equipment				 – 31,200
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
163
NOTES TO T H E
FINANCIA L S TAT EM EN T S
(cont’d)
37. FINANCIAL GUARANTEES
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Group			
Unsecured			
Performance bonds in relation to the management 		
 of the Herbal Intergrated Cluster Development			 200,000 200,000
Company			
Unsecured			
Corporate guarantees given to the licensed financial			
 institution for credit facility granted to a subsidiary			 4,000,000 4,405,319
38. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s and the Company’s objective when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s and the
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for
other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group and the Company may adjust the amount of
dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio. The Group’s policy is to maintain a prudent level of gearing
ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory requirements. The gearing ratios at the end of the
reporting period are as follows:
		 Group
					
2022 2021
					
RM RM
Total loans and borrowings (Note 19) 				 6,951,968 9,343,023
Total lease liabilites				 4,723,945 351,050
Less: Cash and cash equivalents				 (16,972,445) (24,314,060)
Less: Fixed deposits with licensed banks			 (22,791,034) (11,624,318)
Net cash				 (28,087,566) (26,244,305)
Total equity				 167,987,077 186,338,670
Gearing ratio				 N/A N/A
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
164
N OT E S TO T H E
F I N A N C I A L S TAT E ME N TS
(cont’d)
39. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
On 6 January 2022, the Company has resolved to extended the duration of its existing SIS< which expiring on
11 January 2022, for another 2 years from 12 January 2022 to 11 January 2024 in accordance with the Clause
21 of the SIS By-Laws.
On 24 March 2022, the Company has cancelled 153,000,000 SIS Options offered on 10 September 2021 at
exercised price of RM0.225 per share upon mutual agreements with respective SIS Option holders.
40. COMPARATIVE FIGURES
Certain comparative figures have been reclassified to conform with the current financial period presentation.
For the financial year
		 ended 31 December 2021
					
As previously As
reported reclassified
Group				
RM RM
Statement of profit or loss and other
 comprehensive income					
Other operating income			 1,307,845 		 1,683,822
Administrative expenses			 (17,139,812)		 (18,936,919)
Other expenses			 (1,797,107)		 –
Finance income			 375,977 		 –
Company						
Statement of profit or loss and other
 comprehensive income			
Other operating income			 164,475 		 414,578
Finance income			 250,103 		 –
						
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
165
LIST OF
PROPERTIES
Owned
Registered
owner Location
Description and
Existing Use
Date of
Certificate
of
Fitness
Built-Up
Area/
Land Area
Sq. ft. Tenure
Carrying
Amount
as at 31
December
2022
RM’000
Date
of last
revaluation Age
Bioalpha
International
Sdn Bhd
No.10, Jalan P9/A,
Seksyen 13, Bandar
Baru Bangi, Selangor.
Industrial land with the
following buildings erected
thereon:
• a semi-detached two
(2)-storey building
annexed with an open
shed for our
manufacturing facility;
• two (2) utility cabins for
our restroom and surau;
and
• a guardhouse
April 30,
2012
8,137 /
11,000
99 years
expiring on
20.08.2105
3,388 March 10,
2013
83
years
Mediconstant
Pharmacy
Sdn Bhd
83, Jalan 34/154,
Taman Dahlia,
Cheras, 56000,
Kuala Lumpur.
Two (2) units of
adjoining double
storey shop lots for
our retail pharmacy
N/A 1,647 Freehold 1,429 Sept 27,
2016
(1)
Bioalpha
International
Sdn Bhd
No. 1, Jalan
Perindustrian
Suntrack, Hub
Perindustrian
Suntrack, Off Jalan
P1A, Seksyen 13,
Bandar Baru Bangi,
43000 Kajang,
Selangor.
Units of 3 Storey
Semi-detached Factory
with Office
July 07,
2014
6,966 /
10,606
99 years
expiring on
20.08.2113
6,274 March 09,
2018
91
years
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
166
LEASED
Tenant Landlord Location Description and Existing Use
Built-Up
Area/
Land Area
Rental
RM
Rental/
Lease
Period
Bioalpha
Holdings
Berhad,
Bioalpha
International
Sdn Bhd and
Bioalpha East
Coast Agro Sdn
Bhd
Lembaga Tabung
Amanah Warisan
Negeri Terengganu
Lot PT 1748, H. S. (D) 1966,
Mukim Pasir Raja, Daerah
Dungun, Terengganu.
Agricultural land for the cultivation
and farming of herbal plants with
the following infrastructure erected
thereon:
• an administration and
management building;
• a fertilizer storage facility;
• an equipment store cum repair
and maintenance workshop;
• residential buildings as follows:
(i) one (1) unit of bungalow;
(ii) twelve (12) units of office
terrace;
(iii) nine (9) units of family
terrace;
(iv) two (2) blocks of hostel;
(v) surau;
(vi) convenience store;
• common facilities as follows:
(i) skid tank;
(ii) guardhouse; and
(iii) water storage tank.
(2) / 123.5
to 1,003
acres
152,527.50
per
annum
07.04.2014
to
06.04.2044
Bioalpha
(Johor Herbal)
Sdn Bhd
Perbadanan
Setiausaha
Kerajaan
Johor
PTD 4825 H.S.(D) 31408 and
PTD 5140 H.S.(D) 34765
Mukim Pantai Timur,
Daerah Kota Tinggi, Johor.
Agricultural land for cultivation
and farming of herbal and
non-herbal plants
300
acres
(3) (3)
Botanical
Distrubution
Sdn Bhd
Dewina LSG
Sdn Bhd
No. 12, Jalan P/9A, Seksyen
13, Kawasan Perindustrian
Bandar Baru Bangi, 43650,
Bandar Baru Bangi, Selangor.
Industrial land with a semi-detached
one (1) ½-storey building for our
manufacturing facility
5,600 /
11,000
8,800
per month
01.02.2023
to
31.01.2025
Mediconstant
Pharmacy
Sdn Bhd
Natural Options
Sdn Bhd
Unit No. 548 & 550, Block A,
Kelana Center Point,
3, Jalan Ss7/19, 47301,
Petaling Jaya, Selangor.
Two (2) units of office lots for
Mediconstant HQ office
3,057 4,000 per
month
01.08.2022
to
31.07.2024
(1) Not available as the building is freehold.
(2) Not available as the leased buildings and infrastructures are of different types and sizes.
(3) On 27 June 2019, State Secretary (Incorporated) Johor has through Bio Desaru Sdn Bhd (who has been duly granted
the power to deal with and undertake the development activities of Desaru Land under the POA registered with the
land office Johor on 27 February 2014) has submitted the relevant lease registration documents for Plot 1 and Plot
2 of Desaru Land to the land office. To date, the said lease registration documents in relation to the Desaru Land is
being process by the land office.
L I S T O F P RO P E R T I E S
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
167
Total Number of Issued Shares : 1,378,072,011 ordinary shares
Class of Shares : Ordinary Shares
Voting Rights : One vote for each ordinary share held
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 31 MARCH 2023
(As per Records of Depositors as at 31 March 2023)
		 No. of		 No. of
Size of Holding 		 shareholders % Shares Held %
1 to 99		 703 6.139 32,971 0.002
100 to 1,000		 1,013 8.846 514,887 0.037
1,001 to 10,000		 3,750 32.745 24,078,804 1.747
10,001 to 100,000		 4,872 42.543 181,753,764 13.189
100,001 to 68,903,600		 1,110 9.693 716,544,352 51.996
69,903,601 to 5% and above of issued shares 4 0.034 455,147,233 33.029
Total		 11,452 100.000 1,378,072,011 100.000
LIST OF SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
(As per Register of Substantial Shareholders)
The substantial shareholders (holding 5% or more of the issued capital) based on the Register of Substantial
Shareholders of the Company and their shareholdings are as follows: -
No. of Shares held No. of Shares held
No. Name of Substantial Shareholder 		 Direct % Indirect %
1 Joe Holdings (M) Investment Limited 150,000,000 10.885 – –
2 Perbadanan Nasional Berhad		 120,855,104 8.770 – –
3 Malaysian Technology Development
 Corporation Sdn Bhd		 114,350,818 8.298 – –
4 Ooi Keng Thye		 69,941,311 5.075 – –
5 Joe Holding Berhad 		 – – 150,000,000* 10.885*
* Deemed interested by virtue of its interest in Joe Holding (M) Investment Limited pursuant to Section 8(4) of the Companies Act   
2016 (“Act”).
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 31 MARCH 2023
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
168
LIST OF DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
(As per Register of Directors’ Shareholdings)
The Directors’ Shareholdings based on the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings of the Company are as follows: -
No. of Shares held No. of Shares held
No. Name of Directors		 Direct % Indirect %
1 Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin
 Bin Syed Salim		 – – – –
2 Hon Tian Kok @ William		 20,000,099 1.451 – –
3 Datuk Chong Loong Men 		 – – – –
4 Ho Tze Hiung		 – – – –
5 Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah		 100,000 0.007 – –
6 Kang Jimmi 		 – – – –
7 Yee Yit Yang 		 – – – –
8 Goh Siow Cheng 		 – – – –
LIST OF TOP 30 SHAREHOLDERS
(As per Records of Depositors as at 31 March 2023)
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares %
1 RHB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD EXEMPT AN
FOR FINEXIA SECURITIES LTD
150,000,000 10.885
2 PERBADANAN NASIONAL BERHAD 120,855,104 8.770
3 MALAYSIAN TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT
CORPORATION SDN BHD
114,350,818 8.298
4 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR OOI KENG THYE
69,941,311 5.075
5 UOBM NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD EXEMPT AN
FOR SANSTON FINANCIAL GROUP LIMITED
68,000,000 4.934
6 CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
ICAPITAL.BIZ BERHAD
49,057,600 3.560
7 PERUSAHAAN SAUDEE SDN BHD 33,000,000 2.395
8 ACE EDIBLE OIL INDUSTRIES SDN BHD 30,316,400 2.200
9 AFFIN HWANG NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR LAZARUS SECURITIES PTY LTD
24,000,000 1.742
10 HSBC NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR THE HONGKONG AND
SHANGHAI BANKING CORPORATION LIMITED
(GCHK-LAZARUS)
22,888,800 1.661
A N A LYS I S O F S H A R E H O L D I N GS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
169
LIST OF TOP 30 SHAREHOLDERS (CONT’D)
(As per Records of Depositors as at 31 March 2023)
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares %
11 TA NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR HON TIAN KOK @
WILLIAM
17,480,000 1.268
12 HSBC NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR MORGAN STANLEY &
CO. INTERNATIONAL PLC (IPB CLIENT ACCT)
12,300,000 0.893
13 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHENG CHEW GIAP
10,999,910 0.798
14 HO HUEY CHUIN 10,261,900 0.745
15 SEAH TIN KIM 9,190,666 0.667
16 ONG KENG SENG 7,550,000 0.548
17 KHOR HSIA JOEW 6,485,310 0.471
18 CAPITAL DYNAMICS ASSET MANAGEMENT SDN BHD 5,333,333 0.387
19 VOON SZE LIN 4,327,811 0.314
20 YUNG BOON HONG @ YANG KOK CHING 4,095,066 0.297
21 GOH KUANG WEI 3,926,666 0.285
22 TAN HAN CHONG 3,500,000 0.254
23 AFFIN HWANG NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR SANSTON FINANCIAL GROUP LIMITED
(ACCOUNT CLIENT)
3,190,700 0.232
24 KUA HOCK LAI 3,150,000 0.229
25 TAN TIO CHENG @ TAN CHOW CHENG 3,000,000 0.218
26 PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LIM CHOON EEK
(E-TAI/KKR)
2,793,400 0.203
27 AW KHENG TONG 2,700,000 0.196
28 VANI A/P SUBRAMANIAM 2,700,000 0.196
29 CHONG KWEE SIONG 2,650,000 0.192
30 PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHEN YOON FONG
(E-JBU)
2,630,000 0.191
ANALYSIS O F S H A REH O L D I N G S
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
170
ANALYSIS OF
ICPS SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 31 MARCH 2023
SHARE CAPITAL
Types of Securities : Irredeemable Convertible Preference Shares (ICPS)
Total number of ICPS Issued : 457,078,472
DISTRIBUTION OF ICPS SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 31 MARCH 2023
(As per Records of Depositors as at 31 March 2023)
		 No. of		 No. of
Size of Holding 		 ICPS holders % ICPS Held %
1 to 99		 99 6.676 4,537 0.001
100 to 1,000		 156 10.519 84,412 0.018
1,001 to 10,000		 722 48.685 3,280,167 0.718
10,001 to 100,000		 411 27.714 13,908,458 3.043
100,001 to 22,853,923		 93 6.271 127,390,862 27.871
22,853,924 to 5% and above of issued ICPS 2 0.135 312,410,036 68.349
Total		 1,483 100.000 457,078,472 100.000
LIST OF DIRECTORS’ ICPS HOLDINGS
(As per Register of Directors’ ICPS Holdings)
The Directors’ ICPS holdings based on the Register of Directors’ ICPS holdings of the Company are as follows: -
No. of ICPS held No. of ICPS held
No. Name of Directors 		 Direct % Indirect %
1 Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin
 Bin Syed Salim		 – – – –
2 Hon Tian Kok @ William		 285,000,036 62.353 – –
3 Datuk Chong Loong Men 		 – – – –
4 Ho Tze Hiung		 – – – –
5 Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah		 – – – –
6 Kang Jimmi 		 – – – –
7 Yee Yit Yang 		 – – – –
8 Goh Siow Cheng 		 – – – –
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
171
ANALYSIS O F ICPS S H A RE H O L D I N G S
(cont’d)
LIST OF TOP 30 ICPS HOLDERS
(As per Records of Depositors as at 31 March 2023)
No. Name No. of ICPS %
1 KENANGA NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR HON TIAN KOK @
WILLIAM
285,000,036 62.353
2 UOB KAY HIAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR UOB KAY HIAN (HONG KONG) LIMITED
(A/C CLIENTS)
27,410,000 5.997
3 VOON SZE LIN 18,583,213 4.066
4 MALAYSIAN TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
SDN BHD
17,867,315 3.909
5 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR OOI KENG THYE
10,778,800 2.358
6 DATO’ NORHALIM BIN YUNUS 10,000,000 2.188
7 TAN SRI ABD RAHMAN BIN MAMAT 8,583,333 1.878
8 CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
ICAPITAL.BIZ BERHAD
7,665,250 1.677
9 GV ASIA FUND LIMITED 6,800,300 1.488
10 VOON JYE WAH 4,979,400 1.089
11 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHENG CHEW GIAP
3,505,012 0.767
12 ANG YOOK CHU @ ANG YOKE FONG 3,313,400 0.725
13 TEO TIEW 2,600,012 0.569
14 CHONG KAM CHOY 2,442,100 0.534
15 PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LOH CHOO WEI
(E-KUG)
2,030,700 0.444
16 APEX NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR GV ASIA FUND
LIMITED (STA 1)
2,025,400 0.443
17 VOON JYE WAH 1,625,100 0.356
18 IFAST NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
VOON JYE YNG
1,348,800 0.295
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
172
LIST OF TOP 30 ICPS HOLDERS (CONT’D)
(As per Records of Depositors as at 31 March 2023)
No. Name No. of ICPS %
19 CHIN JEE YANG 1,260,000 0.276
20 KHOR HSIA JOEW 1,088,300 0.238
21 YONG YOKE FONG 1,055,000 0.231
22 LIM BOON HIAN 1,022,900 0.224
23 CHAI CHEE FER 889,300 0.195
24 CGS-CIMB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHENG KOK SIONG
(MQ0462)
844,900 0.185
25 CAPITAL DYNAMICS ASSET MANAGEMENT SDN BHD 833,333 0.182
26 PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LIM CHOON EEK
(E-TAI/KKR)
754,700 0.165
27 TAN FHEE CHIN 598,200 0.131
28 GOH KUANG WEI 566,666 0.124
29 POH SIN EE 550,000 0.120
30 TAN HAN CHONG 501,000 0.110
A N A LYS I S O F I C P S S H A R E H O L D I N GS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
173
NOTICE OF THE TWELFTH (12TH)
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Twelfth (12th) Annual General Meeting of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“Bioalpha”
or “the Company”) will be held as a fully virtual meeting via live streaming and online remote voting from the
Broadcast Venue at No. 1, Jalan Perindustrian Suntrack, Hub Perindustrian Suntrack, Off Jalan P1A, Seksyen 13,
Bandar Baru Bangi, 43000 Kajang, Selangor Darul Ehsan via the Online Meeting Platform of Vote2U Online operated
by Agmo Digital Solutions Sdn. Bhd. in Malaysia via the link at https://web.vote2u.my on Wednesday, 7 June 2023
at 10.00 a.m. or any adjournment thereof for the purpose of transacting the following businesses:
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31
December 2022 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 1)
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and other benefits payable up to
RM500,000 to be divided amongst the Directors in such manner as the Directors
may determine for the period commencing from the conclusion of the 12th AGM
until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company in year 2024.
(Ordinary Resolution 1)
3. To re-elect the following Director who is retiring by rotation in accordance with
Clause 105(1) of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, offered himself,
for re-election:
i. Hon Tian Kok @ William
(Ordinary Resolution 2)
4. To re-appoint Messrs. ChengCo PLT as Auditors of the Company until the
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and to authorise the Directors to
fix their remuneration.
(Ordinary Resolution 3)
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS:
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following as resolutions:
5. AUTHORITY TO ISSUE AND ALLOT SHARES PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 75 AND
76 OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2016
“THAT approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory pre-emptive rights
to be offered new shares ranking equally to the existing issued shares of the
Company pursuant to Section 85 of the Companies Act, 2016 (“the Act”) read
together with Clause 61 of the Company’s Constitution.
THAT pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act and subject to the approvals of
the relevant governmental/ regulatory authorities, the Directors be and are hereby
empowered to issue shares in the capital of the Company from time to time and
upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes as the Directors, may in
their absolute discretion deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares
issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed 10% of the total number of
issued shares of the Company or such higher percentage as Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) allowed for the time being and that the
Directors be and are hereby also empowered to obtain approval from the Bursa
Securities for the listing and quotation of the additional shares so issued.
AND THAT such authority shall commence immediately upon the passing of this
Resolution and continue to be in force until the conclusion of the next Annual
General Meeting of the Company.”
(Ordinary Resolution 4)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
174
6. To transact any other business of which due notices shall have been given in
accordance with the Act.
(Ordinary Resolution 5)
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
TAN TONG LANG (SSM PC NO. 202208000250 / MAICSA 7045482)
THIEN LEE MEE (SSM PC No. 201908002254 / LS0010621)
Company Secretaries
Date: 28 April 2023
Notes:-
1. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company and a member may appoint any person to be his/her proxy
without limitation. A member shall be entitled to appoint one (1) or more proxies to attend and vote at the same
meeting, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her shareholdings to be
represented by each proxy.
2. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act, 1991 (“Central Depositories Act”), it may appoint at least one proxy in respect of each securities
account it holds with ordinary shares to the credit of the said securities account.
3. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee as defined under the Central Depositories Act
which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“Omnibus
Account”), there shall be no limit to the number of proxies which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in
respect of each Omnibus Account it holds.
4. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointer or of his attorney duly authorised
in writing or, if the appointer is a corporation, either under the corporation’s Seal or under the hand of an officer or an
attorney duly authorised.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars
Sdn Bhd of 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor
not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time fixed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
6. Only the members whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 31 May 2023 shall be entitled to attend and
vote at this meeting or appoint proxy(ies) to attend and vote on their behalf.
7. Pursuant to Rule 8.31A (1) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all resolutions
set out in this Notice will be put to vote by way of poll.
N OT I C E O F T H E T W E L F T H ( 1 2 T H)
A N N UA L G E N E R A L ME E T I N G
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
175
Explanatory Notes to Ordinary and Special Business:-
1. Item 1 of the Agenda
The Agenda No. 1 is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 2016 provide that
the audited financial statements are to be laid in the general meeting and do not require a formal approval of
the shareholders. Hence, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.
2. Ordinary Resolution 1: To approve the payment of Directors’ Fees and other benefits payable
Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Act, fees and benefits payable to the Directors of public company or a listed
company and its subsidiaries shall be approved by shareholders at a general meeting. The Directors’ benefits
payable comprises of meeting attendance allowances and other claimable benefits.
In determining the estimated total amount of Directors’ benefits, the Board has considered various factors,
among others, the estimated claimable benefits and estimated number of meetings for the Board and Board
Committees held for the period commencing from the conclusion of the 12th AGM until the next AGM of the
Company in year 2024.
In the event the proposed amount is insufficient (e.g. due to more meetings or enlarged Board size), approval
will be sought at the next AGM for additional fees to meet the shortfall.
3. Ordinary Resolution 2 - Re-election of Directors who retire by rotation in accordance with Clause 105(1) of
the Company’s Constitution
Clause 105(1) of the Company’s Constitution states that an election of Directors shall take place each year
at the annual general meeting of the Company, where one-third of the Directors for the time being, or, if their
number is not three (3) or a multiple of three (3), then the number nearest to one-third shall retire from office
and be eligible for re-election, PROVIDED ALWAYS that Directors shall retire from office once at least in each
three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election. A retiring Director shall retain office until the close of the
meeting at which he retires.
Mr Hon Tian Kok @ William is standing for re-election as Directors of the Company and being eligible, has
offered himself for re-election.
For the purpose of determining the eligibility of the Directors to stand for re-election at the 12th AGM, the
Nomination Committee has considered and recommended Mr Hon Tian Kok @ William for re-election as
Director pursuant to Clause 105(1) of the Company’s Constitution.
4. Retirement of Directors
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin bin Syed Salim and Encik Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah who are retiring pursuant
to Clause 105(1) of the Company’s Constitution at the forthcoming 12th AGM of the Company, they have
expressed their intention not to seek re-election at the forthcoming 12th AGM of the Company. Hence, they
will retain office until the conclusion of the 12th AGM and will retire as the Directors of the Company until the
conclusion of the 12th AGM.
NOTIC E O F T H E T W EL F T H ( 1 2 T H )
ANNUAL G EN ERA L M EET IN G
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
176
Explanatory Notes to Ordinary and Special Business:- (CONT’D)
5. Special Business - Ordinary Resolution 4
Authority to Issue and Allot Shares Pursuant to Sections 75 And 76 of the Act
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 4, if passed, will empower the Directors of the Company to allot and issue
new shares in the Company at any time, to such person or persons, upon such terms and conditions and for
such purposes as the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, deem fit (“General Mandate”), provided that
the number of shares issued pursuant to this General Mandate, when aggregated with the total number of
any such shares issued during the preceding twelve (12) months, does not exceed 10% of the total number of
issued shares of the Company at the time of issue. This General Mandate, unless revoked or varied at a general
meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
As at the date of this Notice, no new shares in the Company were issued pursuant to the General Mandate
granted to the Directors at the 11th Annual General Meeting held on 28 June 2022 and which will lapse at the
conclusion of the 12th Annual General Meeting.
As at the date of this Notice, no new ordinary shares were issued and allotted pursuant to the mandate granted
to the Directors at the 10th AGM held on 28 June 2021 which will lapse at the conclusion of this 11th AGM.
Section 85(1) of the Companies Act 2016 provides as follows:
“85. Pre-emptive rights to new shares
1) Subject to the Constitution, where a company issue shares which rank equally to existing shares as
to voting or distribution rights, those shares shall first be offered to the holders of existing shares in a
manner which would, if the offer were accepted, maintain the relative voting and distribution rights of
those shareholders.”
Clause 61 of the Company’s Constitution provides as follows:
“Subject to any direction to the contrary that may be given by the Company in general meeting, all new shares
or other convertible Securities shall, before they are issued, be offered to such persons as at the date of the
offer are entitled to receive notices from the Company of general meetings in proportion, as nearly as the
circumstances admit, to the amount of the existing shares or Securities to which they are entitled. The offer
shall be made by notice specifying the number of shares or Securities offered, and limiting a time within which
the offer, if not accepted, will be deemed to be declined, and, after the expiration of that time, or on the receipt
of an intimation from the person to whom the offer is made that he declines to accept the shares or Securities
offered, the Directors may dispose of those shares or Securities in such manner as they think most beneficial to
the Company. The Directors may, likewise, also dispose of any new shares or Securities which (by reason of the
ratio which the new shares or Securities bear to shares or Securities held by persons entitled to an offer of new
shares or Securities) cannot, in the opinion of the Directors, be conveniently offered under this Clause.”
By voting in favour of the proposed ordinary resolution 4, the shareholders of the Company are deemed to have
waived their pre-emptive rights pursuant to Section 85(1) of the Companies Act, 2016 and Clause 61 of the
Company’s Constitution to be first offered any new shares ranking equally to the existing issued shares of the
Company which will result in a dilution of their shareholding percentage in the Company.
N OT I C E O F T H E T W E L F T H ( 1 2 T H)
A N N UA L G E N E R A L ME E T I N G
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2022
177
The Director who is standing for re-election at the 12th AGM is Mr Hon Tian Kok @ William. The profiles of the
Director is set out in the Annual Report of the Company.
No individual seeking for election as a director other than the Directors are seeking for re-election and retention as
a director at the 12th AGM.
The Company will seek shareholders’ approval on the general meting for issue of securities in accordance with Rule
6.04(3) of the AMLR of Bursa Securities. Please refer to the Proposed Ordinary Resolution 4 as stated in the Notice
of the 12th AGM of the Company for details.
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(pursuant to Rule 8.29 of ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad)
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD Annual Report 2022
178
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
[Registration No. 201101021398 (949536-X)]
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
PROXY FORM
Number of shares held CDS Account No.
I/We,.................................................................................................(NRIC/Company No.).......................................................................................
				 (Full Name in Block Letters)
of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(Full Address)
Email Address:.........................................................Tel No.............................................being a member of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad
(Registration No. 201101021398 (949536-X)), hereby appoint:
Name of Proxy 1 (Full Name) NRIC No./Passport No. % of Shareholding to be represented
(refer to Note 2 set out below)
Address Email Address Contact No.
or failing him/her
Name of Proxy 2 (Full Name) NRIC No./Passport No. % of Shareholding to be represented
(refer to Note 2 set out below)
Address Email Address Contact No.
Or failing him/her, the Chairman of the Meeting as *my/our proxy to vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf at the Twelfth (12th) Annual General
Meeting of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“Bioalpha” or “the Company”) will be held as a fully virtual meeting via live streaming and online
remote voting from the Broadcast Venue at No. 1, Jalan Perindustrian Suntrack, Hub Perindustrian Suntrack, Off Jalan P1A, Seksyen
13, Bandar Baru Bangi, 43000 Kajang, Selangor Darul Ehsan via the Online Meeting Platform of Vote2U Online operated by Agmo Digital
Solutions Sdn. Bhd. in Malaysia via the link at https://web.vote2u.my on Wednesday, 7 June 2023 at 10.00 a.m., as indicated below:
Please indicate with a (x) in the appropriate box against the resolution how you wish your vote to be casted. If no specific direction as to
voting is given, the proxy will vote or abstain at his discretion.
No. Resolutions FOR AGAINST
1. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and other benefits payable
up to RM500,000 to be divided amongst the Directors in such manner
as the Directors may determine for the period commencing from the
conclusion of the 12th AGM until the conclusion of the next AGM of
the Company in year 2024.
Ordinary Resolution 1
2. Re-election of Mr Hon Tian Kok @ William as Director Ordinary Resolution 2
3. Re-appointment of Messrs. ChengCo PLt as Auditors for the ensuing
year and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Ordinary Resolution 3
4. Authority to Allot Shares Pursuant to Sections 75 And 76 of the
Companies Act, 2016.
Ordinary Resolution 4
* Delete if not applicable
Signed on this ______________ day of _________________ 2023.
___________________________________________
Signature/ Common Seal of Shareholder
Notes:
1. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company and a member may appoint any person to be his/her proxy without limitation. A member shall be entitled to appoint one (1)
or more proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her shareholdings to be represented by each
proxy.
2. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991 (“Central Depositories Act”), it may appoint at
least one proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares to the credit of the said securities account.
3. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee as defined under the Central Depositories Act which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial
owners in one securities account (“Omnibus Account”), there shall be no limit to the number of proxies which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect of each Omnibus
Account it holds.
4. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointer or of his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointer is a corporation, either under the
corporation’s Seal or under the hand of an officer or an attorney duly authorised.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd of 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo
Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time fixed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
6. Only the members whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 31 May 2023 shall be entitled to attend and vote at this meeting or appoint proxy(ies) to attend and vote
on their behalf.
7. Pursuant to Rule 8.31A (1) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all resolutions set out in this Notice will be put to vote by way of poll.
✄
The Share Registrar
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
[Registration No. 201101021398 (949536-X)]
c/o BOARDROOM SHARE REGISTRARS SDN BHD
[Registration No. 199601006647 (378993-D)]
11th Floor, Menara Symphony,
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13,
46200 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor
AFFIX
STAMP
Fold this flap for sealing
Then fold here
1st fold here
WĂŐĞϭŽĨϰ

D/E/^dZd/s'h/&KZ^,Z,K>Z^

/K>W,,K>/E'^Z,–ϭϮƚŚŶŶƵĂů'ĞŶĞƌĂůDĞĞƚŝŶŐ

sŝƌƚƵĂůDĞĞƚŝŶŐĂĐĐĞƐƐŝďůĞĂƚ ͗ sŽƚĞϮhKŶůŝŶĞǁĞďƐŝƚĞĂƚŚƚƚƉƐ͗ͬͬǁĞď͘ǀŽƚĞϮƵ͘ŵǇ
ĂǇ͕ĂƚĞ ͗ tĞĚŶĞƐĚĂǇ͕ϳ:ƵŶĞϮϬϮϯ
dŝŵĞ ͗ ϭϬ͘ϬϬĂ͘ŵ͘ŽƌĂƚĂĚũŽƵƌŶŵĞŶƚƚŚĞƌĞŽĨ
ƌŽĂĚĐĂƐƚsĞŶƵĞ ͗ EŽ͘ϭ͕:ĂůĂŶWĞƌŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĂŶ^ƵŶƚƌĂĐŬ͕
,ƵďWĞƌŝŶĚƵƐƚƌŝĂŶ^ƵŶƚƌĂĐŬ͕
KĨĨ:ĂůĂŶWϭ͕^ĞŬƐǇĞŶϭϯ͕ĂŶĚĂƌĂƌƵĂŶŐŝ͕
ϰϯϬϬϬ<ĂũĂŶŐ͕^ĞůĂŶŐŽƌ

/ŶůŝŐŚƚŽĨƚŚĞƚŚĞĞŶĐŽƵƌĂŐĞŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞ^ĞĐƵƌŝƚŝĞƐŽŵŵŝƐƐŝŽŶDĂůĂǇƐŝĂ͕ĂƐǁĞůůĂƐŝŶƚŚĞďĞƐƚŝŶƚĞƌĞƐƚŽĨ
ƉƵďůŝĐŚĞĂůƚŚĂŶĚƚŚĞŚĞĂůƚŚĂŶĚƐĂĨĞƚǇŽĨŽƵƌŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ĞŵƉůŽǇĞĞƐĂŶĚƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͕ƚŚĞϭϮƚŚ
ŶŶƵĂů'ĞŶĞƌĂůDĞĞƚŝŶŐ(“ϭϮƚŚ'D”) will be held ǀŝƌƚƵĂůůǇĂŶĚŽŶůŝŶĞƌĞŵŽƚĞǀŽƚŝŶŐƵƐŝŶŐƚŚĞZĞŵŽƚĞ
Participation and Voting Facilities (“ZWs”).

tĞƐƚƌŽŶŐůǇĞŶĐŽƵƌĂŐĞŽƵƌƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐǁŚŽƐĞŶĂŵĞƐĂƉƉĞĂƌŽŶƚŚĞZĞĐŽƌĚŽĨĞƉŽƐŝƚŽƌƐĂƐĂƚϯϭDĂǇ
ϮϬϮϯĂŶĚŚŽůĚĞƌƐŽĨƉƌŽǆǇĨŽƌƚŚŽƐĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐƚŽƉĂƌƚŝĐŝƉĂƚĞŝŶƚŚĞǀŝƌƚƵĂů'DĂŶĚǀŽƚĞƌĞŵŽƚĞůǇĂƚƚŚŝƐ
'D͘/ŶůŝŶĞǁŝƚŚƚŚĞDĂůĂǇƐŝĂŶŽĚĞŽŶŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ'ŽǀĞƌŶĂŶĐĞ͕ƚŚŝƐǀŝƌƚƵĂů'DǁŝůůĨĂĐŝůŝƚĂƚĞŐƌĞĂƚĞƌ
shareholder’s participation (including posting questions to the Board of Directors and/or Management of
ƚŚĞŽŵƉĂŶǇͿĂŶĚǀŽƚĞĂƚƚŚĞ'DǁŝƚŚŽƵƚďĞŝŶŐƉŚǇƐŝĐĂůůǇƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĂƚƚŚĞǀĞŶƵĞ͘&ŽƌƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐǁŚŽĂƌĞ
ƵŶĂďůĞƚŽƉĂƌƚŝĐŝƉĂƚĞŝŶƚŚŝƐǀŝƌƚƵĂů'D͕ǇŽƵŵĂǇĂƉƉŽŝŶƚƉƌŽǆǇ;ŝĞƐͿŽƌƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶŽĨƚŚĞDĞĞƚŝŶŐĂƐǇŽƵƌ
ƉƌŽǆǇƚŽĂƚƚĞŶĚĂŶĚǀŽƚĞŽŶǇŽƵƌďĞŚĂůĨĂƚƚŚĞ'D͘

<ŝŶĚůǇŶŽƚĞƚŚĂƚƚŚĞƋƵĂůŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞůŝǀĞƐƚƌĞĂŵŝŶŐŝƐŚŝŐŚůǇĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚŽŶƚŚĞďĂŶĚǁŝĚƚŚĂŶĚƐƚĂďŝůŝƚǇŽĨƚŚĞ
ŝŶƚĞƌŶĞƚĐŽŶŶĞĐƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞƉĂƌƚŝĐŝƉĂŶƚƐ;ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐĂŶĚƉƌŽǆŝĞƐͿ͘,ĞŶĐĞ͕ǇŽƵĂƌĞƚŽĞŶƐƵƌĞƚŚĂƚŝŶƚĞƌŶĞƚ
ĐŽŶŶĞĐƚŝǀŝƚǇƚŚƌŽƵŐŚŽƵƚƚŚĞĚƵƌĂƚŝŽŶŽĨƚŚĞŵĞĞƚŝŶŐŝƐŵĂŝŶƚĂŝŶĞĚǁŚŝůĞƵƐŝŶŐZWsƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĚďǇŐŵŽŝŐŝƚĂů
^ŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐSdn. Bhd. (“'DK”) via its sŽƚĞϮhKŶůŝŶĞǁĞďƐŝƚĞĂƚŚƚƚƉƐ͗ͬͬǁĞď͘ǀŽƚĞϮƵ͘ŵǇ

WZKhZ^dKWZd//Wd/EZWs

WůĞĂƐĞĨŽůůŽǁƚŚĞWƌŽĐĞĚƵƌĞƚŽWĂƌƚŝĐŝƉĂƚĞŝŶZWsĂƐƐƵŵŵĂƌŝǌĞĚďĞůŽǁ͗

&KZ'Dz

͗ Z'/^dZd/KE

 /ŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ

 ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ WƌŽĐĞĚƵƌĞ
ŝ͘ ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ƚŽ ƌĞŐŝƐƚĞƌ
ǁŝƚŚsŽƚĞϮhŽŶůŝŶĞ

dŚĞƌĞŐŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶǁŝůůŽƉĞŶĨƌŽŵƚŚĞĚĂǇŽĨŶŽƚŝĐĞ

Ă͘ ĐĐĞƐƐǁĞďƐŝƚĞĂƚŚƚƚƉƐ͗ͬͬǁĞď͘ǀŽƚĞϮƵ͘ŵǇ
ď͘ Click “^ŝŐŶhƉ” to sign up as a user.
Đ͘ Read the ‘Privacy Policy’ and ‘Terms & Conditions’ and indicate
your acceptance of the ‘Privacy Policy’ and ‘Terms &
Conditions’ on a small box . Then click “EĞǆƚ”.
Ě͘ Ύ&ŝůůͲŝŶǇŽƵƌĚĞƚĂŝůƐ;ŶŽƚĞ͗ĐƌĞĂƚĞǇŽƵƌŽǁŶƉĂƐƐǁŽƌĚͿ͘dŚĞŶ
click “ŽŶƚŝŶƵĞ”.
Ğ͘ hƉůŽĂĚ ƐŽĨƚĐŽƉǇ ŽĨ ǇŽƵƌ ŝĚĞŶƚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶ ĐĂƌĚ ;Dz<Ϳ ;ĨƌŽŶƚ
ŽŶůǇͿ;ĨŽƌDĂůĂǇƐŝĂŶͿŽƌWĂƐƐƉŽƌƚ;ĨŽƌŶŽŶͲDĂůĂǇƐŝĂŶͿ͘

WĂŐĞϮŽĨϰ

Ĩ͘ Click “^Ƶďŵŝƚ” to complete the registration
Ő͘ zŽƵƌƌĞŐŝƐƚƌĂƚŝŽŶǁŝůůďĞǀĞƌŝĨŝĞĚĂŶĚĂŶĞŵĂŝůŶŽƚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶǁŝůů
ďĞƐĞŶƚƚŽǇŽƵ͘WůĞĂƐĞĐŚĞĐŬǇŽƵƌĞŵĂŝů͘

EŽƚĞ͗
/ĨǇŽƵŚĂǀĞƌĞŐŝƐƚĞƌĞĚĂƐĂƵƐĞƌǁŝƚŚsŽƚĞϮhKŶůŝŶĞƉƌĞǀŝŽƵƐůǇ͕ǇŽƵ
ĂƌĞŶŽƚƌĞƋƵŝƌĞĚƚŽƌĞŐŝƐƚĞƌĂŐĂŝŶ͘

ΎŚĞĐŬǇŽƵƌĞŵĂŝůĂĚĚƌĞƐƐŝƐŬĞǇĞĚŝŶĐŽƌƌĞĐƚůǇ͘
ΎZĞŵĞŵďĞƌƚŚĞƉĂƐƐǁŽƌĚǇŽƵŚĂǀĞŬĞǇĞĚͲŝŶ͘



͗Z'/^dZWZKyz

/ŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌͬŽƌƉŽƌĂƚĞ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌͬEŽŵŝŶĞĞƐŽŵƉĂŶǇ

 ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ WƌŽĐĞĚƵƌĞ
ŝ͘^ ^Ƶďŵŝƚ &Žƌŵ ŽĨ WƌŽǆǇ
;ŚĂƌĚĐŽƉǇͿ
dŚĞĐůŽƐŝŶŐƚŝŵĞƚŽƐƵďŵŝƚǇŽƵƌŚĂƌĚĐŽƉǇ&ŽƌŵŽĨWƌŽǆǇŝƐĂƚϭϬ͘ϬϬ
Ă͘ŵ͕͘DŽŶĚĂǇ͕ϱ:ƵŶĞϮϬϮϯ
Ă͘ Ύ&ŝůůͲŝŶĚĞƚĂŝůƐŽŶƚŚĞŚĂƌĚĐŽƉǇ&ŽƌŵŽĨWƌŽǆǇĂŶĚĞŶƐƵƌĞƚŽ
ƉƌŽǀŝĚĞƚŚĞĨŽůůŽǁŝŶŐŝŶĨŽƌŵĂƚŝŽŶ͗
o Dz< ;ĨŽƌ DĂůĂǇƐŝĂŶͿ ͬ WĂƐƐƉŽƌƚ ;ĨŽƌ ŶŽŶͲDĂůĂǇƐŝĂŶͿ
ŶƵŵďĞƌŽĨƚŚĞWƌŽǆǇ
o ΎŵĂŝůĂĚĚƌĞƐƐŽĨƚŚĞWƌŽǆǇ
ď͘ ^ƵďŵŝƚͬĞƉŽƐŝƚ ƚŚĞ ŚĂƌĚĐŽƉǇ &Žƌŵ ŽĨ WƌŽǆǇ ƚŽ ŽĂƌĚƌŽŽŵ
^ŚĂƌĞZĞŐŝƐƚƌĂƌƐ^ĚŶŚĚŽĨϭϭƚŚ&ůŽŽƌ͕DĞŶĂƌĂ^ǇŵƉŚŽŶǇ͕
EŽ͘ϱ͕:ĂůĂŶWƌŽĨ͘<ŚŽŽ<ĂǇ<ŝŵ͕^ĞŬƐǇĞŶϭϯ͕ϰϲϮϬϬWĞƚĂůŝŶŐ
:ĂǇĂ͕^ĞůĂŶŐŽƌ͘

EŽƚĞ͗
ĨƚĞƌǀĞƌŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶ͕ĂŶĞŵĂŝůŶŽƚŝĨŝĐĂƚŝŽŶǁŝůůďĞƐĞŶƚƚŽƚŚĞWƌŽǆǇ
ĂŶĚǁŝůůďĞŐŝǀĞŶĂƚĞŵƉŽƌĂƌǇƉĂƐƐǁŽƌĚ͘dŚĞWƌŽǆǇĐŽƵůĚƵƐĞƚŚĞ
ƚĞŵƉŽƌĂƌǇƉĂƐƐǁŽƌĚƚŽůŽŐŝŶƚŽsŽƚĞϮh͘

ΎŚĞĐŬƚŚĞĞŵĂŝůĂĚĚƌĞƐƐŽĨWƌŽǆǇŝƐǁƌŝƚƚĞŶĚŽǁŶĐŽƌƌĞĐƚůǇ͘


^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐǁŚŽĂƉƉŽŝŶƚWƌŽǆǇ;ŝĞƐͿƚŽƉĂƌƚŝĐŝƉĂƚĞƚŚĞǀŝƌƚƵĂů'DŵƵƐƚĞŶƐƵƌĞƚŚĂƚƚŚĞŚĂƌĚĐŽƉǇ&ŽƌŵŽĨ
WƌŽǆǇŝƐƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚŶŽƚůĞƐƐƚŚĂŶϰϴŚŽƵƌƐďĞĨŽƌĞƚŚĞƚŝŵĞĨŽƌŚŽůĚŝŶŐƚŚĞŵĞĞƚŝŶŐŽƌĂŶǇĂĚũŽƵƌŶĞĚŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ
ĂƚǁŚŝĐŚƚŚĞƉĞƌƐŽŶŶĂŵĞĚŝŶƚŚĞŝŶƐƚƌƵŵĞŶƚƉƌŽƉŽƐĞƐƚŽǀŽƚĞĂŶĚŝŶĚĞĨĂƵůƚ͕ƚŚĞŝŶƐƚƌƵŵĞŶƚŽĨƉƌŽǆǇƐŚĂůů
ŶŽƚďĞƚƌĞĂƚĞĚĂƐǀĂůŝĚ͘










WĂŐĞϯŽĨϰ

KE'Dz

͗ td,>/s^dZD/E'

/ŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐΘWƌŽǆŝĞƐ

 ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ WƌŽĐĞĚƵƌĞƐ
ŝ͘ >ŽŐŝŶ ƚŽ ǀŝƌƚƵĂů ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ
ƉŽƌƚĂůͲsŽƚĞϮhŽŶůŝŶĞΘ
ǁĂƚĐŚ>ŝǀĞ^ƚƌĞĂŵŝŶŐ͘
dŚĞsŽƚĞϮhŽŶůŝŶĞƉŽƌƚĂůǁŝůůŽƉĞŶĨŽƌůŽŐŝŶƐƚĂƌƚŝŶŐĨƌŽŵϵ͘ϬϬ
Ă͘ŵ͕͘ tĞĚŶĞƐĚĂǇ͕ ϳ :ƵŶĞ ϮϬϮϮ ŽŶĞ ;ϭͿ ŚŽƵƌ ďĞĨŽƌĞ ƚŚĞ
ĐŽŵŵĞŶĐĞŵĞŶƚŽĨƚŚĞ'D͘

Ă͘ >ŽŐŝŶǁŝƚŚǇŽƵƌĞŵĂŝůĂŶĚƉĂƐƐǁŽƌĚ
ď͘ Select the General Meeting event (for example, “ŝŽĂůƉŚĂϭϮƚŚ
GM”).
Đ͘ ŚĞĐŬǇŽƵƌĚĞƚĂŝůƐ͘
Ě͘ Click “tĂƚĐŚ>ŝǀĞ” button to view the live streaming.


͗ ^<Yh^d/KE

 /ŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐΘWƌŽǆŝĞƐ

 ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ WƌŽĐĞĚƵƌĞƐ
ŝ͘ ƐŬ YƵĞƐƚŝŽŶ ĚƵƌŝŶŐ
'D;ƌĞĂůͲƚŝŵĞͿ
YƵĞƐƚŝŽŶƐ ƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚŽŶůŝŶĞ ƵƐŝŶŐ ƚǇƉĞĚ ƚĞǆƚǁŝůů ďĞ ŵŽĚĞƌĂƚĞĚ
ďĞĨŽƌĞďĞŝŶŐĨŽƌǁĂƌĚĞĚƚŽƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶƚŽĂǀŽŝĚƌĞƉĞƚŝƚŝŽŶ͘ǀĞƌǇ
ƋƵĞƐƚŝŽŶĂŶĚŵĞƐƐĂŐĞǁŝůůďĞƉƌĞƐĞŶƚĞĚǁŝƚŚƚŚĞĨƵůůŶĂŵĞŽĨƚŚĞ
ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌŽƌƉƌŽǆǇƌĂŝƐŝŶŐƚŚĞƋƵĞƐƚŝŽŶ͘

Ă͘ ůŝĐŬ“ƐŬYƵĞƐƚŝŽŶ” button to post question(s).
ď͘ dǇƉĞŝŶǇŽƵƌƋƵĞƐƚŝŽŶĂŶĚĐůŝĐŬ“^Ƶďŵŝƚ”.

dŚĞŚĂŝƌƉĞƌƐŽŶͬŽĂƌĚŽĨŝƌĞĐƚŽƌǁŝůůĞŶĚĞĂǀŽƌƚŽƌĞƐƉŽŶĚƚŽ
ƋƵĞƐƚŝŽŶƐƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚďǇƌĞŵŽƚĞƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐĂŶĚƉƌŽǆŝĞƐĚƵƌŝŶŐ
ƚŚĞ'D͘

͗ sKd/E'ZDKd>z

 /ŶĚŝǀŝĚƵĂů^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐΘWƌŽǆŝĞƐ

 ĞƐĐƌŝƉƚŝŽŶ WƌŽĐĞĚƵƌĞƐ
ŝ͘ KŶůŝŶĞZĞŵŽƚĞ
sŽƚŝŶŐ
KŶĐĞƚŚĞŚĂŝƌŵĂŶĂŶŶŽƵŶĐĞƐƚŚĞŽƉĞŶŝŶŐŽĨƌĞŵŽƚĞǀŽƚŝŶŐ͗
Ă͘ lick “ŽŶĨŝƌŵĞƚĂŝůƐΘ^ƚĂƌƚsŽƚŝŶŐ”.
ď͘ dŽǀŽƚĞ͕ƐĞůĞĐƚǇŽƵƌǀŽƚŝŶŐĐŚŽŝĐĞĨƌŽŵƚŚĞŽƉƚŝŽŶƐƉƌŽǀŝĚĞĚ͘
ĐŽŶĨŝƌŵĂƚŝŽŶƐĐƌĞĞŶǁŝůůĂƉƉĞĂƌƚŽƐŚŽǁǇŽƵƌƐĞůĞĐƚĞĚǀŽƚĞ͘
Click “EĞǆƚ” to ĐŽŶƚŝŶƵĞǀŽƚŝŶŐĨŽƌĂůůƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐ͘
Đ͘ To change your vote, click “ĂĐŬ” and select another voting
ĐŚŽŝĐĞ͘
Ě͘ ĨƚĞƌ ǇŽƵ ŚĂǀĞ ĐŽŵƉůĞƚĞĚ ǀŽƚŝŶŐ͕ Ă sŽƚŝŶŐ ^ƵŵŵĂƌǇ ƉĂŐĞ
ĂƉƉĞĂƌƐƚŽƐŚŽǁĂůůƚŚĞƌĞƐŽůƵƚŝŽŶƐǁŝƚŚǇŽƵƌǀŽƚŝŶŐĐŚŽŝĐĞƐ͘
Click “ŽŶĨŝƌŵ” to submit yourǀŽƚĞ͘

΀WůĞĂƐĞŶŽƚĞƚŚĂƚǇŽƵĂƌĞŶŽƚĂďůĞƚŽĐŚĂŶŐĞǇŽƵƌǀŽƚŝŶŐĐŚŽŝĐĞƐ
ĂĨƚĞƌǇŽƵŚĂǀĞĐŽŶĨŝƌŵĞĚĂŶĚƐƵďŵŝƚƚĞĚǇŽƵƌǀŽƚĞƐ͘΁

WĂŐĞϰŽĨϰ

/d/KE>/E&KZDd/KE

sŽƚŝŶŐWƌŽĐĞĚƵƌĞ

WƵƌƐƵĂŶƚƚŽWĂƌĂŐƌĂƉŚϴ͘ϯϭŽĨƚŚĞDĂƌŬĞƚ>ŝƐƚŝŶŐZĞƋƵŝƌĞŵĞŶƚƐŽĨƵƌƐĂDĂůĂǇƐŝĂ^ĞĐƵƌŝƚŝĞƐĞƌŚĂĚ͕
ǀŽƚŝŶŐ Ăƚ ƚŚĞ 'D ǁŝůů ďĞ ĐŽŶĚƵĐƚĞĚ ďǇ ƉŽůů͘ WŽůů ĂĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŽƌ ĂŶĚ /ŶĚĞƉĞŶĚĞŶƚ ^ĐƌƵƚŝŶĞĞƌƐ ǁŝůů ďĞ
ĂƉƉŽŝŶƚĞĚƚŽĐŽŶĚƵĐƚƚŚĞƉŽůůŝŶŐƉƌŽĐĞƐƐĂŶĚǀĞƌŝĨǇƚŚĞƌĞƐƵůƚƐŽĨƚŚĞƉŽůůƌĞƐƉĞĐƚŝǀĞůǇ͘

ƌŽĂĚĐĂƐƚsĞŶƵĞ

ƌŽĂĚĐĂƐƚsĞŶƵĞŵĞĂŶƐƚŚĞƉůĂĐĞǁŚĞƌĞƚŚĞďƌŽĂĚĐĂƐƚŝŶŐŝƐƚĂŬŝŶŐƉůĂĐĞƚŽƚƌĂŶƐŵŝƚŽƌĂŝƌƚŚĞŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ
ŽŶůŝŶĞ͘/ƚĐŽƵůĚďĞĂƐƚƵĚŝŽŽƌĂŵĞĞƚŝŶŐƌŽŽŵ͘

^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐĂŶĚƉƌŽǆŝĞƐĂƌĞŶŽƚĂĚǀŝƐĂďůĞƚŽŐŽƚŽƚŚĞďƌŽĂĚĐĂƐƚǀĞŶƵĞĂƐŝƚŝƐŽŶůǇĂƉůĂĐĞǁŚĞƌĞƚŚĞ
ŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ ŝƐ ďƌŽĂĚĐĂƐƚ ĨŽƌ ƚƌĂŶƐŵŝƐƐŝŽŶ ŽŶůŝŶĞ ŝŶ ƚŚĞ ƉƌĞƐĞŶƚ ŽĨ ŚĂŝƌŵĂŶ͕ ŝƌĞĐƚŽƌƐ͕ ƵĚŝƚŽƌƐ͕ ŽŵƉĂŶǇ
^ĞĐƌĞƚĂƌǇ ĂŶĚ ƐĞŶŝŽƌ ŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚ͘ EŽ ƐĞĂƚŝŶŐ ĂŶĚ ƌĞĨƌĞƐŚŵĞŶƚ ǁŝůů ďĞ ĂƌƌĂŶŐĞĚ ĨŽƌ ƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ ĂŶĚ
ƉƌŽǆŝĞƐĂƚƚŚĞďƌŽĂĚĐĂƐƚǀĞŶƵĞǁŚĞŶŝƚŝƐĂĨƵůůǇǀŝƌƚƵĂůŵĞĞƚŝŶŐ͘

/ĨƐŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐĂŶĚƉƌŽǆŝĞƐĂƌƌŝǀĞĂƚƚŚĞďƌŽĂĚĐĂƐƚǀĞŶƵĞ͕ƚŚĞŵĂŶĂŐĞŵĞŶƚŚĂƐƚŚĞƌŝŐŚƚƚŽĂƐŬǇŽƵƚŽůĞĂǀĞ
ƚŚĞďƌŽĂĚĐĂƐƚǀĞŶƵĞŝŶŽƌĚĞƌƚŽĐŽŵƉůǇǁŝƚŚƚŚĞŐŽǀĞƌŶŵĞŶƚĚĞĐƌĞĞƐĂŶĚ^͘K͘WƐ͘

EŽŽŽƌ'ŝĨƚŽƌĞͲsŽƵĐŚĞƌŽƌ&ŽŽĚsŽƵĐŚĞƌ

dŚĞƌĞǁŝůůďĞŶŽĚŽŽƌŐŝĨƚŽƌĞͲsŽƵĐŚĞƌŽƌĨŽŽĚǀŽƵĐŚĞƌŐŝǀĞŶĂƚƚŚŝƐ'D͘

ŶƋƵŝƌǇ

Ă͘ /Ĩ ǇŽƵ ŚĂǀĞ ĞŶƋƵŝƌǇ ƌĞůĂƚŝŶŐ ƚŽƚŚĞ 'D ĚŵŝŶŝƐƚƌĂƚŝǀĞ 'ƵŝĚĞ ĨŽƌ ^ŚĂƌĞŚŽůĚĞƌƐ͕ ƉůĞĂƐĞĐŽŶƚĂĐƚŽƵƌ
/ŶǀĞƐƚŽƌZĞůĂƚŝŽŶĚƵƌŝŶŐŽĨĨŝĐĞŚŽƵƌƐ͗

ŽŶƚĂĐƚŶŽ͘;ϲϬϯͿϴϵϮϮϮϮϴϲ
ŵĂŝů͗ŝŶĨŽΛďŝŽĂ͘ĐŽŵ͘ŵǇ

ď͘ /ĨǇŽƵŚĂǀĞĞŶƋƵŝƌǇƌĞůĂƚŝŶŐƚŽƚŚĞZWsŽƌĞŶĐŽƵŶƚĞƌƐŝƐƐƵĞƐǁŝƚŚƚŚĞůŽŐŝŶ͕ƐƚĞƉƐƚŽĐŽŶŶĞĐƚƚŽůŝǀĞ
ƐƚƌĞĂŵŝŶŐĂŶĚŽŶůŝŶĞǀŽƚŝŶŐ͗

ŵĂŝů͗ǀŽƚĞϮƵΛĂŐŵŽƐƚƵĚŝŽ͘ĐŽŵ


