ANNUAL
REPORT
2023
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Registration No. 201101021398 (949536-X)
(Incorporated in Malaysia under the Companies Act, 1965)
Stock name and code : BIOHLDG (0179)
Contents
48 Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control
51 Audit Committee Report
54 Additional Compliance Information
56 Financial Statements
157 List of Properties
159 Analysis of Shareholdings
162 Analysis of Warrant B 2024/2027 Holdings
164 Analysis of Irredeemable Convertible Preference
Shares (“ICPS”) Holdings
166 Notice of Thirteenth (13th) Annual General Meeting
Enclosed Proxy Form
2 About Bioalpha
4 Bioalpha’s Core Values
5 Corporate Information
6 Corporate Structure
7 Financial Highlights
8 Profiles of Directors   
16 Management Discussion and Analysis   
23 Sustainability Statement
30 Corporate Governance Overview Statements
47 Statement of Directors’ Responsibility
A B O U T
BIOALPHA
Bioalpha Holdings Berhad
(“Bioalpha” or “the Company”)
is an investment holding
company with its subsidiaries
(“the Group”) principally
involved in manufacturing
and sale of health supplement
products. Founded in 2005,
Bioalpha has grown to
become an integrated health
supplement company with
businesses comprising all
segments of the supply chain,
including the cultivation of
herbal plants as a source of
raw materials for the in-house
production of its products,
research and development
(“R&D”), manufacturing,
distribution and operating a
retail pharmacy chain under
the brand “Constant”. The
Group’s health supplement
products are manufactured
and sold under original design
manufacturing (“ODM”) basis
to its clients as well as under
its own proprietary house
brands. All of Bioalpha’s health
supplement products are
Halal-certified and are sold in
Malaysia with Indonesia and
China as main export markets.
As a regional health supplement group
to improve the total well-being of
people through innovative culture, and
the adoption of technology and best
practices in research, products and
human capital development.
To increase the breadth and
depth of our integrated business
model by capitalizing on emerging
opportunities and being risk-
sensitive.
Agriculture
To secure the quality, supply and
pricing of our raw materials via
ownership of herb farms and
undertaking related R&D activities.
Shareholders
To build industry leading shareholder
value through revenue diversification,
cost optimisation and appropriate
investment policies.
Corporate Governance
To be a responsible corporate
citizen that embraces integrity,
ethics and exemplary corporate
governance to deliver value to our
stakeholders.
Products
To continuously improve and expand
the quality and range of our products
for total health and wellness.
Distribution & Retail
To develop our competency
in health supplements retail
via strategic partnerships and
investments. To engage with
customers through various
channels.
People
To create a conducive and
rewarding working environment
by promoting teamwork, creativity,
integrity and performance.
Customers
To address our customers’ needs
by being proactive, innovative and
exceeding all expectations.
To be commercially-minded and
customer-driven in the area of
product development.
Certification & Accreditation
To achieve international
recognition in product R&D, herb
planting and production processes.
R&D
To continuously improve our
extraction methodologies and
to discover new medicinal
mushroom species and herbs for
commercialisation.
R&D (cont’d)
To reinforce research collaboration
and strategic partnerships with
local and regional experts in the
fields of biotechnology and herbal
supplements related research.
To be technologically-driven,
innovative and cost-conscious
in the development of new
fermentation techniques,
production and cultivation
methods.
Regional Expansion
To expand our regional footprint via
strategic partnerships and mergers
& acquisitions.
Branding
To strengthen our brand by
delivering effective and innovative
products, building consumer
awareness and appropriate
market positioning.
About Bioalpha
(cont’d)
vision MISsion
3
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
bioalpha's core values
iACT
INNOVATION
Think ahead and
offer new ideas.
CUSTOMER FOCUS
Deliver products & services
with benefits to customers for
maximal satisfaction.
TEAMWORK
Inter-department working
relationship to be smooth in
order to achieve the target.
Communication is essential to
our organisation.
ACCOUNTABILITY
Ownership towards our task
and ensuring the best results
for ourselves and others.
bioalpha’s
core values
4
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Board
of Directors
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid
Bin Haji Mustafa
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Hon Tian Kok @ William
Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer
Datuk Chong Loong Men
Executive Director
Ho Tze Hiung
Executive Director
Goh Siow Cheng
Group Chief Financial Officer/
Finance Director
Kang Jimmi
Independent Non-Executive Director
Yee Yit Yang
Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Su Ning
Independent Non-Executive Director
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Kang Jimmi (Chairman)
Yee Yit Yang
Tan Su Ning
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Tan Su Ning (Chairperson)
Kang Jimmi
Yee Yit Yang
RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
Yee Yit Yang (Chairman)
Ho Tze Hiung
Tan Su Ning
INVESTMENT COMMITEE
Ho Tze Hiung (Chairman)
Datuk Chong Loong Men
Goh Siow Cheng
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Kang Jimmi (Chairman)
Yee Yit Yang
Tan Su Ning
share issuance
scheme (“sis”) option
committee
Kang Jimmi (Chairman)
Hon Tian Kok @ William
Ho Tze Hiung
Goh Siow Cheng
Company Secretaries
Tan Tong Lang (MAICSA 7045482)
(PC No. 202208000250)
Thien Lee Mee (LS0010621)
(PC No. 201908002254)
Registered Office
B-21-1, Level 21, Tower B,
Northpoint Mid Valley City,
No. 1, Medan Syed Putra Utara,
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel. No. : (603) 9770 2200
Fax No. : (603) 2201 7774
PRINCIPAL Banker
OCBC Bank (Malaysia) Berhad
Menara OCBC,
18, Jalan Tun Perak,
50050 Kuala Lumpur
Tel. No. : (603) 2034 5251
Fax No. : (603) 2698 4363
HEAD OFFICE
No. 1, Jalan Perindustrian Suntrack,
Hub Perindustrian Suntrack,
Off Jalan P1A, Seksyen 13,
Bandar Baru Bangi, 43000 Kajang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel. No. : (603) 8922 2286
Fax. No. : (603) 8922 2287
Email : info@bioa.com.my
Website : www.bioa.com.my
Auditors
CHENGCO PLT
Wisma Cheng & Co,
No 8-2 & 10-2, Jalan 2/114,
Kuchai Business Centre,
58200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel. No. : (603) 2242 3780
Fax. No. : (603) 2242 2780
Share Registrar
Workshire Share Registration
Sdn Bhd
A3-3-8, Solaris Dutamas
No.1, Jalan Dutamas 1
50480 Kuala Lumpur
Tel No. : (603) 6413 3271
Fax No. : (603) 6413 3270
STOCK EXCHANGE
LISTING
Ordinary Shares
ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
Stock Name: BIOHLDG
Stock Code: 0179
Warrants B
Stock Name: BIOHLDG-WB
Stock Code: 0179-WB
ICPS
Stock Name: BIOHLDG-PA
Stock Code: 0179PA
5
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
BIOALPHA (HAINAN)
DEVELOPMENT
LTD
(China)
77%
CORPORATE
structure
BIOALPHA
(HK) LIMITED
(Hong Kong)
100%
BIOALPHA
(HAINAN) HEALTH
BIOTECHNOLOGY
LTD
(China)
100%
BIOALPHA (HK)
INVESTMENT
LIMITED
(Hong Kong)
100%
BIOALPHA R&D
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
PT HERBAL
MALINDO
MAKMUR
(Indonesia)
60%
SUZHOU
BIOMEDIC
BIOTECHNOLOGY
CO. LTD
(China)
48%
BIOALPHA
INTERNATIONAL
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
BIOALPHA
AGRO SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
72%
BIOALPHA
(JOHOR HERBAL)
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
70%
SUZHOU BIOMEDIC
BIOTECHNOLOGY
CO. LTD
(China)
19%
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY (AMPANG) SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT MANAGEMENT SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY (DESA TASIK) SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT DYNAMIC SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY (KLANG) SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY (PUCHONG) SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY (SEA PARK) SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY (TAMAN DESA) SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
MEDICONSTANT PHARMACY (TTDI) SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
BIOALPHA
WELLNESS
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
BOTANICAL
DISTRIBUTION
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
MEDICONSTANT
HOLDING
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
BIOALPHA
EAST COAST
AGRO SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
BHK DEVELOPMENT
LIMITED
(Hong Kong)
100%
100%
6
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
FINANCIAL
HIGHLIGHTS
For Financial
Year Ended
31/12/23
RM
For Financial
Year Ended
31/12/22
RM
For Financial
Year Ended
31/12/21
RM
Financial Results
Revenue 46,086,810 35,796,829 96,719,364
EBITDA (33,353,497) (36,418,300) 9,631,282
Loss before taxation (45,278,759) (48,829,663) (2,772,090)
Loss after taxation (43,653,769) (48,793,678) (1,524,496)
Net loss attributable to:
Owners of the parent (42,000,116) (47,830,550) (1,286,499)
Non-controlling interests (1,653,653) (963,128) (237,997)
Financial Position
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 54,378,157 59,427,489 71,587,396
Goodwill on consolidation 5,334,030 5,334,030 5,334,030
Intangible assets 47,382,981 51,810,908 50,938,236
Biological assets 100,000 175,000 691,731
Other assets 56,030,405 83,902,177 88,912,099
Total assets 163,225,573 200,649,604 217,463,492
Equity
Share capital 186,191,208 179,939,010 153,233,258
ICPS 2,889,371 9,141,569 9,141,569
Reserves (61,713,732) (21,222,103) 24,299,391
Total equity attributable to
owners of the company 127,366,847 167,858,476 186,674,218
Non-controlling interests 2,265,246 128,601 (335,548)
Liabilities
Loan and borrowings 6,098,477 6,951,968 9,343,023
Lease liabilities 5,793,071 4,723,945 5,204,224
Deferred tax liabilities 5,520,389 7,310,126 7,455,396
Other liabilities 16,181,543 13,676,488 9,122,179
Total equity and liabilities 163,225,573 200,649,604 217,463,492
Weighted average no. of ordinary shares 1,263,892,799 1,260,849,697 1,155,508,426
Financial Indicators
Earnings per share (sen) (3.32) (3.80) (0.11)
Net assets per share (RM) 0.10 0.13 0.16
Return on equity (%) (32.98) (28.49) (0.69)
Share price as at financial year end (RM) 0.110 0.105 0.190
7
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PROFILES OF
DIRECTORS
Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa (“Dato’ Haji”) was appointed to
our Board on 4 September 2023.
A High Court Judge for more than 15 years, Dato’ Haji retired from the
Judiciary service in December 2022.
Prior to his judgeship, Dato’ Haji served in various capacities both in
courts and the Attorney Generals Chambers as Sessions Court Judge,
Magistrate, Senior Assistant Registrar of High Court, Deputy Public
Prosecutor, Senior Federal Counsel, Chairman of the Cooperative
Tribunal and Registrar of High Court.
Post-retirement, Dato’ Haji continues to serve as a Court of Appeal
judge of the Terengganu Syariah Courts.
Dato’ Haji offers broad range of legal services including counsel work,
advisory and strategies.
Dato’ Haji currently sits on the Board of LKL International Berhad.
He has no family relationshipwith any Director and/or major shareholder
of the Company. He has no conviction of any offences within the past
five (5) years and has no public sanctions and/or penalties imposed
by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year. He has no
conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including any interest
in any competing business with Bioalpha and its subsidiaries.
DATO’ HAJI
MOHD YAZID BIN
HAJI MUSTAFA
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Aged
67
Nationality
Malaysian
Gender
Male
8
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Mr. Hon Tian Kok @ William (“Mr. William Hon”) is our Founder,
Substantial Shareholder, Promoter and Managing Director/Chief
Executive Officer. He was appointed to our Board on 21 June 2011
and also a member of SIS Option Committee. He is responsible
for overseeing our Group’s performance and strategic direction.
Mr. William Hon obtained his qualification from the Association of
Chartered Certified Accountants in 1998 and has been a member of
the Malaysia Institute of Accountants since 2002.
Mr. William Hon has an extensive background and experience in
Finance, Audit, Strategic Planning, Marketing, International Business
Relations and Biotechnology industry.
He began his career as an Auditor with an accounting firm in 1995
and later joined commercial company as an Assistant Finance
Manager in the same year. In 1998, he joined an educational and
business consultancy firm, as a Consultant. He subsequently left
and joined a public listed company in 2000 as Vice President of
Business Development, where he was responsible for identifying
and/or assessing new business opportunities for the group in the
property investment and development industry as well as other new
ventures such as biotechnology. In 2003, he worked as a freelance
consultant with a few companies, including companies in the
healthcare industry, during which he gained further knowledge of
the biotechnology industry and enabled him to establish Bioalpha
International Sdn. Bhd. (“BISB”) in 2005.
He does not hold any directorship in any other public companies
and listed issuers.
He has no family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of the Company. He has no conviction of any offences
within the past five (5) years and has no public sanctions and/or
penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the
financial year. He has no conflict of interest or potential conflict
of interest, including any interest in any competing business with
Bioalpha and its subsidiaries.
HON TIAN KOK
@ WILLIAM
Managing Director/ Chief Executive Officer
Member of SIS Option Committee
profiles of directors
(cont’d)
Aged
48
Nationality
Malaysian
Gender
Male
9
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
profiles of directors
(cont’d)
Datuk Chong Loong Men (“Datuk Chong”) was appointed to the
Board on 1 June 2022 as an Executive Director. He is also a member
of Investment Committee. Datuk Chong graduated from the University
of London (external) with a Bachelor in Law (LLB). In addition, he
possessed a Certificate of Legal Practice and a higher diploma in
Quantity Surveying.
Datuk Chong started his career with the Attorney General’s Chambers
as Deputy Public Prosecutor before joining the Enforcement Division
of the Securities Commission Malaysia in 2007. He started his private
practice as a lawyer in 2011 with Messrs. Lim, Chong, Phang & Amy,
Advocates & Solicitors, a legal firm that he co-founded. Subsequently,
he had also co-founded Messrs. Chong + Kheng Hoe. He was a partner
of Messrs. Chong + Kheng Hoe until he took a sabbatical leave from
legal practice since 30 July 2022.
He has vast experience in commercial crimes including corporate
and accounting fraud, market manipulation, corruption and criminal
breach of trust and corporate disputes. He also has vast experience
in advising listed companies on foreign and local stock exchange
in listing, rights issues, private placements, acquisitions and other
corporate transactions. Datuk Chong experiences include helping
clients who may be facing significant and unusual challenges, including
governance disputes, regulatory and other business crises.
Datuk Chong currently sits on the Board of LKL International Berhad
and Parlo Berhad.
He has no family relationshipwith any Director and/or major shareholder
of the Company. He has no conviction of any offences within the past
five (5) years and has no public sanctions and/or penalties imposed
by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year. He has no
conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including any interest
in any competing business with Bioalpha and its subsidiaries.
DATUK
CHONG LOONG MEN
Executive Director
Member of Investment Committee
Aged
45
Nationality
Malaysian
Gender
Male
10
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Mr. Ho Tze Hiung is our Executive Director and was appointed to our
Board on 21 June 2011. As our Operations Director, he is responsible
overseeing the Group’s production operations. He is a member of
the Risk Management Committee and SIS Option Committee and the
Chairman of the Investment Committee.
Mr. Ho Tze Hiung completed his Bachelor of Business, majoring in
Business and Management from Oxford Brooks University in 1999 and
began his career as a Marketing Executive in the same year. In 2000,
he joined a seafood processing industry as a Sales Supervisor. In
2002, he became a Operations Manager in a grocery and frozen food
wholesale company. He subsequently joined a multinational insurance
company as a Trainer in 2003. In 2004, he joined a health supplement
company as a Marketing Manager. Subsequently in 2005, he joined
Bioalpha International Sdn. Bhd. (“BISB”) as a Marketing Director and
was promoted to Operations Director in 2012.
He does not hold any directorship in any other public companies and
listed issuers.
He has no family relationshipwith any Director and/or major shareholder
of the Company. He has no conviction of any offences within the past
five (5) years and has no public sanctions and/or penalties imposed
by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year. He has no
conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including any interest
in any competing business with Bioalpha and its subsidiaries.
HO TZE HIUNG
Executive Director
Chairman of Investment Committee
Member of Risk Management
Committee and SIS Option Committee
Aged
47
Nationality
Malaysian
Gender
Male
profiles of directors
(cont’d)
11
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Ms. Goh Siow Cheng (“Ms. Goh”) was appointed to our Board on 6
March 2020. Ms Goh is the Group Chief Financial Officer of Bioalpha
and has been working with the Group since 2014. She also a member
of Investment Committee and SIS Option Committee.
She graduated with Bachelor of Business (Accounting & Finance)
from University of Technology Sydney, Australia and a member of CPA
Australia.
She is one of the key senior staff who is involved in the listing exercise
of the Group. She has responsibly and effectively led her team to take
on various corporate exercises, investment and acquisition projects for
the Group.
Ms. Goh has more than 10 years of experience in audit and assurance
from a large international accounting firm where she was involved in
audits for both private limited companies and public listed companies
across various industries, including manufacturing, trading, property
development, information technology and plantation.
Ms Goh currently sits on the Board of BTM Resources Berhad.
She has no family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of the Company. She has no conviction of any offences
within the past five (5) years and has no public sanctions and/or
penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
year. She has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
including any interest in any competing business with Bioalpha and its
subsidiaries.
GOH SIOW CHENG
Group Chief Financial Officer/Finance
Director
Member of Investment Committee and
SIS Option Committee
Aged
42
Nationality
Malaysian
Gender
Female
profiles of directors
(cont’d)
12
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Mr. Kang Jimmi was appointed to our Board as Independent Non-
Executive Director on 22 May 2020. He graduated with Bachelor
of Science from Binus University, Jakarta. He is a member of the
Remuneration Committee and the Chairman of Audit Committee,
Nomination Committee and SIS Option Committee.
Currently, Mr. Kang Jimmi as a founder and leads a company listed in
the Indonesian Stock Exchange, which is responsible for the operation
and maintenance for Powerplant Company with total capacity 42 MW
including Diesel Power plant and Mini hydro Power plant. He possesses
leadership skill in IPP Development Processes which require experience
in cross-functional management skills with hundreds of employees, in
addition to deep knowledge of utility power plant infrastructure system
as well as to produce good financial results for the company. His
background focus established strategic partnership with others party
and/or company.
He does not hold any directorship in any other public companies and
listed issuers.
He has no family relationshipwith any Director and/or major shareholder
of the Company. He has no conviction of any offences within the past
five (5) years and has no public sanctions and/or penalties imposed
by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year. He has no
conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including any interest
in any competing business with Bioalpha and its subsidiaries.
KANG JIMMI
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman of Audit Committee, Nomination
Committee and SIS Option Committee
Member of Remuneration Committee
Aged
44
Nationality
Indonesian
Gender
Male
profiles of directors
(cont’d)
13
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Mr. Yee Yit Yang (“Mr. Yee”) was appointed to our Board as an
Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2022. He is a member
of Audit Committee, Remuneration Committee and Nomination
Committee and the Chairman of the Risk Management Committee.
He is a member of the Australian CPA and Malaysia Institute of
Accountants. He graduated with Bachelor of Economics (Major:
Accounting & Finance) from Latrobe University, Australia.
He began his career with Deloitte Tohmatsu, an international
accounting firm upon his graduation in Australia in 1990. After
spending approximately 3 years with them, he joined the corporate
finance division of Affin Investment Bank in which he was involved in
various assignments, such as IPO, regional mergers and acquisitions
as well as fund raising for both listed and non-listed companies. After
approximately 7 years with Affin Investment Bank, he left to join a
leading listed supermarket retail chain in Malaysia as Head of Corporate
Planning. During his tenure with them, he was instrumental in raising
the corporate profile by raising funds for the purpose of acquisition
of related businesses. In 2008, he left the Group to join another listed
company, which is principally involved in property investment and
healthcare business as Head of Corporate Finance. During his stay
with them, he had completed a fund-raising exercise for the purpose of
consolidating the property investment division as well as the acquisition
of a renowned healthcare company based in USA.
Currently, Mr. Yee is involved in a private corporate consultancy
business. He also sits on the board of AE Multi Holdings Berhad, Key
Alliance Group Berhad, Brahim’s Holdings Berhad and Joe Holding
Berhad as Independent and Non-Executive Director.
He has no family relationshipwith any Director and/or major shareholder
of the Company. He has no conviction of any offences within the past
five (5) years and has no public sanctions and/or penalties imposed
by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year. He has no
conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including any interest
in any competing business with Bioalpha and its subsidiaries.
YEE YIT YANG
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman of Risk Management
Committee
Member of Audit Committee,
Remuneration Committee and
Nomination Committee
Aged
57
Nationality
Malaysian
Gender
Male
profiles of directors
(cont’d)
14
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Ms Tan Su Ning (“Ms Tan”) was appointed to our Board as an
Independent Non-Executive Director on 4 September 2023 and
subsequently, she was appointed as Chairperson of Remuneration
Committee and member of Audit Committee, Risk Management
Committee and Nomination Committee on 4 September 2023.
She graduated with a LLB (Hons.) Degree from University of London
(external) and was admitted as an Advocate and Solicitor of the High
Court of Malaya in 2018.
Ms Tan started her legal practice with an established law firm in 2018.
Subsequently, she joined Messrs Lim Chong Phang & Amy and Messrs
Chong+Kheng Hoe in 2019. Ms Tan’s practice primarily focuses on
corporate and commercial disputes including breach of directors’
duties, shareholders’ dispute as well as litigation concerning capital
market and securities law. Besides, she also advises public and private
corporation on legal and regulatory compliance. She is currently a
partner of Messrs Terrence & Co.
Ms Tan currently sits on the Board of Jadi Imaging Holdings Berhad
and LKL International Berhad.
She has no family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of the Company. She has no conviction of any offences
within the past five (5) years and has no public sanctions and/or
penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
year. She has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
including any interest in any competing business with Bioalpha and its
subsidiaries.
TAN SU NING
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairperson of Remuneration Committee
Member of Audit Committee,
Risk Management Committee and
Nomination Committee
Aged
32
Nationality
Malaysian
Gender
Female
profiles of directors
(cont’d)
15
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
16
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
Dear Valued Shareholders,
I am pleased to present the Management Discussion andAnalysis (“MD&A”) report for
Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“Bioalpha” or the “Group”) for the financial year ended
31 December 2023 (“FY2023”). This report analyses our financial and operational
performance for FY2023, and offers strategic insights into 2024.
ECONOMIC LANDSCAPE IN 2023
The year 2023 presented a complex global economic outlook, marked by persistent headwinds such as elevated
inflation, tightening of monetary policies, and growing geopolitical tensions. However, there were signs of
stabilisation which offered some respite for the future. While world trade moderated in response to weaker global
demand, this adjustment could signal a shift towards a more sustainable growth pattern rather than a sharp
downturn.
Back home, the Malaysian economy remained resilient, recording a 3.7% expansion in 2023. The growth was driven
by strong domestic demand, which cushioned the impact of the global slowdown. The services and construction
sectors continued to lead the way, supported by increased tourism, improved consumer spending, and ongoing
investments in both infrastructure and residential developments.
17
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
Over in China, Gross Domestic Product (“GDP”) expanded by 5.2% in 2023, surpassing the 3.0% growth of 2022
and was slightly more than the official target. The improvement reflects the positive impact of lifting COVID-related
restrictions since December 2022. However, the initial surge of economic activities tapered off in the following
quarters weighed down by deepening property crisis, weak consumer and business confidence and high local
government debts.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW AND HIGHLIGHTS
Founded in 2005, Bioalpha is an integrated nutraceutical and health supplement group. Its operations span the entire
value chain, including the cultivation of herbal raw materials, research & development (“R&D”), the manufacturing
of nutritional and healthcare products, trading, distribution, and retail pharmacy operations under the Constant
Pharmacy chain. The two key operating markets of Bioalpha are Malaysia and China.
Herbal Farming
To ensure the source of ingredients for Bioalpha’s herbal based
health supplements are high quality and reliable, Bioalpha
engages in upstream planting activities. The Group operates two
expansive herbal parks in Pasir Raja, Terengganu, and Desaru,
Johor. These parks are accredited with the Malaysian Good
Agriculture Practices (“MyGAP”) certifications from the Ministry
of Agriculture and Food Security (“MAFS”), demonstrating
commitment to quality, safety, and sustainability.
Within the parks, we cultivate a diverse range of herbs and
spices, including sought-after species such as Tongkat Ali, Kacip
Fatimah, Misai Kucing, Hempedu Bumi, roselle, and soursop.
This direct control over the supply chain enables us to sustain
rigorous quality standards throughout the entire production
process, from planting to finished product.
Bioalpha’s farming practices prioritise environmental responsibility, adhering to well-defined standard operating
procedures (“SOPs”), to carefully govern fertiliser choices, harvesting methods, and prioritise organic pest control
solutions.
Research & Development (“R&D”)
Bioalpha places a strong emphasis on R&D with our in-house R&D team endeavor to develop
and customise formulations to address the unique requirements of our customers. The Group’s
R&D activities are conducted at our own laboratory, which upholds internationally recognised
ISO 9001 standards for quality management. To date, we have developed over 300 proprietary
formulations that form the basis of our diverse health supplement offerings.
This commitment to R&D positions us to respond to evolving health trends. As consumers
become more affluent and informed, health awareness has increased, leading to higher
demand for health-concious products. In response, we prioritise the development of new formulations in sought-
after categories such as immune support. This approach allows us to align with market needs, while contributing
to better public health.
18
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
Processing and Manufacturing
The Group’s manufacturing operations are primarily housed within two facilities in Selangor: main plant in Bangi
and a second plant in Semenyih.
Our Bangi facility is well-equipped to produce a wide array of health supplements and functional foods. With seven
production lines, it accommodates diverse output formats including sachet powder, liquid, teabags, capsules,
tablets, blisters, and bottles. The facility adheres to international standards, ensuring rigorous health, safety, and
quality compliance for all our products.
Our commitment to quality is reflected in the plant’s numerous accreditations, including Good Manufacturing
Practices (“GMP”), Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (“HACCP”), Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab
Industri (“MeSTI”), and Halal certification from the Department of Islamic Development Malaysia (“JAKIM”).
Additionally, the plant is registered with the United States Food and Drug Administration (“US FDA”) and holds
accreditation as a “Quality and Safe Plant” by CAIQTEST Malaysia Sdn. Bhd., authorising safe and quality-assured
exports to China.
Supplementing our manufacturing capabilities, we operate a Collection, Processing & Packaging Centre (“CPPC”)
at our herbal farm in Pasir Raja, Terengganu and a primary processing plant in Desaru, Johor. These facilities
streamline the processing of raw materials harvested from our own farms.
Trading
Bioalpha supplies health food ingredients for the preparation of nutritional meals that are distributed throughout the
Guizhou province in China, serving both public and private sectors.
In FY2023, deliveries of nutritional meals to customers gradually picked up following China’s re-opening in December
2022. We have also undertaken measures to streamline processes and localised operations in China to improve
efficiencies, including establishing an office in the Yangpu Economic Development Zone (Hainan province) to
streamline order management, a warehouse and processing center in Guizhou to expedite deliveries, and dedicated
procurement teams in both Guizhou and Hainan focused on sourcing premium quality ingredients.
Products and Distribution
At Bioalpha, we develop and manufacture a comprehensive array of health products, including
herbal and non-herbal supplements, and functional foods. Our Original Design Manufacturing
(“ODM”) services allow us to tailor solutions for commercial clients, while our Apotec brand
offers these high-quality products directly to consumers through our retail pharmacy network.
Malaysia
We prioritise serving the needs of our leading multinational ODM clients within the health supplement industry. In
2023, we successfully delivered on this commitment by commercialising new products tailored to diverse needs,
including general health, men’s and women’s health, children’s nutrition, beauty & skin health, and anti-aging. To
cater to evolving consumer priorities, we remain steadfast in expanding our offerings to include more in-demand
immunity-related products and actively seek new ODM partnerships.
China
Our commitment to China’s healthcare market is evident in the planned commercialisation of health formulas
designed to meet specific consumer demands. Leveraging our established infrastructure and resources, we remain
confident in securing a foothold within this dynamic market.
To better streamline our operations in China, the Group had with a heavy heart terminated the Collaboration
Agreement between its wholly owned subsidiary Bioalpha (Hainan) Development Limited and Gaolin Village Council
to jointly develop a Malaysian Agricultural Hub in Hainan, China signed earlier on July 2022. This decision is made
19
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
based on much deliberation and careful consideration of the prevailing market uncertainties which poses increased
risk to the project’s viability and sustainability, at which Bioalpha have shift its focus to the development of an Agro
Park domestically in Langkawi instead.
Retail Pharmacy
Bioalpha operates Constant Pharmacy, a retail pharmacy chain with 17
locations across Malaysia via combination of owned outlets, as well
as under franchising/licensing arrangement. Our pharmacies offer a
comprehensive range of products, including prescription and over-the-
counter medications, vitamins, supplements, and personal care items.
Our licensed pharmacists provide personalised consultations, ensuring
expert advice tailored to individual needs. Constant Pharmacy is dedicated to convenient access and serving as a
trusted healthcare companion within our communities.
During the year, 7 new outlets were opened across Klang Valley, in line with our plans to expand Constant Pharmacy’s
network.
Development of Langkawi Agro Park
On 2 December 2023, we entered into a Manage and Operate Agreement with the Langkawi Development Authority
(“LADA”) to develop, manage, and operate an 8-acre agro park in Langkawi (“Langkawi Agro Park” or the “Park”).
The Langkawi Agro Park will feature attractions showcasing the entire health supplement supply chain through its
integrated facility encompassing from herbal farming, R&D to product processing via Herbal Park, Herbal Gallery,
Demo Showroom, and many more. This partnership project with LADA will further advance Langkawi’s status as a
prominent tourist destination, boosting Langkawi’s agro-tourism sector, while providing Bioalpha with new revenue
streams through the commercialisation of high-value herbal products.
Development is underway at the moment, with the anticipated park opening in three years. Bioalpha expects
revenue contribution from the Park from year 2026 onwards through the commercialisation of high-value herbal
products to be sold to 3 million annual visitors as a new revenue stream.
LADA is an agency under Malaysia’s Ministry of Finance, tasked to propel the tourism economy of Langkawi with
the aim of advancing the island to become a world-renowned tourist destination.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW
Revenue
The Group’s revenue in FY2023 increased 28.7% to
RM46.1 million as compared to the RM35.8 million
achieved in the last financial year ended 31 December
2022 (“FY2022”).
The manufacturing segment generated a turnover of RM14.1 million in FY2023, exceeding the RM12.7 million
recorded in FY2022. Within this segment, domestic manufacturing contributed RM13.5 million on the back of
higher customer order volumes, against RM10.7 million in the previous year.
Meanwhile, the relaxation of COVID-19 restrictions in China from December 2022 created a more favourable
environment for the Group’s trading operations in China, to allow increased deliveries of nutritional meals by the
Group to customers, which in turn led to a rise in sales for the trading segment. FY2023 revenue for the trading
segment reached RM16.6 million, surpassing the RM10.9 million recorded in FY2022.
Group Revenue FY2023
RM
46.1million
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
20
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Simultaneously, the retail pharmacy
business saw a notable surge in
revenue, reaching RM14.1 million in
FY2023 vis-à-vis RM12.2 million in
FY2022. This growth can be attributed
to the contribution of newly opened
stores.
In terms of segmental breakdown,
revenue contributions by each key
segment were well-balanced. The
Group’s trading division accounted
for 36% of FY2023 revenue, followed
closely by the manufacturing arm and
retail pharmacy operations at 31%
respectively, with the other services
contributed the remaining 2%.
Gross Loss
In FY2023, the Group’s gross profit amounted to RM0.1 million, as compared to a gross loss of RM6.0 million in
FY2022. FY2023 cost of sales amounted to RM46.0 million, as compared to RM41.8 million last year.
Net Loss Attributable to Owners of the Company (“Net Loss”)
Bioalpha reported a net loss of RM42.0 million in FY2023, in part affected by the impairment of financial assets
amounting to RM6.3 million during the year.
While the Group experienced a loss in FY2023, improving operational performance across all key segments provides
a basis for optimism for the coming year. Barring unforeseen circumstances, Bioalpha anticipates FY2024 to be a
year of recovery.
FINANCIAL POSITION
Bioalpha maintained a strong balance sheet with deposit, cash, and bank balances totalling RM11.4 million as of
31 December 2023. The Group also reduced total borrowings to RM6.1 million from RM7.0 million at the end of
2023, demonstrating proactive debt management. Shareholders’ equity stood at RM127.4 million, with net assets
per share at 10.1 sen.
Going forward, we will continue to maintain a prudent approach to capital resources and expenditures, carefully
balancing operating commitments with financial stability. Our focus remains on maximising returns for stakeholders
through effective resource allocation.
Net Operating Cash Flow
Bioalpha generated positive net operating cash flow of RM1.2 million in FY2023 against a negative outflow of
RM3.8 million a year ago.
CORPORATE EXERCISE
During the year under review, Bioalpha proposed a 3-for-8 Renounceable Rights Issue of Warrants (“Warrants”)
entailing the issuance of 526,099,537 Warrants at an issue price of RM0.035 per Warrant, to raise gross proceeds
of RM18.4 million. These funds shall be utilised for the expansion of our Group’s pharmacy business, launching of
new health supplement products, repayment of bank borrowings, working capital, as well as to defray the estimated
expenses in relation to the Warrants. The exercise was subsequently completed on 14 February 2024, with the
listing of the Warrants on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
Sales Mix by Segment FY2023
Trading
36%
Manufacturing
31%
Retail
Pharmacy
31%
Others
2%
21
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
ANTICIPATED RISKS
Operational Disruptions
We are cognisant of external variables such as pandemics, natural disasters, and civil unrest, which may cause
disruptions to our business. These unforeseen events could impact supply chains and escalate raw material costs,
thereby potentially impacting our profit margins.
While some interruptions may be beyond our control, we proactively mitigate operational risks, such as fire hazard
and workplace accidents, through robust insurance coverage and ongoing employee training , as well as continuous
efforts to anticipate and address potential disruptions. Our unwavering dedication underscores Bioalpha’s resilience
in safeguarding our business operations amidst evolving challenges.
Changes in Regulatory Frameworks and Public Policies
Given the specific focus of our business on the production and distribution of functional foods and health
supplements, Bioalpha operates under stringent regulatory scrutiny as compared to other industries. With our
operations extending across multiple countries, notably Malaysia and China, compliance with the respective local
legal frameworks is imperative, each of which may differ significantly. Consequently, any significant alterations in
these regulations could impede our ability to operate, distribute, or promote our products.
To navigate these regulatory challenges effectively, we maintain regular communication with relevant authorities
to remain abreast of any regulatory changes that may affect our industry. Moreover, we adopt cautious strategies
to ensure strict compliance with current regulations, thereby minimising any potential adverse impacts on our
operations and financial performance. This proactive stance underscores our commitment to regulatory compliance
and risk management within Bioalpha’s operations.
Product Liability Risk
In the nutraceutical and health supplement industry, Bioalpha faces potential risks related to product liability. Any
defects or unintended contamination in our health supplement products could lead to legal action and extensive
product recalls. These incidents not only pose immediate financial challenges, but also threaten Bioalpha’s brand
and reputation, impeding our ability to market future products effectively.
To mitigate these risks, we have established comprehensive SOPs governing our formulation and manufacturing
processes. Our primary manufacturing facility in Bangi is certified with GMP and HACCP certifications. Additionally,
we have obtained sufficient product liability insurance coverage to shield us from potential financial losses. As of
now, we have not encountered any personal injury claims resulting from alleged product defects.
MOVING AHEAD
The global nutraceutical and health supplements sector is expected to experience robust growth, driven by a surge
in consumer interest in health and wellness. According to Grand View Research, the global dietary supplement
market is projected to reach USD620.8 billion by 2030, with a compound annual growth rate (“CAGR”) of 6.3%. This
expansion is fuelled by factors such as increasing health awareness and the reliance on supplements to improve
general health conditions.
Mirroring global trends, Malaysia’s market indicates similar potential with more consumers prioritising preventative
health measures, boosting demand for immune-supporting supplements. The Malaysian Dietary Supplement
Association highlights room for substantial growth, as less than 30% of the population currently utilises dietary
supplements – lower than comparable Asian markets like South Korea (60-70%) and Taiwan (40-50%). Similarly,
China’s nutritional supplements industry is projected to reach USD87.7 billion by 2027, with a CAGR of 14.5%,
according to Research Nester.
At Bioalpha, we are positioning the Group to capitalise on emerging market opportunities while navigating external
challenges. Domestically, we are enhancing our manufacturing offerings with more immunity-related products to
capitalise on rising health consciousness among consumers. At the same time, we are working to secure more
ODM customers.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
22
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
In China, we anticipate gradual growth for our health food supply venture in 2024. We remain focused on maintaining
lean operations and optimising our supply chain to further improve efficiencies. Meanwhile, for our retail pharmacy
business in Malaysia, we will continue our efforts in expanding Constant Pharmacy’s physical footprint.
Overall, we remain adaptable within this dynamic market landscape. We are continuously strengthening our
capabilities and offerings to maintain competitiveness. As we move forward, Bioalpha is dedicated to delivering
value to our stakeholders and improving lives through our high-quality products and services.
SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS
Bioalpha places sustainability at the heart of its business practices. We recognise the crucial need to conduct
business in a manner that supports environmental protection, social responsibility, and economic viability. Our
sustainability initiatives focus on reducing our carbon footprint, conserving natural resources, fostering diversity
and inclusion, and engaging with our stakeholders to build stronger communities. We understand that sustainability
is an ongoing journey and are committed to continuous improvement and transparent reporting of our progress.
By integrating sustainability into our operations, we aim to create enduring value for all our stakeholders while
contributing to a more sustainable future. For further details on our sustainability journey, please refer to the
Sustainability Statement within this Annual Report.
APPRECIATION
On behalf of the management team, I extend my deepest gratitude to everyone at Bioalpha for the unwavering
dedication demonstrated throughout the past year. Though filled with challenges both internal and external, your
unwavering support and hard work made our achievements possible.
My heartfelt appreciation also goes to our valued stakeholders – shareholders, clients, suppliers, bankers, regulators,
and government agencies – for your steadfast support.
To the Board of Directors, thank you for your invaluable guidance and insights throughout 2023.
I would also like to extend a warm welcome to Yang Berbahagia Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa as Bioalpha’s
Independent Non-Executive Chairman, and Miss Tan Su Ning as Independent Non-Executive Director. Your vast
experience and expertise will undoubtedly enrich Bioalpha.
On behalf of the Board, I extend special recognition to Yang Berbahagia Tan Sri Dato’ Dr Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed
Salim and Encik Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah, who stepped down as Independent Non-Executive Chairman and
Independent Non-Executive Director, respectively, in June 2023. We deeply appreciate your invaluable guidance
during your tenure and wish you both the very best in your future endeavors.
Hon Tian Kok @ William
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
Sustainability
Statement
Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“Bioalpha”) is pleased to present our Sustainability Statement. This statement
encompasses our material Environment, Economy and Social (“EES”) matters for the financial year. Our sustainability
initiatives reflect our continuous drive towards maximising opportunities for strong fiscal growth and optimising
operational efficiency in tandem with long-term value creation based on EES considerations.
Bioalpha is committed to building a sustainable business with integrity. As an integrated health supplement
company, we are mindful that good sustainability practices are integral to our long-term business growth. To this
end, the Board strives to embed strong governance culture, socially responsible values and sound environmental
practices throughout the Group.
Stakeholder Engagement
We recognise that our stakeholders are important to the Group’s long-term growth and success. Although external
stakeholders were not engaged specifically to examine most material EES factors, we have regular interactions with
them which allow us to glean information on areas they may have the most concerns. Our key stakeholders and
their areas of interest based on our various engagements with them and are set out below:
Stakeholders Engagement methods
Investors and shareholders • Annual Report
• Quarterly Bursa announcements
• AGM for shareholders
• Corporate website with Investor Relation updates
• Media News/releases
• Analyst Reports/Interview
• Email communications – investorrelations@bioa.com.my
Employees • Employee handbook-code of conduct
• New Staff Orientation
• Trainings, teambuilding and company event
• Whistle blowing policy
•    Anti-Bribery Policy
Customers • Engagement with sales personnel
• Factory visits
• Exhibition/Trade show
• Awareness programmes and health forums
Suppliers • Supplier selection process
• Suppliers’ assessment
• Meetings with suppliers
Regulators • Seminar/updates received from local government agencies
• Internal processes in place to ensure compliance with local government laws
and regulations
Local communities • Compliance with local government laws and regulations such as pollution at
surrounding factory areas, chemical discharge to drainage, etc.
23
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
Our Commitment
We perceived corporate sustainability as our commitment to create long term value to our shareholders, environment
and society through innovation and overall operational excellence. We understand our choices today have an impact
on our stakeholder i.e. customers and suppliers and the success of their businesses in the future. Our business
imperative is to carry out our activities responsibly and with integrity. Our people are expected to behave in an
ethical manner in accordance with our policies, code of conduct and guidelines.
Mindful of the need to be a corporately responsible organisation, the Group undertook various steps to play its part
in contributing to the welfare of the society and communities in the environment it operates. The Group recognises
that for long term sustainability, its strategic orientation will need to look beyond the financial parameters.
Within this context we have defined our commitment to corporate sustainability across three material areas:
Environmental Initiatives
Manufacturing Process
We understand that our operations and activities have an environmental footprint and it is our responsibility to
minimise these through continuous improvement of our manufacturing facilities. We ensure that our manufacturing
processes comply with GMP, HACCP, MeSTI and ISO requirements. To meet these requirements, quality assurance
principal is to ensure the quality and safety of our products and we believe that this commitment can best be
delivered through the following policies:
• To comply with all relevant environmental laws and regulations.
• To prevent environmental pollution whenever possible and implement waste minimization through 3R
principles (Reduce, Reuse and Recycle).
• To raise awareness among employees towards the environment and encourage them to act in a more
responsible manner towards the environment.
• To improve and enhance environmental care responsibilities in this company from time to time.
• To implement an effective emergency response plan to address any incidents involving pollution to the
environment.
Our processes and equipment used for fermentation of medicinal mushrooms and manufacturing of products have
been inspected by JAKIM, which have enabled us to obtain Halal certifications for our products in relation to the
manufacturing process.
Our manufacturing facilities adhere to strict regulations and procedures to ensure that materials and energy
resources are used efficiently to minimise waste. These include monitoring energy consumption, materials planning
and waste management.
Economy Initiatives
We remain committed and maintain open dialogue with shareholders, the investment community and stakeholders.
Annual general meetings are the principal forum for dialogue with shareholders and provide them the opportunity
to raise questions and seek clarifications on the Group’s operations, performance and strategies. Directors were
present in person to engage virtually with the shareholders of the Company during the annual general meetings
held in 2023.
24
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
ECONOMY INITIATIVES (CONT’D)
Research & Development (R&D)
Given our reach in the pharmaceutical arena, we are dedicated to maintaining the affordability and accessibility of
health supplement while upholding our standards of safety, quality and efficacy.
We are able to ensure this through our commitment to R&D into high quality and cost competitive supplement
products for various segments.
As such, we were committed to continuously develop and register new product in year 2023 as shown below.
Marketplace
The Group is continuously committed to promote and maintain transparency, accountability and ethics in the
conduct of its business and operations with the stakeholders, including Malaysian government and authorities,
shareholders and investors, customers, suppliers, employees and communities. This includes the implementation
of internal control systems such as a financial authority framework and risk management framework.
The Group strive to continuously improve our relationships, trust, mutual respect, understanding with our
stakeholders who have an effect on, or is affected by our businesses. The Group has introduced various channels
to engage with our stakeholders to understand and respond to their expectations and interests with regard to our
services and operations.
The Group works closely with suppliers to create a high-quality, reliable supply chain that meets our standards. The
Group has had regular engagement sessions with suppliers to identify areas and methods for improvement and to
resolve issues.
NEW PRODUCT
Product Registered
Product Developed
42%
58%
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
25
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
ECONOMY INITIATIVES (CONT’D)
Business Expansion
Manage and Operate Agreement with Langkawi Development Authority
Bioalpha Wellness Sdn Bhd, a wholly owned subsidiary of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad had entered into a Manage
and Operate Agreement with Langkawi Development Authority (“LADA”) on 2nd December 2023 to develop, manage
and operate an Agro Park on a piece of land under a 30-year land use rights granted by LADA. The land measuring
approximately 7.98 acres are located in Bandar Padang Mat Sirat, Langkawi, Kedah.
The Agro Park will feature attraction showcasing the entire supply chain through its integrated facility encompassing
herbal farming, Research and Development (“R&D”), product processing, Herbal Gallery, Demo Showroom and many
more. The Group expects revenue contribution from the Project from 2026 onwards by the commercialization of
more than 100 high-value herbal products to be sold to 3 million annual visitors as a new revenue stream.
The Project is targeted to advance Langkawi’s status as a prominent tourist destination throught the establishment
of the Langkawi Agro Park. Recognised as Southeast Asia’s first UNESCO Global Geopark, Langkawi possesses
unique attributes including its rich biodiversity and heritage, making it an ideal destination for agro-tourism.
Social Initiatives
Our People
We believe we are only as good as our people, hence our employees have essential roles in ensuring the sustainability
and success of the Group. As such, we are focused on attracting and retaining a highly skilled workforce while
prioritising the wellbeing of our people.
We believe in the inherent strength of a diversified workforce. Hence, we take into account the current diversity and
strive for equality in the gender, age and race/ethnicity of the existing workforce. This is integral to our employees
value proposition and helps to attract the best talents.
Besides that, we believe providing equal remuneration inspires our employees to feel valued and trusted to the
group and in return are more engaged with their work. Hence, we embedded equal remuneration into the business
culture as a core and business function.
The brief information of the Company’s workforce for Year 2023 is tabulated below:
DIVERSITY
Racial gender
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
61%
24%
9%
6%
Malay Chinese Indian Others
100%
80%
60%
40%
20%
0%
50%
50%
Male Female
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
26
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
SOCIAL INITIATIVES (CONT’D)
Training and Development
The Group believes in providing continuous learning and development opportunities towards career development
for employees through inhouse training, attending seminar, workshops and talks to help them realise their true
potential, as well as to benefit from better performance and productivity. This will equip them with the latest job-
related updates and knowledge/know-how. The total budget allocated for employees’ training on year 2024 is
RM218,000.
Festive Celebrations 2023
Program Date
Festival Open House
- CNY Festival Celebration 30th Jan 2023
- Hari Raya Festival Celebration 13th May 2023
- Deepavali Festival Celebration 24th Nov 2023
Occupational Safety and Health
We recognise that the very nature of our business itself involves occupational health and safety risks. The safety and
health of our employees as well as the safety of our contractors, service providers and visitors to our manufacturing
facilities remain a priority through our commitment to:
• Comply with local Occupational Safety and Health regulations.
• Comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations.
• Implement Safety, Health & Environment (“SHE”) training programs to ensure adequate training of all
employees and contractors.
• Continue to identify potential hazards and implement appropriate measures.
• Investigate all incidents, diseases and dangerous occurrences and ensure appropriate action to prevent
recurrence.
• Communicate and update all employees and contractors on worker safety and asset protection.
• Ensure that appropriate Emergency Response Plans are in place.
• Continuously improve our environment management system.
Chairman
Secretary
Member
Member
Member
Member
SAFETY, HEALTH & ENVIRONMENT COMMITTEE
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
27
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
SOCIAL INITIATIVES (CONT’D)
Community
As an organisation with its business deeply rooted in the community that it serves, Bioalpha is aware of its social
obligations to the community. Bioalpha is privileged to have been able to support communities in need and make
a difference in their lives.
During the year under the review, the Group initiated several cultural and welfare activities as follows:-
1. Donation to Charity Bodies
Welfare Items Date
i. Sekolah Menengah San Min (Suwa) Provide funding for the
construction of new
building via donation
March 2023
ii. Starfish Malaysia Foundation Kid sponsorship December 2023
iii. Openhands Fellowship Care Center, Kajang
(Orphanage)
Christmas gift December 2023
iv. Shephards Center Foundation Malaysia,
Selangor (Orphanage)
Christmas gift December 2023
v. Rumah Sejahtera, Batu Pahat
(Old Folks Home)
Daily necessities &
birthday cake monthly
2023
vi. Batu Pahat Orphanage Health supplement, daily
necessities & birthday
cake monthly
2023
Moving Forward
The Board will work progressively towards improving the Group’s sustainability reporting in relation to the
management of our Economic, Environment and Social risks and opportunities.
This Sustainability Statement is prepared in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors dated 23 April
2024.
Sustainability Statement
(cont’d)
28
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
KUALA LUMPUR
SOLARIS DUTAMAS, KUALA LUMPUR
A3-G2-07, Solaris Dutamas,
Jalan Dutamas No. 1, Kuala Lumpur
50480 Wilayah Persekutuan.
Tel: +603 6413 7388
Whatsapp/SMS: 011-5969 2990
TAMAN DAHLIA, CHERAS
No. 83, Jalan 34/154, Taman Dahlia, Cheras
Kuala Lumpur 56000, Wilayah Persekutuan.
Tel: +603 9101 7018
Whatsapp/SMS: 011-26205530
TAMAN SRI RAMPAI, SETAPAK
No. 33, Jalan 45A/26, Taman Sri Rampai, Setapak
Kuala Lumpur 53300, Wilayah Persekutuan.
Tel: +603 4149 7018
Whatsapp/SMS: 017-9278288
TAMAN DESA TASIK, SUNGAI BESI
No. 24, Jalan Tasik Selatan 20C/146,
Taman Desa Tasik
Sungai Besi, Kuala Lumpur 57000, Wilayah
Persekutuan.
Tel: +603 9054 3013
Whatsapp/SMS: 012-3631541
SELANGOR
AMPANG POINT, AMPANG
No. 89, Ground Floor, Lorong Mamanda 1
Ampang Point, Jalan Ampang,
68000 Ampang, Selangor.
Tel: +603 4252 8018
Whatsapp/SMS: 016-6772776
BANDAR RIMBAYU, TELUK PANGLIMA GARANG
No. 16-G Ground Floor, Jalan Flora 1/1,
Blossom Square
Bandar Rimbayu, 42500 Teluk Panglima Garang,
Selangor.
Tel: +603 5131 6723
Whatsapp/SMS: 011-26265625
BUKIT RAJA, KLANG
No. 6, Ground Floor, Jalan Astaka 1C/KU2,
Bandar Bukit Raja
41050 Klang, Selangor.
Tel: +603 3359 5759
Whatsapp/SMS: 019-579 0499
BUKIT SERDANG, SERI KEMBANGAN
No D-G-35, Pusat Perdagangan Bukit Serdang
Jalan BS 14/1, Taman Bukit Serdang, Seksyen 14
43300 Seri Kembangan, Selangor.
Tel: +603 8938 5219
Whatsapp/SMS: 014-3606686
ECO GRANDEUR, PUNCAK ALAM
No. 40-G, Jalan Eco Grandeur 1/9A,
Eco Grandeur
42300 Puncak Alam, Selangor.
Tel: +603 5871 3015
Whatsapp/SMS: 012-363 7018
GATEWAY @ KLIA 2, SEPANG
Lot No. L2-117, Level 2, Terminal KLIA 2
KL International Airport, Jalan KLIA 2/1,
64000 KLIA Sepang, Selangor.
Tel: +603 878 8130
Whatsapp/SMS: 010-2018230
JADE HILLS, KAJANG
No. 20-1, Jalan Dataran Jade 2, Dataran Jade
Jade Hills Kajang, 43000 Kajang, Selangor.
Tel: +6012 927 9018
Whatsapp/SMS: 012-9279018
KELANA CENTRE POINT, KELANA JAYA
No. 127, Block A, Kelana Centre Point
No. 3, Jalan SS7/19, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Selangor.
Tel: +603-7886 1380
MERU, KLANG
No. 145, Ground Floor, Jalan Susur Off Jalan Meru,
41050 Klang, Selangor.
Tel: +603 3343 6579
Whatsapp/SMS: 017-3173728
PARAMOUNT GARDEN, PETALING JAYA
Lot 9175, Jalan 20/16A, Paramount Garden,
46300 Petaling Jaya, Selangor.
Tel: +603 7865 1682
Whatsapp/SMS: 012-2537018
PERSIARAN RAJA MUDA MUSA, KLANG
No. 2984, Ground Floor, Persiaran Raja Muda Musa
41100 Klang, Selangor.
Tel: +603 3372 8891
Whatsapp/SMS: 012-2907018
SHAFTSBURY SQUARE, CYBERJAYA
P1-33A, Shaftsbury Square, Cyber 6,
Persiaran Multimedia,
63000 Cyberjaya, Selangor.
Tel: +603 3832 0962 6
Whatsapp/SMS: 013-8236598
SRI SERDANG, SERI KEMBANGAN
No. 3337-G, Jalan 18/32, Taman Sri Serdang
43300 Seri Kembangan, Selangor.
Tel: +603 8957 6043
Whatsapp/SMS: 012-2309018
TAMAN PUCHONG PRIMA, PUCHONG
No. F-01-04, Pusat Perdagangan Puchong Prima
Blok F, Jalan Prima 5/3, Taman Puchong Prima
47100 Selangor.
Tel: +603 8061 4018
Whatsapp/SMS: 012-3446765
TAMAN PUNCAK JALIL, SERI KEMBANGAN
No. 88-GF, Jalan PJU 3/2, Taman Puncak Jalil,
Bandar Putra Permai, 43300 Seri Kembangan, Selangor.
Tel: +603 8082 4018
Whatsapp/SMS: 016-8122624
CONSTANT RETAIL OUTLETS
The Board of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“the Company”) recognises the importance of good corporate governance
and fully supports the principles and best practices promulgated in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance
2021 (“MCCG 2021”) to enhance business prosperity and maximize shareholders’ value. The Board will continuously
evaluate the Group’s corporate governance practices and procedures, and where appropriate will adopt and
implement the best practices as enshrined in MCCG 2021 in the best interest of the shareholders of the Company.
Below is an overview statement and description in general of how the Group has applied the principles and complied
with the best practice provisions as laid out in MCCG 2021 throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2023
(“FYE 2023”) pursuant to Rule 15.25 of the ACE Market Listing Requirements (“AMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and it is to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report of the Company
which is available at the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
Part I - Board Responsibilities
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of our Company and the delivery of sustainable
value to its stakeholders. In discharging its fiduciary duties and leadership functions, the Board governs and sets
strategic directions for the Company whilst exercising oversight on the Management. The Board plays a critical
role in setting the appropriate supervision at the top, providing uncompromising leadership and championing good
governance and ethical practices throughout the Company.
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS
1.1 Set Strategic Aims, Values and Standards for the Company
TheBoardhasfullcontrolofandisresponsiblefor,theGroup’soverallstrategy,acquisitionanddivestment
policies, capital expenditure, annual budget, review of financial and operational performance, and
internal controls as well as investment and risk management processes. The Group’s overall strategic
direction, development, implementation and control remain of primary importance to the Board.
The Board is leading and managing the Group effectively and responsibly. Each Director has a legal duty
to act in the best interests of the Group. The Directors, individually and collectively, are aware of their
responsibilities to shareholders and stakeholders for how the affairs of the Company are managed.
The Board is entrusted with the responsibility to promote the success of the Group by directing and
supervising the Group’s affairs. Hence, to develop corporate objectives and position descriptions
including the limits of the Management’s responsibilities, which the Management are aware of and are
responsible for achieving.
The details of the roles and responsibilities of the Board and matters reserved for the Board for decision
are defined in the Board Charter, which is available on the Company at www.bioa.com.my.
In discharging its fiduciary duties, the Board has delegated specific tasks to six (6) Board Committees
namely the Audit Committee (“AC”), Investment Committee (“IC”), Nomination Committee (“NC”),
Remuneration Committee (“RC”), Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) and Share Issuance Scheme
(“SIS”) Option Committee. The primary functions of which are to assist the Board in overseeing the
affairs of the Company. These Committees have been entrusted with specific responsibilities and
authority, which are properly set out in their respective Terms of Reference.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
30
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
Part I - Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS (cont’d)
1.2 Appointment of Chairman
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim was re-designated as the Independent Non-Executive
Chairman on 25 January 2022 until he retired as an Independent Non-Executive Chairman on 7 June
2023.
On 4 September 2023, Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa was appointed as the Independent Non-
Executive Chairman.
The Chairman leads the Board with a keen focus on governance and compliance and acts as a
facilitator at Board meetings to ensure that contributions by Directors are forthcoming on matters being
deliberated and that no Board member dominates any discussion. Together with the other Independent
Non-Executive Directors, he leads the discussion on the strategies and policies recommended by
Management. He chairs the meetings of the Board and the shareholders thus ensuring effective
communication with the shareholders as well as the relevant stakeholders.
The Chairman of the Board is not a member of the Board Committees.
The Chairman holds an Independent Non-Executive role and his roles and responsibilities have been
clearly specified in the Board Charter, which is available on the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.
my.
1.3 The Positions of Chairman and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer are held by Different
Individuals
The positions of the Chairman and the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer are held by different
individuals. Tan Sri Dato’ Dr Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim was the Independent Non-Executive Chairman
from 25 January 2022 until 7 June 2023. Thereafter, Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa was the
Independent Non-Executive Chairman from 4 September 2023 whilst Mr Hon Tian Kok @ William is the
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
The Board recognises the importance of having a clear separation of responsibilities between the
Chairman and the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer to promote accountability, ensure an
appropriate balance of roles, and to facilitate the division of responsibilities between them to ensure no
single individual can influence the Board’s discussions and decision making. The distinct and separate
roles of the Chairman and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer ensure an appropriate balance of
roles, responsibilities and accountability at the Board level.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer are
provided in the Board Charter, which is available on the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
1.4 Qualified and competent Company Secretaries
In compliance with MCCG 2021, the Board is supported by qualified and competent Company
Secretaries. The Company Secretaries of the Company are qualified to act as Company Secretary
under Section 235 of the Companies Act 2016. The Company Secretaries have been guiding the Board,
particularly on corporate governance issues and compliance with relevant policies and procedures,
rules, and regulatory requirements and ensuring good information flow within the Board, Board
Committees and Management.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
31
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
Part I - Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS (cont’d)
1.4 Qualified and competent Company Secretaries (Cont’d)
The Company Secretaries attend all meetings of the Board and Board Committees and ensure that all
Board and Board Committee meetings are properly convened, and that accurate and proper records of
proceedings and resolutions passed are recorded and maintained in the statutory register.
The Company Secretaries also keep abreast of the evolving capital market environment, regulatory
changes and developments in corporate governance through continuous training and guide the Directors
on the requirements encapsulated in the Company’s Constitution and legislative promulgations such as
the Companies Act 2016, AMLR, etc.
The Company Secretaries shall continue to guide the Directors on the requirements to be observed
arising from new regulations and guidelines issued by authorities.
1.5 Access to information and advice
All Directors may seek independent professional advice at the Company’s expense on specific issues
to enable them to discharge their duties, where necessary. Board Meetings for the ensuing year are
scheduled in advance before the end of the current financial year, for the Directors to plan ahead and
ensure full attendance. The notice of agenda, together with minutes of the previous meeting and other
relevant information, will be circulated to the Board at least five (5) days before the meetings.
Notices of the closed periods for trading in the Company’s securities in accordance with Chapter 14 of
the AMLR are served on the Directors before the commencement of the closed periods.
The Board papers contain all relevant information and reports on financial, operational, corporate,
regulatory, and market developments, as well as minutes of meetings. These documents are
comprehensive and include qualitative and quantitative information to enable the Board members to
make informed decisions.
The Company Secretaries are entrusted to record the Board’s deliberations, in terms of issues
discussed, to ensure that the deliberations at Board and Board Committee meetings are documented,
and subsequently communicate those deliberations to Management for appropriate actions.
The minutes of the previous Board and Board Committee meetings are distributed to the Directors/
Board Committees before the meeting for their perusal before confirmation of the minutes at the
commencement of the following Board and Board Committee meeting.
To facilitate productive and meaningful deliberations, the Directors will comment or request clarification
before the minutes are tabled for confirmation as a correct record of the proceedings of the meeting.
The Management provides Directors with complete and timely information prior to meetings and on an
ongoing basis to enable them to make informed decisions.
1.6 Sustainability Governance
The Board recognises the fundamental importance of sustainable business practices in creating long-
term value and believes that operating the business in a responsible manner is closely linked to achieving
operational excellence. The Board holds the primary responsibility for overseeing sustainability-related
matters, including the development of strategies, setting priorities, and establishing targets. Operational
execution pertaining to economic, sustainability and social (“ESS”) factors, as part of the Group’s
corporate strategies, falls within the purview of the Management.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
32
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
Part I - Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS (cont’d)
1.6 Sustainability Governance (Cont’d)
The Board is committed to upholding exemplary corporate governance practices that prioritise ethics,
integrity, and corporate responsibility. Moreover, the Board ensures that both internal and external
stakeholders are well-informed about the Group’s sustainability strategies, priorities, targets, and overall
performance.
A comprehensive account of these efforts can be found in the Sustainability Statement included within
pages 23 to 28 in this Annual Report. The Board also incorporated the assessment of the Board’s
understanding of sustainability issues in the annual performance evaluation process. This is critical to
the Company’s performance and reflects the Board’s ongoing commitment to sustainability.
2. DEMARCATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
The Board acknowledges the importance of the demarcation of responsibilities between the Board, Board
Committees and the Management.To achieve the aim of clarity in the authority of the Board, Board Committees
and individual directors, the Board has formalised and adopted a Board Charter.
2.1 Board Charter
The Board Charter adopted by the Board sets out the role, functions, composition, operation and
processes of the Board to ensure that all Board members acting on behalf of the Company are aware of
their duties and responsibilities as Board members. The Board Charter will be reviewed when necessary
and updated in accordance with the needs of the Company and any new regulations that may have an
impact on the discharge of the Board’s responsibilities. The Board Charter is available on the corporate
website - www.bioa.com.my.
3. GOOD BUSINESS CONDUCT AND CORPORATE CULTURE
The Board is committed to promoting good business conduct and maintaining a healthy corporate culture
that engenders integrity, transparency and fairness.
The Board, management, employees and other stakeholders of the Group are clear on what is considered
acceptable behaviors and practices within the Bioalpha Group.
3.1 Code of Ethics & Conduct
The Group is committed to achieving and monitoring high standards of behaviour at work.
The Board adhered strictly to the Code of Ethics and Conduct for Company Directors (“the Codes”) in
discharging its oversight role effectively. The Board will review the Codes when necessary to ensure they
remain relevant and appropriate.
The Codes require all Directors and Employees to observe high ethical business standards, to apply
these values to all aspects of the Group’s business and professional practice, and to act in good faith in
the best interests of the Group and its shareholders.
The details of the Code of Conduct and Ethics are available for reference on the Company’s website at
www.bioa.com.my.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
33
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
Part I - Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
3. GOOD BUSINESS CONDUCT AND CORPORATE CULTURE (cont’d)
3.2 Whistle Blowing Policy
The Board has adopted a Whistle Blowing Policy for the Group as a measure to promote the highest
standard of corporate governance. The whistleblowing policy outlines the avenues for the Directors,
employees and stakeholders to raise concerns or disclose in good faith any improper conduct within
the Group and to enable prompt corrective action and measures to resolve them effectively. The Whistle
Blowing Policy can be assessed at the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
3.3 Anti-Bribery Management System Policy
The Company had adopted the Anti-Bribery Management System Policy that set out the policies and
adequate procedures against bribery and corruption activities in the conduct of its business under the
gazetted Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (Amendment) Act 2018. The said
Policy can be assessed at the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
Part II - Board Composition
In order to achieve the intended outcome of the MCCG 2021, the Board decisions are made objectively in the best
interests of the Company taking into account diverse perspectives and insights, our Group has met most of the
good practices recommended by the MCCG 2021 as follows: -
4. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY
4.1 Composition of the Board
The Company is managed by a well-balanced Board which consists of members with a wide range of
business, technical and financial backgrounds. This brings diversity and insightful depth to the company
leadership and management.
The Board consists of eight (8) members, as designated below:
one (1) Independent Non-Executive Chairman;
one (1) Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer;
Two (2) Executive Directors;
one (1) Group Chief Financial Officer/Finance Director; and
Three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The present composition of the Board is in compliance with Rule 15.02 of the AMLR and MCCG 2021
Practice 4.1 which requires at least half of the Board members to be Independent Directors. The profile
of each Director is set out in the Profiles of Directors of this Annual Report.
The Board is aware of the importance of independence and objectivity in relation to the decision-making
process and the effectiveness of the Board’s function. The Board, therefore, has adopted the same
criteria for “independence” in tandem with the definition of “Independent Director” as prescribed by the
AMLR.
The Board members are persons of high calibre and integrity and provide a wealth of knowledge,
experience, and skills in the key areas of accountancy, business operations and development, finance
and risk management amongst others.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
34
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
4. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
4.2 Tenure of Independent Directors
The NC carries out the evaluation of independence for each Independent Director annually.
The NC has undertaken a review and assessment of the level of independence of the Independent
Directors during FYE 2023 and is satisfied that they are able to discharge their responsibilities in an
independent manner. The independence of Directors is measured based on the criteria prescribed under
the AMLR of Bursa Securities, in which a director should be independent and free from any business or
other relationship that could interfere with the exercise of independent judgement or the ability to act in
the best interests of the Company.
The Independent Directors have also declared their independence to the Board under the annual Board
evaluation process during the FYE 2023.
Following the amendment to AMLR of Bursa Securities, which restricts the tenure of an Independent
Director to twelve (12) years. Consequent thereto, none of the Independent Directors has exceeded a
cumulative term of twelve (12) years as at the date of this Statement.
The Company do not have a policy which limits the tenure of its independent directors to nine (9) years.
However, the Board takes note that the MCCG 2021 recommends that the tenure of an Independent
Director shall not exceed a cumulative term of nine (9) years unless shareholders’ approval is obtained
to retain such Director as an Independent Director. The Company has adopted the approach that upon
completion of nine (9) years, an Independent Directors may continue to serve on the Board subject to the
Director’s re-designation as a Non-Independent Director. If the Board intends to retain the Independent
Directors who have served the Company exceeding a cumulative term of nine (9) years, the Board
will need to justify and seek shareholders’ approval at the AGM through a two-tier voting process in
accordance with the MCCG 2021.
As of the date of this Statement, none of the Independent Directors has exceeded 9 years of tenure.
4.3 Diverse Board and Senior Management Team
The members of the Board are professionals with calibre and entrepreneurs equipped with industry-
specific knowledge and experience. This wide spectrum of skills and experience provides the strength
that is needed to lead the Company to meet its objectives. The Board is of the opinion that the directors,
with their different backgrounds and specialisations, collectively bring with them the required expertise
and experience to discharge the Board’s duties and responsibilities.
In assessing the suitability of candidates to the Board and Senior Management Team, consideration will
be given based on core competencies, commitment, contribution and performance of the candidates to
ensure that there is a range of professional knowledge, skills, experience and diversity (including gender
diversity). Understanding of the Business, the Market and the Industry in which the Group operates and
the accounting, finance and legal matters.
4.4 Gender Diversity
The Board has not set gender diversity target as of the reporting period. The Board is of the view that
the appointment of Board members or management should be determined based on objective criteria,
merit and with due regard for diversity in skills, experience and other qualities regardless of gender but
will nevertheless consider appointing more directors of the female gender where suitable to be in line
with the MCCG 2021’s target.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
35
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
4. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
4.4 Gender Diversity (Cont’d)
The Board currently has two female directors among its eight members, namely Ms Goh Siow Cheng
and Ms Tan Su Ning. The Board opined that gender should not be the basis of evaluation and given the
current state of the Group’s business and lifecycle, it is more important to have the right mix of skills,
knowledge, experience and expertise on the Board rather than to attain the threshold as stipulated in
MCCG 2021.
The NC evaluates and matches the criteria of the candidate, will consider diversity, including gender,
where appropriate, and recommends to the Board for appointment. In its effort to promote boardroom
diversity, the NC has taken various steps to ensure that women candidates are sought from various
sources as part of its recruitment exercise.
Nevertheless, the Board supports the initiative to include women representation on the Board to achieve
a more gender-diversified Board, henceforth, the Board is on the look for potential women Directors and
shall appoint additional women Directors as and when suitable candidates are identified. No timeframe
has been set for the search concerned.
4.5 Appointment of Directors
The appointment of new Directors is the responsibility of the full Board after considering the
recommendations of the NC. As a whole, the Company maintains an adequate number of Board
members. The Board appoints its members through a formal and transparent selection process which
is consistent with the Constitution of the Company. This process has been reviewed, approved and
adopted by the Board. New appointees will be considered and evaluated by the NC. The NC will then
recommend the candidates to be approved and appointed by the Board. The Company Secretaries will
ensure that all appointments are properly met.
Generally, the Board adopts a flexible approach when selecting and appointing new directors depending
upon the circumstances and timing of the appointment. The NC will help assess and recommend to the
Board, the candidature of directors, appointment of directors to board committees, review of Board’s
succession plans and training programmes for the Board.
In identifying suitable new candidates, the NC will not solely rely on recommendations from existing
Board members, Management or Major Shareholders, but will consider utilising independent sources.
On 4 September 2023, the Board has appointed Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa as Independent
Non-Executive Chairman and Ms Tan Su Ning as Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.
4.6 Re-election of retiring Director
In accordance with the Company’s Constitution states that an election of Directors shall take place each
year at the annual general meeting of the Company, where one-third of the Directors for the time being,
or, if their number is not three (3) or a multiple of three (3), then the number nearest to one-third shall
retire from office and be eligible for re-election, PROVIDED ALWAYS that Directors shall retire from office
at least once in each three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election. A retiring Director shall retain
office until the close of the meeting at which he retires. The Directors to retire each year are the Directors
who have been longest in office since their last appointment on re-election.
Pursuant to Clause 105(1) of the Company’s Constitution, Mr Ho Tze Hiung and Ms Goh Siow Cheng
are subject to retirement by rotation pursuant to Clause 105 of the Company’s Constitution at the
forthcoming Thirteenth Annual General Meeting (“13th AGM”) and Mr Ho Tze Hiung and Ms Goh Siow
Cheng has expressed their willingness to seek for re-election. The profiles of retiring Directors standing
for re-election are set out in the Directors’ Profile in the Annual Report 2023.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
36
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
4. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
4.6 Re-election of retiring Director (Cont’d)
The NC and the Board have considered the results of the annual assessment for Mr Ho Tze Hiung and
Ms Goh Siow Cheng and agreed that they can each meet the criteria of character, experience, integrity,
competence, and time required to effectively discharge their roles as Director.
The Board approved the NC’s recommendation that these directors who retire following the Company’s
Constitution are eligible to stand for re-election.
Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa and Ms Tan Su Ning are subject to re-election as Directors of the
Company at the forthcoming 13th AGM and they have expressed their willingness to seek for re-election
and the Board has approved the NC’s recommendation to put forward for shareholders’ approval on
their re-election as Directors pursuant to Clause 114 of the Company’s Constitution.
4.7 NC
The Company has established the NC comprising exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, with the
responsibilities of assessing the balanced composition of Board members, nominating the proposed
Board member by looking into his skills and expertise for contribution to the Company on an ongoing
basis. The appointment of new Directors is the responsibility of the full Board after considering the
recommendations of the NC. The NC is aware of their duties and responsibilities.
The composition of NC comprised three (3) Non-Executive Directors. The present members of the NC
are as follows:
Name Designation Directorship
Kang Jimmi Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director
Yee Yit Yang Member Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Su Ning
(appointed 4 September 2023)
Member Independent Non-Executive Director
The Terms of Reference of the NC can be viewed on the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my
The summary activities undertaken by the NC in the discharge of its duty for FYE 2023 are as follows:
i) Reviewed the size, structure and composition of the Board;
ii) Assessed and reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and the
contributions of the individual directors;
iii) Assessed and reviewed the independent of the independent directors;
iv) Assessed and reviewed the performance of AC and members of the AC;
v) Reviewed and recommended the adoption of the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy;
vi) Recommended the re-election of the Directors who are due for retirement by rotation at the 13th
AGM; and
vii) Recommended the re-election of newly appointed Directors to retire pursuant to Clause 114 of the
Company’s Constitution.
The NC had undertaken a review and assessment of the Independent Directors during FYE 2023 based
on the independence criteria as defined in the AMLR and is satisfied that they are able to discharge their
responsibilities in an independent manner.
The NC was satisfied that the Board has the right size and the Board composition is well balanced
having considered the appropriate mix of skills, experience, strength and independence and the diversity
required to meet the current and future needs of the Company.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
37
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
5. OVERALL BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
5.1 Annual assessment of the Directors, Board as a whole and Board Committees
		
The NC is required to assess the Board’s effectiveness in terms of its composition, roles and
responsibilities, and whether the Board Committees have discharged their functions and duties in
accordance with the terms of reference. The NC assesses on an annual basis the composition of the
Board to ensure that the Board has the appropriate mix of expertise and experience, and collectively
possesses the necessary core competencies for effective functioning and informed decision-making.
All assessments and evaluations carried out by the NC in discharging its functions have been well
documented.
The Board has, through the NC, conducted the following annual assessments in the FYE 2023:-
a) Directors’ self-assessment;
b) Evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and Board Committees;
c) Assessment of Independent Directors; and
d) Review of the term of office and performance of the Audit Committee and each of its members.
The annual assessment of individual Directors, Board as a whole and Board Committees commences
with the completion of a set of self-assessment forms detailing all assessment criteria to be completed
by all Directors for evaluation by the NC. Criteria for the self-assessment include self-ratings on the
Director’s knowledge, support of the goals of the Company, time commitment, and active participation
on the Board.
Based on the assessments conducted for the FYE 2023, the NC was satisfied with the performance of
the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and each individual Director.
5.1.1 Time Commitment and Directorship in Other Public Listed Companies
Under the Board Charter, the directorships in other public listed companies in Malaysia held
by any Board members at any one time shall not exceed any number as may be prescribed
by the relevant authorities. In addition, at the time of appointment, the Board shall obtain the
Director’s commitment to devote sufficient time to carry out his responsibilities. Directors are
required to notify the Chairman before accepting any new directorship(s). The notification
would include an indication of time that will be spent on the new appointment(s). Any Director
is, while holding office, at liberty to accept other Board appointments in other companies so
long as the appointment is not in conflict with the Company’s business and does not affect the
discharge of his/ her duty as a Director of the Company. To ensure that the Directors have time
to focus and fulfil their roles and responsibilities effectively, one (1) criterion as agreed by the
Board is that they must not hold directorships at more than five (5) public listed companies as
prescribed in Rule 15.06 of the AMLR of Bursa Securities.
Each Board member is required to achieve at least 50% attendance of total Board Meetings in
any applicable financial year with appropriate leave of absence and be notified to the Chairman
and/or Company Secretaries, where applicable.
The Directors have demonstrated their ability to devote sufficient time and commitment to their
roles and responsibilities as Directors of the Company. This is evidenced by the attendance
record of the Directors as set out in the section below.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
38
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
5. OVERALL BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
5.1 Annual assessment of the Directors, Board as a whole and Board Committees (Cont’d)
5.1.1 Time Commitment and Directorship in Other Public Listed Companies (Cont’d)
During FYE 2023, there were five (5) Board Meetings were held and the attendance record of the
current Board members is reflected as follows:-
Name of Directors Attendance
Hon Tian Kok @ William 5/5
Datuk Chong Loong Men 4/5
Ho Tze Hiung 5/5
Goh Siow Cheng 5/5
Kang Jimmi 5/5
Yee Yit Yang 5/5
Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa
(appointed on 4 September 2023)
1/1
Tan Su Ning
(appointed on 4 September 2023)
1/1
5.1.2 Continuing Education Programs/ Directors’ Training
All Directors save for newly appointed Director have undergone the Mandatory Accreditation
Program (“MAP”) prescribed by Bursa Securities. Although the Board does not have a policy
requiring each Director to attend a specific number and types of training sessions each year, the
Directors are encouraged to attend continuous education programmes/seminars/ conferences
and shall as such receive further training from time to time to keep themselves abreast of
the latest development in statutory laws, regulations and best practices, where appropriate,
in line with the changing business environment and enhance their business acumen and
professionalism in discharging their duties to the Group.
The Board has undertaken an assessment of the training needs of each of the Directors and
ensured that all the Directors undergo the necessary training programme to enable them to
effectively discharge their duties.
Details of seminars/conferences/training programmes attended by the Board members during
FYE 2023 are listed below:
Director
Seminars / Conferences / Training Programmes
Attended
Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa Mandatory Accreditation Program (MAP) - ICDM
Virtual Classroom
Hon Tian Kok @ William MIA Webinar Series : Principles of Fraud
Investigation
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
39
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
5. OVERALL BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
5.1 Annual assessment of the Directors, Board as a whole and Board Committees (Cont’d)
5.1.2 Continuing Education Programs/ Directors’ Training (Cont’d)
Director
Seminars / Conferences / Training Programmes
Attended
Datuk Chong Loong Men Briefing on the Key Amendments to the ACE
Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad relating to Sustainability
Training for Directors, Conflict of Interest and
Other Amendments
Ho Tze Hiung 1. JCI Asia Pacific Conference (Jakarta)
2. JCI World Congress (Switzerland)
Kang Jimmi Pembahasan K3 dan Contractor Safety
Management System (CSMS) Full Cycle
Yee Yit Yang Mandatory Accreditation Program (MAP) -
Leading for Impact (LIP)
Tan Su Ning Briefing on the Key Amendments to the ACE
Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad relating to Sustainability
Training for Directors, Conflict of Interest and
Other Amendments
Goh Siow Cheng Standard Chartered Global - Research Briefing
1H2023: A year of two halve
In addition to the above, the Directors would be updated on recent developments in the areas
of statutory and regulatory requirements from the briefing by the External Auditors, the Internal
Auditors and the Company Secretaries during the Board Committee and/or Board meetings.
Part III - Remuneration
The Board acknowledges the level and composition of remuneration of directors and senior management taking
into account the Company’s desire to attract and retain the right talent in the Board and senior management to
drive the Company’s long-term objectives. In order to achieve this aim, the Board has established a Remuneration
Committee and developed the remuneration policy to assist the Board in discharging its duties and responsibilities
in matters relating to the remuneration of the Board and senior management.
6. LEVEL AND COMPOSITION OF REMUNERATION
6.1 Remuneration Policies and Procedures
The Board believes the remuneration policy fairly supports the Directors’ responsibilities and fiduciary
duties in steering the Group to achieve its long-term goals and enhance shareholders’ value. The Board
offers a competitive remuneration package in order to attract, develop and retain talented individuals to
serve as directors.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
40
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
Part III - Remuneration (Cont’d)
6. LEVEL AND COMPOSITION OF REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
6.1 Remuneration Policies and Procedures (Cont’d)
The determination of the remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is a matter of the Board as a whole.
The level of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors reflects the amount paid by other comparable
organisations, adjusted based on the experience and levels of responsibilities undertaken by the
particular Non-Executive Director concerned. The remuneration package of Non-Executive Directors will
be a matter to be deliberated by the Board, with the Director concerned abstaining from deliberations
and voting on deliberations in respect of his individual remuneration. In addition, the Company also
reimburses reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by all the Non-Executive Directors in the
course of their duties as Directors of the Company. The aggregate annual Directors’ fees and other
benefits payable are to be approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting based on the
recommendations by the Board.
6.2 RC
The RC consists of entirely Independent Non-Executive Directors in order to assist the Board in
determining Directors’ remuneration. The present members of the RC are as follow: -
Name Designation Directorship
Tan Su Ning
(appointed 4 September 2023)
Chairperson Independent Non-Executive Director
Kang Jimmi
(redesigned on 4 September 2023)
Member Independent Non-Executive Director
Yee Yit Yang Member Independent Non-Executive Director
The RC’s principal objective is to evaluate, deliberate and recommend to the Board a remuneration
policy for Executive Directors that is fairly guided by market norms and industry practice. The RC also
recommends the Executive Directors’ remuneration and benefits based on their individual performances
and that of the Group.
The RC held a meeting during FYE 2023 to review the proposed remuneration package of the Executive
DirectorsandtheDirectorfeepayabletotheNon-ExecutiveDirectorsandrecommendedtheremuneration
packages and fees to the Board for approval. The RC also reviews the remuneration package of the
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer and recommends adjustments in remuneration and/or
reward payments that reflect the respective contributions for the year and achievement goals and/or
quantified organisational targets established by the Company.
The Terms of Reference of the RC can be viewed at the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
41
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (cont’d)
Part III - Remuneration (Cont’d)
7. REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
7.1 Details of Directors’ Remuneration
The details of Director’s remuneration are set out below:
Fees Salaries and Other
Emoluments*
Total
Executive Directors – 1,636,720 1,636,720
Non-Executive Directors 151,373 29,500 180,873
*Other emoluments include the meeting allowance for the Directors’ attendance in Board and Board’s
Committee Meetings.
The breakdown of the detailed Directors’ fees and other benefits paid during FYE 2023 is disclosed
in the Corporate Governance Report which is accessible to the public for reference at the Company’s
website at www.bioa.com.my.
PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Part I – AC
8. EFFECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT AC
8.1 Chairman of AC
		
Mr Kang Jimmi, who is an Independent Non-Executive Director, is the Chairman of the AC. The Company
complied with Practice 8.1 of the MCCG 2021 which stipulates that the Chairman of the AC is not the
Chairman of the Board as Mr Kang Jimmi is not the Chairman of the Board.
8.2 Former Key Audit Partner
None of the Board members is the former key audit partner of the External Auditors and the Directors
do not foresee any new appointment of former key audit partner to the Board. However, the Board will
observe the cooling-off period before appointing the former key audit partner, if any.
8.3 Assessment of Suitability and Independence of External Auditors
The Company has established a transparent arrangement with the External Auditors to meet their
professional requirements. From time to time, the External Auditors highlight to the AC and Board of
Directors matters that require the Board’s attention.
The AC is responsible for reviewing the audit, recurring audit-related and non-audit services provided by
the External Auditors. The AC has explicitly accorded the power to communicate directly with both the
External Auditors and Internal Auditors. The terms of engagement for services provided by the External
Auditors are reviewed by the AC prior to submission to the Board for approval. The effectiveness and
performance of the External Auditors are reviewed annually by the AC.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
42
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (cont’d)
Part I – AC (Cont’d)
8. EFFECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT AC (Cont’d)
8.3 Assessment of Suitability and Independence of External Auditors (Cont’d)
In assessing or determining the suitability and independence of the External Auditors, the AC has taken
into consideration the following:
i) the adequacy of the experience and resources of the External Auditors;
ii) the External Auditor’s ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to issues in a
timely manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
iii) the nature of the non-audit services provided by the External Auditors and fees paid for such
services relative to the audit fee; and
iv) whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity and
independence of the audit arising from the provision of non-audit services or tenure of the External
Auditors.
Every year, the AC will meet with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Director
and members of management to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors
are not compromised and matters of concerns expressed by the AC are duly recorded by the Company
Secretaries.
The Board approved the AC’s recommendation for the shareholders’ approval to be sought at the Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”) on the re-appointment of Messrs ChengCo PLT as the External Auditors of the
Company for the financial year ending 31 December 2024.
8.4 Composition of the AC
The AC consists entirely of three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors. During FYE 2023, the
composition of the AC is Kang Jimmi (Chairman) (redesigned on 4 September 2023), Yee Yit Yang and
Tan Su Ning (appointed on 4 September 2023). This composition of the AC complied with the requirement
of Rule 15.09(1)(a) and (b) of the AMLR.
The terms of reference and summary of activities of the AC are set out in the AC Report.
Part II – Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
9. Effective Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Board is entrusted with the overall responsibility of continually maintaining a sound system of internal
control, which covers not only financial controls but also operational and compliance controls as well as
risk management, and the need to review its effectiveness regularly in order to safeguard shareholders’
investments and the Company’s assets. The internal control system is designed to access current and
emerging risks and respond appropriate to risks of the Group.
As an effort to enhance the system of internal control, the Board together with the assistance of an external
professional Internal Audit firm adopted ongoing monitoring and review of the existing risk management
process in place within the various business operations, with the aim of formalising the risk management
functions across the Group. This function also acts as a source to assist the AC and the Board to strengthen
and improve current management and operating style in pursuit of best practices.
As an ongoing process, significant business risks faced by the Group are identified and evaluated and
consideration is given on the potential impact of achieving the business objectives. This includes examining
principal business risks in critical areas, assessing the likelihood of material exposures and identifying the
measures taken to mitigate, avoid or eliminate these risks.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
43
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (cont’d)
Part II – Risk Management and Internal Control Framework (Cont’d)
9. Effective Risk Management and Internal Control Framework (CONT’D)
The details of the Group’s risk management and internal control framework are elaborated in page 48 to 50 of
the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control of this Annual Report 2023, which has been reviewed
by the External Auditors.
9.1 RMC
The Board has set up an RMC with effect from 20 April 2018 and the present members of the RMC are
as follow: -
Chairman: Yee Yit Yang (Independent Non-Executive Director)
Members: Ho Tze Hiung (Independent Non-Executive Director)
Tan Su Ning (Independent Non-Executive Director)(appointed on 4 September 2023)
10. Internal Audit Function
The details of the Group’s internal audit function are elaborated in page 52 to 53 on the AC Report of this
Annual Report 2023.
PRINCIPLE C - INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS
Part I – Communication with Stakeholders
There is continuous communication between the Company and stakeholders to facilitate mutual understanding of
each other’s objectives and expectations. Stakeholders are able to make informed decisions with respect to the
business of the Company, its policies on governance, the environment and social responsibility.
11. Continuous Communication between Company and Stakeholders
The Board recognises the importance of keeping the shareholders informed and updated of developments
concerning the Group. In this regard, the Group strictly adheres to the disclosure requirements of Bursa
Securities. The Group practices open communication with its investors.
In order to maintain its commitment to effective communication with shareholders, the Group embrace the
practice of comprehensive, timely and continuing disclosures of information to its shareholders as well as the
general investing public.
The Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my incorporates an Investor Relations section which provides all
relevant information on the Company accessible to the public. This section enhances the Investor Relations
function by including all announcements made by the Company and its annual reports.
The quarterly financial results are announced via Bursa LINK after the Board’s approval. This is important in
ensuring equal and fair access to information by the investing public. Shareholders and investors may also
forward their queries to the Company via email at investorrelations@bioa.com.my.
In addition to the dissemination of information to shareholders and other interested parties via announcements
to Bursa Securities, its website, circulars and press releases, the Board is of the view that the annual and any
extraordinary general meetings as ideal opportunities to communicate with shareholders.
General meetings serve as important and effective platforms for directors and senior management to
communicate with the shareholders. Shareholders are able to participate, engage the Board and senior
management effectively and make informed voting decisions at general meetings.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
44
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE C - INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)
Part II – Conduct of General Meetings
12. Shareholder Participation at General Meetings
The general meeting serves as a principal platform for the Board and Senior Management to engage with
shareholders and encourage effective shareholders’ communication on the Company’s performance,
corporate and business developments and any other matters affecting shareholder interests.
The Company has been practising sending a Notice of AGM to shareholders at least 28 days prior to the
meeting and the Notice is also advertised in nationally circulated English daily newspapers. The Board
recognises that a longer notice allows ample time for shareholders to consider the resolutions before
exercising their voting rights, and to make arrangements to attend AGM either personally, through proxy or
corporate representative.
The Notice of an AGM also provides information to the shareholders with regard to, amongst others their
entitlement to attend the AGM, the right to appoint a proxy and also the qualifications of a proxy.
The Company dispatched its notice of the 12th AGM dated 28 April 2023 to shareholders at least 28 days
before the 12th AGM held on 7 June 2023, which is in line with Practice 12.1 of the MCCG 2021. This is to
enable the shareholders to have sufficient time to read and understand the Company’s financial and non-
financial performance before the meeting.
The 12th AGM of the Company held on 7 June 2023 was conducted on a fully virtual basis via live streaming
and through the Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities. Shareholders who attended the 12th
AGM could submit their questions during the meeting, which would be addressed by the Board and/or the
Management during the AGM.
All the Directors (save for Datuk Chong Loong Men) were present at the 12th AGM to engage directly with
shareholders respond to all questions raised and provide clarification as required by the shareholders. The
Chairman of the Board ensured that sufficient opportunities were given to shareholders and proxies to raise
questions relating to the affairs of the Company and that adequate responses were given.
In line with good corporate governance practice, the notice of the forthcoming 13th AGM, the Form of Proxy
and the Annual Report would be issued to the shareholders at least twenty-eight (28) days before the AGM.
This is to ensure that shareholders are given sufficient time to read and consider the resolutions to be
resolved. All the Directors of the Company will endeavour to attend all general meetings and the Chair of the
Board Committee will provide a meaningful response to questions addressed to them.
13. Attendance of the Chair of the Board Committees at the AGM
The general meeting also serves as an avenue for the Chairman and the Board members to engage in two-way
communication with shareholders where the shareholders are encouraged to participate in the question-and-
answer session with the Board personally and exercise their right to vote on the proposed resolutions.
The Board will ensure that all Board members, particularly the chairperson of each Board committee will make
their endeavours to attend general meetings to facilitate engagement with shareholders and to address any
relevant questions and concerns raised by the shareholders.
The external auditors will be present at the AGM to respond to any queries from shareholders on the audit
conducted, the preparation and content of the auditors’ report, the accounting policies adopted by the
Company, and the independent audit review of the Company’s financial position.
At the fully virtual 12th AGM of the Company held on 7 June 2023, the Board members attended the fully
virtual 12th AGM, and the representatives of the management and the external auditors attended the meeting
to respond to the questions raised by the shareholders or proxies.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
45
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PRINCIPLE C - INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)
Part II – Conduct of General Meetings (Cont’d)
14. Poll Voting
The Company conducts a poll voting on each resolution tabled during the general meetings to support
shareholders’ participation. As the number of shareholders of the Company is not large, the Company currently
conducts manual poll voting instead of electronic poll voting. With the poll voting, each shareholder present in
person or represented by proxy at the general meeting will be entitled to vote on a one-share, one-vote basis.
An Independent scrutineer is appointed to validate the votes cast at the meeting.
In line with Rule 8.31A of the AMLR of Bursa Securities, the Company will ensure that any resolution set out in
the notice of any general meeting, or in any notice of resolution which may properly be moved and is intended
to be moved at any general meeting, is voted by poll. At the same time, the Company will appoint at least one
(1) independent scrutineer to validate the votes cast at the general meeting.
As for voting in absentia and remote shareholders’ participation, the existing proxy form authorizing proxies
or the Chairman of the meeting is an alternative measure adopted by the Company. Shareholders are allowed
to appoint any person(s) as their proxies to attend, participate, speak and vote in his/her stead at a general
meeting.
All resolutions set out in the Notice of the 12th AGM were put to vote by poll and the votes cast were validated
by an independent scrutineer appointed by the Company. The outcome of all resolutions proposed at the
general meeting is announced to Bursa Securities at the end of the meeting day.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Board has deliberated, reviewed and approved this Corporate Governance Overview Statement. The Board
considers and is satisfied that the Company has fulfilled its obligation under MCCG 2021, AMLR and all applicable
laws and regulations throughout the FYE 2023.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 23 April 2024.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
46
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Directors are required by the Companies Act, 2016 to prepare the financial statements for each financial year which
have been made out in accordance with the applicable approved accounting standard in Malaysia.
The Directors are responsible to ensure that the financial statements is given a true and fair view of the financial
position of the Group and of the Company at the end of the financial year, and of the results and cash flows of the
Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have observed the following criteria:
• overseeing the overall conduct of the company’s business and that of the group;
• identifying principal risks and ensuring that an appropriate system of internal control exists to manage these
risks;
• reviewing the adequacy and integrity of internal controls system and management information system in the
company and within the group;
• adopting suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
• making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
• ensuring that the financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis and in compliance with
all applicable approved accounting standard in Malaysia subject to any material departures, if any, were
disclosed.
The Directors are satisfied that in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company for the financial
year ended 31 December 2023, appropriate accounting policies were used and applied consistently, and adopted
to include new and revised Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards where applicable. The Directors are also of
the view that relevant approved accounting standards have been followed in the preparation of these financial
statements.
The Directors are also responsible for taking such reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to
minimize fraud and other irregularities.
This Statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 23 April 2024.
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
IN RELATION TO THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
47
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
A. INTRODUCTION
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“Bioalpha” or the “Group”) is pleased to make
the following statement which outlines the key elements of the internal control system within the Group. The
Risk Management and Internal Control Statement is made in compliance with Rule 15.26(b) of Ace Market
Listing Requirements (“AMLR”) and Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for
Directors of listed Issuers (“Internal Control Guideline”).
B. BOARD RESPONSIBILITY
The Board affirms its overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and risk management to
maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders ‘investments and the Group’s assets
and also for reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the system. Notwithstanding, due to the limitations
that are inherent in any system of internal control, Group’s internal control system is designed to manage,
rather than eliminate, the risk of not adhering to the Group’s policies, and achieving objectives within the risk
tolerance established by the Board and Management. Therefore, the system provides reasonable, but not
absolute assurance against the occurrence of any material misstatement, loss or fraud.
C. RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board recognises that risk management is an integral part of the Group’s business operations and that
the identification and management of risks will affect the achievement of the Group’s business objectives.
the Board is thus committed to continually promote the culture of risk awareness and builds the necessary
knowledge in identifying, evaluating, mitigating, monitoring and managing the significant risks on an on-going
basis. In discharging its responsibilities, the Board has taken into account the guidance of the Malaysian Code
on Corporate Governance 2021(“MCCG 2021”).
The key risk management initiatives undertaken include among others:
(i) The responsibilities of the Board and the Management are clearly defined in the organisational structure
to ensure the effective discharge of the roles and responsibilities of the parties in overseeing the conduct
of the Group’s business;
(ii) Formation of operational policies and procedures by the Management with a view of establishing group
wide operational standards in order for all operating units to work cohesively towards achieving the
business objectives of the Group. For accounting systems and financial processes, efforts are being
taken to ensure consistency in the Group as a whole;
(iii) Frequent on-site visits to the operating units by senior management so as to acquire a first-hand view
on various operational matters and addressing the issues accordingly;
(iv) The Board gathers and reviews key financial and operating statistics on a monthly basis and constantly
keep track and monitor the achievement of the Group’s performance;
(v) Regular visit by internal auditors which provide independent assurance on the effectiveness of the
Group’s system of internal control and advising the Management on the areas for further improvement;
(vi) The AC reviews on a quarterly basis the quarterly unaudited financial results to monitor the Group’s
progress towards achieving the Group’s business objectives. Authority is given to the AC members to
investigate and report on any areas of improvement for the betterment of the Group; and
(vii) Regular interactive meetings between the external and internal auditors to identify and rectify any
weakness in the system of internal controls. The Board on a timely basis would be informed of any
matters brought up in the ARMC meetings.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
48
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
D. SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal controls that
provides assurance of effective and efficient operations and compliance with laws and regulations and also
its internal procedures and guidelines. The size and complexity of the operations may give rise to risks of
unanticipated or unavoidable losses.
The Board outsources the internal audit function to an independent professional firm. The firm is appointed by
AC and reports directly to the AC. Its role is to provide the AC with regular assurance on the continuity, integrity
and effectiveness of the internal control system through regular monitoring and review of the internal control
framework and management processes.
The system of internal controls is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk
of material errors, frauds or losses occurring. AC reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal controls,
which covers financial, operational and compliance controls, and also risk management.
The total cost incurred by the IA function is at RM28,000 for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
E. ACCOUNTABILITY & AUDIT
The Board endeavours to present a balance and clear assessment of the Group’s financial position and
prospects through unaudited quarterly financial reporting via the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, annual
audited financial statements, the Chairman Statement and Management Review in the annual reports.
The AC reviews the quarterly financial statements and the annual financial statements before they are
submitted to the Board for approval. A statement of the Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the financial
statements is set out on page 47 of this annual report.
F. OTHER KEY ELEMENTS OF INTERNAL CONTROL
The other key elements of the Group’s System of internal control are:
a) Management Structure
The Group maintains a formal organisation structure with clear lines of accountability and responsibility.
The daily running of the businesses is entrusted to the executive Directors and their Management
teams. The heads of each operating subsidiary and department of the Group are empowered with the
responsibility of managing their respective operations.
b) Strategic Business Plan and Annual Budget
The Board constructively challenges and contributes to the development of the Group’s strategic
directions and annually reviews the Group’s strategic business plan. The Board probes the Management
to ensure the Management has taken into consideration the varying opportunities and risks whilst
developing the strategic business plan.
The Group’s annual strategic business plan and budget is reviewed, deliberated and approved by the
Board.
The expectations of the Board are clearly discussed with, and understood by, the Management. The
Board is also responsible for monitoring the implementation of the strategic business plan and for
assessing the actual performance of the Group against the annual strategic business plan and budget
as well as to provide guidance to the Management.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(cont’d)
49
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
F. OTHER KEY ELEMENTS OF INTERNAL CONTROL (CONT’D)
c) Reporting and Review
Periodic operational and financial reports are prepared and presented to the Board for discussion and
review based on the established reporting hierarchy within the Group. Ad-hoc and scheduled meetings
are held at operational and management levels to identify operational issues, discuss and review the
business plans, budgets, financial and operational performances of the Group etc.
d) Quality Compliance
The Group’s plant is certified as Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) compliance by the Ministry of
Health, Malaysia, which affirms that the Group has adopted the required standards in the manufacturing
processes and facilities, i.e. production of health supplements. Moreover, the GMP and the products are
Certified Halal by the Department of Islamic Development Malaysia.
e) Internal Policies and Procedures
Policy and procedures, handbook, guidelines and authority limits have been established to guide
personnel on day-to-day operational activities.
f) Related Party Transactions
Related party transactions (if any) are disclosed, reviewed and monitored by the ARMC and presented
to the Board on a periodical basis.
G. ADEQUACY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE GROUP’S RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL
CONTROL
The Board has received assurance from the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief
Financial Officer of the Company that the Group’s risk management and internal control system is operating
adequately and effectively in all material aspects, based on the risk management and internal control system
of the Group.
H. REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT
Pursuant to Rule 15.23 of the AMLR, the external Auditors have reviewed this Risk Management and Internal
Control Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December
2023 and reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention that causes them to believe that
this statement is inconsistent with their understanding of the process adopted by the Board in reviewing the
adequacy and integrity of the system of internal controls.
I. BOARD CONCLUSIONS
The Board is satisfied that, during the year under review, the existing system of internal controls and risk
management is sound and adequate to safeguard the Group’s assets at the existing level of operations of
the Group. The Board recognises that the development of internal control system is an ongoing process.
Therefore, in striving for continuous improvement, the Board will continue to take appropriate action plans to
further enhance the Group’s system of internal control.
This statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board dated 23 April 2024.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(cont’d)
50
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
AC REPORT
The Board of Directors is pleased to present the Audit Committee (“AC”) Report for the financial year ended 31
December 2023 in accordance with Rule 15.15 of the AMLR of Bursa Securities.
COMPOSITION
The current composition of the AC is set out below:
1) Kang Jimmi (Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director) (redesigned on 4 September 2023)
2) Yee Yit Yang (Member, Independent Non-Executive Director)
3) Tan Su Ning (Member, Independent Non-Executive Director) (appointed on 4 September 2023)
Yee Yit Yang, being a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants, fulfils the requirement of Rule 15.09(1)(c)
of the AMLR.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The terms and reference of the AC is made available on the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
ATTENDANCE OF MEETINGS
A total of five (5) meetings were held in FYE 2023. Details of attendance of the AC members are as follows:
Name of Members Total Meetings Attended
Kang Jimmi (redesigned on 4 September 2023) 5/5
Yee Yit Yang 5/5
Tan Su Ning (appointed on 4 September 2023) 1/1
The composition of the AC is in compliance with Practice 1.4 of the MCCG 2021. At the invitation of the AC, the
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, relevant Management, External and Internal Auditors attended the AC
meetings and presented their reports on financial results, audit findings and other matters for the information and/
or approval of the AC.
The Company Secretaries act as Secretary to the AC and shall circulate the minutes of meetings of the AC to all
members of the AC. Detailed audit reports by the Internal Auditors and the respective management response are
circulated to the members of the AC before each Meeting at which the said reports are tabled. The AC Chairman later
updated the Board on relevant and salient issues with the recommendations of the AC for the Board’s consideration
and approval.
SUMMARY ACTIVITIES OF THE AC
The AC met at scheduled times during the year, with due notices of meetings issued, and with agendas planned and
itemised so that matters were deliberated and discussed in a detailed manner. Apart from the scheduled meetings,
ad-hoc meetings were also called at the discretion of the AC. The minutes of each meeting held were distributed to
each member of the Board at subsequent Board Meetings. The AC Chairman reported on each meeting to members
of the Board.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
51
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
SUMMARY ACTIVITIES OF THE AC (CONT’D)
The activities of the AC during the financial year ended 31 December 2023 include the following:
a) Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results of the Group and the Company including the announcements
pertaining thereto, before recommending to the Board for their approval and release of the Group’s results to
Bursa Securities;
b) Reviewed with External Auditors on their audit planning memorandum on the statutory audit of the Group for
the financial year ended 31 December 2023;
c) Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the Group before recommending to the Board for their
approval and release of the Group’s results to Bursa Securities;
d) Reviewed and discussed with the external auditors their audit findings inclusive of system evaluation, audit
fees, issues raised, audit recommendations and Management’s response to these recommendations;
e) Evaluated the performance of the External Auditors for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 covering
areas such as calibre, quality processes, audit team, audit scope, audit communication, audit governance and
independence and considered and recommended the re-appointment of the External Auditors;
f) Reviewed the re-appointment of new External Auditors, Messrs ChengCo PLT for the financial year ending 31
December 2024 and recommended to the Board’s for approval;
g) Reviewed and assessed the adequacy of the scope and functions of the internal audit plan;
h) Reviewed the internal audit reports presented and considered the findings of internal audit through the review
of the internal audit reports tabled and the Management’s responses thereof;
i) Reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control;
j) Reviewed the proposed fees for the external auditors and internal auditors in respect of their audit of the
Company and the Group;
k) Reviewed related party transactions and conflict of interest situations that may arise within the Company or
the Group;
l) Reviewed the Company’s compliance with the AMLR, applicable Approved Accounting Standards and other
relevant legal and regulatory requirements;
m) Reviewed the AC Report and Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control before recommending to
the Board for approval and inclusion in the Annual Report; and
n) Report to the Board on its activities and significant findings and results.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTIONS
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to Governanceadvisory.com Sdn Bhd (“GA”), an independent
professional firm engaged in risk advisory and internal audit services. The primary responsibility of the internal audit
function is to provide an independent, objective assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of governance, risk
and processes implemented by the management. The internal auditor adopts a risk-based approach to plan and
prioritise audit work on high-risk auditable areas.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(cont’d)
52
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTIONS (CONT’D)
The Internal Auditors reports directly to the AC quarterly by presenting their audit reports which include their
findings and recommendations for improvements to the AC for review and deliberation. The AC evaluated the
adequacy of the responses, actions and measures taken by the Management within the required timeframe
in resolving the audit issues reported. The Internal Auditors also carried out follow-up reviews to monitor the
implementation of the said action plans and measures reported to the AC. The AC Chairman then briefed the
Board on the internal audit reports on any major findings.
Presently, there are 10 internal auditors with relevant qualifications within GA. Mr Jason Tee who has 14 years’
experience and reports directly to the AC to ensure impartiality and independence leads as the head of GA. Being
an external internal audit firm, all internal auditors are free from any relationships and conflict of interest with the
Group which could impair their objectivity and independence, GA carries out a Conflict of Interest Declaration yearly
to ensure their independence. The Internal Auditors adopt the International Professional Practices Framework for
their audit works.
The cost incurred for the Internal Audit Function during financial year ended 31 December 2023 is approximately
RM28,000.
During the financial year, the following activities were carried out by the internal auditors in discharge of its
responsibilities:
i) Purchasing review
• To ensure policies and procedures are documented and adhered to at all time.
• To ensure new supplier are assessed, selected, and appointed before purchasing activities.
• To ensure existing suppliers’ performance/ assessment is evaluated.
• To ensure competitive pricing and quality prior to order placement.
• To ensure purchase requisition/ order are approved by authorized personnel.
• To ensure stock safety level are in place to avoid insufficient stock.
ii) Sales review
• To ensure established policies and procedures are documented and adhered to all time.
• To ensure sales target are monitored and report.
• To ensure under achieved target are reviewed and immediate action is taken.
• To ensure product price quoted are according to approved sales price.
• To ensure sales order are timely process and delivered.
• To ensure appropriate Value Added Tax (“VAT”) rate is charged on sales and service.
• To ensure tax invoice (“fapiao”) is record, reconciled, and submit with VAT return by the due date.
The AC and the Board agreed that the internal audit review was done in accordance with the audit plan and the
coverage was adequate.
For further details on risk management, internal controls and internal audit functions, please refer to the Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control on pages 48 to 50 in this Annual Report 2023.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(cont’d)
53
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
1. UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS
The Company has undertaken a Renounceable Rights Issue of Warrants which was completed on 14 February
2024 following the listing and quotation of 526,099,537 Warrants on the Ace Market of Bursa Securities and
has raised gross proceeds of RM18,413,494.
						
					 Proposed Intended time
					 Usage Frame for
No. Purpose 			 RM’000 Utilisation
(a) Expansion of group’s pharmacy
		  business			 5,500 Within 24 months
(b) Launching of new products			 3,500 Within 24 months
(c) Repayment of bank borrowings			 6,000 Within 12 months
(d) Working capital 			 2,663 Within 12 months
(e) Expenses in relation to Right
 Issue of Warrants			 750 Within 1 month
		 Total			 18,413
2. AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES PAID TO EXTERNAL AUDITORS
The amount of audit and non-audit fees paid to the firm or corporation affiliated to the External Auditors by the
Company and the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 are as follows:
				 Company Group
					
(RM) (RM)
Audit Services Rendered				 70,000 330,134
Non-Audit Services Rendered
(a) Review of Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control		 5,000 5,000
(b) Review of foreign subsidiaries report for consolidation purpose		 31,000 31,000
3. MATERIAL CONTRACTS OR LOANS INVOLVING THE INTERESTS OF THE DIRECTORS, CHIEF
EXECUTIVE WHO IS NOT A DIRECTOR OR MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS
There were no material contracts or loans between the Company and its subsidiary that involve the interests
of the Directors, Chief Executive who is not a Director or Major Shareholders.
ADDITIONAL
COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
54
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
4. SHARE ISSUANCE SCHEME
The Share Issuance Scheme of the Company (“SIS”) is governed by the SIS By-Laws and was approved by
shareholders on 19 August 2016 and shall be in force for a period of five (5) years and may be extended for
such further period, at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board upon the recommendation by the SIS
Committee, provided always that the Initial Scheme Period above and such extension of the scheme made
pursuant to the Bylaws shall not in aggregate exceed a duration of ten (10) years or such other period as may
be prescribed by Bursa Securities or any other relevant authorities from the effective date of the SIS.
The Company had on 9 November 2023 extended the duration of its existing SIS, which is expiring on 11
January 2024, for another 3 years from 12 January 2024 to 11 January 2027 in accordance with Clause 21 of
the SIS Bylaws.
Movement of the number of share options and the weighted average exercise prices are as follows: -
		 Number of options over Ordinary Shares
		 Exercise At			At
Date of offer Price 1.1.2023 Granted Exercised 31.12.2023
		 (RM) (‘000) (’000) (’000) (‘000)
27 February 2017 0.205 1,989 – – 1,989
16 April 2020 0.105 2,276 – – 2,276
11 October 2022 0.090 125,000 – – 125,000
Please refer to page 127 and page 128 of the Annual Report 2023 for the further details on the Share Issuance
Scheme.
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
(cont’d)
55
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
financial
statements
57 Directors’ Report
62 Statement by Directors
62 Statutory Declaration
63 Independent Auditors’ Report
67 Statements of Financial Position
69 Statements of Profit or Loss and
Other Comprehensive Income
71 Statements of Changes in Equity
74 Statements of Cash Flows
78 Notes to the Financial Statements
The directors hereby submit their report together with the audited financial statements of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are detailed
in Note 5 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
RESULTS
			 Group Company
				
RM RM
		
Net (loss)/profit for the financial year 				 (43,653,769) 2,733,116
		
Attributable to: 		
Owners of the Company				 (42,000,116) 2,733,116
Non-controlling interest 				 (1,653,653) –
				 (43,653,769) 2,733,116
		
DIVIDENDS
No dividends have been paid or declared by the Company since the end of the previous financial year. The directors
do not recommend the payment of any dividend in respect of the current financial year.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
During the financial year, the Company increase its share capital from RM179,939,010 to RM 186,191,208 by way of:
(a) On 30 June 2023, 14 September 2023, 18 September 2023, 21 September 2023 and 4 October 2023, issuance
of 25,909,094, 1,088,963, 600,000, 15,454 and 805,574 new ordinary shares as a result of conversion of ICPS
at issue price of RM0.22 to RM5,700,000, RM239,572, RM132,000, RM3,400 and RM177,226 respectively;
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary
shares of the Company.
The Company did not issue any new debentures during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
57
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
At extraordinary general meeting held on 19 August 2016, the Company’s shareholders approved the establishment
of SIS of not more than 30% of the issued share capital of the Company at any point of time throughout the duration
of the SIS to eligible Directors and employees of the Group.
The SIS shall be in force for a period of 5 years from 12 January 2017 to 10 January 2022. The Company had on
6 January 2022 extended the existing SIS which expired on 11 January 2022 for another 2 years from 12 January
2022 to 11 January 2024 in accordance with the Clause 21 Of the SIS Bylaws. On 9 November 2023, the Company
further extended the existing SIS which expired on 11 January 2024 for another 3 years from 12 January 2024 to
11 January 2027.
The salient feature and other term are disclosed in the Note 19(a) to the financial statements.
As at 31 December 2023, the SIS offered to take up unissued ordinary shares and the exercise prices are as follows:
Exercise At		
Number of options		 At
Date of offer price 1.1.2023 Cancellation Granted Exercised 31.12.2023
RM
				
27 February 2017 0.205 1,988,899 – – – 1,988,899
16 April 2020 0.105 2,275,863 – – – 2,275,863
11 October 2022 0.090 125,000,000 – – – 125,000,000
DIRECTORS
The directors in office during the financial year and during the year from the end of the financial year to the date of
the report are:
Hon Tian Kok @ William *
Datuk Chong Loong Men
Ho Tze Hiung *
Kang Jimmi
Yee Yit Yang
Goh Siow Cheng
Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa (appointed on 4 September 2023)
Tan Su Ning (appointed on 4 September 2023)
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim (resigned on 7 June 2023)
Mohd Nasir Bin Abdullah (resigned on 7 June 2023)
* Director of the Company and of its subsidiaries
The Directors who held office in the subsidiaries (excluding Directors who are also Directors of the Company)
during the financial year up to the date of this report:
Abd Rahman Bin Yasir
Dato’ Ng Ah Kow (alternative Director to Ng Yau Loong)
Ng Yau Loong
The information required to be disclosed pursuant to Section 253 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia is deemed
incorporated herein by such reference to the financial statements of the respective subsidiaries and made a part
hereof.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(cont’d)
58
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The interest and deemed interest in the shares, options and ICPS over shares of the Company and of its related
corporation of those who were Directors at financial year end (including their spouses or children) according to the
Register of Directors’ Shareholdings are as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
		 At Bought/		 At
		 1.1.2023 Conversion Sold 31.12.2023
Interest in the Company				
Direct Interest		 		
Hon Tian Kok @ William		 50,350,199 28,649,894 (33,000,093) 46,000,000
				
Number of ICPS
		
At			
At
		 1.1.2023 Bought Sold 31.12.2023
Interest in the Company				
Direct Interest				
Hon Tian Kok @ William		 237,161,736 47,838,300 (285,000,036) –
Goh Siow Cheng		 10,000,000 – (10,000,000) –
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, no director of the Company has received or become entitled to receive
any benefit (other than benefits included in the aggregate amount of emoluments received or due and receivable by
the directors as disclosed in directors’ remuneration in this report) by reason of a contract made by the Company or
a related corporation with the director or with a firm of which the director is a member, or with a company in which
the director has a substantial financial interest other than any deemed benefit which may arise from transactions
as disclosed in Note 34(c) to the financial statements.
Neither during, nor at the end of the financial year, was the Company a party to any arrangements where the object
is to enable the directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of the Company
or any other body corporate.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM RM RM RM
Executive Directors				
Salaries and other emoluments 		 1,474,389 1,272,260 987,213 759,063
Social security contributions		 3,119 3,216 3,119 2,214
Defined contribution plan 		 159,212 130,972 115,154 87,038
Share based payment		 – 515,738 – 515,738
		 1,636,720 1,922,186 1,105,486 1,364,053
Non-executive Directors				
Salaries and other emoluments 		 29,500 44,100 29,500 44,100
Fees 		 151,373 169,750 151,373 157,750
Share based payment		 – (4,352) – (4,352)
		 180,873 209,498 180,873 197,498
				
Total directors’ remuneration		 1,817,593 2,131,684 1,286,359 1,561,551
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(cont’d)
59
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION (cont’d)
The numbers of directors of the Group whose total remuneration during the financial year fell within the following
bands is analysed below:
Number of directors
				
2023 2022
				 RM RM
		
Executive directors:		
RM150,001 - RM200,000				 – 1
RM250,001 - RM300,000				 2 1
RM450,001 - RM500,000				 – 2
RM500,001 - RM550,000				 1 –
RM550,001 - RM600,000				 1 –
		
Non-executive directors:		
RM1 - RM50,000				 4 3
RM50,001 - RM100,000				 – 1
		
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
Before the financial statements of the Group and the Company were prepared, the directors took reasonable steps:
(a) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
allowance for doubtful debts, and had satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and
the adequate allowance had been made for doubtful debts; and
(b) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including
the values of current assets as shown in the accounting records of the Group and the Company have been
written down to an amount which the current assets might be expected so to realise.
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(a) which would render the amounts written off for bad debts or the amount of the allowance for doubtful debts
inadequate to any substantial extend in the financial statements of the Group and the Company; or
(b) which would render the values attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and the
Company misleading; or
(c) which have arisen and render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the
Group and the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(d) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which would render any amount stated in
the financial statements of the Group and the Company misleading.
At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(a) any charge on the assets of the Group and the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year
which secures the liabilities of any other person; or
(b) any contingent liability of the Group and the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(cont’d)
60
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (cont’d)
No contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable within the year of twelve
months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the directors, will or may substantially affect the
ability of the Group and the Company to meet its obligations as and when they fall due.
In the opinion of the directors, no item, transaction, or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the
interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect substantially the
results of the operations of the Group and the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.
INDEMNITIES TO DIRECTORS, OFFICERS OR AUDITORS
During the financial year, the total amount of indemnity insurance coverage and insurance premium paid for all
directors and certain officers of the Company were RM1,000,000 and RM6,476 respectively.
No indemnity was given to or insurance effected for auditors of the Group during the financial year.
AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The auditors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company are amounted to RM330,134 and RM70,000 (2022:
RM212,289 and RM61,500) during the financial year.
SUBSIDIARIES
The details of the subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
The detail of the significant events during the financial year are disclosed in Note 39 to the financial statements.
SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE FINANCIAL YEAR
The detail of the significant events after the financial year are disclosed in Note 40 to the financial statements.
Auditors
The auditors, CHENGCO PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Signed on behalf of the board of directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors,
---------------------------------------------------
HON TIAN KOK @ WILLIAM
Director
---------------------------------------------------
HO TZE HIUNG
Director
Kuala Lumpur
Date:
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(cont’d)
61
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
We, Hon Tian Kok @ William and Ho Tze Hiung, being the two of the directors of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad, do
hereby state that in opinion of directors, the financial statements set out on pages 67 to 156 are drawn up in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of
the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2023 and of the results of its financial performance and its cash
flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the board of directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors,
--------------------------------------------------------- ----------------------------------------------------
HON TIAN KOK @ WILLIAM HO TZE HIUNG
Director Director
Kuala Lumpur
Date:
STATEMENT BY
DIRECTORS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2016
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1)(b) OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2016
I, Hon Tian Kok @ William (MIA Membership No: 32907), being the director primarily responsible for the financial
management of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set
out on pages 67 to 156, are to the best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration
conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared at )
)
on this )
Before me,
		----------------------------------------------------
		 HON TIAN KOK @ WILLIAM
		 Director
SAMUEL JOHN A/L PONNIAH
Membership no.: B437
62
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD, which comprise the statements of
financial position as at 31 December 2023 of the Group and of the Company, and the statement of profit or loss
and other comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and
of the Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of
material accounting policies, as set out on pages 67 to 156.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2023, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for
the financial year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for
the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice)
of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’
International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA
Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. The key audit matters
for the audit of the financial statements of the Group are described below. These matters were addressed in the
context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our
opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. For each matter below, our description
of how our audit addressed the matter is provided in that context.
INDEPENDENT
AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
63
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
Key Audit Matters (Cont’d)
1. Impairment assessment of goodwill
As at 31 December 2023, the carrying amount of the Group’s goodwill on consolidation amounted to
RM5,334,030 mainly arising from acquisition of Mediconstant Holding Sdn. Bhd.. The risk arise from the
potential impairment of goodwill.
In addressing this, we have involved the group auditors in performing, amongst others, the following audit
procedures:
- We reviewed the measurement method adopted by the Group in accordance to the requirements of
MFRS 136 Impairment of Assets;
- We tested the mathematical accuracy of the impairment assessment;
- We obtained and assessed the discounted cash flow by comparing the cash flow projections to available
business plan and comparing the actual results with previous budget to assess the performance of the
business and reliability of forecasting process; and
- Assessed the adequacy of disclosure of goodwill in the financial statements.
2. Impairment assessment of intangible assets
As at 31 December 2023, the carrying amount of the Group’s intangible assets on consolidation amounted
to RM47,382,981. The intangible assets included development expenditure, patents, and software. The risk
arising from the potential impairment of intangible assets.
In addressing this, we have involved the group auditors in performing, amongst others, the following audit
procedures:
- We reviewed the appropriateness of the estimated useful lives in relation to its industry and nature of
the assets;
- We checked reasonableness of the amortisation charge during the financial year for the selected
categories;
- We have review and determine whether the indication that the intangible assets may be impaired exists.
Where impairment losses are identified, ascertain that they are accounted for and disclosed;
- Assessed the management’s determination of the discount rate by evaluation the appropriateness of
the models used and the reasonableness of the inputs thereon;
- Performed sensitivity analysis to assess the impact on the recoverable amount; and
- Reviewed the adequacy disclosure in the financial statements.
3. Trade receivables impairment review
The Group’s trade receivables amounting to RM5,635,502, representing approximately 11% of the Group’s
total current assets as at 31 December 2023. The assessment of recoverability of receivables involved
judgements and estimation uncertainty in analysing historical bad debts, customer concentration, customer
creditworthiness and customer payment terms.
In addressing this, we have involved the group auditors in performing, amongst others, the following audit
procedures:
- We obtained and evaluated the Group’s credit risk policy, and tested the processes used by management
to assess credit exposures;
- We assessed the recoverability of trade receivables by checking past payment trend and assessing the
receipts during the financial year and subsequent to year end collections; and
- We have reviewed the appropriateness of the disclosures made in the financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
(cont’d)
64
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information include in the directors’ and annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to
read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also
responsible for such internal control as the directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial
statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing
the Group’s and of the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related
to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the
Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error
and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and
obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud
may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s and of the Company’s internal control.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
and related disclosures made by the directors.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
(cont’d)
65
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we
conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the
related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date
of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to
continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business
activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible
for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit
opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were most significance in
the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public
disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be
communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of
which we have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the member of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person
for the content of this report.
CHENGCO PLT 		 VOON XUAM MING
201806002622		 03738/05/2025 J
(LLP0017004-LCA) & AF0886		 Chartered Accountant
Chartered Accountants		
Kuala Lumpur
Date:
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
(cont’d)
66
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
					
(Restated)
Notes RM RM RM RM
ASSETS		
Non–current assets		
Property, plant and equipment 4 54,378,157 59,427,489 300,000 300,806
Investment in subsidiaries 5 – – 13,716,436 13,716,436
Investment in an associate 6 3,294,380 – – –
Goodwill on consolidation 7 5,334,030 5,334,030 – –
Intangible assets 8 47,382,981 51,810,908 – –
		 110,389,548 116,572,427 14,016,436 14,017,242
		
Current assets		
Biological assets 10 100,000 175,000 – –
Inventories 11 6,742,895 8,497,538 – –
Trade receivables 12 5,635,502 8,944,684 – –
Other receivables 13 7,053,100 16,668,049 13,676 52,369
Amount due from subsidiaries 9 – – 190,439,739 188,069,533
Tax recoverable		 386,394 1,001,601 48,905 23,832
Other investments 14 21,477,010 9,026,826 – –
Fixed deposits with licensed banks 15 1,017,551 22,791,034 – 7,500,000
Cash and cash equivalents 16 10,423,573 16,972,445 482,801 198,125
		 52,836,025 84,077,177 190,985,121 195,843,859
TOTAL ASSETS		 163,225,573 200,649,604 205,001,557 209,861,101
		
STATEMENTS OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
As at 31 December 2023
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
67
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Notes RM RM RM RM
		
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES		
Equity attributable to owners of
 the Company		
Share capital 17 186,191,208 179,939,010 186,191,208 179,939,010
ICPS 18 2,889,371 9,141,569 2,889,371 9,141,569
Reserves 19 (61,713,732) (21,222,103) 2,154,528 (578,588)
		 127,366,847 167,858,476 191,235,107 188,501,991
Non–controlling interests		 2,265,246 128,601 – –
TOTAL EQUITY		 129,632,093 167,987,077 191,235,107 188,501,991
		
LIABILITIES		
Non–current liabilities		
Loan and borrowings 20 2,103,963 2,965,804 – –
Lease liabilities 21 4,247,294 4,171,162 – –
Deferred tax liabilities 22 5,520,389 7,310,126 – –
		 11,871,646 14,447,092 – –
		
Current liabilities		
Contract liabilities 23 1,388,760 1,189,840 – –
Trade payables 25 4,114,291 4,789,633 – –
Other payables 24 10,678,492 7,258,173 826,577 419,237
Amount due to subsidiaries 9 – – 12,939,873 20,939,873
Loan and borrowings 20 3,994,514 3,986,164 – –
Lease liabilities 21 1,545,777 552,783 – –
Tax payable		 – 438,842 – –
		 21,721,834 18,215,435 13,766,450 21,359,110
TOTAL LIABILITIES		 33,593,480 32,662,527 13,766,450 21,359,110
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES		 163,225,573 200,649,604 205,001,557 209,861,101
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
(cont’d)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
68
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Notes RM RM RM RM
Revenue 26 46,086,810 35,796,829 6,000,000 5,000,000
Cost of sales (45,962,751) (41,778,647) – –
Gross profit/(loss)		 124,059 (5,981,818) 6,000,000 5,000,000
Other operating income 27 5,457,039 1,242,381 448,088 308,816
Administration expenses		 (43,889,483) (31,858,381) (2,467,673) (2,177,398)
Net loss on impairment
 of financial assets		 (6,283,370) (11,462,167) (1,232,455) (3,974,350)
(Loss)/Profit from operation (44,591,755) (48,059,985) 2,747,960 (842,932)
Finance costs 28 (687,004) (769,678) – –
(Loss)/Profit before tax 29 (45,278,759) (48,829,663) 2,747,960 (842,932)
Share of loss of associated
 company		 (5,620) – – –
Taxation 30 1,630,610 35,985 (14,844) (62,588)
(Loss)/Profit for the financial year		 (43,653,769) (48,793,678) 2,733,116 (905,520)
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
69
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Notes RM RM RM RM
Items that are may be reclassified
 subsequently to profit or loss
Exchange differences on translation
 of foreign operation 1,562,879 2,128,851 – –
Other comprehensive income
 for the financial year, net of tax		 1,562,879 2,128,851 – –
Total comprehensive (loss)/income
 for the financial year		 (42,090,890) (46,664,827) 2,733,116 (905,520)
(Loss)/Profit for the financial
 year attributable to:
Owners of the Company		 (42,000,116) (47,830,550) 2,733,116 (905,520)
Non–controlling interests		 (1,653,653) (963,128) – –
		 (43,653,769) (48,793,678) 2,733,116 (905,520)
Total comprehensive (loss)/income
 for the financial year attributable to:
Owners of the Company		 (40,491,629) (45,689,355) 2,733,116 (905,520)
Non–controlling interests		 (1,599,261) (975,472) – –
		 (42,090,890) (46,664,827) 2,733,116 (905,520)
Loss per share:
Basic (sen) 31 (a) (3.32) (3.80)
Diluted (sen) 31 (b) (2.10) (2.91)
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
(cont’d)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
70
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-distributable
							
Foreign		
Retained
					
SIS		
currency		
earnings/ 		
Non-
		
Share		
Warrant option Merger translation Other (Accumulated		
controlling Total
		 capital ICPS reserve reserve deficits reserve reserve losses) Total interests equity
Notes RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
At 1 January 2022		 153,233,258 9,141,569 15,517,253 635,220 (4,569,128) 276,781 (15,517,253) 27,956,518 186,674,218 (335,548) 186,338,670
Loss for the financial year		 – – – – – – – (47,830,550) (47,830,550) (963,128) (48,793,678)
Foreign exchange
 translation reserve		 – – – – – 2,141,195 – – 2,141,195 (12,344) 2,128,851
Total comprehensive
 income/(loss) for the
 financial year		 – – – – – 2,141,195 – (47,830,550) (45,689,355) (975,472) (46,664,827)
Transactions with owners:
Share options granted
 under SIS 19 – – – 1,100,085 – – – – 1,100,085 – 1,100,085
Exercised of SIS 19 23,860,583 – – (340,583) – – – – 23,520,000 – 23,520,000
Cancellation of SIS 19 – – – (591,641) – – – – (591,641) – (591,641)
Exercised of warrants		 2,845,169 – (1,634,679) – – – 1,634,679 – 2,845,169 – 2,845,169
Expired of warrant 		 – – (13,882,574) – – – 13,882,574 – – – –
Dilution in a subsidiary		 – – – – – – – – – 1,439,621 1,439,621
Transactions with owners 26,705,752 – (15,517,253) 167,861 – – 15,517,253 – 26,873,613 1,439,621 28,313,234
At 31 December 2022		 179,939,010 9,141,569 – 803,081 (4,569,128) 2,417,976 – (19,874,032) 167,858,476 128,601 167,987,077
STATEMENTS OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
71
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-distributable
						
Foreign		
				
SIS		
currency			
Non-
		
Share		
option Merger translation Accumulated		
controlling Total
		 capital ICPS reserve deficits reserve losses Total interests equity
Notes RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
At 1 January 2023		 179,939,010 9,141,569 803,081 (4,569,128) 2,417,976 (19,874,032) 167,858,476 128,601 167,987,077
Loss for the financial year		 – – – – – (42,000,116) (42,000,116) (1,653,653) (43,653,769)
Foreign exchange
 translation reserve		 – – – – 1,268,123 240,364 1,508,487 54,392 1,562,879
Total comprehensive
 income/(loss) for
 the financial year		 – – – – 1,268,123 (41,759,752) (40,491,629) (1,599,261) (42,090,890)
Transactions with owners:
Conversion of ICPS 17 6,252,198 (6,252,198) – – – – – – –
Dilution in a subsidiary		 – – – – – – – 3,735,906 3,735,906
Transactions with owners 6,252,198 (6,252,198) – – – – – 3,735,906 3,735,906
At 31 December 2023		 186,191,208 2,889,371 803,081 (4,569,128) 3,686,099 (61,633,784) 127,366,847 2,265,246 129,632,093
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
(cont’d)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
72
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
								
(Accumulated
						
SIS		
losses)/
			 Share Warrant option Other Retained Total
			 capital ICPS reserve reserve reserve earnings equity
		 Notes RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Company
At 1 January 2022 		 153,233,258 9,141,569 15,517,253 635,220 (15,517,253) (476,149) 162,533,898
Loss for the financial year,
 representing total comprehensive
 loss for the financial year			 – – – – – (905,520) (905,520)
Transactions with owners:
Share options granted under SIS		 19 – – – 1,100,085 – – 1,100,085
Exercised of SIS		 19 23,860,583 – – (340,583) – – 23,520,000
Cancellation of SIS		 19 – – – (591,641) – – (591,641)
Exercised of warrants			 2,845,169 – (1,634,679) – 1,634,679 – 2,845,169
Expired of warrants 			 – – (13,882,574) – 13,882,574 – –
Transactions with owners			 26,705,752 – (15,517,253) 167,861 15,517,253 – 26,873,613
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023			 179,939,010 9,141,569 – 803,081 – (1,381,669) 188,501,991
Profit for the financial
 year, representing total
 comprehensive income for
 the financial year			 – – – – – 2,733,116 2,733,116
Transactions with owners:
Conversion of ICPS		 17 6,252,198 (6,252,198) – – – – –
Transactions with owners			 6,252,198 (6,252,198) – – – – –
At 31 December 2023			 186,191,208 2,889,371 – 803,081 – 1,351,447 191,235,107
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
(cont’d)
73
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Notes RM RM RM RM
Cash flows from operating activities
(Loss)/Profit before tax		 (45,278,759) (48,829,663) 2,747,960 (842,932)
Adjustments for:
 Amortisation of intangible assets		 2,618,056 2,417,572 – –
 Amortisation of deferred capital grant		 (37,160) (405,019) – –
 Bad debts written off		 14,248 356,705 – –
 Deposits written off		 11,463 – – –
 Depreciation of property,
  plant and equipment		 8,915,160 10,156,011 806 1,306
 Dividend income		 – – (6,000,000) (5,000,000)
 Share based payment		 – 508,444 – 508,444
 (Gain)/Loss on disposal of
  property, plant and equipment		 (130,537) 2,522 – –
 Gain on disposal of quoted shares		 (561,300) – – –
 (Gain)/Loss on dilution
  of a subsidiary		 (65,972) 1,439,621 – –
 Written off of plantation
  expenditure		 – 2,114,958 – –
 Fair value loss on
  biological assets		 75,000 516,731 – –
 Fair value loss on quoted
  shares investments		 13,553,153 – – –
 Allowance of expected credit losses:
 - Trade receivables		 3,533,754 10,930,843 – –
 - Other receivables		 5,193,863 – – –
 - Amount due from subsidiaries		 – – 1,232,455 3,974,350
 Reversal of allowance for
  expected credit losses:
  - Trade receivables		 (2,444,247) (293,785) – –
  - Other receivables		 – (47,725) – –
 Impairment of property, plant and
  equipment		 1,133,411 – – –
 Impairment on intangible assets		 1,423,023 – – –
 Interest expenses		 687,004 769,678 – –
 Interest income		 (257,798) (526,879) (74,858) (307,992)
 Provision of slow-moving inventories		 – 580,730 – –
 Reversal of provision of
  slow-moving inventories		 (10,236) – – –
 Inventories written off		 18,101 758,789 – –
 Gain on early termination
  of lease contract		 – (83,717) – –
STATEMENTS OF
CASH FLOWS
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
74
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Notes RM RM RM RM
Cash flows from operating
 activities (cont’d)
 Property, plant and equipment
  written off		 388,600 3,289,959 – –
 Intangible assets written off		 1,316,199 620,520 – –
 Rent concession related to COVID–19		 – – – 147,815
 Unrealised (gain)/loss on foreign
  exchange		 (235,071) 981,193 – –
Operating loss before working
 capital changes		 (10,140,045) (14,742,512) (2,093,637) (1,519,009)
Change in working capital:
 Inventories		 1,746,778 295,024 – –
 Receivables		 6,615,050 6,302,195 38,692 (11,164)
 Payables		 2,981,057 4,539,818 407,342 (277,307)
		 11,342,885 11,137,037 446,034 (288,471)
Cash from/(used in) operations		 1,202,840 (3,605,475) (1,647,603) (1,807,480)
 Tax refund		 295,825 – – –
 Tax paid		 (278,587) (219,025) (39,917) (66,586)
Net cash from/(used in)						
 operating activities		 1,220,078 (3,824,500) (1,687,520) (1,874,066)
Cash flows from investing activities
 Acquisition of intangible assets A (388,132) (3,696,202) – –
 Purchase of property, plant
  and equipment B (2,966,939) (3,128,431) – (60,000)
 Decrease/(Increase) in short-term
  placement		 16,485,950 (9,014,920) – –
 Addition investment in associated
  companies		 (3,300,000) – – –
 Proceed from diluted of shares in
  investment in subsidiary		 – 1 – –
 Net cash inflows arising from
  acquisition from non-controlling
  interest (“NCI”)		 3,856,268 – – –
 Proceeds from disposal of
  property, plant and equipment		 185,000 42,150 – –
 Acquisition of other investments		 (41,927,987) – – –
 Interest received		 257,798 526,879 74,858 307,992
 Dividend received		 – – 6,000,000 5,000,000
Net cash (used in)/from
 investing activities		 (27,798,042) (15,270,523) 6,074,858 5,247,992
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(cont’d)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
75
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Notes RM RM RM RM
Cash flows from financing activities
 Repayments to subsidiaries		 – – (11,602,662) (33,879,988)
 Withdrawal in fixed deposits
  pledged and maturity more
  than 3 months		 7,845,236 – 7,500,000 –
 Placement in fixed deposits
  pledged and maturity more
  than 3 months		 (217,779) – – –
 Proceed from exercise of SIS		 – 23,520,000 – 23,520,000
 Proceed from issuance of shares
  upon exercise of warrants		 – 2,845,167 – 2,845,167
 Decrease in short-term deposits
  pledged with licensed bank		 – (20,690) – –
 Repayments of lease liabilities C (1,727,707) (1,290,651) – –
 Repayments of term loans		 (2,041,491) (2,391,055) – –
 Drawdown of banker acceptance		 1,188,000 – – –
 Interest paid		 (687,004) (769,678) – –
Net cash from/(used in)
 financing activities		 4,359,255 21,893,093 (4,102,662) (7,514,821)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash
 and cash equivalents (22,218,709) 2,798,070 284,676 (4,140,895)
Effect of exchange translation
 differences		 1,523,811 1,006,341 – (147,815)
Cash and cash equivalents at
 beginning of financial year 		 31,118,471 27,314,060 198,125 4,486,835
Cash and cash equivalents at
 end of financial year 		 10,423,573 31,118,471 482,801 198,125
Cash and cash equivalents at the end
 of the financial year comprises:
Cash and bank balances 		 10,423,573 16,972,445 482,801 198,125
Fixed deposits with licensed banks 1,017,551 22,791,034 – 7,500,000
		 11,441,124 39,763,479 482,801 7,698,125
Less: Fixed deposit pledged with
   licensed banks		 (799,772) (1,145,008) – –
Less: Fixed deposit maturity more
   than 3 months		 (217,779) (7,500,000) – (7,500,000)
		 10,423,573 31,118,471 482,801 198,125
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(cont’d)
76
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTE TO STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
Group Company
		2023 2022 2023 2022
Notes RM RM RM RM
A. Acquisition of intagible assets
  Total addition 8 388,132 3,696,202 – –
Cash payment		 388,132 3,696,202 – –
B. Purchase of property, plant
  and equipment
 Total addition 4 5,590,460 4,902,489 – 60,000
 Purchase through lease
  arrangements		 (2,623,521) (1,774,058) – –
 Cash payment		 2,966,939 3,128,431 – 60,000
C. Cash outflows for leases as
  a lessee
 Included in net cash from
  operating activities:
 Payment relating to low
  value assets 29 17,705 – – –
 Payment relating to short-term
  leases 29 472,867 – – –
		 490,572 – – –
 Included in net cash from
  operating activities:
 Payment of lease liabilities 1,727,707 1,290,651 – –
 Payment on interest of
  lease liabilities 207,435 162,891 – –
		 1,935,142 1,453,542 – –
2,425,714 1,453,542 – –
The accompanying notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
(cont’d)
77
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia, and is listed on
the ACE Market of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The principal place of business of the Company is
located at No. 1, Jalan Perindustrian Suntrack, Hub Perindustrian Suntrack, Off Jalan P1A, Seksyen 13, Bandar
Baru Bangi, 43000 Kajang, Selangor Darul Ehsan and the registered office of the Company is located at B-21-1,
Level 21, Tower B, Northpoint Mid Valley City, No. 1, Medan Syed Putra Utara, 59200 Kuala Lumpur Wilayah
Persekutuan.
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding. There have been no significant changes in the
nature of these activities of the Company. The principal activities of its subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to
the financial statements.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution
of the directors on
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
2.1 Basis of preparation
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards (“MFRS”), International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
2.2 Basis of measurement
The financial statements, which are expressed in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), have been prepared under the
historical cost basis except as disclosed in the accounting policies below.
2.3 Adoption of new and amended standards
The Group and the Company has adopted the following MFRS and Interpretations (collectively referred
to as “MFRSs’), issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) and effective for the
financial periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023;
MFRSs, Interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January
2023
• MFRS 17, Insurance Contracts
• Amendments to MFRS 17, Insurance Contracts
• Amendments to MFRS 108, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors –
Definition of Accounting Estimates
• Amendments to MFRS 101, Presentation of Financial Statements – Disclosures of Accounting
Estimates
• Amendments to MFRS 112, Income Tax – Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising
from a Single Transaction
• Amendment s to MFRS 112, Income Tax – International Tax Reform – Pillar Two Model Rules
The adoption of the above accounting standards and/or interpretations (including the consequential
amendments, if any) did not have any material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
78
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.4 Standards issued but not yet effective
The Company has not adopted the following standards that have been issued as of the reporting date
but are not yet effective:
MFRSs, Interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January
2024
• Amendments to MFRS 16, Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
• Amendments to MFRS 101, Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
• Amendments to MFRS 107 and MFRS 7, Supplier Finance Arrangements
• Amendments to MFRS 101, Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-Current
MFRSs, Interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January
2025
• Amendments to MFRS 121, Lack of Exchangeability
MFRSs, Interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or after a date yet to
be confirmed
• Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128, Consolidated Financial Statements and Investments
in Associates and Joint Ventures - Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its
Associate or Joint Venture
2.5 Functional and presentation currency
The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are measured using the currency of
the primary economic environment in which they operate (“the functional currency”). The consolidated
financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the Company’s functional
currency, and has been rounded to the nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.
2.6 Basis of consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of the Company and its
subsidiaries. The financial statements of the subsidiaries and associates used in the preparation of
the consolidated financial statements are prepared for the same reporting period as the Company.
Consistent accounting policies are applied to like transactions and events in similar circumstances.
(a) Subsidiaries and business combination
Subsidiaries are entities (including structure entities) over which the Group is exposed, or has
rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the acquirees and has the ability to affect
those returns through its power over the acquirees.
The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements
from the date the Group obtains control of the acquirees until the date the Group loses control of
the acquirees.
The Group applies the acquisition method to account for business combinations from the
acquisition date.
79
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.6 Basis of consolidation (Cont’d)
(a) Subsidiaries and business combination (Cont’d)
For a new acquisition, goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the following:
• the fair value of the consideration transferred, calculated as the sum of the acquisition date
fair value of assets transferred (including contingent consideration), the liabilities incurred
to former owners of the acquiree and the equity instruments issued by the Group. Any
amounts that relate to pre-existing relationships or other arrangements before or during
the negotiations for the business combination, that are not part of the exchange for the
acquiree, will be excluded from the business combination accounting and be accounted for
separately; plus
• the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair value
or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the acquisition date
(the choice of measurement basis is made on an acquisition-by-acquisition basis); plus
• if the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition-date fair value of the
previously held equity interest in the acquiree; less
• the net fair value of the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities (including contingent
liabilities) assumed at the acquisition date.
The accounting policy for goodwill is set out in Note 2.31 to the financial statements.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss
at the acquisition date.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the
Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the Group remeasures the previously held equity
interest in the acquiree to its acquisition-date fair value, and recognises the resulting gain or loss,
if any, in profit or loss. Amounts arising from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date
that have previously been recognised in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit
or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings on the same basis as would be required if the
acquirer had disposed directly of the previously held equity interest.
If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the reporting period
in which the business combination occurs, the Group uses provisional fair value amounts for the
items for which the accounting is incomplete. The provisional amounts are adjusted to reflect
new information obtained about facts and circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date,
including additional assets or liabilities identified in the measurement period. The measurement
period for completion of the initial accounting ends as soon as the Group receives the information
it was seeking about facts and circumstances or learns that more information is not obtainable,
subject to the measurement period not exceeding one year from the acquisition date.
Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the
former subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity related to
the former subsidiary from the consolidated statement of financial position. Any gain or loss
arising on the loss of control is recognised in profit or loss. If the Group retains any interest in
the former subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value at the date that control is lost.
Subsequently, it is accounted for as an associate, a joint venture or a financial asset.
Changes in the Group’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control
are accounted for as equity transactions. The difference between the Group’s share of net assets
before and after the change, and the fair value of the consideration received or paid, is recognised
directly in equity.
80
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.6 Basis of consolidation (Cont’d)
(b) Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests represent the equity in subsidiaries not attributable, directly or indirectly,
to owners of the Company and are presented separately in the consolidated statements of
financial position within equity.
Losses attributable to the non-controlling interests are allocated to the non-controlling interests
even if the losses exceed the non-controlling interests.
(c) Associate
Associate is entity over which the Group has significant influence, but not control, to the financial
and operating policies.
Investment in an associate is accounted for in the consolidated financial statements using the
equity method.
Under the equity method, the investment in an associate is initially recognised at cost. The cost of
investment includes transaction costs. Subsequently, the carrying amount is adjusted to recognise
changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate.
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the carrying amount of that
interest including any long-term investments is reduced to zero, and the recognition of further
losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or has made payments
on behalf of the associate.
When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any retained interest in
the former associate at the date when significant influence is lost is measured at fair value and
this amount is regarded as the initial carrying amount of a financial asset. Any difference between
the carrying amount of the associate upon loss of significant influence and the fair value of the
retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss.
When the Group’s interest in an associate decrease but does not result in a loss of significant
influence, any retained interest is not remeasured. Any gain or loss arising from the decrease
in interest is recognised in profit or loss. Any gains or losses previously recognised in other
comprehensive income are also reclassified proportionately to the profit or loss if that gain or
loss would be required to be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or
liabilities.
(d) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from
intra-group transactions are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted associates are eliminated
against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are
eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the extent that there is no evidence of
impairment.
81
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.7 Separate financial statements
In the Company’s statement of financial position, investment in subsidiaries and associate are
measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held
for sale or distribution. The cost of investment includes transaction costs. The policy for the recognition
and measurement of impairment losses shall be applied on the same basis as would be required for
impairment of non-financial assets as disclosed in Note 2.17(b) to the financial statements.
Contributions to subsidiaries are amounts for which the settlement is neither planned nor likely to
occur in the foreseeable future is, in substance, considered as part of the Company’s investment in the
subsidiaries.
2.8 Foreign currency transactions and operations
(a) Translation of foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency transactions are translated to the respective functional currencies of the Group
entities using the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction dates.
At the end of each reporting date, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are
retranslated at the exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at fair value are
retranslated at the rates prevailing at the dates the fair values were determined. Non-monetary
items denominated in foreign currencies that are measured at historical cost are translated at the
historical rates as at the dates of the initial transactions.
Foreign exchange differences arising on settlement or retranslation of monetary items are
recognised in profit or loss except for monetary items that are designated as hedging instruments
in either a cash flow hedge or a hedge of the Group’s net investment of a foreign operation. When
settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned
nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss
in the separate financial statements of the parent company or the individual financial statements
of the foreign operation. In the consolidated financial statements, the exchange differences are
considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised initially in
other comprehensive income until its disposal, at which time, the cumulative amount is reclassified
to profit or loss.
The gain or loss arising on translation of non-monetary items measured at fair value is treated in
line with the recognition of the gain or loss on the change in fair value of the item (i.e. translation
differences on items whose fair value gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income
or profit or loss are also recognised in other comprehensive income or profit or loss, respectively).
(b) Translation of foreign operations
The assets and liabilities of foreign operations denominated in the functional currency different
fromthepresentationcurrency,includinggoodwillandfairvalueadjustmentsarisingonacquisition,
are translated into the presentation currency at exchange rates prevailing at the reporting date.
The income and expenses of foreign operations are translated at exchange rates at the dates of
the transactions.
Exchange differences arising on the translation are recognised in other comprehensive income.
However, if the foreign operation is a non-wholly owned subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate
share of the translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests.
82
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.8 Foreign currency transactions and operations (Cont’d)
(b) Translation of foreign operations (Cont’d)
Whenaforeignoperationisdisposedofsuchthatcontrol,significantinfluenceislost,thecumulative
amount in foreign exchange translation reserves related to that foreign operation is reclassified
to profit or loss. For a partial disposal not involving loss of control of a subsidiary that includes a
foreign operation, the proportionate share of cumulative amount in foreign exchange translation
reserve is reattributed to non-controlling interests. For partial disposals of associates that do not
result in the Group losing significant influence, the proportionate share of the cumulative amount
in foreign exchange translation reserve is reclassified to profit or loss.
2.9 Current versus non-current classification
Assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position are presented based on current/non-current
classification.
An asset is current when it is:
(i) Expected to be realised or intended to be sold or consumed in the normal operating cycle;
(ii) Held primarily for the purpose of trading;
(iii) Expected to be realised within twelve months after the reporting periods; or
(iv) Cash or cash equivalents unless restricted from being exchanged or used to settle a liability for at
least twelve months after the reporting period
A liability is current when:
(i) It is expected to be settled in the normal operating cycle;
(ii) It is held primarily for the purpose of trading;
(iii) It is due to be settled within twelve months after the reporting periods; or
(iv) There is no unconditional right to defer the settlement of the liability for at least twelve months
after the reporting period
All other assets and liabilities are classified as non-current.
2.10 Financial instruments
Financial instruments are recognised in the statements of financial position when, and only when, the
Group and the Company become a party to the contractual provisions of the financial instrument.
Except for the trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for which the
Group has applied the practical expedient, the financial instruments are recognised initially at its fair
value plus or minus, in the case of a financial asset or financial liability not at fair value through profit
or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial asset
and financial liability. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at fair value through profit or loss are
expensed in profit or loss. Trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or for
which the Group has applied the practical expedient are measured at the transaction price determined
under MFRS 15.
An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract and accounted for as a
derivative if, and only if, it is not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host
contract; it is a separate instrument with the same terms as the embedded derivative would meet the
definition of a derivative; and the hybrid contract is not measured as fair value through profit or loss.
The host contract, in the event an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in
accordance with the policy applicable to the nature of the host contract.
83
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.10 Financial instruments (Cont’d)
A derivative embedded within a hybrid contract containing a financial asset host is not accounted for
separately. The financial asset host together with the embedded derivative is required to be classified in
its entirety as a financial asset at fair value through profit or loss.
(a) Subsequent measurement
The Group and the Company categorise the financial instruments as follows:
(i) Financial assets
For the purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in four
categories:
• Financial assets at amortised cost
• Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income with recycling of
cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition
• Financial assets designated at fair value through other comprehensive income with no
recycling of cumulative gains and losses upon derecognition
• Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss
The classification depends on the entity’s business model for managing the financial assets
and the contractual cash flows characteristics of the financial assets.
The Group and the Company reclassify financial assets when and only when their business
models for managing those assets change.
Debt instruments
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s and the Company’s
business model for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There
are three measurement categories into which the Group and the Company classify their debt
instruments:
• Amortised cost
Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and those cash
flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised
cost. Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the
effective interest method and are subject to impairment. The policy for the recognition
and measurement of impairment is in accordance with Note 2.17(a) to the financial
statements. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the financial asset
is derecognised, modified or impaired.
• Fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVOCI”)
Financial assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the
financial assets, and the assets’ cash flows represent solely payments of principal and
interest, are measured at FVOCI. For debt instruments at FVOCI, interest income, foreign
exchange revaluation and impairment losses or reversals are recognised in profit or
loss and computed in the same manner as for financial assets measured at amortised
cost. The remaining fair value changes are recognised in other comprehensive income.
The policy for the recognition and measurement of impairment is in accordance with
Note 2.17(a) to the financial statements. Upon derecognition, the cumulative fair value
change recognised in other comprehensive income is recycled to profit or loss. The
Group and the Company have not designated any financial asset as financial assets at
FVOCI.
84
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.10 Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(a) Subsequent measurement (Cont’d)
The Group and the Company categorise the financial instruments as follows (Cont’d):
(i) Financial assets (Cont’d)
Debt instruments (Cont’d)
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s and the Company’s
business model for managing the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There
are three measurement categories into which the Group and the Company classify their debt
instruments (Cont’d):
• Fair value through profit or loss (“FVPL”)
Financial assets at FVPL include financial assets held for trading, financial assets
designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss, or financial assets
mandatorily required to be measured at fair value. Financial assets are classified as
held for trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or repurchasing in the
near term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives, are also classified
as held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging instruments.
Financial assets with cash flows that are not solely payments of principal and interest
are classified and measured at fair value through profit or loss, irrespective of the
business model. Notwithstanding the criteria for debt instruments to be classified at
amortised cost or at FVOCI, as described above, debt instruments may be designated
at fair value through profit or loss on initial recognition if doing so eliminates, or
significantly reduces, an accounting mismatch.
Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss are carried in the statements of
financial position at fair value with net changes in fair value recognised in the profit or
loss.
Equity instruments
Upon initial recognition, the Group and the Company can make an irrevocable election to
classify its equity investments that is not held for trading as equity instruments designated
at FVOCI. The classification is determined on an instrument-by-instrument basis.
Gains and losses on these financial assets are not recycled to profit or loss. Dividends
are recognised as other income in the profit or loss when the right of payment has been
established, except when the Group and the Company benefit from such proceeds as a
recovery of part of the cost of the financial asset, in which case, such gains are recorded
in other comprehensive income. Equity instruments designated at FVOCI are not subject
to impairment assessment. The Group and the Company have not designated any equity
instruments designated as FVOCI.
(ii) Financial liabilities
The Group and the Company classify their financial liabilities in the following measurement
categories:
• Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
• Financial liabilities at amortised cost
85
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.10 Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(a) Subsequent measurement (Cont’d)
The Group and the Company categorise the financial instruments as follows (Cont’d):
(ii) Financial liabilities (Cont’d)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include financial liabilities held for
trading, including derivatives (except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee contract
or a designated and effective hedging instrument) or financial liabilities designated into this
category upon initial recognition.
Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss are
measured at fair value with the gain or loss recognised in profit or loss.
Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss
are designated at the initial date of recognition, and only if the criteria in MFRS 9 Financial
Instruments are satisfied. The Group and the Company have not designated any financial
liability as at fair value through profit or loss.
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Subsequent to initial recognition, other financial liabilities are measured at amortised cost
using effective interest method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss when the
financial liabilities are derecognised and through the amortisation process.
(b) Financial guarantee contracts
A financial guarantee contract is a contract that requires the issuer to make specified payments to
reimburse the holder for a loss it incurs because a specified debtor fails to make payment when
due in accordance with the original or modified terms of a debt instrument.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, net of transaction
costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of the guarantee. Subsequent to initial
recognition, the liability is measured at the higher of the amount of the loss allowance determined
in accordance with Section 5.5 of MFRS 9 and the amount initially recognised, when appropriate,
the cumulative amount of income recognised in accordance with the principles of MFRS 15.
(c) Derecognition
A financial asset or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when:
(i) the contractual rights to receive the cash flows from the financial asset expire; or
(ii) the Group and the Company have transferred their rights to receive cash flows from the asset
or have assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material delay to
a third party; and either (a) the Group and the Company have transferred substantially all the
risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group and the Company have neither transferred
nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, but have transferred control
of the asset.
86
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.10 Financial instruments (Cont’d)
(c) Derecognition (Cont’d)
The Group and the Company evaluate if, and to what extent, they have retained the risks and
rewards of ownership. When they have neither transferred nor retained substantially all of the
risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Group and the Company
continue to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of their continuing involvement. In that
case, the Group and the Company also recognise an associated liability. The transferred asset and
the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the
Group and the Company have retained.
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured
at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration
that the Group and the Company could be required to repay.
On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount (measured at
the date of derecognition) and the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less
any new liability assumed) is recognised in profit or loss.
A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified
in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. On derecognition of a financial liability, the
difference between the carrying amount and the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets
transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
(d) Offsetting of financial instruments
Financialassetsandfinancialliabilitiesareoffset,andthenetamountispresentedinthestatements
of financial position if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised amounts
and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the liabilities
simultaneously.
In accounting for a transfer of a financial asset that does not qualify for derecognition, the entity
shall not offset the transferred asset and the associated liability.
2.11 Property, plant and equipment
Operating tangible assets that are used for more than one accounting period in the production and
supply of goods and services, for administrative purpose or for rental to others are recognised as
property, plant and equipment when the Company obtains control of the asset. The assets, including
major spares, stand-by equipment and servicing equipment, are classified into appropriate classes
based on the nature. Any subsequent replacement of a significant component in an existing asset is
capitalised as a new component in the asset and the old component is derecognised.
All property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. For a purchased asset, cost comprises
purchases price plus all directly attributable costs incurred in bringing the asset to its present location
and condition for management’s intended use.
87
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.11 Property, plant and equipment (Cont’d)
All property, plant and equipment are subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and
accumulated impairment losses All plant and equipment are depreciated by allocating the depreciable
amount over the remaining useful life. The depreciation methods used and useful lives of the respective
classes of property, plant and equipment are as follows:
		 Method Useful life
Freehold building Straight-line 50 years
Leasehold land and building Straight-line 50 years
Computer system and peripherals Straight-line 5 to 10 years
Lab and office equipment, furniture and fittings Straight-line 5 to 10 years
Motor vehicles Straight-line 5 years
Plant and machineries Straight-line 5 to 10 years
Renovations Straight-line 5 to 10 years
Signage and display items Straight-line 5 to 10 years
Infrastructure expenditure Straight-line 10 years
Plantation expenditure Straight-line 9 months - 15 years
Warehouse, shoplot, factory and building Straight-line Over the lease term
Leasehold land Straight-line Over the lease term
Bearer plants		
- Herbal plants Straight-line 12 months to 10 years
- Fruit plants Straight-line 5 to 6 years
At the end of each reporting period, the residual values, useful lives and depreciation methods for the
property, plant and equipment are reviewed for reasonableness. Any change in estimate of an item is
adjusted prospectively over its remaining useful life, commencing in the current financial year.
The property, plant and equipment work in progress are not depreciated until the assets are ready for
their intended use.
2.12 Biological assets
Biological assets comprise living herbal plantation and produce growing on bearer plants. Biological
assets are measured at fair value less costs of disposal. Any gain or losses arising from changes in
fair value less costs disposal net of transfer to produce stocks are recognised net in profit or loss. Fair
value is determined based on the present value of expected net cash flows from the biological assets.
The expected net cash flows are estimated using the expected output method and the estimated market
price of the biological assets.
Biological assets are classified as current assets for bearer plants that are expected to be harvested and
livestock that are expected to be sold or used for production on a date not more than 12 months after
the reporting date.
2.13 Leases
(a) Definition of lease
At inception of a contract, the Group and the Company assess whether a contract is, or contains,
a lease. A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys the right to control the use of an
identified asset for a period in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a contract conveys
the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group and the Company assess whether:
• the contract involves the use of an identified asset;
• the Group and the Company have the right to obtain substantially all the economic benefits
from use of the asset throughout the period of use; and
• the Group and the Company have the right to direct the use of the asset.
88
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.13 Leases (Cont’d)
(b) Lessee accounting
At the lease commencement date, the Group and the Company recognise a right-of-use asset and
a lease liability with respect to all lease agreements in which it is the lessee, except for short-term
leases (defined as leases with a lease term of 12 months or less) and leases of low value assets.
The Group and the Company present right-of-use assets and lease liabilities as separate lines in
the statements of financial position.
Right-of-use asset
The right-of-use asset is initially recognised at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the
lease liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus
any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying
asset or to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives
received.
The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses and adjust for any remeasurement of the lease liabilities. The
right-of-use asset is depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date
to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term.
The depreciation starts from the commencement date of the underlying asset. The policy for the
recognition and measurement of impairment losses is in accordance with Note 2.17(b) to the
financial statements.
Lease liability
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid
at the commencement date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot
be readily determined, the Group and the Company use their incremental borrowing rate.
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise:
• fixed lease payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentives;
• the exercise price of a purchase option, if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that
option; and
• payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the lessee
exercising an option to terminate the lease.
The lease liability is subsequently measured by increasing the carrying amount to reflect interest
on the lease liability and by reducing the carrying amount to reflect the lease payments made.
The Group and the Company remeasure the lease liability (and makes a corresponding adjustment
to the related right-of-use asset) whenever:
• the lease term has changed or there is a change in the assessment of exercise of a purchase
option, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease
payments using a revised discount rate.
• a lease contract is modified and the lease modification is not accounted for as a separate
lease, in which case the lease liability is remeasured by discounting the revised lease
payments using a revised discount rate.
The Group and the Company have elected not to separate non-lease components and account for
the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
89
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.13 Leases (Cont’d)
(b) Lessee accounting (Cont’d)
Short-term leases and leases of low value assets
The Group and the Company have elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities
for short-term leases and leases of low value assets. The Group and the Company recognise the
lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease unless
another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits
from the leased asset are consumed.
(c) Lessor accounting
A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the risks and rewards
incidental to ownership. All other leases that do not meet this criterion are classified as operating
leases.
When the Group and the Company are intermediate lessors, they account for the head lease and
the sublease as two separate contracts. The sublease is classified as a finance or operating lease
by reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease. If a head lease is a short-term
lease to which the Group applies the exemption described in Note 2.13(b), then it classifies the
sub-lease as an operating lease.
If an entity in the Group and the Company is a lessor in a finance lease, it derecognises the
underlying asset and recognises a lease receivable at an amount equal to the net investment in
the lease. Finance income is recognised in profit or loss based on a pattern reflecting a constant
periodic rate of return on the lessor’s net investment in the finance lease.
If an entity in the Group and the Company is a lessor in an operating lease, the underlying asset is
not derecognised but is presented in the statements of financial position according to the nature
of the asset. Lease income from operating leases is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line
basis over the lease term, unless another systematic basis is more representative of the time
pattern in which use benefit derived from the leased asset is diminished.
When a contract includes lease and non-lease components, the Group and the Company apply
MFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers to allocate the consideration under the contract
to each component.
2.14 Intangible asset
(i) Internally-generated intangible assets - research and development costs
Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditures on an individual project are
recognised as an intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate:
• the technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so that the asset will be available
for use or sale;
• its intention to complete and its ability and intention to use or sell the asset;
• how the asset will generate future economic benefits;
• the availability of resources to complete; and
• the ability to measure reliably the expenditure during development
The amount initially recognised for internally generated intangible assets is the sum of the
expenditure incurred from the date when the intangible asset first meets the recognition criteria
listed above. Where no internally generated intangible asset can be recognised, development
expenditure is recognised in profit or loss in the period in which it is incurred.
90
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.14 Intangible asset (Cont’d)
(i) Internally-generated intangible assets - research and development costs (Cont’d)
Following initial recognition of the development expenditure as an asset, the asset is carried at
cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation of
the asset begins when development is complete and the asset is available for use. Amortisation
is recognised on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives
and amortisation methods are reviewed at the end of each reporting date, with the effect of any
changes in estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis.
(ii) Intangible assets acquired separately
Intangible assets with finite useful lives that are acquired separately are carried at cost less
accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation is recognised on a
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives and amortisation
methods are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, with the effect of any changes in
estimate being accounted for on a prospective basis. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives
that are acquired separately are carried at cost less accumulated impairment losses.
(iii) Derecognition of intangible assets
An intangible asset is derecognised on disposal, or when no future economic benefits are expected
from use or disposal. Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset, measured
as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset, are
recognised in profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
Refers accounting policy Note 2.17(b) to the financial statements on impairment of non-financial
assets for intangible assets.
2.15 Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of raw material, consumables, finished goods, seedlings, trading goods and work-in-progress
consists of the expenditure incurred in bringing the inventories and other costs in bringing them to their
existing location and condition.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated
costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
2.16 Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, bank
balances and deposits and other short-term, highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months
or less, that are readily convertible to known amount of cash and which are subject to an insignificant
risk of changes in value. Cash and cash equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts.
91
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.17 Impairment of assets
(a) Impairment of financial assets
Financial assets measured at amortised cost, and financial guarantee contracts will be subject to
the impairment requirement in MFRS 9 Financial Instruments which is related to the accounting
for expected credit losses on the financial assets. Expected credit losses are the weighted average
of credit losses with the respective risks of a default occurring as the weights.
The Group and the Company measure loss allowance at an amount equal to lifetime expected
credit loss, except for the following, which are measured as 12-month expected credit loss:
• debt securities that are determined to have low credit risk at the reporting date; and
• other debt securities and bank balances for which credit risk (i.e. risk of default occurring
over the expected life of the financial instrument) has not increased significantly since initial
recognition.
For trade receivables and other receivables and inter-company balance, the Group and the
Company applies the simplified approach permitted by MFRS 9 to measure the loss allowance at
an amount equal to lifetime expected credit losses.
When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly since
initial recognition and when estimating expected credit loss, the Group and the Company consider
reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available without undue cost or effort.
This includes both quantitative and qualitative information and analysis, based on the Group’s
and the Company’s historical experience and informed credit assessment and including forward-
looking information.
The Group and the Company assume that the credit risk on a financial asset has increased
significantly if it is more than 90 days past due.
The Group and the Company consider a financial asset to be in default when:
• the borrower is unable to pay its credit obligations to the Group and the Company in full,
without taking into account any credit enhancements held by the Group and the Company; or
• the contractual payment of the financial asset is more than 90 days past due unless the
Group and the Company have reasonable and supportable information to demonstrate that
a more lagging default criterion is more appropriate.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default
events over the expected life of a financial instrument.
12-month expected credit losses are the portion of lifetime expected credit losses that represent
the expected credit losses that result from default events on a financial instrument that are
possible within the 12 months after the reporting date.
The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum
contractual period over which the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.
Expected credit losses are a probability-weighted estimate of credit losses (i.e. the present value
of all cash shortfalls) over the expected life of the financial instrument. A cash shortfall is the
difference between the cash flows that are due to an entity in accordance with the contract and
the cash flows that the entity expects to receive.
Expected credit losses are discounted at the effective interest rate of the financial assets.
92
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.17 Impairment of assets (Cont’d)
(a) Impairment of financial assets (Cont’d)
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets carried at
amortised cost is credit-impaired. A financial asset is credit-impaired when one or more events
that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of that financial asset have
occurred. Evidence that a financial asset is credit-impaired include observable data about the
following events:
• significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower;
• a breach of contract, such as a default of past due event;
• the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s
financial difficulty, having granted to the borrower a concession(s) that the lender(s) would
not otherwise consider;
• it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial
reorganisation;
• the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties;
or
• the purchase or origination of a financial asset at a deep discount that reflects the incurred
credit losses.
The amount of expected credit losses (or reversal) shall be recognised in profit or loss, as an
impairment gain or loss.
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the extent
that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group and the
Company determine that the debtor does not have assets or source of income that could generate
sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. However, financial assets that
are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities in order to comply with the Group’s
and the Company’s procedure for recovery of amounts due.
(b) Impairment of non-financial assets
The carrying amounts of non-financial assets (except for inventories, contract assets and deferred
tax assets) are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine whether there is any
indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, the Group and the Company make an
estimate of the asset’s recoverable amount.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of
assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash
inflows of non-financial assets or cash-generating units (“CGUs”). The goodwill acquired in a
business combination, for the purpose of impairment testing, is allocated to a CGU or a group of
CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of business combination.
The recoverable amount of an asset or a CGU is the higher of its fair value less costs of disposal
and its value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to
their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the
time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU. In determining the fair value less
costs of disposal, recent market transactions are taken into account. If no such transactions can
be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used.
Where the carrying amount of an asset exceed its recoverable amount, the carrying amount of
asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses recognised in respect of a CGU
or groups of CGUs are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to
those units or groups of units and then, to reduce the carrying amount of the other assets in the
unit or groups of units on a pro-rata basis.
93
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.17 Impairment of assets (Cont’d)
(b) Impairment of non-financial assets (Cont’d)
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss, except for assets that were previously revalued
with the revaluation surplus recognised in other comprehensive income. In the latter case, the
impairment is recognised in other comprehensive income up to the amount of any previous
revaluation.
Impairment losses in respect of goodwill are not reversed. For other assets, an assessment is made
at each reporting date as to whether there is any indication that previously recognised impairment
losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. An impairment loss is reversed only if there
has been a change in the estimates used to determine the assets recoverable amount since the
last impairment loss was recognised. Reversal of impairment loss is restricted by the asset’s
carrying amount that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for
the asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in profit or loss unless the asset is measured
at revalued amount, in which case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase.
2.18 Share capital
(a) Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares are equity instruments. An equity instrument is a contract that evidences a
residual interest in the assets of the Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Ordinary shares
are recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable incremental transaction costs.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised in equity in the period in which they are declared.
(b) Irredeemable Convertible Preference Shares (“ICPS”)
Preference share is classified as equity if it is non-redeemable, or is redeemable but only at the
Company’s option, and any dividends are discretionary. Dividends thereon are recognised as
distributions within equity.
Preference share is classified as financial liability if it is redeemable on a specific date or at the
option of the equity holders, or if dividend payments are not discretionary. Dividends thereon are
recognised as interest expenses in profit or loss as accrued.
(c) Warrants
Warrants are classified as equity instruments and its value is allocated based on the Black-Scholes
model upon issuance. The issuance of the ordinary shares upon exercise of warrants is treated
as new subscription of ordinary shares for the consideration equivalent to the exercise price of
the warrants. Upon exercise of warrants the proceeds are credited to share capital. The warrants
reserve in relation to the unexercised warrants at the expiry of the warrants will be reversed.
(d) Treasury shares
When issued share of the Company are repurchased, the amount of the consideration paid,
including directly attributable costs, net of any tax effects, is recognised as a deduction from
equity as treasury shares until the shares are cancelled, reissued or disposed of. No gain or loss
is recognised in profit or loss on the sale, re-issuance or cancellation of the treasury shares.
When treasury shares are distributed as share dividends, the cost of the treasury shares is
deducted against the retained earnings of the Company.
When treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently, the difference between the sales
consideration, net of directly attributable costs and the carrying amount of the treasury shares is
recognised in equity
94
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.19 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when there is a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of a past
event, when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to
settle the obligation and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably.
Provisions are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted to reflect the current best
estimate. If it is no longer probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the
obligation, the provision is reversed. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are
discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability.
When discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a
finance cost.
Any reimbursement that the Group and the Company can be virtually certain to collect from a third party
with respect to the obligation is recognised as a separate asset. However, this asset may not exceed the
amount of the related provision. The expense relating to any provision is presented in the statements of
profit or loss and other comprehensive income net of any reimbursement.
2.20 Employee benefits
(a) Short-term employee benefits
Wages, salaries, bonuses and social security contributions are recognised as an expense in the
reporting period in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Company.
Short-term accumulating compensated absences such as paid annual leave are recognised
when services are rendered by employees that increase their entitlement to future compensated
absences. Short-term non-accumulating compensated absences such as sick and medical leave
are recognised when the absences occur.
The expected cost of accumulating compensated absences is measured as additional amount
expected to be paid as a result of the unused entitlement that has accumulated at the end of the
reporting period.
(b) Defined contribution plans
As required by law, companies in Malaysia contribute to the state pension scheme, the Employees
Provident Fund (“EPF”). Such contributions are recognised as an expense in the profit or loss as
incurred. Once the contributions have been paid, the Company has no further payment obligations.
Pursuant to the relevant regulations of the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”) government, the
Group participates in a local municipal government retirement benefits scheme (the “Scheme”),
whereby the Group in the PRC is required to contribute a certain percentage of the basic salaries
of their employees to the Scheme to fund its retirement benefits. The local municipal government
undertakes to assume the retirement benefits obligations of all existing and future retired
employees of the subsidiaries. The only obligation of the Group with respect to the Scheme is to
pay the ongoing required contributions under the Scheme mentioned above.
Contributions under the Scheme are charged to profit or loss as incurred. There are no provisions
under the Scheme whereby forfeited contributions maybe used to reduce future contributions.
(c) Equity settled share-based payment transactions
The Group and the Company operate an equity-settled, share-based compensation plan for the
employees of the Group and of the Company. Employee services received in exchange for the
grant of the share options is recognised as an expense in the profit or loss over the vesting periods
of the grant with a corresponding increase in equity.
95
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.20 Employee benefits (Cont’d)
(c) Equity settled share-based payment transactions (Cont’d)
For options granted to the employees of the subsidiaries, the fair value of the options granted is
recognised as cost of investment in the subsidiaries over the vesting period with a corresponding
adjustment to equity in the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements.
The total amount to be expensed over the vesting period is determined by reference to the fair
value of the share options granted, excluding the impact of any non-market vesting conditions
(for example, profitability and sales growth targets). Non-market vesting conditions are included
in assumptions about the number of options that are expected to be vested. At the end of each
reporting period, the Group and the Company revise their estimates of the number of share options
that are expected to be vested. It recognises the impact of the revision of original estimates, if any,
in the profit or loss, with a corresponding adjustment to equity.
When the options are exercised, the Company issues new shares. The proceeds received net
of any directly attributable transaction costs are credited to share capital when the options are
exercised. When options are not exercised and lapsed, the share option reserve is transferred to
retained earnings.
2.21 Revenue
(a) Revenue from contract with customers
Revenue is recognised when the Company satisfied a performance obligation (“PO”) by transferring
a promised good or service to the customer, which is when the customer obtains control of the
good or service. A PO may be satisfied at a point in time or over time. The amount of revenue
recognised is the amount allocated to the satisfied PO.
The Company recognises revenue from the following major sources:
(i) Sales of goods
The Company produces and sells the good in local and oversea markets. Revenue from sales
of goods is recognised when control of the products has transferred, being the products are
delivered to the customers.
Following delivery of the goods to the customers’ location, the customers have full discretion
over the manner of distribution and price to sell the goods, and bear the risk of obsolescence
and loss in relation to the goods.
Revenue is recognised based on the price specified in the contract net of the rebates,
discount and taxes.
A receivable is recognised by the Company when the goods are delivered as this represents
the point in time at which the right to consideration is unconditional, because only the
passage of time is required before payment is due. No element of financing is deemed
present as the revenue recognised with a credit term of 90 to 180 day, which is consistent
with market practice.
(ii) Management fee
Management fee is recognised on accrual basis when services are rendered.
96
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.21 Revenue (Cont’d)
(b) Rental income
Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. The aggregate costs
of incentives provided to lessees are recognised as a reduction of rental income over the lease
term on a straight-line basis.
(c) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the Company’s right to receive payment is established.
(d) Interest income
Interest income is recognised on accruals basis using the effective interest method.
2.22 Government grants
Government grants are not recognised until there is reasonable assurance that the Company will
comply with the conditions attaching to them and that the grants will be received.
When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised in profit or loss on a systematic basis
over the periods in which the Company recognises as expenses the related costs for which
the grants are intended to compensate. Where the grant relates to an asset, it is recognised as
deferred income and transferred to profit or loss on a systematic basis over the useful lives of the
related asset.
Government grants that are receivable as compensation for expenses or losses already incurred
or for the purpose of giving immediate financial support to the Group with no future related costs
are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they become receivable.
Where the Company receives non-monetary government grants, the asset and the grant are
recorded at nominal amount and transferred to profit or loss on a systematic basis over the life of
the depreciable asset by way of a reduced depreciation charge.
2.23 Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset
are capitalised as part of the cost of the assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial
period of time to get ready for theirs intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of those
assets, until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. All other
borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred. Borrowing costs
consist of interest and other costs that the Group incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds.
The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when
expenditure for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are
necessary to prepare the asset for their intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing
costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying
asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.
Investment income earned on the temporary investment of specific borrowings pending their expenditure
on qualifying assets is deducted from the borrowing costs eligible for capitalisation
97
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.24 Contract liabilities
A contract liability is the obligation to transfer good services to a customer for which the company
has received consideration (or an amount of consideration is due) from the customer. If a customer
pays consideration before the Group transfer goods or services to the customer, a contract liability is
recognised when the payment is made or the payment is due (whichever is earlier). Contract liabilities
are recognised as revenue when the Group perform under the contract.
2.25 Income taxes
Income tax expense in profit or loss comprises current and deferred tax. Current and deferred tax
are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items
recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive income.
(a) Current income tax
Current income tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior periods are measured at the
amount expected to be recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax
laws used to compute the amount are those that are enacted or substantively enacted at the
reporting date, in the countries where the Company operates and generates taxable income.
Current income taxes are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that the tax relates to
items recognised outside profit or loss, either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the tax returns with respect to situations
in which applicable tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions where
appropriate.
(b) Deferred tax
Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary differences at the end of the
reporting date between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for
financial reporting purposes.
Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all temporary differences, except:
(i) Where the deferred tax liability arises from the initial recognition of goodwill or of an asset or
liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction,
affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss; and
(ii) In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in associates,
where the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is
probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future.
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, the carry forward of
unused tax credits and unused tax losses, to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be
available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the carry forward of unused tax
credits and unused tax losses can be utilised except:
(i) Where the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the
initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination
and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or
loss; and
(ii) In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with investments in associates,
deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary
differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable profit will be available against
which the temporary differences can be utilised.
98
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.25 Income taxes (Cont’d)
(b) Deferred tax (Cont’d)
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the reporting date and reduced to the
extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow all or part
of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at the
reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future taxable
profit will allow the deferred tax asset to be utilised.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the
year when the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on tax rates (and tax laws) that have
been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss is recognised outside profit or
loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in other
comprehensive income or directly in equity and deferred tax arising from a business combination
is adjusted against goodwill on acquisition.
2.26 Earnings per share
The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (“EPS”) data for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS
is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares
held.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the
weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held, for the effects
of all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
2.27 Operating segments
Operating segments are reported in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the
chief operating decision-maker. The chief operating decisionmakers are responsible for allocating
resources and assessing performance of the operating segments and make overall strategic decisions.
The Group’s operating segments are organised and managed separately according to the nature of the
products and services provided, with each segment representing a strategic business unit that offers
different products and serves different markets.
2.28 Contingent
Where it is not probable that an inflow or an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount
cannot be estimated reliably, the asset or the obligation is disclosed as a contingent asset or contingent
liability, unless the probability of inflow or outflow of economic benefits is remote. Possible obligations,
whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more future
events, are also disclosed as contingent assets or contingent liabilities unless the probability of inflow
or outflow of economic benefits is remote.
2.29 Related parties
A related party is defined as follows:
(a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related to the Company if that person:
• has control or joint control over the Company; or
• has significant influence over the Company; or
• is a member of the key management personnel of the Company or of a parent of the
Company.
99
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
2. SUMMARY OF MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
2.29 Related parties (Cont’d)
A related party is defined as follows: (Cont’d)
(b) An entity is related to the Company if any of the following conditions applies:
• The entity and the Company are members of the same Company (which means that each
parent, subsidiary, and fellow subsidiary is related to the others).
• One entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity (or an associate or joint venture
of a member of a Company of which the other entity is a member).
• Both entities are joint ventures of the same third party.
• One entity is a joint venture of the third entity and the other entity is an associate of the third
entity.
• The entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefit of employees of either the
Company or an entity related to the Company. If the Company is itself such a plan, the
sponsoring employers are also related to the Company.
• The entity is controlled or joint-controlled by a person identified in (a) above.
• The entity or any member of a Company of which it is a part, provides key management
personnel services to the Company or to the parent of the Company.
2.30 Fair value measurements
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is determined
as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction
to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a
principal market, in the most advantageous market.
For a non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability
to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another
market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group and the Company use observable
market data as far as possible. Fair value is categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy
based on the input used in the valuation technique as follows:
Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the
Group and the Company can access at the measurement date.
Level 2: Inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or
liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: Unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
There were no transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy during the financial year.
2.31 Goodwill
Goodwill arising from business combinations is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the
aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interests, and
any previous interest held, over the net identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed. After initially
recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. The policy for the
recognition and measurement of impairment losses is in accordance with Note 2.17(b) to the financial
statements.
100
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS
ThepreparationoffinancialstatementsinconformitywithMFRSsrequirestheuseofcertaincriticalaccounting
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of the
revenue and expenses during the reporting period. It also requires directors to exercise their judgement in
the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies. Although these estimates and
judgement are based on the directors’ best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results may differ.
The areas involving a higher degree of judgement or complexity that have the most significant effect on the
Group’s and the Company’s financial statements, or areas where assumptions and estimates that have a
significant risk of resulting in a material adjustment to the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements
within the next financial year are disclosed as follows:
3.1 Judgement and assumption applied
The following are the accounting policies that have the most significant effect on the amounts
recognised in the financial statements:
Functional currency
The Group measures foreign currency transactions in the respective functional currencies of the
Company and its subsidiaries. In determining the functional currencies of the entities in the Group,
judgement is required to determine the currency that mainly influences sales prices for goods and
services and of the country whose competitive forces and regulations mainly determines the sales
prices of its goods and services. The functional currencies of the entities in the Group are determined
based on management’s assessment of the economic environment in which the entities operate and
the entities’ process of determining sales prices.
Management has assessed those prices are mainly denominated and settled in the respective local
currency of the entities of the Group. In addition, most of the entities’ cost base is mainly denominated
in their respective local currency. Therefore, management concluded that the functional currency of the
entities of the Group is their respective local currency.
Determining the lease term of contracts with renewal and termination options Group and Company as
lessee
The Group and the Company determines the lease term as the non-cancellable term of the lease,
together with any periods covered by an option to extend the lease if they are reasonably certain to be
exercised, or any periods covered by an option to terminate the lease, if they are reasonably certain to
be exercised.
The Group and the Company apply judgement in evaluating whether they are reasonably certain
whether or not to exercise the option to renew or terminate the lease. That is, they consider all relevant
factors that create an economic incentive for it to exercise either the renewal or termination. After
the commencement date, the Company reassesses the lease term if there is a significant event or
change in circumstances that is within its control and affects its ability to exercise or not to exercise the
option to renew or to terminate (e.g., construction of significant leasehold improvements or significant
customisation to the leased asset).
The Group includes the renewal period as part of the lease term for leases of land and building with non-
cancellable period included as part of the lease term as these are reasonably certain to be exercised
because there will be a significant negative effect on operation if a replacement asset is not readily
available. Furthermore, the periods covered by termination options are included as part of the lease
term only when they are reasonably certain not to be exercised.
101
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS (CONT’D)
3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty
The measurement of some assets and liabilities requires directors to use estimates based on various
observable inputs and other assumptions. The areas or items that are subject to significant estimation
uncertainties of the Company are in measuring:
(a) Impairment of goodwill on consolidation
The Group determines whether goodwill is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires
an estimation of the value in use of the cash-generating units to which the goodwill is allocated.
Estimating the value in use amount requires the Group to make an estimate of the expected future
cash flows from the cash-generating unit and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to
calculate the present value of those cash flows. The key assumptions used to determine the value
in use is disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
(b) Development costs
The Group capitalises development costs for a project in accordance with the accounting policy.
Initial capitalisation of development costs is based on management’s judgement that technological
and economic feasibility is confirmed, usually when a product development project has reached
a defined milestone according to an established project management model. In determining the
amounts to be capitalised, management makes assumptions regarding the expected future cash
generations of the project, discount rates to be applied and the expected period of benefits. The
carrying amount at the reporting date for development costs is disclosed in Note 8 to the financial
statements.
(c) Recoverability of development costs
During the financial year, the Directors considered the recoverability of the Group’s development
cost arising from its on-going development of 2 high-value herbal products for diabetes and
hormone replacement therapy, and the products development for the formulation of health
supplement products. The Group had completed the required submission documents to the
National Pharmaceutical Regulatory Agency to obtain for the commencement of phase 1 clinical
studied on the botanical drugs.
The project continues to progress in a satisfactory manner, and customer reaction has reconfirmed
the Directors’ previous estimates of anticipated revenues from the project. However, increased
competitor activity has caused the Directors to reconsider their assumptions regarding future
market share and anticipated margins of this product. Detailed sensitivity analysis has been
carried out and the Directors are confident that the carrying amount of the asset will be recovered
in full, even if returns are reduced. This situation will be closely monitored, and adjustments
made in future periods, if market activity indicates that such adjustments are appropriate. The
carrying amount at the reporting date for development costs is disclosed in Note 8 to the financial
statements.
(d) Deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unused tax losses, unabsorbed capital allowances
and other deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit
will be available against which the unused tax losses, unabsorbed capital allowances and other
deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Significant management judgement is required
to determine the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based upon the likely
timing and level of future taxable profits together with future tax planning strategies.
102
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS (CONT’D)
3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty (Cont’d)
(e) Useful lives of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use (“ROU”) assets
The Group and the Company regularly review the estimated useful lives of property, plant and
equipment and ROU based on factors such as business plan and strategies, expected level of
usage and future technological developments, Future results of operations could be materially
affected by changes in these estimates brought about by changes in the factors mentioned above.
A reduction in the estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment and ROU would increase
the recorded depreciation and decrease the value of property, plant and equipment and ROU. The
carrying amount at the reporting date for property, plant and equipment and ROU is disclosed in
Note 4 to the financial statements.
(f) Inventories valuation
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The Group estimates the
net realisable value of inventories based on an assessment of expected sales prices. Demand
levels and pricing competition could change from time to time. If such factors result in an adverse
effect on the Group’s products, the Group might be required to reduce the value of its inventories.
Details of inventories are disclosed in Note 11 to the financial statements.
(g) Provision for expected credit loss of financial assets at amortised cost
The Group and the Company reviews the recoverability of its receivables, include trade and other
receivables and amount due from immediate holding company at each reporting date to assess
whether an impairment loss should be recognised. The impairment provisions for receivables are
based on assumptions about risk of default and expected loss rates.
TheGroup and theCompany use a provision matrix to calculate expected credit loss for receivables.
The provision rates are based on number of days past due.
The provision matrix is initially based on the Group’s and the Company’s historical observed default
rates. The Group and the Company will calibrate the matrix to adjust the historical credit loss
experience. At every report date, the historical observed default rates are updated and changes in
the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
The assessment of the correlation between historical observed default rates, forecast economic
conditions and expected credit loss in a significant estimate. Information about the expected
credit loss is disclosed in Notes 9, 12 and 13 to the financial statements.
(h) Determination of transaction prices
The Group is required to determine the transaction price in respect of each of its contracts
with customers. In making such judgement the Group assesses the impact of any variable
consideration in the contract in the contract due to discounts or penalties, the existence of any
significant financing component and any non-cash consideration in the contract.
There is no significant financing as the period between the transfer of control or good or service
to a customer and the payment date is always less than one year, and no non-cash consideration
noted in the contracts with customers.
103
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS (CONT’D)
3.2 Key sources of estimation uncertainty (Cont’d)
(i) Employee share options
The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions with employees by reference to the
fair value of the equity instruments at the date at which they are granted. Estimating fair value
for share-based payment transactions requires determining the most appropriate valuation
model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of the grant. This estimate also requires
determining the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of
the share option, volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions about them. Details of
assumptions made in respect of the share-based payment scheme are disclosed in Note 18(a) to
the financial statements.
(j) Discount rate used in leases
Where the interest rate implicit in the lease cannot be readily determined, the Group and the
Company uses the incremental borrowing rate to measure the lease liabilities. The incremental
borrowing rate is the interest rate that the Group and the Company would has to pay to borrow
over a similar term, the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use
asset in a similar economic environment. Therefore, the value to the right-of-use asset in a similar
economic environment. Therefore, the incremental borrowing rate requires estimation, particularly
when no observable rates are available or when they need to be adjusted to reflect the terms and
conditions of the lease. The Group and the Company estimates the incremental borrowing rate
using observable inputs when available and is required to make certain entity-specific estimates.
(k) Income taxes
Judgement is involved in determining the provision for income taxes.There are certain transactions
and computations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during the ordinary course
of business.
The Group and the Company recognises liabilities for expected tax issues based on estimates
of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different
from the amounts that were initially recognised, such differences will impact the income tax and
deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
104
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
					
Lab and
					 office							 Warehouse,
			
Leasehold Computer equipment,				
Signage		
Plantation shoplot,		
Capital
		 Freehold land and system and furniture Motor Plant and		 and display Infrastructure expenditure factory and Leasehold work-in-
		 building building peripherals and fittings vehicles machineries Renovations items expenditure (a) building land progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Cost
At 1 January 2022 1,725,900 12,817,623 2,401,029 5,104,177 3,044,251 52,159,972 20,633,940 1,303,984 7,236,324 4,149,958 5,351,783 2,869,276 240,000 119,038,217
Additions – – 51,229 156,226 201,286 904,733 1,692,557 – 62,400 – 1,774,058 – 60,000 4,902,489
Disposals – – – (9,996) (74,490) – – (79,661) – – – – – (164,147)
Written off – – (643,218) (929,025) (904,539) (3,400,000) (2,486,480) (225,677) (2,903,614) (2,114,958) – – – (13,607,511)
Expiration of lease contract – – – – – – – – – – (2,016,772) – – (2,016,772)
Reclassification – – – – – (18,660) – – – – – – – (18,660)
Exchange differences – – (264) 24,926 (1,392) (13,636) – – – – 11,426 – – 21,060
At 31 December 2022 and
 1 January 2023 1,725,900 12,817,623 1,808,776 4,346,308 2,265,116 49,632,409 19,840,017 998,646 4,395,110 2,035,000 5,120,495 2,869,276 300,000 108,154,676
Additions – – 48,773 123,228 375,000 1,214,280 993,672 2,040 166,731 368,215 2,298,521 – – 5,590,460
Disposals – – – – (434,105) (150,000) – – – – (758,681) – – (1,342,786)
Written off – – (714,871) (452,065) – (7,314,347) (1,922,076) (311,973) (116,300) (89,124) – – – (10,920,756)
Exchange differences – – (311,407) (215,528) 2,000 46,380 (279,462) (40,821) – – (442,651) – – (1,241,489)
At 31 December 2023 1,725,900 12,817,623 831,271 3,801,943 2,208,011 43,428,722 18,632,151 647,892 4,445,541 2,134,091 6,217,684 2,869,276 300,000 100,240,105
				
105
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
					
Lab and
					 office							 Warehouse,
			
Leasehold Computer equipment,				
Signage		
Plantation shoplot,		
Capital
		 Freehold land and system and furniture Motor Plant and		 and display Infrastructure expenditure factory and Leasehold work-in-
		 building building peripherals and fittings vehicles machineries Renovations items expenditure (a) building land progress Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Accumulated depreciation				
At 1 January 2022 262,085 1,479,415 1,834,288 3,273,126 2,408,473 23,467,177 6,404,729 1,101,757 3,363,063 488,653 2,626,824 741,231 – 47,450,821
Charge for the fhe financial year 34,918 238,449 151,373 585,660 279,311 4,933,890 2,138,001 51,376 605,022 – 1,042,368 95,643 – 10,156,011
Disposals – – – (6,338) (33,476) – – (79,661) – – – – – (119,475)
Written off – – (617,849) (921,813) (904,539) (2,720,000) (1,450,122) (203,016) (1,385,255) – – – – (8,202,594)
Expiration of lease contract – – – – – – – – – – (624,577) – – (624,577)
Reclassification – – – – – (18,660) – – – – – – – (18,660)
Exchange differences – – (222) (2,601) (1,055) (7,596) 93,947 – – – 3,188 – – 85,661
At 31 December 2022 and
 1 January 2023 297,003 1,717,864 1,367,590 2,928,034 1,748,714 25,654,811 7,186,555 870,456 2,582,830 488,653 3,047,803 836,874 – 48,727,187
Charge for the fhe financial year 34,715 238,449 132,054 395,788 252,736 4,464,203 1,604,000 49,129 326,719 89,041 1,232,685 95,641 – 8,915,160
Disposals – – – – (383,642) (145,000) – – – – (665,059) – – (1,193,701)
Written off – – (590,696) (398,365) – (7,281,200) (1,922,108) (291,328) (48,459) – – – – (10,532,156)
Exchange differences – – (294,247) (215,951) 1,919 43,754 (344,625) (40,820) (2) 149,217 (487,198) – – (1,187,953)
At 31 December 2023 331,718 1,956,313 614,701 2,709,506 1,619,727 22,736,568 6,523,822 587,437 2,861,088 726,911 3,128,231 932,515 – 44,728,537
				
Accumulated impairment														
At 1 January 2022,
 31 December 2022 and
 1 January 2023 – – – – – – – – – – – – – –
Impairment for the financial year – – – 154,332 – 667,073 – – 211,942 100,064 – – – 1,133,411
At 31 December 2023 – – – 154,332 – 667,073 – – 211,942 100,064 – – – 1,133,411
															
At 31 December 2022 1,428,897 11,099,759 441,186 1,418,274 516,402 23,977,598 12,653,462 128,190 1,812,280 1,546,347 2,072,692 2,032,402 300,000 59,427,489
															
At 31 December 2023 1,394,182 10,861,310 216,570 938,105 588,284 20,025,081 12,108,329 60,455 1,372,511 1,487,116 3,089,453 1,936,761 300,000 54,378,157
106
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
				 Computer
		 Office system and Capital work
			 equipment peripherals -in-progress Total
			 RM RM RM RM
Company		
Cost
At 1 January 2022		 1,049 6,005 240,000 247,054
Additions		 – – 60,000 60,000
At 31 December 2022 and
 1 January 2023		 1,049 6,005 300,000 307,054
Additions		– – – –
At 31 December 2023		 1,049 6,005 300,000 307,054
		
Accumulated depreciation		
At 1 January 2022		 840 4,102 – 4,942
Charge for the fhe financial year		 – 1,306 – 1,306
At 31 December 2022 and
 1 January 2023		 840 5,408 – 6,248
Charge for the fhe financial year		 209 597 – 806
At 31 December 2023		 1,049 6,005 – 7,054
		
At 31 December 2022		 209 597 300,000 300,806
At 31 December 2023		 – – 300,000 300,000
107
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
(a) Including in plantation expenditure as follows:
		 Mature Immature
		 Herbal Fruit		
Herbal Fruit		
		 plants plants Total plants plants Total Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Cost
At 1 January 2022 4,037,325 27,286 4,064,611 83,825 1,522 85,347 4,149,958
Written off (2,093,147) – (2,093,147) (21,811) – (21,811) (2,114,958)
At 31 December 2022 and
 1 January 2023 1,944,178 27,286 1,971,464 62,014 1,522 63,536 2,035,000
Addition 114,378 16,235 130,613 80,590 7,795 88,385 218,998
Written off – – – (80,590) (8,534) (89,124) (89,124)
At 31 December 2023 2,058,556 43,521 2,102,077 62,014 783 62,797 2,164,874
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2022,
 31 December 2022 and
 1 January 2023 482,399 6,254 488,653 – – – 488,653
Charge for the financial year 89,041 – 89,041 – – – 89,041
At 31 December 2023 571,440 6,254 577,694 – – – 577,694
Accumulated impairment
At 1 January 2022,
 31 December 2022 and
 1 January 2023 – – – – – – –
Charge for the financial year – 37,267 37,267 62,014 783 62,797 100,064
At 31 December 2023 – 37,267 37,267 62,014 783 62,797 100,064
At 31 December 2022 1,461,779 21,032 1,482,811 62,014 1,522 63,536 1,546,347
At 31 December 2023 1,487,116 – 1,487,116 – – – 1,487,116
108
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
(b) Including in net carrying amount of property, plant and equipment are right-of-use assets as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Motor vehicles				 338,155 246,276
Warehouse, shoplot, factory and building 		 3,089,451 2,072,692
Leasehold land				 1,936,761 2,032,402
Leasehold land and building 			 10,861,310 11,099,759
					 16,225,677 15,451,129
(c) Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets are as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Motor vehicles				 129,096 152,757
Warehouse, shoplot, factory and building 		 1,232,685 1,042,368
Leasehold land				 95,641 95,643
Leasehold land and building 			 238,449 238,449
					 1,695,871 1,529,217
(d) Additions to the right-of-use assets are as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Warehouse, shoplot, factory and building			 2,298,521 1,774,058
Motor vehicles				 325,000 –
					 2,623,521 1,774,058
(e) Property, plant and equipment pledged to licensed bank as security for the related lease liabilities are as
follow:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Motor vehicles				 338,155 70,148
109
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
(f) Property, plant and equipment pledged to non-financial institution as security for the lease liabilities are
as follow:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Motor vehicles				 – 176,128
(g) Property, plant and equipment pledged to financial institution as security for the related term loan are as
follow:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Freehold building				 1,394,182 1,428,897
Leasehold land and building				 9,491,340 9,661,291
					 10,885,522 11,090,188
(h) Property, plant and equipment pledged to non-financial institution as security for the related term loan
are as follow:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Plant and machineries				 – 270,000
(i) The motor vehicle of the Group with a total cost of RM931,822 (2022: RM579,728) which carrying
amount amounted to RM442,833 (2022: RM230,796) are being held in trust by Directors.
(j) Including in net carrying amount of plantation expenditure are staff costs capitalised as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Staff cost 			 47,013 –
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
		 Company
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
Unquoted shares, at cost		
- In Malaysia				 12,719,230 12,719,230
- Outside Malaysia				 997,206 997,206
					 13,716,436 13,716,436
110
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
		 Place of business /
		 Country of Effective interest(%)
Name of company incorporation 2023 2022 Principal activities
Bioalpha International Malaysia 100 100 Research and development and
 Sdn. Bhd. (“BISB”)				  manufacturers, importers,
 					  exporters, distribution and
					  traders of nutritional and
					  healthcare products
Bioalpha R&D Malaysia 100 100 Research and development and
 Sdn. Bhd.				  manufacturers, suppliers,
 (“BRDSB”)				  distributions, wholesales or
					  retailers of healthcare and
					  nutritional products
Botanical Distribution Malaysia 100 100 Suppliers, distributors, direct
 Sdn. Bhd. (“BDSB”)				  selling agents, wholesaler,
					  retailer or conduct advertising
					  and promotion activities
					  which related to health
					  supplements and nutrition
					  products
Bioalpha (HK) China (Hong Kong) 100 100 Research and development,
 Limited * (“BHKL”)				  manufacturers, importers,
					  exporters, distribution and
					  traders of nutritional
					  and healthcare products
Bioalpha Wellness Malaysia 100 100 Distributing and trading, research
 Sdn. Bhd.				  and development activities,
  (“BWSB”)				  manufacturing, importing and
					  exporting of personal care and
					  healthcare products, conduct
					  advertising and promotional
					  activities related to personal
					  care and healthcare products
Held through Bioalpha International Sdn. Bhd.:
Bioalpha Agro Sdn. Malaysia 72 72 Import, export, cultivate,
 Bhd. (“BASB”)				  manufacture, distribute and
					  trade in variety of agro
					  products and medical herbs
Bioalpha East Malaysia 100 100 Planters, growers, and merchant
 Coast Agro Sdn.				  in all kinds of herb, fruits,
 Bhd. (“BECASB”)				  agricultural, agro and organic
					  products
PT Herbal Malindo Indonesia 60 60 General trade, wholesale and
 Makmur * (“PTHMM”)				  retail trade or pharmaceutical
					  and traditional medicine
Suzhou Biomedic China 47.8 – Import and export of medicines
 Biotechnology				  and edible bacteria and food
 Co. Ltd. * (“SBBCL”)				  selling on internet
111
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows: (Cont’d)
		 Place of business /
		 Country of Effective interest(%)
Name of company incorporation 2023 2022 Principal activities
Held through Botanical Distribution Sdn. Bhd.:
RS Bio Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 51 51 Concept shop operators, general
 (Formerly known				  merchants, online trading
 as Alphacare Sdn.			  agents franchisors, whole
 Bhd.) (“RSBSB”)				  saler or retailer of healthcare,
					  nutritional products,
					  food & beverages
Mediconstant Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding and
 Holding Sdn. Bhd.				  provision of management
 (“MHSB”)				  services
Held through Bioalpha (HK) Limited .:
Bioalpha (Hainan) China 100 100 Procurement and sales of
 Health Biotechnology				  agricultural products
 Limited * (“BHHBL”)
		
BHK Development China (Hong 100 100 Research and development and
 Limited * (“BHKDL”) Kong)			  activities, manufacturing,
					  import and export and trading
					  of goods including functional
					  foods or healthcare products
					  and land development which
					  included the construction of a
					  new facility for processing
					  and warehousing facilities
Bioalpha (HK) China (Hong 100 100 Investment holding
 Investment Limited * Kong)
 (“BHKIL”)
Held through Bioalpha Agro Sdn. Bhd.:
Bioalpha (Johor Malaysia 50.4 50.4 Planters, growers, and merchant
 Herbal) Sdn. Bhd.				  in all kinds of herbs, fruits,
 (“BJHSB”)				  agricultural, agro and organic
					  products
Held through Bioalpha (Hainan) Health Biotechnology Limited:
Suzhou Biomedic China 19.2 81.02 Import and export of medicines
 Biotechnology				  and edible bacteria and food
 Co. Ltd. *				  selling on internet
 (“SBBCL”)
112
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows: (Cont’d)
		 Place of business /
		 Country of Effective interest(%)
Name of company incorporation 2023 2022 Principal activities
Held through Bioalpha (HK) Investment Limited:
Bioalpha (Hainan) China 77.3 77.3 Research and development
 Development				  activities, manufacturing,
 Ltd * (“BHDL”)				  import and export and trading
					  of goods including functional
					  foods or healthcare products
					  and land development which
					  included the construction of a
					  new facility for processing
					  and warehousing facilities
Held through Mediconstant Holding Sdn. Bhd.:
Mediconstant Pharmacy Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and
 Sdn.Bhd. (“MPSB”)				  chemicals
Mediconstant Pharmacy Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and
  (Ampang) Sdn. Bhd.				  chemicals
  (“MPASB”)
Mediconstant Malaysia 100 100 Provision of management and
 Management Sdn			  .  consulting services, and
 Bhd. (“MMSB”)				  trading of pharmaceutical,
					  healthcare and nutrition
					  products
Mediconstant Pharmacy Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and
  (Desa Tasik) Sdn. Bhd.				  chemicals
 (“MPDTSB”)
Mediconstant Dynamic Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and
 Sdn.Bhd. (“MDSB”)				  chemicals
Mediconstant Pharmacy Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and
  (Klang) Sdn. Bhd.				  chemicals
 (“MPKSB”)
Mediconstant Pharmacy Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and
 (Puchong) Sdn. Bhd.				  chemicals
 (“MPPSB”)
Mediconstant Pharmacy Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and
 (Sea Park) Sdn. Bhd.				  chemicals
 (“MPSPSB”)
Mediconstant Pharmacy Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and
 (Taman Desa)				  chemicals
 Sdn. Bhd.(“MPTDSB”)
113
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows: (Cont’d)
		 Place of business /
		 Country of Effective interest(%)
Name of company incorporation 2023 2022 Principal activities
Held through Mediconstant Holding Sdn. Bhd.: (cont’d)
Mediconstant Pharmacy Malaysia 100 100 Pharmacy, druggist and
 (TTDI) Sdn. Bhd.				  chemicals
 (“MPTTDISB”)
* Subsidiaries not audited by CHENGCO PLT
(a) Material partly-owned subsidiaries
Set out below are the Group’s subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interest:
		 Proportion of
		 ownership
		 interests and voting Loss allocated Accumulated
		 rights held by non- to non-controlling non-controlling
Name of company controlling interests interests interests
		 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 % % RM RM RM RM
		
BASB		 28 28 (113,894) (103,007) (502,249) (388,355)
PTHMM 40 40 (745,593) (126,215) (1,146,633) (401,040)
RSBSB 49 49 (113,077) (253,803) 166,995 280,072
BJHSB 49.6 49.6 (329,906) (415,566) (1,676,311) (1,346,405)
SBBCL 33 18.98 (142,522) (47,573) 4,167,400 574,016
BHDL		 22.7 22.7 (154,269) (29,308) 1,256,044 1,410,313
				 (1,599,261) (975,472) 2,265,246 128,601
		
Summarised financial information for each subsidiary that has non-controlling interest that are material
to the Group is set out below. The summarised financial information below represents amounts before
inter-company eliminations.
(i) Summarised statement of financial position
		 BASB PTHMM RSBSB BJHSB SBBCL BHDL
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2023
Non-current assets 330,602 134,283 – 684,376 6,236,520 905,640
Current assets 3,204,085 106,345 356,086 117,076 6,660,445 4,772,474
Non-current liabilities – – – (8,557) – –
Current liabilities (5,342,443) (3,136,500) (15,276) (4,172,557) (25,358) (26,862)
Net (liabilities)/assets (1,807,756) (2,895,872) 340,810 (3,379,662) 12,871,607 5,651,252
114
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
(a) Material partly-owned subsidiaries (Cont’d)
(i) Summarised statement of financial position (Cont’d)
		 BASB PTHMM RSBSB BJHSB SBBCL BHDL
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2022
Non-current assets 437,301 171,917 223,037 767,967 – 507,394
Current assets 3,107,605 1,493,584 364,795 273,600 6,208,050 5,719,435
Non-current liabilities – – – – – –
Current liabilities (4,931,894) (2,668,106) (16,252) (3,756,096) (3,183,900) (13,989)
Net (liabilities)/assets (1,386,988) (1,002,605) 571,580 (2,714,529) 3,024,150 6,212,840
(ii) Summarised statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income
		 BASB PTHMM RSBSB BJHSB SBBCL BHDL
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2023
Revenue 50,648 141,668 1,175 246,425 – –
Loss for the financial year (420,768) (1,863,983) (230,770) (665,134) (596,693) (679,600)
Total comprehensive						
 loss for the financial year (420,768) (1,863,983) (230,770) (665,134) (596,693) (679,600)
2022
Revenue 253,188 9,868 – 349,455 – –
Loss for the financial year (367,883) (315,539) (517,966) (837,836) (250,636) (129,105)
Other comprehensive						
 income/(loss) for						
 the financial year – 10,382 – – (19,938) (2,788)
Total comprehensive						
 loss for the financial year (367,883) (305,157) (517,966) (837,836) (270,574) (131,893)
(iii) Summarised statement of cash flows
		 BASB PTHMM RSBSB BJHSB SBBCL BHDL
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2023
Net cash generated from/
 (used in) operating activities 3,745 217,077 (8,709) 264,078 (6,996,072) (3,878,383)
Net cash used in investing
 activities – – – (180,076) (6,505,366) (398,246)
Net cash (used in)/generated
 from financing activities (11,510) (3,564) – (56,366) 10,321,945 –
Net (decrease)/increase in						
 cash and cash equivalents (7,765) 213,513 (8,709) 27,636 (3,179,493) (4,276,629)
115
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
(a) Material partly-owned subsidiaries (Cont’d)
(iii) Summarised statement of cash flows (Cont’d)
		 BASB PTHMM RSBSB BJHSB SBBCL BHDL
		 RM RM RM RM RM RM
2022
Net cash (used in)/generated
 from operating activities (245,047) (360,910) (53,444) (256,475) 3,013,367 (137,984)
Net cash used in						
 investing activities – – – – – (507,394)
Net cash generated from
 financing activities 79,484 345,814 – 224,876 – 6,481,000
Net (decrease)/increase in						
 cash and cash equivalents (165,563) (15,096) (53,444) (31,599) 3,013,367 5,835,622
(b) Dilution of shares of a subsidiary
(i) On 30 August 2022, BHKIL, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company entered into a share
transfer agreement with an independent third party and disposed of 22.7% equity interest in BHDL
to that independent third party at a cash consideration of CNY1.
The effect of the dilution of shares of BHDL on the financial position of the Group as at the date of
dilution was as follows:
						
RM
Property, plant and equipment 				 517,938
Cash and cash equivalents 				 5,815,039
Trade and other receivables 					 24,150
Trade and other payables 					 (15,182)
Net current assets					 6,341,945
Non-controlling interest’s share of net assets				 1,439,622
Proceed from issuance of shares in a subsidiary of NCI			 1
Loss on dilution of a subsidiary				 1,439,621
(ii) During the year, the Group’s equity interest in SBBCL via BHHBL and BISB wholly-owned
subsidiaries of the Company, decreased from 81.02% to 67% following the issuance of shares to
the new shareholder of SBBCL, namely Suzhou Medicalsystem Technology Co. Ltd. (“MEDIC”) to
the Subscription Agreement entered into between the parties therein dated 8 May 2023.
The Group recognised a gain on dilution of equity interest amounting to RM65,972 during the
financial year.
116
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
6. INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
Unquoted shares, at cost		
Outside Malaysia				 3,300,000 –
Share of post-acquisition reserves				 (5,620) –
					 3,294,380 –
		
Details of a material associate is as follows:
		 Place of business /
		 Country of Effective interest(%)
Name of company incorporation 2023 2022 Principal activities
Held through Bioalpha International Sdn. Bhd.:
PT Bioalpha Indonesia 30 – General trade, wholesale and
 International				  retail trade or pharmaceutical
 Makmur (“PTBIM”)*				  and traditional medicine
* Exempted or not statutorily required to be audited
(a) Acquisition of an associate
On 1 August 2023, BISB, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, entered into the following
agreements for the acquisition of PTBIM:
As at the date of the agreement, PT Alfa Sehat Indonesia Group of Companies (“PTAS”) indebted to BISB
a sum of US Dollars Seven Hundred Ninety-Three Thousand Nine Hundred Ninety-Three and Thirty-Two
Cent Only (USD793,993.32), equivalent to Ringgit Malaysia Three Million Three Hundred Twenty-Eight
Thousand Six Hundred Sixty-Eight and Twenty Two Sen Only (RM3,328,668.22) (“Settlement Amount”)
being amount owing to BISB for goods sold.
In the case of full and final settlement, PTAS shall pay to BISB the Settlement Amount by transferring the
shares of PTAS into a newly incorporated company, PT Bioalpha International Makmur (“PTBIM”) and to
allot 30% of the shares in PTBIM to BISB and to pay BISB Ringgit Malaysia Twenty-Eight Thousand Six
Hundred Sixty-Eight and Twenty-Two Sen Only (RM28,668.22) upon execution of the agreement.
The acquisition had been completed during the year. Consequently, PTBIM became 30% owned
associated of BISB.
(b) Summarised financial information of the Group’s material associates are set out below:
Summarised statements of financial position
		 PTBIM
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Current assets				 4,297,083 –
Current liabilities				 (619,217) –
Net assets				 3,677,866 –
		
117
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
6. INVESTMENT IN ASSOCIATE (CONT’D)
(b) Summarised financial information of the Group’s material associates are set out below: (Cont’d)
Summarised statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income
		 PTBIM
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Loss for the financial year 				 (18,740) –
Other comprehensive loss for the financial year			 – –
Total comprehensive loss for the financial year 		 (18,740) –
		
7. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
At 1 January				 5,891,157 5,891,157
Accumulated impairment losses 			 (557,127) (557,127)
At 31 December				 5,334,030 5,334,030
		
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to the Group’s cash-generating units (“CGU”) are as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
Mediconstant Holding Sdn. Bhd. 			 5,334,030 5,334,030
(a) Recoverable amount on value in use
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of goodwill at the end of the financial
year was determined based on a value-in-use calculation by discounting the future cash flows generated
from the continuing use of cash generated unit (“CGU”) and was based on following assumptions:
(i) Pre-tax cash flow projection based on the most recent financial budgets covering a five (2022:
five) year period;
(ii) The anticipated annual revenue growth rate used in the cash flow budgets and plans of the CGU is
5.87% (2022: 4.9%); and
(iii) Pre-tax discount rate of 8% (2022: 7.75%) per annum has been applied in determining the
recoverable amount of the CGU. The discount rate was based estimated based on the Group’s
weighted average cost of capital.
The value assigned to the key assumptions represent management’s assessment of future trends in the
industry and are based on both external sources and internal sources.
The management believes that no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions
would cause the carrying value of the units to materially exceed their recoverable amount.
118
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
7. GOODWILL ON CONSOLIDATION (cont’d)
(b) Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The management believes that a reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions on which
management has based on its determination of the CGU’s recoverable amount would not cause the
CGU’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
8. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
		 Development
			 expenditures Patents Software Total
			 RM RM RM RM
Group		
Cost		
At 1 January 2022		 70,443,544 2,906,674 64,063 73,414,281
Additions		 3,036,367 657,442 2,393 3,696,202
Written off		 (1,538,016) – – (1,538,016)
Exchange differences		 276,645 (50,190) (903) 225,552
		
At 31 December 2022 and
 1 January 2023		 72,218,540 3,513,926 65,553 75,798,019
Additions		 388,132 – – 388,132
Written off		 (1,889,896) – – (1,889,896)
Exchange differences		 242,040 33,177 593 275,810
At 31 December 2023		 70,958,816 3,547,103 66,146 74,572,065
Accumulated amortisation		
At 1 January 2022		 22,201,842 252,366 21,837 22,476,045
Charge for the financial year		 2,176,223 220,551 20,798 2,417,572
Written off		 (917,496) – – (917,496)
Exchange differences		 – 10,201 789 10,990
		
At 31 December 2022 and
 1 January 2023		 23,460,569 483,118 43,424 23,987,111
Charge for the financial year		 2,114,170 493,656 10,230 2,618,056
Written off		 (573,697) – – (573,697)
Exchange differences		 – (263,142) 559 (262,583)
At 31 December 2023		 25,001,042 713,632 54,213 25,768,887
Accumulated impairment
At 1 January 2022,
 31 December 2022 and
 1 January 2023		 – – – –
Impairment for the financial year		 1,423,023 – – 1,423,023
Exchange differences		 (2,826) – – (2,826)
At 31 December 2023		 1,420,197 – – 1,420,197
At 31 December 2022		 48,757,971 3,030,808 22,129 51,810,908
At 31 December 2023		 44,537,577 2,833,471 11,933 47,382,981
119
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
8. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONT’D)
Development expenditures
Development expenditure represents the cost incurred in respect of the on-going development of 2 high
value herbal products for diabetes and hormone replacement therapy, and the products development for the
formulation of health supplement products.
(a) Recoverable amount on value in use
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of development expenditures at the
end of the financial year was determined based on a value in use calculation by discounting the future
cash flows generated from the continuing use of the cash generated unit (“CGU”) and was based on the
following assumptions:
(i) Pre-tax cash flow projection based on the most recent financial budgets covering five (2022: five)
years period;
(ii) The anticipated annual revenue growth rate used in the cash flow budgets and plans of the CGU is
range from7.90% to 7.92% (2022: 4.90% to 5.50%); and
(iii) Pre-tax discount rate of 8% (2022: 7.65%) per annual has been applied in determining the
recoverable amount of the CGU. The discount rate was based estimated based on the Group’s
weighted average cost of capital.
The value assigned to the key assumptions represent management’s assessment of future trends in the
industry and are based on both external sources and internal sources. The management believes that
no reasonably possible change in any of the above key assumptions would cause the carrying value of
the units to materially exceed their recoverable amount.
(b) Sensitivity to changes in assumptions
The management believes that a reasonably possible change in the key assumptions on which
management has based on its determination of the CGU’s recoverable amount would not cause the
CGU’s carrying amount to exceed its recoverable amount.
Patents
Patents relate to the Group’s principal activities and have an average remaining amortisation period of 15
years (2022: 15 years).
Software
Software are assessed to have finite life of 2 years upon commercialisation. The amortisation period and
amortisation method are review at least annually for appropriateness.
120
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
9. AMOUNT DUE FROM/(TO) SUBSIDIARIES
		 Company
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
				 (Restated)
Amount due from subsidiaries
Non-trade related				 198,391,347 194,788,686
Less: Allowance for expected credit losses (“ECLs”)			 (7,951,608) (6,719,153)
				 190,439,739 188,069,533
Amount due to subsidiaries
Non-trade related
- Current 			 (12,939,873) (20,939,873)
Amount due from/(to) subsidiaries are unsecured and non-interest bearing.
The movement in allowance for ECLs of amount due from subsidiaries during the financial year is as follows:
		 Company
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
At 1 January				 6,719,153 2,744,803
Allowance for ECLs				 1,232,455 3,974,350
At 31 December				 7,951,608 6,719,153
The foreign currency profile of amount due from subsidiaries are as follows:
		 Company
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Hong Kong Dollar (“HKD”)				 1,611,156 1,693,274
Chinese Yuan (“CNY”)				 22,956,127 28,311,674
United States Dollar (“USD”)				 15,926,333 17,827,665
		
121
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
10. BIOLOGICAL ASSETS
				 		Group
						
RM
		
At 1 January 2022					 691,731
Fair value adjustment 					 (516,731)
At 31 December 2022 and 1 January 2023				 175,000
Fair value adjustment 					 (75,000)
As at 31 December 2023					 100,000
Biological assets comprise living herbal plantation and produce growing on bearer plants. On maturity,
the plantations are stated at fair value less estimated point-of-sale costs, with any resultant gain or loss
recognised in the profit or loss. Point-of-sales costs included all costs that would be necessary to sell the
assets.
The biological assets have been stated at cost and accumulated impairment losses, if any, as there is currently
no active market of the biological asset nor reliable alternative estimates of fair value available.
At 31 December 2023, the Group has 1,303 acres (2022: 1,303 acres) of herbal plantations.
11. INVENTORIES
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
At cost		
Raw materials				 1,900,151 2,516,162
Consumables				 1,215,199 1,268,209
Finished goods				 382,211 667,640
Trading goods				 3,245,334 4,045,527
					 6,742,895 8,497,538
		
Recognised in profit or loss		
Inventories recognised as cost of sales 			 34,475,139 27,820,818
Inventories written off				 18,101 758,789
Provision of slow-moving inventories 			 – 580,730
Reversal of provision of slow-moving inventories			 (10,236) –
12. TRADE RECEIVABLES
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Trade receivables				 22,932,710 24,852,261
Less: Allowance for ECLs		 		 (17,297,208) (15,907,577)
					 5,635,502 8,944,684
		
Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and are generally from cash term to 180 days (2022: cash term to
180 days). They are recognised at their original invoice amounts which represent their fair values on initial
recognition.
122
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
12. TRADE RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
The movement in allowance for ECLs of trade receivables during the financial year is as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
At 1 January				 15,907,577 5,643,609
Allowance for ECLs				 3,533,754 10,930,402
Reversal of allowance for ECLs				 (2,444,247) (293,785)
Written off				 – (381,736)
Exchange difference				 300,124 8,646
At 31 December				 17,297,208 15,907,577
The following table provide information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade receivables:
				 Gross Loss Net
				amount allowance amount
				RM RM RM
			
Group			
2023 		
Neither past due nor impaired 		 3,851,768 (1,745) 3,850,023
			
1 to 30 days past due not impaired 		 370,448 – 370,448
31 to 60 days past due not impaired 		 30,426 (4,558) 25,868
61 to 90 days past due not impaired 		 653,914 (17,961) 635,953
More than 91 days past due not impaired		 11,514,110 (10,760,900) 753,210
				 16,420,666 (10,785,164) 5,635,502
Individually impaired			 6,512,044 (6,512,044) –
				 22,932,710 (17,297,208) 5,635,502
			
Group			
2022 		
Neither past due nor impaired			 722,894 (1,083) 721,811
			
1 to 30 days past due not impaired 		 354,145 – 354,145
31 to 60 days past due not impaired 		 487,397 – 487,397
61 to 90 days past due not impaired			 6,732,214 (2,594,125) 4,138,089
More than 91 days past due not impaired		 4,602,205 (1,358,963) 3,243,242
				 12,898,855 (3,954,171) 8,944,684
Individually impaired			 11,953,406 (11,953,406) –
				 24,852,261 (15,907,577) 8,944,684
123
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
12. TRADE RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
The foreign currency profile of trade receivables are as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Chinese Yuan (“CNY”)				 2,644,820 3,730,594
Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”)				 78,451 2,670
United States Dollar (“USD”)				 437,460 3,564,920
13. OTHER RECEIVABLES
		 Group Company
			2023 2022 2023 2022
			RM RM RM RM
				
Non-trade receivables		 6,276,013 6,575,371 262 261
Deposits		 4,504,421 971,070 – –
Less: Allowance for ECLs		 (5,126,161) (509,694) – –
			 5,654,273 7,036,747 262 261
Accrued income		 11,591 72,710 – 47,983
Prepayments		 955,466 7,441,478 13,414 4,125
Value-added tax (“VAT”)				
 recoverable		 69,284 64,173 – –
Advance to suppliers		 321,802 2,028,295 – –
Advance to staffs		 40,684 24,646 – –
			 7,053,100 16,668,049 13,676 52,369
Non-trade receivables are unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
The movement in allowance for ECLs of other receivables during the financial year is as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
At 1 January				 509,694 673,188
Allowance for ECLs				 5,193,863 –
Reversal				 – (47,725)
Written off 				 (509,694) (115,769)
Exchange difference				 (67,702) –
At 31 December				 5,126,161 509,694
The currency profile of other receivables are as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Hong Kong Dollar (“HKD”) 			 6,611 4,103
Chinese Yuan (“CNY”)				 4,562,398 6,834,072
Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”)				 8,668 1,606,042
United States Dollar (“USD”)				 – 4,552,840
124
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
14. OTHER INVESTMENTS
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Current		
Fair Value Through Profit or Loss (“FVTPL”)		
- Money market fund				 12,663 9,026,826
- Quoted ordinary shares				 21,464,347 –
					 21,477,010 9,026,826
The fair value of the financial asset at FVTPL is classified as at Level 1 fair value item for the purpose of fair
value hierarchy disclosures.
Money market fund
Money market fund represent deposits placement with investment fund management companies. The
average effective interest rates of the money market fund range from 0.23% to 0.30% on monthly basis and
are readily convertible to cash with insignificant risk of changes in value.
15. FIXED DEPOSITS WITH LICENSED BANKS
		 Group Company
			2023 2022 2023 2022
			RM RM RM RM
				
Fixed deposits with lisenced banks				
Maturity:				
- less than 3 months		 – 14,146,026 – –
- more than 3 months		 217,779 7,500,000 – 7,500,000
Fixed deposits pledged with 				
 licensed banks		 799,772 1,145,008 – –
			 1,017,551 22,791,034 – 7,500,000
The interest rate of fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company range from 1.75% to
2.33% (2022: 1.60% to 2.32%) per annum and nil (2022:1.60% to 2.32%) per annum respectively. The maturities
of fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company are 365 days (2022: 30 to 365 days).
The fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group amounted to RM1,017,551 (2022: RM145,008) are
pledged to licensed banks and non-financial institution respectively as securities for credit facilities granted
to subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements.
125
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
16. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents are denominated other than Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”)
		 Group Company
			2023 2022 2023 2022
			RM RM RM RM
				
Hong Kong Dollar (“HKD”)		 525,518 565,442 145,162 20
Chinese Yuan (“CNY”)		 7,031,441 14,518,488 32,302 –
Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”)		 28,379 13,281 – –
Singapore Dollar (“SGD”)		 35,260 33,984 – –
United States Dollar (“USD”) 204,594 615,001 575 761
17. SHARE CAPITAL
		 Group and Company
		 Number of ordinary shares Amount
			2023 2022 2023 2022
			Unit Unit RM RM
Issued and fully paid up				
At 1 January		 1,378,072,011 1,197,139,425 179,939,010 153,233,258
Conversion of ICPS		 28,419,085 – 6,252,198 –
Issuance of shares				
- Exercise of SIS		 – 168,000,000 – 23,860,583
- Exercise of warrants		 – 12,932,586 – 2,845,169
At 31 December		 1,406,491,096 1,378,072,011 186,191,208 179,939,010
During the financial year, the Company increase its share capital from RM179,939,010 to RM186,191,208 by
way of:
(a) On 30 June 2023, 14 September 2023, 18 September 2023, 21 September 2023 and 4 October 2023,
issuance of 25,909,094, 1,088,963, 600,000, 15,454 and 805,574 new ordinary shares as a result of
conversion of ICPS at issue price of RM0.22 to RM5,700,000, RM239,572, RM132,000, RM3,400 and
RM177,226 respectively;
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari passu in all respects with the existing
ordinary shares of the Company.
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are entitled
to one vote per share at meetings for the Company. All ordinary shares rank equally with regards to the
Company’s residual assets.
126
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
18. ICPS
		 Group and Company
		 Number of ordinary shares Amount
			 2023 2022 2023 2022
			Unit Unit RM RM
Issued and fully paid up				
At 1 January		 457,078,472 457,078,472 9,141,569 9,141,569
Conversion of ICPS to
 Ordinary shares		 (312,609,950) – (6,252,198) –
At 31 December		 144,468,522 457,078,472 2,889,371 9,141,569
19. RESERVES
		 Group Company
			2023 2022 2023 2022
		 Note RM RM RM RM
				
SIS option reserve (a) 803,081 803,081 803,081 803,081
Merger deficits (b) (4,569,128) (4,569,128) – –
Foreign currency				
 translation reserve (c) 3,686,099 2,417,976 – –
(Accumulated losses)/
 Retained earnings		 (61,633,784) (19,874,032) 1,351,447 (1,381,669)
			 (61,713,732) (21,222,103) 2,154,528 (578,588)
(a) SIS option reserve
At an extraordinary general meeting held on 19 August 2016, the Company’s shareholders approved the
establishment of SIS for eligible Directors and employees of the Group.
The salient features of the SIS Options are as follows:
(a) Any employee of the Group shall be eligible if as ta the date of offer, the employee:
(i) Has attained at least eighteen (18) years of age;
(ii) Is an employee in a company within the Group, which is not dormant belonging to such
categories of employment as determined by the Option Committee; and
(iii) Who falls under such categories and criteria that the Option Committee may decide at its
absolute discretion from time to time.
(b) Any Director of the Group shall be eligible if as at the date of offer, the Director:
(i) Is at least eighteen (18) years of age; and
(ii) Has been appointed as a Director of a company within the Group, which is not dormant
(c) The maximum number of new shares to be issued pursuant to the exercise of the SIS Options
which may be granted under the SIS Shares shall not exceed thirty percent (30%) of the total
issued and paid-up share capital (excluding treasury shares, if any) of the Company at any point of
time throughout the duration of the SIS.
(d) The options granted may be exercised any time upon the satisfaction of vesting conditions of
each offer.
127
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
19. RESERVES (CONT’D)
(a) SIS option reserve (Cont’d)
(e) The SIS shall be in force for a period of 5 years from 12 January 2017 to 10 January 2022. The
Company had on 6 January 2022 extended the existing SIS which expired on 11 January 2022 for
another 2 years from 12 January 2022 to 11 January 2024 in accordance with the Clause 21 Of the
SIS Bylaws. On 9 November 2023, the Company further extended the existing SIS which expired on
11 January 2024 for another 3 years from 12 January 2024 to 11 January 2027.
(f) The options granted may be exercised in full or in lesser number of ordinary shares provided that
the number shall be in multiples of and not less than 100 shares.
Movement in the number of share options and the weighted average exercise prices are as follows:
		 Number of options over ordinary shares
		 Exercise Brought				
Carried
Date of offer price forward Cancellation Granted Exercised forward
2023		
27 February 2017 0.205 1,988,889 – – – 1,988,889
16 April 2020 0.105 2,275,863 – – – 2,275,863
11 October 2022 0.090 125,000,000 – – – 125,000,000
		 Exercise Brought				
Carried
Date of offer price forward Adjustment Granted Exercised Forward
2022
27 February 2017 0.205 1,988,889 – – – 1,988,889
16 April 2020 0.105 2,275,863 – – – 2,275,863
10 September 2021 0.225 153,000,000 (153,000,000) – – –
17 May 2022 0.140 – (75,000,000) 243,000,000 (168,000,000) –
11 October 2022 0.090 – – 125,000,000 – 125,000,000
The fair value of services received in return for share options granted during the financial year is based
on the fair value of share options granted, estimated by the management using Black-Scholes-Merton
model taking into account the terms and conditions upon which the options were granted. The weighted
average fair value of share options measured at grant date and the assumptions are as follow:
		 Number of units
				27 16 11
				 February April October
				2017 2020 2022
				RM RM RM
		
Fair value			 0.0909 0.0079 0.0060
		
Weighted average share price			 0.225 0.110 0.090
Weighted average exercise price 		 0.205 0.105 0.090
Expected volatility			 39.88% 28.20% 70.75%
Expected life (years)			 5 years 1.18 years 5 years
Risk free rate(%)			 3.70 2.52 2.67
Expected dividend yield (%)			 Nil Nil Nil
128
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
19. RESERVES (CONT’D)
(a) SIS option reserve (Cont’d)
The expected life of the share options is based on historical data, has been adjusted according to
management’s best estimate for the effects of non-transferability, exercise restrictions (including the
probability of meeting the market conditions attached to the option), and behavioural consideration. The
expected volatility is based on the historical share price volatility, adjusted for unusual or extraordinary
volatility arising from certain economic or business occurrences which is not reflective of its long-
term average level. While the expected volatility is assumed to be indicative of future trends, it may not
necessarily be the actual outcome. No other features of the option grant were incorporated into the
measurement of fair value.
(b) Merger deficits
The merger deficit represents the difference between the nominal value of shares issued by the Company
and the nominal value of shares of subsidiaries accounted for rising the merger method.
(c) Foreign currency translation reserve
The foreign currency translation reserve represents exchange differences arising from the translation of
the financial statements of foreign operations whose functional currencies are different from that of the
Group’s presentation currency.
20. LOAN AND BORROWINGS
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
Secured 		
Bankers’ acceptances				 2,575,000 1,387,000
Revolving credit				 1,000,000 1,000,000
Term loans				 2,523,477 4,564,968
					 6,098,477 6,951,968
		
Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Non-current		
Term loans				 2,103,963 2,965,804
		
Current		
Bankers’ acceptances				 2,575,000 1,387,000
Revolving credit				 1,000,000 1,000,000
Term loans				 419,514 1,599,164
					 3,994,514 3,986,164
					 6,098,477 6,951,968
129
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
20. LOAN AND BORROWINGS (cont’d)
The above credit facilities obtained from licensed financial institution and non-financial institution are secured
on the following:
(a) Charge over certain freehold land and building, leasehold land and building, and plant and machineries
of the Group as disclosed in Note 4 to the financial statements;
(b) Charge on fixed deposits with licensed banks of the Group as disclosed in Note 15 to the financial
statements;
(c) Joint and severally guaranteed by certain of Directors of the Company; and
(d) Corporate guarantee by the Company.
Term loan I is repayable by 240 monthly instalments commencing from January 2014.
Term loan II is repayable by 120 monthly instalments commencing from May 2018.
Term loan III is repayable by 36 monthly instalments commencing from August 2021.
Term loan IV is repayable by 114 monthly instalments commencing from August 2021.
Banker’s acceptance facilities are repayable within 120 days.
Revolving credit facilities are repayable within 180 days.
The average effective interest rate are as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
% %
		
Banker’s acceptances				 2.59 - 5.00 2.59 - 5.00
Revolving credit				 3.84 - 4.12 3.84 - 4.12
Term loans				 4.00 - 5.13 4.00 - 5.13
		
21. LEASE LIABILITIES
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Non-current				 4,247,294 4,171,162
Current				 1,545,777 552,783
					 5,793,071 4,723,945
130
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
21. LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
The maturity analysis of lease liabilities at the end of the reporting period:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Within 1 year				 1,458,584 1,401,143
Between 2 - 5 years				 3,214,659 1,827,605
More than 5 years				 2,347,367 2,676,821
					 7,020,610 5,905,569
Less: Future finance charges				 (1,227,539) (1,181,624)
Present value of lease liabilities				 5,793,071 4,723,945
The Group leases various property, land and building and motor vehicles. Lease terms are negotiated on an
individual basis and contain a wide range of different term and conditions.
The incremental borrowing rates applied to lease liabilities as at 31 December 2023 ranged from 2.33% to
8.15% (2022: 2.33% to 8.15%) per annum.
22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
At 1 January 				 7,310,126 7,455,396
Recognised in profit or loss				 (1,913,062) (2,229,865)
Under provision in prior financial years				 123,325 2,084,595
At 31 December				 5,520,389 7,310,126
The net deferred tax assets and liabilities shown on the statements of financial position after appropriate
offsetting are as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Deferred tax liabilities				 12,767,781 13,903,250
Deferred tax assets				 (7,247,392) (6,593,124)
					 5,520,389 7,310,126
131
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
The components and movement of deferred tax assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting date prior to
offsetting are as follows:
				 Accelerated
				 capital Development
Deferred tax liabilities			 allowances expenditure Total
				 RM RM RM
Group		
At 1 January 2022			 2,767,813 10,545,672 13,313,485
Recognised in profit or loss			 51,833 (183,704) (131,871)
Under provision in prior financial years 		 525,881 195,755 721,636
		
At 31 December 2022 and 1 January 2023		 3,345,527 10,557,723 13,903,250
Recognised in profit or loss			 (80,543) (617,849) (698,392)
Over provision in prior financial years			 (288,152) (148,925) (437,077)
At 31 December 2023			 2,976,832 9,790,949 12,767,781
		 Unutilised Unutilised Unutilised
		 tax capital reinvestment
Deferred tax assets losses allowances allowances Others Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group		
At 1 January 2022 (710,125) (441,628) (3,457,676) (1,248,660) (5,858,089)
Recognised in profit or loss (693,848) (1,404,146) – – (2,097,994)
Over/(Under) provision in
 prior financial years 203,332 25,416 (114,449) 1,248,660 1,362,959
		
At 31 December 2022
 and 1 January 2023 (1,200,641) (1,820,358) (3,572,125) – (6,593,124)
Recognised in profit or loss (366,614) (848,056) – – (1,214,670)
Over / (Under) provision in
 prior financial years 492,661 197,454 (129,713) – 560,402
At 31 December 2023 (1,074,594) (2,470,960) (3,701,838) – (7,247,392)
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items:
		 Group Company
			2023 2022 2023 2022
			RM RM RM RM
				
Property, plant and equipment		 (13,329,724) (14,196,858) (288) (238)
Unutilised business losses		 10,999,975 9,333,592 – –
Unutilised capital allowances		 3,125,252 2,134,261 – –
			 795,503 (2,729,005) (288) (238)
In accordance with the provision of Finance Act 2018, the unutilised business losses could be carried forward
for a maximum of seven consecutive years of assessment and the unused reinvestment allowance could be
carried forward for a maximum of seven consecutive years of assessment after the expiry of the qualifying
periods. Any balance of the unutilised business losses and reinvestment allowance at the end of the seventh
year shall be disregarded.
132
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
22. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
The Finance Act 2021 stated that the time frame to carry forward unutilised business losses for year of
assessment 2019 and subsequent years of assessment be extended from seven to ten consecutive years of
assessment. The other temporary differences do not expire under current tax legislation.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items as they may not have sufficient
taxable profits to be used to offset or they have arisen in subsidiaries that have a recent history of losses.
23. CONTRACT LIABILITIES
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Contract liabilities		
- Current				 1,388,760 1,189,940
At 31 December				 1,388,760 1,189,940
The contract liabilities refer to advance received from a franchisee and customer for purchases of goods
which will be set off against future revenue made with the Group.
The Group expect revenue from unsatisfied performance obligation to be recognised in the financial years as
follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Financial years ending 31 December		
- 2023				 1,388,760 1,189,940
24. OTHER PAYABLES
		 Group Company
			2023 2022 2023 2022
			RM RM RM RM
		
Non-trade payables 1,681,486 2,100,023 590,961 230,777
Accruals		 1,991,102 1,842,658 235,616 188,460
Deferred capital grant		 27,653 64,813 – –
Deposit received		 6,845,851 3,171,215 – –
Sales and service tax (“SST”) payable		 132,400 79,464 – –
			 10,678,492 7,258,173 826,577 419,237
Deferred capital grant refers to government grant received from Malaysian Bioeconomy Development
Corporation Sdn. Bhd. (“MBDC”) and Malaysia Technology Development Corporation (“MTDC”) for the
acquisition of equipment for research activities. There are no unfulfilled conditions or contingencies attached
to this grant. The grant is being amortised over the useful life of the plant as recognised in profit or loss.
133
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
24. OTHER PAYABLES (CONT’D)
The movement of deferred capital grant is as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
At 1 January				 64,813 469,832
Amortised during the financial year				 (37,160) (405,019)
At 31 December				 27,653 64,813
		
Presented:		
Current				 27,653 64,813
		
The foreign currency profile of the other payables are as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Hong Kong Dollar (“HKD”)				 33,583 29,514
Chinese Yuan (“CNY”)				 127,750 4,440,681
Indonesian Rupiah (“IDR”)				 108,402 60,705
25. TRADE PAYABLES
The normal trade credit terms granted to the Group range from 30 to 90 days (2022: 30 to 90 days) depending
on the term of the contracts.
26. REVENUE
		 Group Company
			2023 2022 2023 2022
			RM RM RM RM
				
Revenue from contracts with customers:				
Sales of goods		 44,756,810 35,754,329 – –
Franchise fee		 – 42,500 – –
Management fee		 1,330,000 – – –
			 46,086,810 35,796,829 – –
Revenue from other sources:				
Dividend income		 – – 6,000,000 5,000,000
			 46,086,810 35,796,829 6,000,000 5,000,000
				
Timing of revenue recognition:				
At a point in time		 46,086,810 35,796,829 6,000,000 5,000,000
134
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
26. REVENUE (cont’d)
Breakdown of the Group’s revenue from contracts with customers:
		 Major goods and services
			 Sales of Franchise Management 		
		 goods fee fee Total
			 RM RM RM RM
		
2023		
Trading		 16,553,222 – – 16,553,222
Manufacturing		 14,120,571 – – 14,120,571
Retail phamacy		 14,083,017 – – 14,083,017
Others		 – – 1,330,000 1,330,000
			 44,756,810 – 1,330,000 46,086,810
		
Geographical market:		
Malaysia		 27,607,425 – 1,330,000 28,937,425
China		 16,553,222 – – 16,553,222
Indonesia		 141,473 – – 141,473
Others		 454,690 – – 454,690
			 44,756,810 – 1,330,000 46,086,810
		
2022		
Trading		 10,871,085 – – 10,871,085
Manufacturing		 12,694,470 – – 12,694,470
Retail phamacy		 12,188,774 – – 12,188,774
Others		 – 42,500 – 42,500
			 35,754,329 42,500 – 35,796,829
		
Geographical market:		
Malaysia		 22,845,689 42,500 – 22,888,189
China		 10,868,954 – – 10,868,954
Indonesia		 382,586 – – 382,586
Others		 1,657,100 – – 1,657,100
			 35,754,329 42,500 – 35,796,829
		
135
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
27. OTHER OPERATING INCOME
		 Group Company
			2023 2022 2023 2022
			RM RM RM RM
Interest from fixed deposits
 with licensed banks		 17,778 526,879 – 307,992
Interest from other investments		 240,020 – 74,858 –
Foreign exchange gain:
- realised 		 – 824 – 824
- unrealised 		 235,071 – 372,928 –
Rental income 		 115,228 27,600 – –
Grant received		 540,061 – – –
Amortisation of deferred capital grant 		 37,160 405,019 – –
Gain on dilutions of a subsidiary		 65,972 – – –
Gain on disposal of quoted shares		 561,300 – – –
Gain on disposal of property,
 plant and equipment		 130,537 164 – –
Net income from pre-setup
 cost from licensee		 2,477,437 – – –
Other income 		 1,036,475 281,895 302 –
			 5,457,039 1,242,381 448,088 308,816
28. FINANCE COSTS
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
Finance costs				
Interest on bank overdraft				 18,895 5,266
Interest on bankers’ acceptance				 62,567 21,636
Interest on lease liabilities				 207,435 162,891
Interest on term loans				 346,637 551,158
Interest on revolving credit			 51,470 28,727
					 687,004 769,678
136
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
29. (LOSS)/PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Loss before tax is determined after charging/(crediting) amongst other, the following items:
		 Group Company
			2023 2022 2023 2022
			RM RM RM RM
Auditors’ remuneration
- Current year		 330,134 212,289 70,000 61,500
- Under provision in prior years		 4,170 – – –
- Non-audit		 36,000 24,000 36,000 24,000
Allowance for ECLs :
- Trade receivables		 3,533,754 10,930,843 – –
- Other receivables		 5,193,863 – – –
- Amount due from subsidiaries 		 – – 1,232,455 3,974,350
Reversal of allowance for ECLs:
- Trade receivables		 (2,444,247) (293,785) – –
- Other receivable		 – (47,725) – –
Amortisation of intangible assets 		 2,618,056 2,417,572 – –
Bad debts written off		 14,248 356,705 – –
Deposits written off		 11,463 – – –
Fair value loss on quoted
 shares investments		 13,553,153 – – –
Fair value loss on biological assets 		 75,000 516,731 – –
Depreciation of property,
 plant and equipment		 8,915,160 10,156,011 806 1,306
Loss on disposal of property,
 plant and equipment		 – 2,522 – –
Inventories written off		 18,101 758,789 – –
Gain on early termination of
 lease contract		 – (83,717) – –
Written off of plantation expenditure		 – 2,114,958 – –
Provision of slow-moving inventories		 – 580,730 – –
Reversal of provision of
 slow-moving inventories		 (10,236) – – –
Impairment of property, plant and
 equipment		 1,133,411 – – –
Intangible assets written off		 1,423,023 620,520 – –
Property, plant and equipment
 written off		 388,600 3,289,959 – –
Staff costs (Note 32)		 10,535,885 8,896,701 1,286,359 1,558,609
Loss on foreign exchange:
- Realised		 1,127 824 – –
- Unrealised		 – 981,193 – 147,815
Lease expenses relating to:
- Low value assets (a)		 17,705 – – –
- Short-term leases (a)		 472,867 – 10,000 –
Share based payment		 – 508,444 – 508,444
Loss on dilution of a subsidiary 		 – 1,439,621 – –
(a) The Group leases a number of properties and equipment with contract terms of not more than one year.
These leases are short-term or leases of low value assets. The Group has elected not to recognised
right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for these leases
137
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
30. TAXATION
		 Group Company
			2023 2022 2023 2022
			RM RM RM RM
Tax expenses recognised 		
 in profit or loss		
Current tax		
Current financial year provision		 162,400 60,900 12,400 55,000
(Over)/Under provision in priors
 financial years		 (3,273) 48,385 2,444 7,588
			 159,127 109,285 14,844 62,588
		
Deferred tax liabilities		
Origination and reversal of		
 temporary difference		 (1,913,062) (2,229,865) – –
Under provision in priors		
 financial years		 123,325 2,084,595 – –
			 (1,789,737) (145,270) – –
Total tax (income)/expense		 (1,630,610) (35,985) 14,844 62,588
		
A reconciliation of income tax expenses applicable to loss before tax at the statutory tax rate to income tax
expenses at the effective income tax of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
		 Group Company
			2023 2022 2023 2022
			RM RM RM RM
		
Loss before tax		 (45,278,759) (48,829,663) 2,747,960 (842,932)
		
Income tax calculated at tax
 rate of 24% (2021: 24%)		 (10,866,902) (11,719,119) 659,510 (202,304)
Expenses not deductible		
 for tax purposes		 11,501,158 7,086,089 792,890 1,457,135
Income not subject to tax		 (3,996,365) (1,318,414) (1,440,000) (1,200,000)
Movement of deferred tax		
 assets not recognised		 1,611,447 3,782,479 – 169
(Over)/Under provision of tax		
 expenses in priors financial years		 (3,273) 48,385 2,444 7,588
Under provision of deferred		
 tax in priors financial years		 123,325 2,084,595 – –
			 (1,630,610) (35,985) 14,844 62,588
A subsidiary has received an approval letter dated 20 December 2013 from Ministry of Agriculture and Agro-
Based Industry Malaysia in relation to its application for exemption of tax under paragraph 127(3)(b) of the
Income Tax Act 1967 for carrying out of herbs project. Pursuant to paragraph 127(3)(b), it has been granted
a 100% tax exemption of the statutory income for a period of 10 years commencing from its first statutory
income. As such, it is eligible for tax exemption on 100% of its statutory business income (if any) for the year
of assessment 2018 to year of assessment 2027.
138
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
31. LOSS PER SHARE
(a) Loss per share
The basic loss per share are calculated based on the consolidated loss for the financial year attributable
to owners of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the
financial year as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Loss attributable to owners of Company			 (42,000,116) (47,830,550)
		
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue:			
Issued ordinary shares at 1 January			 1,260,849,697 1,155,508,426
Effect of ordinary shares issued during the financial year 		 3,043,102 105,341,271
				
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December 		 1,263,892,799 1,260,849,697
		
Basic loss per ordinary shares (in sen)			 (3.32) (3.80)
		
(b) Diluted loss per share
The diluted loss per share has been calculated based on the adjusted consolidated loss for the financial
year attributable to the owners of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares in
issue during the financial year have been adjusted for the dilutive effects of all potential ordinary shares
as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Loss attributable to owners of Company			 (42,000,116) (47,830,550)
		
Weighted average number of ordinary shares			 1,263,892,799 1,260,849,697
Adjustment for incremental shares from assumed conversions:		
 SIS				
 - Granted on 27 February 2017				 1,988,889 1,988,899
 - Granted on 16 April 2020				 2,275,863 2,275,863
 - Granted on 11 October 2022				 125,000,000 25,684,932
 ICPS				 144,468,522 457,078,472
				
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 31 December
 (diluted)				 1,537,626,073 1,747,877,863
		
Loss per ordinary shares (in sen)				 (2.73) (2.74)
		
139
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
32. STAFF COSTS
		 Group Company
			2023 2022 2023 2022
			RM RM RM RM
				
Salaries, wages and other emoluments		 9,525,681 7,612,662 1,168,086 960,913
Social security contributions		 91,167 74,914 3,119 2,214
Defined contribution plans		 953,663 682,985 115,154 87,038
Employment insurance scheme		 12,387 17,696 – –
Share based payment		 – 508,444 – 508,444
			 10,582,898 8,896,701 1,286,359 1,558,609
Less: Capitalised into:
   - Plantation expenditure (Note 4)		 (47,013) – – –
		 10,535,885 8,896,701 1,286,359 1,558,609
Included in employee benefits expense of the Group and the Company are executive directors’ remuneration
amounting to RM1,636,720 and RM1,105,486 (2022: RM1,922,186 and RM1,364,053) respectively.
33. RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
The table below show the details changes in the liabilities of the Group arising from financing activities,
including both cash and non-cash changes:
					
Lease Term
					
liabilities loans
					
RM RM
				
Group				
At 1 January 2023 		 4,723,945 4,564,968
Drawdown 		 2,623,521 –
Repayment 		 (1,727,707) (2,041,491)
Foreign exchange translation 			 173,312 –
At 31 December 2023 		 5,793,071 2,523,477
Group
At 1 January 2022 		 5,204,224 6,956,023
Drawdown 		 1,756,021 –
Repayment 		 (1,240,849) (2,391,055)
Modification of lease term 			 (963,685) –
Foreign exchange translation 			 (31,766) –
At 31 December 2022 		 4,723,945 4,564,968
140
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
34. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
(a) Identifying related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group and the
Company if the Group and the Company have the ability, directly or indirectly, to control or join control
the party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or
vice versa, or where the Group and the Company and the party are subject to common control. Related
parties may be individuals or other entities.
Related parties also include key management personnel defined as those persons having authority and
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group and of the Company
either directly or indirectly. The key management personnel comprise the Directors and management
personnel of the Group and of the Company, having authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling the activities of the Group and of the Company directly or indirectly.
(b) Significant related party transactions
Related party transactions have been entered into the normal course of business under negotiated
terms. In addition to the related party balances disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the
significant related party transactions of the Company are as follows:
		 Company
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
				
Transaction with a subsidiary				
- Dividend income				 6,000,000 5,000,000
				
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
The Group considers the directors to be the key management personnel. Disclosure of their remuneration
is made in directors’ remuneration to the directors’ report.
35. SEGMENT INFORMATION
For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services,
has three reportable segments as follows:
Trading : Procurement and sales of health food products
Manufacturing : Research, development, manufacture, importer, exporter, distribution and trader of
 nutritional and health care products.
Retail pharmacy : Pharmacist, druggist and chemicals
Others : Investment holding and provision of management
Management monitors the operating result of its business units separately for the purpose of making decision
about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on profit
or loss and is measured consistently with profit or loss in the consolidated financial statements.
Transactions between segments are carried out on agreed terms between both parties. The effects of such
inter-segment transactions are eliminated on consolidation. The measurement basis and classification are
consistent with those adopted in the previous financial year.
Information about segment assets and liabilities are neither included in the internal management reports nor
provided regularly to the management. Hence, no disclosures are made on segment assets and liabilities.
141
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
35. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONT’D)
								
Adjustments
					 Retail		 Total and
			 Trading Manufacturing pharmacy Others Segments eliminations Consolidated
		 Note RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2023
External customer 16,553,222 14,120,571 14,083,017 1,330,000 46,086,810 – 46,086,810
Inter-segment		 – 2,444,882 9,015,555 – 11,460,437 (11,460,437) –
Total revenue		 16,553,222 16,565,453 23,098,572 1,330,000 57,547,247 (11,460,437) 46,086,810
Results				
Finance income		 4,007 250,140 3,651 – 257,798 – 257,798
Finance costs		 – 476,025 210,979 – 687,004 – 687,004
Depreciation on property,				
 plant and equipment		 16,915 7,912,597 985,648 – 8,915,160 – 8,915,160
Amortisation on intangible
 asset		 118,783 2,499,273 – – 2,618,056 – 2,618,056
Other non-cash item A (1,766,305) (6,138,459) (230,244) (636,644) (8,771,652) – (8,771,652)
Segment (loss)/profit		 (2,211,324) (23,883,722) 343,217 – (25,751,829) (17,901,940) (43,653,769)
Assets				
Additions to non-current
 assets other that financial
 instruments deferred tax
 assets B 3,849,873 5,170,612 217,970 55,859 5,829,375 – 5,829,375
Segment assets C 13,070,437 442,473,111 15,474,788 – 471,018,336 (307,792,763) 163,225,573
Liabilities 				
Segment liabilities D 7,231,479 262,813,670 20,382,233 – 290,427,382 (256,833,902) 33,593,480
142
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
35. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONT’D)
								
Adjustments
					 Retail		 Total and
			 Trading Manufacturing pharmacy Others Segments eliminations Consolidated
		 Note RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2022
External customer		 10,871,085 12,694,470 12,188,774 42,500 35,796,829 – 35,796,829
Inter-segment		 – 1,085,501 410,855 5,000,000 6,496,356 (6,496,356) –
Total revenue		 10,871,085 13,779,971 12,599,629 5,042,500 42,293,185 (6,496,356) 35,796,829
Results				
Finance income		 10,528 206,471 1,888 307,992 526,879 – 526,879
Finance costs		 – (627,690) (141,928) (60) (769,678) – (769,678)
Depreciation on property,				
 plant and equipment		 (439,432) (8,932,381) (772,671) (11,527) (10,156,011) – (10,156,011)
Amortisation on intangible
 asset		 (127,860) (2,289,712) – – (2,417,572) – (2,417,572)
Other non-cash item A (4,283,191) (14,885,421) (558,330) (1,543,827) (21,270,769) – (21,270,769)
Segment loss		 (2,926,367) (36,676,142) (3,851,529) (1,338,757) (44,792,795) (4,553,715) (49,346,510)
Assets				
Additions to non-current
 assets other that financial
 instruments deferred tax
 assets B 5,678,803 7,626,974 321,519 82,395 8,598,691 – 8,598,691
Segment assets C 18,297,837 255,039,530 4,777,035 193,604,076 471,718,478 (271,068,874) 200,649,604
Liabilities 				
Segment liabilities D 10,370,957 244,843,370 12,264,356 2,659,033 270,137,716 (237,475,189) 32,662,527
143
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
35. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONT’D)
Adjustments and eliminations
Capital expenditure consists of additions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets including
assets from the acquisition of subsidiaries.
Inter-segment revenues are eliminated on consolidation.
A. Other non-cash items consist of the following as presented in the respective notes to the financial
statements:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
Other non-cash item:
Amortisation of deferred capital grant			 37,160 405,019
Bad debts written off 		 (14,248) (356,705)
Deposits written off 		 (11,463) –
Share based payment 		 – (508,444)
Allowance for ECLs:
- Trade receivables 		 (3,533,754) (10,930,843)
- Other receivables 		 (5,193,863) –
Reversal allowance for ECLs:
- Trade receivables 		 2,444,247 293,785
- Other receivables 		 – 47,725
Written off of plantation expenditure			 – (2,114,958)
Fair value adjustment on biological assets			 (75,000) (516,731)
Intangible assets written off				 (1,316,199) (620,520)
Impairment of property, plant and equipment			 (1,133,411) –
Inventories written off 		 (18,101) (758,789)
Provision of slow-moving inventories			 – (580,730)
Gain/(Loss) on disposal of property, plant and equipment		 130,537 (2,522)
Property, plant and equipment written off			 (388,600) (3,289,959)
Unrealised loss/(gain) on foreign exchange 		 235,071 (981,193)
Gain on early termination of lease contract			 – 83,717
Gain/(Loss) on dilution of a subsidiary			 65,972 (1,439,621)
			 (8,771,652) (21,270,769)
B. Additions to non-current assets other than financial instruments consists of:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Property, plant and equipment				 5,441,243 4,902,489
Intangible assets				 388,132 3,696,202
					 5,829,375 8,598,691
144
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
35. SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONT’D)
Adjustments and eliminations (Cont’d)
C. The following items are added to segment assets to arrive at total assets reported in the consolidated
statement of financial position.
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
			
Segment assets				 157,505,149 194,313,973
Tax recoverable				 386,394 1,001,601
Goodwill				 5,334,030 5,334,030
Total assets				 163,225,573 200,649,604
D. Thefollowingitemsareaddedtosegmentliabilitiestoarriveattotalliabilitiesreportedintheconsolidated
statement of financial position.
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
				
Segment liabilities				 16,181,543 13,237,646
Deferred tax liabilities				 5,520,389 7,310,126
Lease liabilities				 5,793,071 4,723,945
Loan and borrowings				 6,098,477 6,951,968
Tax payable				 – 438,842
Total liabilities				 33,593,480 32,662,527
Geographic information
Revenue information based on the geographical location of customer is as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					
RM RM
		
Malaysia				 28,937,425 22,888,189
China				 16,553,222 10,868,954
Indonesia				 141,473 382,586
Others				 454,690 1,657,100
					 46,086,810 35,796,829
Major customer
There are 2 (2022: 1) major customer contributing to RM15,348,430 (2022: RM10,855,997) or more of total
revenue of the Group from trading segment.
145
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
(a) Classification of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are measured on an ongoing basis either at fair value or at
amortised cost. The principal accounting policies in Note 2 describe how the classes of financial
instruments are measured, and how income and expense, including fair value gains and losses, are
recognised.
The following table analyses the financial assets and liabilities in the statements of financial position by
the class of financial instruments to which they are assigned, and therefore by the measurement basis:
		 Group Company
			2023 2022 2023 2022
			RM RM RM RM
				
At amortised cost				
Financial assets				
Trade receivables		 5,635,502 8,944,684 – –
Other receivables		 6,097,634 9,226,571 262 48,244
Amount due from subsidiaries		 – – 190,439,739 188,069,533
Fixed deposits with licensed 				
 banks		 1,017,551 22,791,034 – 7,500,000
Cash and cash equivalents 10,423,573 16,972,445 482,801 198,125
			 23,174,260 57,934,734 190,922,802 195,815,902
				
At FVTPL				
Financial asset				
Other investments		 21,477,010 9,026,826 – –
				
At amortised cost				
Financial liabilities				
Loan and borrowings		 6,098,477 6,951,968 – –
Trade payables		 4,114,291 4,789,633 – –
Other payables		 10,546,092 7,178,709 826,577 419,237
Amount due to subsidiaries		 – – 12,939,873 20,939,873
			 20,758,860 18,920,310 13,766,450 21,359,110
				
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies
The Group’s and the Company’s financial risk management policy is to ensure that adequate financial
resources are available for the development of the Group’s and of the Company’s operation whilst
managing their credit, liquidity and market risks. The Group and the Company operate within clearly
defined guidelines that are approved by the Board and the Group’s and the Company’s policy is not to
engage in speculative transactions.
146
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objective and policies (Cont’d)
The following sections provide details regarding the Group’s and the Company’s exposure to the above-
mentioned financial risks and the objectives, policies and processes for the management of these risks.
(i) Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group and the Company if a customer or counterparty
to a financial instrument fails to meet their contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit
risk arises principally from the trade receivables, other receivables, fixed deposits with licensed
banks and cash and bank balances. The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from
the other receivables, amount due from subsidiaries, fixed deposits with licensed banks and cash
and bank balances. There are no significant changes as compared to previous financial year.
The Group and the Company have adopted a policy of only with creditworthy counterparties.
Management has a credit policy in place to control credit risk by dealing with creditworthy
counterparties and deposit with bank and financial institutions with good credit rating. The
exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis and action will be taken for long
outstanding debts.
The Company provides unsecured loans and advances to subsidiaries. It also provides financial
guarantee to banks for banking facilities granted to certain subsidiary. The Company monitors on
an ongoing basis the results of the subsidiaries and repayments made by the subsidiaries.
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether any of the receivables are
credit impaired.
The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partial or
full) when there is no realisctic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group
or the Company determine that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could
generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. Nevertheless, trade
receivables and that are written of could still be subject to enforcement activities.
The carrying amounts of the financial assets recorded on the statements of financial position
at the end of the financial year represent the Group’s and the Company’s maximum exposure
to credit risk except for financial guarantees provided to banks and non-financial institutions for
banking facilities.
There are no significant changes as compared to previous financial year.
As at the end of the finance year, the Group has 6 (2022:2) major customers and accounted for
approximately 64% (2022: 57%) of trade receivables outstanding
147
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objective and policies (Cont’d)
(ii) Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group and the Company will encounter difficulty in meeting
its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk
arises primarily from mismatches of the maturities of financial assets and liabilities.
The Group’s and the Company’s funding requirement and liquidity risk are managed with the
objective of meeting business obligations on a timely basis. The Group and the Company finance
their liquidity through internally generated cash flows and minimises liquidity risk by keeping
committed credit lines available.
The following table analyses the remaining contractual maturity financial liabilities. The tables
have been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of financial liabilities based on the
earlies date on which the Group and the Company can be required to pay.
		 On demand			
Contractual Total
		 or within 2 to 5 More than cash carrying
		 1 year years 5 years flows amount
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group		
2023		
Non -derivative		
 financial liabilities		
Term loans 367,408 1,956,384 880,748 3,204,540 2,523,477
Lease liabilities 1,458,584 3,214,659 2,347,367 7,020,610 5,793,071
Trade payables 4,114,291 – – 4,114,291 4,114,291
Other payables 10,546,092 – – 10,546,092 10,546,092
Bankers’ acceptance 2,575,000 – – 2,575,000 2,575,000
Revolving credit 1,000,000 – – 1,000,000 1,000,000
		 20,061,375 5,171,043 3,228,115 28,460,533 26,551,931
		
Financial guarantee* 200,000 – – 200,000
		
2022		
Non -derivative		
 financial liabilities		
Term loans 1,891,163 2,409,205 1,160,340 5,460,708 4,564,968
Lease liabilities 1,401,143 1,827,605 2,676,821 5,905,569 4,723,945
Trade payables 4,789,633 – – 4,789,633 4,789,633
Other payables 7,178,709 – – 7,178,709 7,178,709
Bankers’ acceptance 1,387,000 – – 1,387,000 1,387,000
Revolving credit 1,000,000 – – 1,000,000 1,000,000
17,647,648 4,236,810 3,837,161 25,721,619 23,644,255
		
Financial guarantee* 200,000 – – 200,000
		
148
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objective and policies (Cont’d)
(ii) Liquidity risk (Cont’d)
		 On demand			
Contractual Total
		 or within 2 to 5 More than cash carrying
		 1 year years 5 years flows amount
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Company		
2023
Non -derivative		
 financial liabilities		
Other payables 826,577 – – 826,577 826,577
Amount due to		
 subsidiaries 12,939,873 – – 12,939,873 12,939,873
		 13,766,450 – – 13,766,450 13,766,450
		
Financial guarantee* 4,405,319 – – 4,405,319
		
2022		
Non -derivative		
 financial liabilities		
Other payables 419,237 – – 419,237 419,237
Amount due to		
 subsidiaries 20,939,873 – – 20,939,873 20,939,873
		 21,359,110 – – 21,359,110 21,359,110
		
Financial guarantee* 4,000,000 – – 4,000,000
		
* Based on the maximum amount that can be called for under the financial guarantee contract.
The Company provides unsecured financial guarantee to banks in respect of credit facilities granted
to certain subsidiaries and monitors on an ongoing basis the performance of the subsidiaries. At
end of the financial year, there was no indication that the subsidiaries would default on repayment.
Financial guarantee has not been recognised since the fair value on initial recognition was deemed
not material and the probability of the subsidiaries defaulting on the credit facilities is remote.
149
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (Cont’d)
(iii) Market risk
(a) Foreign currency risk
The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions that are
denominated in currencies other than the respective functional currencies of Group entities.
The currencies giving rise to this risk are CNY, HKD, IDR, SGD and USD.
The Group and the Company have not entered into any derivative instruments for hedging or
trading purposes as the net exposure to foreign currency risk is not significant. However, the
exposure to foreign currency risk is monitored from time to time by management.
The carrying amounts of the Group’s and of the Company’s foreign currency denominated
financial assets and financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
					 Cash and
		 Trade Other Other bank
		 receivables receivables payables balances Total
		 RM RM RM RM RM
Group			
2023 		
Denominated in			
HKD		 – – (4,201) 525,518 521,317
CNY 2,644,820 323,443 (8,067) 7,031,441 9,991,637
IDR		 78,451 6,093 (66,906) 28,379 46,017
SGD		 – – – 35,260 35,260
USD		 437,460 – – 204,594 642,054
		 3,160,731 329,536 (79,174) 7,825,192 11,236,285
2022			
Denominated in			
HKD		 – 4,103 (29,514) 565,442 540,031
CNY		 3,730,594 6,834,072 (4,440,681) 14,518,488 20,642,473
IDR		 2,670 1,606,042 (60,705) 13,281 1,561,288
SGD		 – – – 33,984 33,984
USD		 3,564,920 4,552,840 – 615,001 8,732,761
		 7,298,184 12,997,057 (4,530,900) 15,746,196 31,510,537
150
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (Cont’d)
(iii) Market risk (Cont’d)
(a) Foreign currency risk (Cont’d)
The carrying amounts of the Group’s and of the Company’s foreign currency denominated
financial assets and financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
(Cont’d)
				 Amount Cash and
				 due from bank
				subsidiaries balances Total
				 RM RM RM
Company			
2023 		
Denominated in			
CNY				 22,956,127 32,302 22,988,429
HKD				 1,611,156 145,162 1,756,318
USD				 15,926,333 575 15,926,908
				 40,493,616 178,039 40,671,655
2022			
Denominated in			
CNY				 28,311,674 – 28,311,674
HKD				 1,693,274 20 1,693,294
USD				 17,827,665 761 17,828,426
				 47,832,613 781 47,833,394
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
The following table demonstrates the sensitivity of the Group’s and of the Company’s loss
before tax for the financial year to a reasonably possible change in the CNY, HKD, IDR, SGD
and USD exchange rates against the functional currencies of the Group and of the Company,
with all other variables held constant.
151
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (Cont’d)
(iii) Market risk (Cont’d)
(a) Foreign currency risk (Cont’d)
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis (Cont’d)
			 Effect on
			 loss before tax
		 Change in currency rate 2023 2022
			 RM RM
Group
HKD		 Strengthened 1% (2022: 1%) 5,213 5,400
		 Weakened 1% (2022: 1%) (5,213) (5,400)
CNY		 Strengthened 1% (2022: 1%) 99,916 206,425
		 Weakened 1% (2022: 1%) (99,916) (206,425)
IDR		 Strengthened 1% (2022: 1%) 460 15,613
		 Weakened 1% (2022: 1%) (460) (15,613)
SGD		 Strengthened 1% (2022: 1%) 353 340
		 Weakened 1% (2022: 1%) (353) (340)
USD		 Strengthened 1% (2022: 1%) 6,421 87,328
		 Weakened 1% (2022: 1%) (6,421) (87,328)
Company
CNY Strengthened 1% (2022: 1%) 229,884 283,117
		 Weakened 1% (2022: 1%) (229,884) (283,117)
HKD Strengthened 1% (2022: 1%) 17,563 16,933
Weakened 1% (2022: 1%) (17,563) (16,933)
USD		 Strengthened 1% (2022: 1%) 159,269 178,284
		 Weakened 1% (2022: 1%) (159,269) (178,284)
(b) Interest rate risk
The Group’s and the Company’s fixed rate deposits placed with licensed banks and
borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in their fair value due to changes in interest rates.
The Group’s and the Company’s variable rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in
cash flows due to changes in interest rates.
The Group and the Company manage the interest rate risk of its deposits with licensed
financial institutions by placing them at the most competitive interest rates obtainable,
which yield better returns than cash at bank and maintaining a prudent mix of short and
long-term deposits.
The Group and the Company manage their interest rate risk exposure from interest bearing
borrowings by obtaining financing with the most favourable interest rates in the market.
The Group and the Company constantly monitor their interest rates by reviewing its debts
portfolio to ensure favourable rates are obtained. The Group and the Company do not utilise
interest swap contracts or other derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes.
152
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (Cont’d)
(iii) Market risk (Cont’d)
(b) Interest rate risk (Cont’d)
The interest rate profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s significant interest-bearing
financial instruments, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					 RM RM
		
Fixed rate intruments		
Financial asset		
Fixed deposits with licensed banks			 1,017,551 22,791,034
Financial liabilities		
Bankers’ acceptance				 (2,575,000) (1,387,000)
Lease liabilities				 (5,793,071) (4,723,945)
Revolving credit 			 (1,000,000) (1,000,000)
Term loans				 – (85,022)
					 (9,368,071) (7,195,967)
Net financial assets 			 (8,350,520) 15,595,067
		
Floating rate intruments		
Financial liability		
Term loans				 (2,523,477) (4,479,946)
		
		 Company
					
2023 2022
					 RM RM
		
Fixed rate intruments
Financial asset		
Fixed deposits with licensed banks			 – 7,500,000
		
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
The Group and the Company do not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities
at fair value through profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the end of the
reporting period would not affect profit or loss.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for floating rate instruments
A change in 1% interest rate at the end of the reporting period would have increased/
(decreased) the Group’s loss before tax by RM25,234 (2022: RM44,799), arising mainly as a
result of lower/higher interest expense on floating rate loans and borrowings. This analysis
assumes that all other variables remain constant. The assumed movement in basis points
for interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently observable market environment.
153
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
36. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(c) Fair value of financial instruments
The carrying amounts of short-term receivables and payables, cash and cash equivalents and short-
term borrowings approximate their fair value due to the relatively short-term nature of these financial
instruments and significant impact of discounting.
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value and carrying amounts shown in the
statements of financial positions.
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					 RM RM
Fair value of financial intruments carried at fair value		
Level 1		
Financial asset		
Other investment				 21,477,010 9,026,826
(i) Policy on transfer between levels
The fair value of an asset to be transferred between levels is determined as of the date of the
event or change in circumstances that caused the transfer. There were no transfers between levels
during current and previous financial years.
(ii) Level 1 fair value
Level 1 fair value is derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets
or liabilities
(iii) Level 2 fair value
Level 2 fair value is estimated using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that
are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from
prices).
Non-derivative financial instruments
Fair value, which is determined for disclosure purposes, is calculated based on the present value
of future principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the market rate of interest at the end of
the reporting period.
(iv) Level 3 fair value
Level 3 fair value for the financial assets and liabilities are estimated using unobservable inputs.
The following table shows the value techniques used in the determination of fair values within
level 3, as well as key unobservable inputs used in the valuation method.
154
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
37. FINANCIAL GUARANTEES
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					 RM RM
Group		
Unsecured		
Performance bonds in relation to the management		
 of the Herbal Intergrated Cluster Development			 200,000 200,000
		
Company		
Unsecured		
Corporate guarantees given to the licensed financial		
 institution for credit facility granted to a subsidiary 		 4,405,319 4,000,000
38. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group’s and the Company’s objective when managing capital are to safeguard the Group’s and the
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for
other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital.
In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group and the Company may adjust the amount of
dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio. The Group’s policy is to maintain a prudent level of gearing
ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory requirements. The gearing ratios at the end of the
reporting period are as follows:
		 Group
					
2023 2022
					 RM RM
			
Total loans and borrowings (Note 20) 				 6,098,477 6,951,968
Total lease liabilites				 5,793,071 4,723,945
Less: Cash and cash equivalents				 (10,423,573) (16,972,445)
Less: Fixed deposits with licensed banks			 (1,017,551) (22,791,034)
Net cash				 450,424 (28,087,566)
			
Total equity				 129,632,093 167,987,077
			
Gearing ratio				 0.003 N/A
There were no changes in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
155
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
39. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
On 8 May 2023, Bioalpha International Sdn. Bhd. (“BISB”) a wholly owned subsidiary of Bioalpha Holdings
Berhad and its joint venture partner, Suzhou Medicalsystem Technology Co. Ltd. (“MEDIC”) had completed
an increased paid-up capital of Suzhou BioMedic Biotechnology Co. Ltd. (“BioMedic”) from RMB5.0 million
(RM3.2 million) to RMB21.1 million (RM13.6 million) via Bioalpha’s four proprietary formulations valued at
RMB10.1 million (RM6.5 million) through BISB and cash injection of RMB6 million (RM3.9 million) by MEDIC.
On 9 November 2023, the Company has resolved to extended the duration of its existing SIS which expiring on
11 January 2024, for another 3 years from 12 January 2024 to 11 January 2027 in accordance with the Clause
21 of the SIS By-Laws.
On 2 December 2023, Bioalpha Wellness Sdn. Bhd. (“Bioalpha Wellness”) a wholly owned subsidiary of
Bioalpha Holdings Berhad had entered into a Manage and Operate Agreement (“the Agreement”) with the
Langkawi Development Authority (“LADA”) to develop, manage and operate an Agro Park (“the Park”) on a
piece of leasehold vacant Malay Reserve Land erected on H.S.(D) 1598, PT 506, Bandar Padang Mat Sirat,
Daerah Langkawi, Negeri Kedah Darul Aman (“PT 506”) and H.S.(D) 1599, PT 507, Bandar Padang Mat Sirat,
Daerah Langkawi, Negeri Kedah Darul Aman (“PT 507”) measuring approximately 7.98 acres (both PT 506 and
PT 507 collectively known as “Property”) under a 30-year land use rights granted by LADA (“the Project”).
40. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS AFTER THE FINANCIAL YEAR
On 14 February 2024, the Company had increased its issued and paid-up capital by way of Right Issues
of 526,099,537 Warrants of RM0.10 each at an issue price of RM0.035 per Rights Share on the basis of 3
Warrants for every 8 existing ordinary shares.
On 19 March 2024, BDSB a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company had disposed its all the shares in RSBSB.
On 5 April 2024, Aluxcare Wellness Sdn. Bhd. had entered into a Sale and Purchase Agreement with MPASB,
a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company for the acquisition of the business of three (3) pharmacy outlets
including associated rights, properties, assets and inventory for a total purchase consideration of RM4,800,000
(“Proposed Acquisition”).
41. Comparative figures
Certain comparative figures have also been reclassified to conform with current reporting period presentation
			 As previously		
				 reported Reclassification As restated
				 RM RM RM
Group		
Statement of Financial Position for the year
 ended 31 December 2022
		
Non– current assets		
Amount due from subsidiaries 		 104,068,533 (104,068,533) –
Current assets		
Amount due from subsidiaries			 84,001,000 104,068,533 188,069,533
156
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
LIST OF
PROPERTIES
Owned
Registered
owner Location
Description and
Existing Use
Date of
Certificate
of
Fitness
Built-Up
Area/
Land Area
Sq. ft. Tenure
Carrying
Amount
as at 31
December
2023
RM’000
Date
of last
revaluation Age
Bioalpha
International
Sdn Bhd
No.10, Jalan P9/A,
Seksyen 13, Bandar
Baru Bangi, Selangor.
Industrial land with the
following buildings erected
thereon:
• a semi-detached two
(2)-storey building
annexed with an open
shed for our
manufacturing facility;
• two (2) utility cabins for
our restroom and surau;
and
• a guardhouse
April 30,
2012
8,137 /
11,000
99 years
expiring on
20.08.2105
3,317 December
31, 2023
82
years
Mediconstant
Pharmacy
Sdn Bhd
83, Jalan 34/154,
Taman Dahlia,
Cheras, 56000,
Kuala Lumpur.
Two (2) units of
adjoining double
storey shop lots for
our retail pharmacy
N/A 1,647 Freehold 1,394 December
31, 2023
(1)
Bioalpha
International
Sdn Bhd
No. 1, Jalan
Perindustrian
Suntrack, Hub
Perindustrian
Suntrack, Off Jalan
P1A, Seksyen 13,
Bandar Baru Bangi,
43000 Kajang,
Selangor.
Units of 3 Storey
Semi-detached Factory
with Office
July 07,
2014
6,966 /
10,606
99 years
expiring on
20.08.2113
6,175 December
31, 2023
90
years
157
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
LEASED
Tenant Landlord Location Description and Existing Use
Built-Up
Area/
Land Area
Rental
RM
Rental/
Lease
Period
Bioalpha
Holdings
Berhad,
Bioalpha
International
Sdn Bhd and
Bioalpha East
Coast Agro Sdn
Bhd
Lembaga Tabung
Amanah Warisan
Negeri Terengganu
Lot PT 1748, H. S. (D) 1966,
Mukim Pasir Raja, Daerah
Dungun, Terengganu.
Agricultural land for the cultivation
and farming of herbal plants with
the following infrastructure erected
thereon:
• an administration and
management building;
• a fertilizer storage facility;
• an equipment store cum repair
and maintenance workshop;
• residential buildings as follows:
(i) one (1) unit of bungalow;
(ii) twelve (12) units of office
terrace;
(iii) nine (9) units of family
terrace;
(iv) two (2) blocks of hostel;
(v) surau;
(vi) convenience store;
• common facilities as follows:
(i) skid tank;
(ii) guardhouse; and
(iii) water storage tank.
(2) / 123.5
to 1,003
acres
152,527.50
per
annum
07.04.2014
to
06.04.2044
Bioalpha
(Johor Herbal)
Sdn Bhd
Perbadanan
Setiausaha
Kerajaan
Johor
PTD 4825 H.S.(D) 31408 and
PTD 5140 H.S.(D) 34765
Mukim Pantai Timur,
Daerah Kota Tinggi, Johor.
Agricultural land for cultivation
and farming of herbal and
non-herbal plants
300
acres
(3) (3)
Botanical
Distrubution
Sdn Bhd
Dewina LSG
Sdn Bhd
No. 12, Jalan P/9A, Seksyen
13, Kawasan Perindustrian
Bandar Baru Bangi, 43650,
Bandar Baru Bangi, Selangor.
Industrial land with a semi-detached
one (1) ½-storey building for our
manufacturing facility
5,600 /
11,000
8,800
per month
01.02.2023
to
31.01.2025
Mediconstant
Pharmacy
Sdn Bhd
Natural Options
Sdn Bhd
Unit No. 548 & 550, Block A,
Kelana Center Point,
3, Jalan Ss7/19, 47301,
Petaling Jaya, Selangor.
Two (2) units of office lots for
Mediconstant HQ office
3,057 6,000 per
month
01.08.2022
to
31.07.2024
(1) Not available as the building is freehold.
(2) Not available as the leased buildings and infrastructures are of different types and sizes.
(3) On 27 June 2019, State Secretary (Incorporated) Johor has through Bio Desaru Sdn Bhd (who has been duly granted
the power to deal with and undertake the development activities of Desaru Land under the POA registered with the
land office Johor on 27 February 2014) has submitted the relevant lease registration documents for Plot 1 and Plot
2 of Desaru Land to the land office. To date, the said lease registration documents in relation to the Desaru Land is
being process by the land office.
LIST OF PROPERTIES
(cont’d)
158
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Total Number of Issued Shares : 1,406,491,096
Class of Shares : Ordinary Shares
Voting Rights : One vote for each ordinary share held
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 1 APRIL 2024
(As per Records of Depositors as at 1 April 2024)
Size of Holding No. of shareholders No. of Shares Held %
1 to 99 754 34,557 0.0025
100 to 1,000 1,009 506,453 0.0360
1,001 to 10,000 3,469 22,201,046 1.5785
10,001 to 100,000 4,478 167,648,935 11.9197
100,001 to <5% of shares 1,062 830,894,183 59.0757
5% and above 3 385,205,922 27.3877
Total 10,775 1,406,491,096 100.0000
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS AS AT 1 APRIL 2024
(As per Register of Substantial Shareholders as at 1 April 2024)
The substantial shareholders (holding 5% or more of the issued capital) based on the Register of Substantial
Shareholders of the Company and their shareholdings are as follows: -
No. Name of Substantial Shareholder
No. of Shares held No. of Shares held
Direct % Indirect %
1 JOE Holding (M) Investment Limited 150,000,000 10.66 – –
2 JOE Holding Berhad^ – – 150,000,000 10.66
3 Perbadanan Nasional Berhad 120,855,104 8.59 – –
4 Malaysian Technology Development
 Corporation Sdn Bhd
114,350,818 8.13 – –
Note:
^ Deemed Interested by virtual of its interest in Joe Holding (M) Investment Limited under Section 8(4) of the
Companies Act, 2016.
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 1 APRIL 2024
159
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES AS AT 1 APRIL 2024
(As per Register of Directors’ Shareholdings as at 1 April 2024)
The Directors’ Shareholdings based on the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings of the Company are as follows:-
No. Name of Director
No. of Shares held No. of Shares held
Direct % Indirect %
1 Hon Tian Kok @ William 46,000,000 3.2706 – –
LIST OF TOP 30 LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNTS HOLDERS
(According to the Records of Depositors as at 1 April 2024)
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares %
1 RHB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR FINEXIA SECURITIES LTD
150,000,000 10.6648
2 PERBADANAN NASIONAL BERHAD 120,855,104 8.5927
3 MALAYSIAN TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION SDN BHD 114,350,818 8.1302
4 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR OOI KENG THYE
70,317,311 4.9995
5 UOBM NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR SANSTON FINANCIAL GROUP LIMITED
68,000,000 4.8347
6 CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
ICAPITAL.BIZ BERHAD
49,057,600 3.4879
7 TA NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR HON TIAN KOK @ WILLIAM
34,000,000 2.4174
8 PERUSAHAAN SAUDEE SDN BHD 33,000,000 2.3463
9 G RUBBER SDN. BHD. 30,316,400 2.1555
10 AFFIN HWANG NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
EXEMPT AN FOR LAZARUS SECURITIES PTY LTD
24,000,000 1.7064
11 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR CLSA LIMITED (CUST-NON RES)
22,888,800 1.6274
12 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHENG CHEW GIAP
14,726,710 1.0471
13 HSBC NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR MORGAN STANLEY & CO. INTERNATIONAL PLC (IPB
CLIENT ACCT)
12,300,000 0.8745
14 KENANGA NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR HON TIAN KOK @ WILLIAM
12,000,000 0.8532
15 HO HUEY CHUIN 10,261,900 0.7296
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
(cont’d)
160
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
LIST OF TOP 30 LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNTS HOLDERS (CONT’D)
(According to the Records of Depositors as at 1 April 2024)
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares %
16 CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN SOON LAI (MY0871)
9,800,000 0.6968
17 SEAH TIN KIM 9,490,666 0.6748
18 ONG KENG SENG 7,550,000 0.5368
19 KHOR HSIA JOEW 7,000,000 0.4977
20 KENANGA NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
LIM KOK KHONG (AA0039387)
6,600,000 0.4693
21 PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN CHOON HEE (E-TCS)
5,428,000 0.3859
22 CAPITAL DYNAMICS ASSET MANAGEMENT SDN BH 5,333,333 0.3792
23 TAN TIO CHENG @ TAN CHOW CHENG 4,740,000 0.3370
24 YUNG BOON HONG @ YANG KOK CHING 4,095,066 0.2912
25 GOH KUANG WEI 3,926,666 0.2792
26 NATASHA NG EU JERN 3,400,000 0.2417
27 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR KANDASAMY A/L PERIASAMY
3,338,100 0.2373
28 M & A NOMINEE (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR SANSTON FINANCIAL GROUP LIMITED (ACCOUNT
CLIENT)
3,190,700 0.2269
29 WONG SOO CHAI @ WONG CHICK WAI 3,070,300 0.2183
30 TAN HAN CHONG 3,000,000 0.2133
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
(cont’d)
161
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
No of Warrant B 2024/2027 Issued : 526,099,537
Maturity Date : 5 February 2027
DISTRIBUTION OF WARRANT HOLDINGS AS AT 1 APRIL 2024
(As per Records of Depositors as at 1 April 2024)
Size of Holding
No. of
Warrants B Holders
No. of
Warrants B held %
1 to 99 17 702 0.0001
100 to 1,000 61 23,580 0.0045
1,001 to 10,000 238 1,297,214 0.2466
10,001 to 100,000 357 13,448,447 2.5563
100,001 to < 5% of shares 133 129,362,668 24.5890
5% and above 9 381,966,926 72.6035
Total 815 133,332,785 100.0000
DIRECTORS’ WARRANT B HOLDINGS
(As per Register of Directors’ Shareholdings as at 1 April 2024)
The particulars of Directors’ Warrant B Holdings in the Company are as follows:
No. Name of Director
No. of Warrants B held No. of Warrants B held
Direct % Indirect %
1 Hon Tian Kok @ William 60,110,000 11.425 – –
LIST OF TOP 30 LARGEST WARRANTS B HOLDERS
(According to the Records of Depositors as at 1 April 2024)
No. Name of Warrant B Holders
No. of Warrant
B Held
% of Warrant
B Held
1 RHB NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR FINEXIA SECURITIES LTD
56,250,000 10.6919
2 G RUBBER SDN. BHD. 51,368,650 9.7641
3 TA NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR HON TIAN KOK @ WILLIAM
50,360,000 9.5723
4 PERUSAHAAN SAUDEE SDN BHD 46,375,000 8.8149
5 M & A NOMINEE (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR SANSTON FINANCIAL GROUP LIMITED (ACCOUNT
CLIENT)
45,500,000 8.6486
6 PARLO TOURS SDN. BHD. 37,152,857 7.0619
7 GENERAL LABELS & LABELLING (M) SDN BHD 34,295,714 6.5189
8 SUPERNOVA INTERNATIONAL SDN. BHD. 34,295,714 6.5189
ANALYSIS OF WARRANT B
2024/2027 HOLDINGS
AS AT 1 APRIL 2024
162
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
LIST OF TOP 30 LARGEST WARRANTS B HOLDERS (CONT’D)
(According to the Records of Depositors as at 1 April 2024)
No. Name of Warrant B Holders
No. of Warrant
B Held
% of Warrant
B Held
9 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR OOI KENG THYE
26,368,991 5.0122
10 M & A NOMINEE (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR SANSTON FINANCIAL GROUP LIMITED (ACCOUNT
CLIENT)
16,200,000 3.0793
11 KENANGA NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR HON TIAN KOK @ WILLIAM
9,750,000 1.8533
12 AFFIN WANG NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
EXEMPT AN FOR LAZARUS SECURITIES PTY LTD
9,000,000 1.7107
13 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD (199301009138)
EXEMPT AN FOR CLSA LIMITED (CUST-NON RES)
8,583,300 1.6315
14 NATASHA NG EU JERN 8,000,000 1.5206
15 CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN SOON LAI
7,794,500 1.4816
16 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHENG CHEW GIAP
5,522,516 1.0497
17 OH GAIK IM 4,500,500 0.8554
18 TAN SOON LAI 4,298,405 0.8170
19 SEAH TIN KIM 3,558,900 0.6765
20 KENANGA NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD LIM KOK KHONG 3,500,000 0.6653
21 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN CHOON PING
3,168,700 0.6023
22 KU LIAN SIN 2,900,000 0.5512
23 KHOR HSIA JOEW 2,625,000 0.4990
24 YONG SIEW NGEE 1,500,000 0.2851
25 TEE LAY JING 1,400,000 0.2661
26 TAN TIO CHENG @ TAN CHOW CHENG 1,237,500 0.2352
27 CHONG KAR KHENG 1,228,257 0.2335
28 PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LIM CHOON EEK
1,050,000 0.1996
29 CHE ALIAS BIN MAT 1,000,000 0.1901
30 KENANGA NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD CHOO CHAM YUEN 1,000,000 0.1901
ANALYSIS OF WARRANT B 2024/2027 HOLDINGS
(cont’d)
163
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Total number of ICPS issued : 144,468,522
Types of Securities : Irredeemable Convertible Preference Shares (“ICPS”)
DISTRIBUTION OF ICPS SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 1 APRIL 2024
(As per Records of Depositors as at 1 April 2024)
Size of Holding
No. of ICPS
Holders No. of ICPS Held %
1 to 99 123 5,464 0.0038
100 to 1,000 152 81,080 0.0561
1,001 to 10,000 692 3,121,330 2.1606
10,001 to 100,000 382 13,036,418 9.0237
100,001 to < 5% of shares 95 63,329,652 43.8363
5% and above 5 64,894,578 44.9195
Total 1,449 144,468,522 100.0000
LIST OF TOP 30 LARGEST ICPS HOLDERS
(According to the Records of Depositors as at 1 April 2024)
No. Name of ICPS Holders
No. of ICPS
Held
% of ICPS
Held
1 VOON SZE LIN 18,583,213 12.8632
2 MALAYSIAN TECHNOLOGY DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION SDN BHD 17,867,315 12.3676
3 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR OOI KENG THYE
10,778,800 7.4610
4 NORHALIM BIN YUNUS 10,000,000 6.9219
5 CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
ICAPITAL.BIZ BERHAD
7,665,250 5.3058
6 GV ASIA FUND LIMITED 6,800,300 4.7071
7 VOON JYE WAH 4,979,400 3.4467
8 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHENG CHEW GIAP
3,545,012 2.4538
9 LEE CHEE SIONG 3,400,800 2.3540
10 ANG YOOK CHU @ ANG YOKE FONG 3,313,400 2.2935
11 TEO TIEW 2,600,012 1.7997
12 PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LOH CHOO WEI (E-KUG)
2,530,100 1.7513
13 APEX NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR GV ASIA FUND LIMITED (STA 1)
2,025,400 1.4020
14 VOON JYE WAH 1,625,100 1.1249
ANALYSIS OF IRREDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE
PREFERENCE SHARES (“ICPS”) HOLDINGS
AS AT 1 APRIL 2024
164
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
LIST OF TOP 30 LARGEST ICPS HOLDERS (CONT’D)
(According to the Records of Depositors as at 1 April 2024)
No. Name of ICPS Holders
No. of ICPS
Held
% of ICPS
Held
15 CHIN JEE YANG 1,500,000 1.0383
16 IFAST NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD VOON JYE YNG 1,348,800 0.9336
17 LIM POH FONG 1,262,600 0.8740
18 LOH YU TE 1,097,600 0.7598
19 KHOR HSIA JOEW 1,088,300 0.7533
20 YONG YOKE FONG 1,055,000 0.7303
21 CHANG YOKE KENG 1,000,000 0.6922
22 PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNTFOR GAN TI WOOI
977,600 0.6767
23 TAN POI GUAN 900,000 0.6230
24 CHAI CHEE FER 889,300 0.6156
25 CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHENG KOK SIONG
844,900 0.5848
26 CAPITAL DYNAMICS ASSET MANAGEMENT SDN BHD 833,333 0.5768
27 KOH MEE SENG 800,000 0.5538
28 PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LIM CHOON EEK
754,700 0.5224
29 APEX NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN KHAI MENG
600,000 0.4153
30 TAN FHEE CHIN 598,200 0.4141
ANALYSIS OF IRREDEEMABLE CONVERTIBLE PREFERENCE SHARES (“ICPS”) HOLDINGS
(cont’d)
165
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Thirteenth (13th) Annual General Meeting of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad
(“Bioalpha” or “the Company”) will be held as a fully virtual meeting via live streaming and online remote voting from
the Broadcast Venue at No. 1, Jalan Perindustrian Suntrack, Hub Perindustrian Suntrack, Off Jalan P1A, Seksyen
13, Bandar Baru Bangi, 43000 Kajang, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia on Friday, 7 June 2024 at 10.00 a.m. or any
adjournment thereof for the purpose of transacting the following businesses:
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS:
		
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31
December 2023 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 1)
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and other benefits payable up to
RM550,000 to be divided amongst the Directors in such manner as the Directors
may determine for the period commencing from the conclusion of the 13th AGM
until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company in the year 2025.
(Ordinary Resolution 1)
3. To re-elect the following Directors who are retiring by rotation in accordance
with Clause 105(1) of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, offered
themselves, for re-election:
i. Ho Tze Hiung
ii. Goh Siow Cheng
(Ordinary Resolution 2)
(Ordinary Resolution 3)
4. To re-elect the following Directors who are retiring in accordance with Clause
114 of the Company’s Constitution and being eligible, offered themselves, for re-
election:
i. Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa
ii. Tan Su Ning
(Ordinary Resolution 4)
(Ordinary Resolution 5)
5. To re-appoint Messrs ChengCo PLT as Auditors of the Company until the
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting and to authorise the Directors to fix
their remuneration (Ordinary Resolution 6)
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS:
To consider and if thought fit, pass the following as resolutions:
6. AUTHORITY TO ISSUE AND ALLOT SHARES PURSUANTTO SECTIONS 75 AND 76
OF THE COMPANIES ACT, 2016
“THAT approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory pre-emptive rights to
be offered new shares ranking equally to the existing issued shares of the Company
pursuant to Section 85 of the Companies Act, 2016 (“the Act”) read together with
Clause 61 of the Company’s Constitution.
THAT pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act and subject to the approvals of
the relevant governmental/ regulatory authorities, the Directors be and are hereby
empowered to issue shares in the capital of the Company from time to time and
upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes as the Directors, may in
their absolute discretion deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares
issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed 10% of the total number of
issued shares of the Company or such higher percentage as Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) allowed for the time being and that the
Directors be and are hereby also empowered to obtain approval from the Bursa
Securities for the listing and quotation of the additional shares so issued.
AND THAT such authority shall commence immediately upon the passing of this
Resolution and continue to be in force until the conclusion of the next Annual
General Meeting of the Company.”
(Ordinary Resolution 7)
NOTICE OF THE THIRTEENTH (13TH)
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
166
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
7. PROPOSED GRANTING OF SHARE ISSUANCE SCHEME (“SIS”) OPTIONS TO
DATUK CHONG LOONG MEN
“THAT the Board be and is hereby authorised, at any time and from time to time
during the existence of the SIS, to offer and grant to Datuk Chong Loong Men, being
Executive Director of the Company, options to subscribe for new ordinary shares
in Bioalpha (“Bioalpha Shares”) (“SIS Options”) and if such options are accepted
and exercised, to allot and issue such a number of new Bioalpha Shares as may
be required to be issued to him under the SIS, in accordance with the provisions of
the By-Laws provided that not more than ten percent (10%) of the total number of
SIS Options shall be allocated to Datuk Chong Loong Men, as long as Datuk Chong
Loong Men either singly or collectively through persons connected with his (as
defined in the AMLR of Bursa Securities), holds twenty percent (20%) or more of
the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) of Bioalpha subject
always to such terms and conditions and/or any adjustments which may be made
in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws.”
(Ordinary Resolution 8)
8. PROPOSED GRANTING OF SIS OPTIONS TO MR YEE YIT YANG
“THAT the Board be and is hereby authorised, at any time and from time to time
during the existence of the SIS, to offer and grant to Mr Yee Yit Yang, being
Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company, options to subscribe for new
ordinary shares in Bioalpha (“Bioalpha Shares”) (“SIS Options”) and if such options
are accepted and exercised, to allot and issue such a number of new Bioalpha
Shares as may be required to be issued to his under the SIS, in accordance with
the provisions of the By-Laws provided that not more than ten percent (10%) of the
total number of SIS Options shall be allocated to Mr Yee Yit Yang, as long as Mr
Yee Yit Yang either singly or collectively through persons connected with his (as
defined in the AMLR of Bursa Securities), holds twenty percent (20%) or more of
the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) of Bioalpha subject
always to such terms and conditions and/or any adjustments which may be made
in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws.”
(Ordinary Resolution 9)
9. PROPOSED GRANTING OF SIS OPTIONS TO DATO’ HAJI MOHD YAZID BIN HAJI
MUSTAFA
“THAT the Board be and is hereby authorised, at any time and from time to time
during the existence of the SIS, to offer and grant to Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji
Mustafa, being Independent Non-Executive Chairman of the Company, options to
subscribe for new ordinary shares in Bioalpha (“Bioalpha Shares”) (“SIS Options”)
and if such options are accepted and exercised, to allot and issue such a number
of new Bioalpha Shares as may be required to be issued to him under the SIS, in
accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws provided that not more than ten
percent (10%) of the total number of SIS Options shall be allocated to Dato’ Haji
Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa, as long as Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa,
either singly or collectively through persons connected with his (as defined in the
AMLR of Bursa Securities), holds twenty percent (20%) or more of the total number
of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) of Bioalpha subject always to such
terms and conditions and/or any adjustments which may be made in accordance
with the provisions of the By-Laws.”
(Ordinary Resolution 10)
NOTICE OF THE THIRTEENTH (13TH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(cont’d)
167
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
10. PROPOSED GRANTING OF SIS OPTIONS TO MS TAN SU NING
“THAT the Board be and is hereby authorised, at any time and from time to time
during the existence of the SIS, to offer and grant to Ms Tan Su Ning, being
Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company, options to subscribe for new
ordinary shares in Bioalpha (“Bioalpha Shares”) (“SIS Options”) and if such options
are accepted and exercised, to allot and issue such a number of new Bioalpha
Shares as may be required to be issued to her under the SIS, in accordance with
the provisions of the By-Laws provided that not more than ten percent (10%) of the
total number of SIS Options shall be allocated to Ms Tan Su Ning, as long as Ms
Tan Su Ning either singly or collectively through persons connected with her (as
defined in the AMLR of Bursa Securities), holds twenty percent (20%) or more of
the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) of Bioalpha subject
always to such terms and conditions and/or any adjustments which may be made
in accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws.”
(Ordinary Resolution 11)
11. To transact any other business of which due notices shall have been given in
accordance with the Act.
		
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
TAN TONG LANG (SSM PC NO. 202208000250 / MAICSA 7045482)
THIEN LEE MEE (SSM PC No. 201908002254 / LS0010621)
Company Secretaries
Date: 30 April 2024
1. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company and a member may appoint any person to be his/her
proxy without limitation. A member shall be entitled to appoint one (1) or more proxies to attend and vote at the
same meeting, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her shareholdings
to be represented by each proxy.
2. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act, 1991 (“Central Depositories Act”), it may appoint at least one proxy in respect of each
securities account it holds with ordinary shares to the credit of the said securities account.
3. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee as defined under the Central Depositories
Act which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account
(“Omnibus Account”), there shall be no limit to the number of proxies which the Exempt Authorised Nominee
may appoint in respect of each Omnibus Account it holds.
4. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointer or of his attorney duly
authorised in writing or, if the appointer is a corporation, either under the corporation’s Seal or under the hand of
an officer or an attorney duly authorised.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Company’s Share Registrar, Workshire Share
Registration Sdn Bhd of A3-3-8, Solaris Dutamas, No. 1, Jalan Dutamas 1, 50480 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah
Persekutuan not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time fixed for holding the meeting or any adjournment
thereof.
6. Only the members whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 31 May 2024 shall be entitled to
attend and vote at this meeting or appoint proxy(ies) to attend and vote on their behalf.
7. Pursuant to Rule 8.31A (1) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all
resolutions set out in this Notice will be put to vote by way of poll.
NOTICE OF THE THIRTEENTH (13TH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(cont’d)
168
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
Explanatory Notes to Ordinary and Special Business:-
1. Item 1 of the Agenda
Agenda No. 1 is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 2016 provides that the
audited financial statements are to be laid in the general meeting and do not require a formal approval of the
shareholders. Hence, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.
2. Ordinary Resolution 1: To approve the payment of Directors’ Fees and other benefits payable
Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Act, fees and benefits payable to the Directors of a public company or a
listed company and its subsidiaries shall be approved by shareholders at a general meeting. The Directors’
benefits payable include meeting attendance allowances and other claimable benefits.
In determining the estimated total amount of Directors’ benefits, the Board has considered various factors,
among others, the estimated claimable benefits and estimated number of meetings for the Board and Board
Committees held for the period commencing from the conclusion of the 13th AGM until the next AGM of the
Company in the year 2025.
In the event the proposed amount is insufficient (e.g. due to more meetings or enlarged Board size), approval
will be sought at the next AGM for additional fees to meet the shortfall.
3. Ordinary Resolutions 2 to 3 - Re-election of Directors who retire by rotation in accordance with Clause
105(1) of the Company’s Constitution
Clause 105(1) of the Company’s Constitution states that an election of Directors shall take place each year
at the annual general meeting of the Company, where one-third of the Directors for the time being, or, if their
number is not three (3) or a multiple of three (3), then the number nearest to one-third shall retire from office
and be eligible for re-election, PROVIDED ALWAYS that Directors shall retire from office at least once in each
three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election. A retiring Director shall retain office until the close of the
meeting at which he retires.
Mr Ho Tze Hiung and Ms Goh Siow Cheng are standing for re-election as Directors of the Company and being
eligible, have offered themselves for re-election.
For the purpose of determining the eligibility of the Directors to stand for re-election at the 13th AGM, the
Nomination Committee has considered and recommended Mr Ho Tze Hiung and Ms Goh Siow Cheng for re-
election as Directors pursuant to Clause 105(1) of the Company’s Constitution.
4. Ordinary Resolutions 4 to 5 - Re-election of Directors who retire in accordance with Clause 114 of the
Company’s Constitution
Clause 114 of the Company’s Constitution provides that any Director so appointed shall hold office only until
the next following annual general meeting and shall then be eligible for re-election but shall not be taken into
account in determining the Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting.
Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa and Ms Tan Su Ning were appointed on 4 September 2023 as the
Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company respectively.
NOTICE OF THE THIRTEENTH (13TH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(cont’d)
169
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
5. Special Business - Ordinary Resolution 7
Authority to Issue and Allot Shares Pursuant to Sections 75 And 76 of the Act
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 7, if passed, will empower the Directors of the Company to allot and issue
new shares in the Company at any time, to such person or persons, upon such terms and conditions and for
such purposes as the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, deem fit (“General Mandate”), provided that
the number of shares issued pursuant to this General Mandate, when aggregated with the total number of
any such shares issued during the preceding twelve (12) months, does not exceed 10% of the total number
of issued shares of the Company at the time of issue. This General Mandate, unless revoked or varied at a
general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
As of the date of this Notice, no new shares in the Company were issued pursuant to the General Mandate
granted to the Directors at the 12th Annual General Meeting held on 7 June 2023 and which will lapse at the
conclusion of the 13th Annual General Meeting.
As of the date of this Notice, no new ordinary shares were issued and allotted pursuant to the mandate
granted to the Directors at the 12th AGM held on 7 June 2023 which will lapse at the conclusion of this 13th
AGM.
Section 85(1) of the Companies Act 2016 provides as follows:
“85. Pre-emptive rights to new shares
1) Subject to the Constitution, where a company issue shares which rank equally to existing shares as
to voting or distribution rights, those shares shall first be offered to the holders of existing shares in a
manner which would, if the offer were accepted, maintain the relative voting and distribution rights of
those shareholders.”
Clause 61 of the Company’s Constitution provides as follows:
“Subject to any direction to the contrary that may be given by the Company in general meeting, all new shares
or other convertible Securities shall, before they are issued, be offered to such persons as at the date of the
offer are entitled to receive notices from the Company of general meetings in proportion, as nearly as the
circumstances admit, to the amount of the existing shares or Securities to which they are entitled. The offer
shall be made by notice specifying the number of shares or Securities offered, and limiting a time within which
the offer, if not accepted, will be deemed to be declined, and, after the expiration of that time, or on the receipt
of an intimation from the person to whom the offer is made that he declines to accept the shares or Securities
offered, the Directors may dispose of those shares or Securities in such manner as they think most beneficial to
the Company. The Directors may, likewise, also dispose of any new shares or Securities which (by reason of the
ratio which the new shares or Securities bear to shares or Securities held by persons entitled to an offer of new
shares or Securities) cannot, in the opinion of the Directors, be conveniently offered under this Clause.”
By voting in favour of the proposed ordinary resolution 7, the shareholders of the Company are deemed to
have waived their pre-emptive rights pursuant to Section 85(1) of the Companies Act, 2016 and Clause 61 of
the Company’s Constitution to be first offered any new shares ranking equally to the existing issued shares of
the Company which will result in a dilution of their shareholding percentage in the Company.
NOTICE OF THE THIRTEENTH (13TH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(cont’d)
170
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
6. Ordinary Resolutions 8 to 11 – Proposed Granting of SIS Options to Directors of the Company
Ordinary Resolutions 8 to 11 are to seek shareholders’ approval for the Company to offer and grant SIS Options
to the Directors of the Company, namely Datuk Chong Loong Men (appointed on 1 June 2022 as Executive
Director), Mr Yee Yit Yang (appointed on 1 June 2022 as Independent Non-Executive Director (“IND”)), Dato’
Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa (appointed on 4 September 2023 as Independent Non-Executive Chairman)
and Ms Tan Su Ning (appointed on 4 September 2023 as the IND) to participate in the SIS in accordance with
the AMLR of Bursa Securities.
The Directors of the Company namely, Datuk Chong Loong Men Mr Yee Yit Yang, Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin
Haji and Ms Tan Su Ning are deemed interested in the respective resolutions on the grant of SIS Options to
themselves and accordingly have abstained and shall continue to abstain from deliberation and voting in
respect of themselves direct and indirect interest in the Company and will ensure that persons connected with
them will abstain from voting in respect of their direct and indirect interest in the Company, in the respective
allocation to them.
NOTICE OF THE THIRTEENTH (13TH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(cont’d)
171
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(pursuant to Rule 8.29 of AMLR of Bursa Securities)
The Directors who are standing for re-election at the 13th AGM are Mr Ho Tze Hiung and Ms Goh Siow Cheng. The
profiles of the Directors are set out in the Annual Report of the Company.
No individual seeking for election as a director other than the Directors are seeking for re-election and retention as
a director at the 13th AGM.
The Company will seek shareholders’ approval at the general meeting for the issue of securities under Rule 6.04(3)
of the AMLR of Bursa Securities. Please refer to the Proposed Ordinary Resolution 7 as stated in the Notice of the
13th AGM of the Company for details.
172
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD ANNUAL REPORT 2023
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
[Registration No. 201101021398 (949536-X)]
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
PROXY FORM
Number of shares held CDS Account No.
I/We,.................................................................................................(NRIC/Company No.).......................................................................................
				 (Full Name in Block Letters)
of.................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
(Full Address)
Email Address:.........................................................Tel No.............................................being a member of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad
(Registration No. 201101021398 (949536-X)), hereby appoint:
Name of Proxy 1 (Full Name) NRIC No./Passport No. % of Shareholding to be represented
(refer to Note 2 set out below)
Address Email Address Contact No.
or failing him/her
Name of Proxy 2 (Full Name) NRIC No./Passport No. % of Shareholding to be represented
(refer to Note 2 set out below)
Address Email Address Contact No.
Or failing him/her, the Chairman of the Meeting as *my/our proxy to vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf at the Thirteenth (13th) Annual
General Meeting of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“Bioalpha” or “the Company”) will be held as a fully virtual meeting via live streaming
and online remote voting from the Broadcast Venue at No. 1, Jalan Perindustrian Suntrack, Hub Perindustrian Suntrack, Off Jalan P1A,
Seksyen 13, Bandar Baru Bangi, 43000 Kajang, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia on Friday, 7 June 2024 at 10.00 a.m., as indicated below:
Please indicate with a (x) in the appropriate box against the resolution how you wish your vote to be casted. If no specific direction as to
voting is given, the proxy will vote or abstain at his discretion.
No. Resolutions FOR AGAINST
1. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and other benefits payable up to
RM550,000 to be divided amongst the Directors in such manner as the Directors
may determine for the period commencing from the conclusion of the 13th AGM
until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company in the year 2025.
Ordinary Resolution 1
2. Re-election of Mr Ho Tze Hiung as Director Ordinary Resolution 2
3. Re-election of Ms Goh Siow Cheng as Director Ordinary Resolution 3
4. Re-election of Dato' Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa as Director Ordinary Resolution 4
5. Re-election of Ms Tan Su Ning as Director Ordinary Resolution 5
6. Re-appointment of Messrs. ChengCo PLt as Auditors for the ensuing year and
to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Ordinary Resolution 6
7. Authority to Allot Shares Pursuant to Sections 75 And 76 of the Companies
Act, 2016.
Ordinary Resolution 7
8. Proposed Granting of SIS Options to Datuk Chong Loong Men Ordinary Resolution 8
9. Proposed Granting of SIS Options to Mr Yee Yit Yang Ordinary Resolution 9
10. Proposed Granting of SIS Options to Dato' Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa Ordinary Resolution 10
11. Proposed Granting of SIS Options to Ms Tan Su Ning Ordinary Resolution 11
* Delete if not applicable
Signed on this ______________ day of _________________ 2024.
___________________________________________
Signature/ Common Seal of Shareholder
1. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company and a member may appoint any person to be his/her proxy without limitation. A member shall be entitled to appoint one (1)
or more proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her shareholdings to be represented by each
proxy.
2. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991 (“Central Depositories Act”), it may appoint at
least one proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares to the credit of the said securities account.
3. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee as defined under the Central Depositories Act which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial
owners in one securities account (“Omnibus Account”), there shall be no limit to the number of proxies which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect of each Omnibus
Account it holds.
4. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointer or of his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointer is a corporation, either under the
corporation’s Seal or under the hand of an officer or an attorney duly authorised.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Company’s Share Registrar, Workshire Share Registration Sdn Bhd of A3-3-8, Solaris Dutamas, No. 1, Jalan Dutamas 1,
50480 Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time fixed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
6. Only the members whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 31 May 2024 shall be entitled to attend and vote at this meeting or appoint proxy(ies) to attend and vote
on their behalf.
7. Pursuant to Rule 8.31A (1) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all resolutions set out in this Notice will be put to vote by way of poll.
✄
The Share Registrar
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
[Registration No. 201101021398 (949536-X)]
c/o Workshire Share Registration Sdn Bhd
A3-3-8, Solaris Dutamas,
No. 1, Jalan Dutamas 1,
50480 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan
AFFIX
STAMP
Fold this flap for sealing
Then fold here
1st fold here
BIOALPHA HOLDINGS BERHAD
Registration No. 201101021398 (949536-X)
STOCK CODE: BIOHLDG (0179)
