Contents
Contents
page 02
About Bioalpha
page 04
Bioalpha’s Core Values
page 05
Corporate Information
page 06
Corporate Structure
page 07
Financial Highlights
page 08
Profiles of Directors
page 12
Management Discussion
and Analysis
page 18
Corporate Governance
Overview Statements
page 35
Statement of
Directors’ Responsibility
page 36
Statement on
Risk Management and
Internal Control
page 39
Audit Committee Report
page 42
Additional Compliance
Information
page 44
Financial Statements
page 155
List of Properties
page 157
Analysis of Shareholdings
page 160
Analysis of Warrant B 2024/2027
Holdings
page 162
Analysis of Irredeemable
Convertible Preference Shares
(“ICPS”) Holdings
page 164
Notice of Fourteenth (14th)
Annual General Meeting
page 168
Statement Accompanying
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Enclosed
Proxy Form
ABOUT
ABOUT
BIOALPHA
BIOALPHA
Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“Bioalpha” or “the Company”) is an investment
holding company with its subsidiaries (“the Group”) principally involved in
manufacturing and sale of health supplement products. Founded in 2005,
Bioalpha has grown to become an integrated health supplement company with
businesses comprising all segments of the supply chain, including the cultivation
of herbal plants as a source of raw materials for the in-house production of its
products, research and development (“R&D”), manufacturing and distribution.
The Group’s health supplement products are manufactured and sold under
original design manufacturing (“ODM”) basis to its clients as well as under its
own proprietary house brands. All of Bioalpha’s health supplement products are
Halal-certified.
To increase the breadth and depth
of our integrated business model by
capitalizing on emerging opportunities
and being risk-sensitive.
Agriculture
To secure the quality, supply and pricing of our raw
materials via ownership of herb farms and undertaking
related R&D activities.
Shareholders
To build industry leading shareholder value through
revenue diversification, cost optimisation and
appropriate investment policies.
Corporate Governance
To be a responsible corporate citizen that embraces
integrity, ethics and exemplary corporate governance to
deliver value to our stakeholders.
Products
To continuously improve and expand the quality and
range of our products for total health and wellness.
Distribution & Retail
To develop our competency in health supplements
retail via strategic partnerships and investments. To
engage with customers through various channels.
People
To create a conducive and rewarding working
environment by promoting teamwork, creativity,
integrity and performance.
Customers
To address our customers’ needs by being proactive,
innovative and exceeding all expectations.
To be commercially-minded and customer-driven in
the area of product development.
Certification & Accreditation
To achieve international recognition in product R&D,
herb planting and production processes.
R&D
Tocontinuouslyimproveour extractionmethodologies
and to discover new medicinal mushroom species and
herbs for commercialisation.
To reinforce research collaboration and strategic
partnerships with local and regional experts in the
fields of biotechnology and herbal supplements
related research.
To be technologically-driven, innovative and cost-
conscious in the development of new fermentation
techniques, production and cultivation methods.
Regional Expansion
To expand our regional footprint via strategic
partnerships and mergers & acquisitions.
Branding
To strengthen our brand by delivering effective and
innovative products, building consumer awareness and
appropriate market positioning.
About Bioalpha
(cont’d)
As a regional health supplement group
to improve the total well-being of
people through innovative culture, and
the adoption of technology and best
practices in research, products and
human capital development.
vision MISsion
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 3
bioalpha's core values
iACT
Think ahead and offer new ideas.
Deliver products & services with benefits to
customers for maximal satisfaction.
Ownership towards our task and ensuring
the best results for ourselves and others.
Inter-department working relationship to be
smooth in order to achieve the target.
Communication is essential to our organisation.
bioalpha’s
core values
INNOVATION
CUSTOMER FOCUS
ACCOUNTABILITY
TEAMWORK
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 4
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
Executive
Director
Ho Tze Hiung
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Tan Su Ning
Independent Non-Executive
Chairman
Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin
Haji Mustafa
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Kang Jimmi
Executive
Director
Koo Kien Yoon
Managing Director/
Chief Executive Officer
Datuk Dr. Hon Tian Kok @
William
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Yee Yit Yang
Company Secretaries
Tan Tong Lang (MAICSA 7045482)
(PC No. 202208000250)
Thien Lee Mee (LS0010621)
(PC No. 201908002254)
Registered Office
B-21-1, Level 21, Tower B,
Northpoint Mid Valley City,
No. 1, Medan Syed Putra Utara,
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel. No. : (603) 9770 2200
Fax No. : (603) 2201 7774
PRINCIPAL Banker
OCBC Bank (Malaysia) Berhad
Menara OCBC,
18, Jalan Tun Perak,
50050 Kuala Lumpur
Tel. No. : (603) 2034 5251
Fax No. : (603) 2698 4363
HEAD OFFICE
No. 1, Jalan Perindustrian Suntrack,
Hub Perindustrian Suntrack,
Off Jalan P1A, Seksyen 13,
Bandar Baru Bangi, 43000 Kajang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel. No. : (603) 8922 2286
Fax. No.: (603) 8922 2287
Email : info@bioa.com.my
Website : www.bioa.com.my
Auditors
CHENGCO PLT
Lot 507 & 508, 5th Floor, Tower 2,
Faber Towers, Jalan Desa Bahagia,
Taman Desa, 58100 Kuala Lumpur
Tel. No. : (603) 7984 8988
Email : enquiry@chengco.asia
Share Registrar
Prosec Share Registration Sdn Bhd
DF2-09-02, Level 9, Persoft Tower,
6B, Persiaran Tropicana,
Tropicana Golf & Country Resort,
47410 Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Tel. No. : (6012) 766 8921
Email : sharereg@prosec.com.my
STOCK EXCHANGE
LISTING
Ordinary Shares
ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
Stock Name: BIOHLDG
Stock Code: 0179
Warrants B
Stock Name: BIOHLDG-WB
Stock Code: 0179-WB
ICPS
Stock Name: BIOHLDG-PA
Stock Code: 0179PA
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Kang Jimmi (Chairman)
Yee Yit Yang
Tan Su Ning
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Tan Su Ning (Chairperson)
Kang Jimmi
Yee Yit Yang
RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
Yee Yit Yang (Chairman)
Ho Tze Hiung
Tan Su Ning
INVESTMENT COMMITEE
Ho Tze Hiung (Chairman)
Yee Yit Yang
Tan Su Ning
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Kang Jimmi (Chairman)
Yee Yit Yang
Tan Su Ning
share issuance
scheme (“sis”) option
committee
Kang Jimmi (Chairman)
Hon Tian Kok @ William
Ho Tze Hiung
Board of Directors
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 5
SUZHOU
BIOMEDIC
BIOTECHNOLOGY
CO. LTD
(China)
19%
BIOALPHA
(HAINAN)
DEVELOPMENT
LTD
(China)
100%
CORPORATE
structure
BIOALPHA
(HK) LIMITED
(Hong Kong)
100%
BIOALPHA
(HAINAN) HEALTH
BIOTECHNOLOGY
LTD
(China)
100%
BIOALPHA (HK)
INVESTMENT
LIMITED
(Hong Kong)
100%
BIOALPHA
EAST COAST
AGRO SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
BHK
DEVELOPMENT
LIMITED
(Hong Kong)
100%
PT HERBAL
MALINDO
MAKMUR
(Indonesia)
60%
PT Bioalpha
International
Makmur
(Indonesia)
30%
SUZHOU
BIOMEDIC
BIOTECHNOLOGY
CO. LTD
(China)
48%
BIOALPHA
AGRO SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
72%
BIOALPHA
(JOHOR HERBAL)
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
70%
BIOALPHA
INTERNATIONAL
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
BOTANICAL
DISTRIBUTION
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
BIOALPHA
WELLNESS
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
BIOALPHA
R&D
SDN BHD
(Malaysia)
100%
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 6
For Financial
Year Ended
31/12/24
RM
For Financial
Year Ended
31/12/23
RM
For Financial
Year Ended
31/12/22
RM
Financial Results
Revenue 81,237,569 46,086,810 35,796,829
EBITDA (40,412,398) (33,353,317) (36,418,300)
Loss before taxation (52,016,401) (45,278,759) (48,829,663)
Loss after taxation (50,494,337) (43,653,769) (48,793,678)
Net loss attributable to:
Owners of the parent (48,553,393) (42,000,116) (47,830,550)
Non-controlling interests (1,940,944) (1,653,653) (963,128)
Financial Position
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 32,874,735 54,378,157 59,427,489
Goodwill on consolidation - 5,334,030 5,334,030
Intangible assets 37,634,758 47,382,981 51,810,908
Biological assets 94,908 100,000 175,000
Other assets 48,386,487 56,030,405 83,902,177
Total assets 118,990,888 163,225,573 200,649,604
Equity
Share capital 186,191,208 186,191,208 179,939,010
ICPS 2,889,371 2,889,371 9,141,569
Reserves (90,736,553) (61,713,732) (21,222,103)
Total equity attributable to
owners of the company 98,344,026 127,366,847 167,858,476
Non-controlling interests (628,440) 2,265,246 128,601
Liabilities
Loan and borrowings 982,675 6,098,477 6,951,968
Lease liabilities 4,345,490 5,793,071 4,723,945
Deferred tax liabilities 3,863,585 5,520,389 7,310,126
Other liabilities 12,083,552 16,181,543 13,676,488
Total equity and liabilities 118,990,888 163,225,573 200,649,604
Weighted average no. of ordinary shares 1,263,892,799 1,263,892,799 1,260,849,697
Financial Indicators
Earnings per share (sen) (3.84) (3.32) (3.80)
Net assets per share (RM) 0.08 0.10 0.13
Return on equity (%) (49.37) (32.98) (28.49)
Share price as at financial year end (RM) 0.065 0.110 0.105
FINANCIAL
HIGHLIGHTS
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 7
PROFILES OF
DIRECTORS
Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa (“Dato’ Haji”) was appointed to our
Board on 4 September 2023.
A High Court Judge for more than 15 years, Dato’ Haji retired from the Judiciary
service in December 2022.
Prior to his judgeship, Dato’ Haji served in various capacities both in courts and
the Attorney Generals Chambers as Sessions Court Judge, Magistrate, Senior
Assistant Registrar of High Court, Deputy Public Prosecutor, Senior Federal
Counsel, Chairman of the Cooperative Tribunal and Registrar of High Court.
Post-retirement, Dato’ Haji continues to serve as a Court of Appeal judge of the
Terengganu Syariah Courts.
Dato’ Haji offers broad range of legal services including counsel work, advisory
and strategies.
Dato’ Haji currently sits on the Board of LKL International Berhad.
He has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of
the Company. He has no conviction of any offences within the past five (5)
years and has no public sanctions and/or penalties imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year. He has no conflict of interest or
potential conflict of interest, including any interest in any competing business
with Bioalpha and its subsidiaries.
DATO’ HAJI
MOHD YAZID BIN
HAJI MUSTAFA
Independent
Non-Executive Chairman
68
AGE
NATIONALITY
GENDER
DATUK DR.
HON TIAN KOK @
WILLIAM
Managing Director/
Chief Executive Officer
Member of
SIS Option Committee
49
AGE
NATIONALITY
GENDER
Datuk Dr. Hon Tian Kok @ William (“Datuk Dr. William Hon”) is our Founder and
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer. He was appointed to our Board on
21 June 2011 and also a member of SIS Option Committee. He is responsible
for overseeing our Group’s performance and strategic direction. Datuk Dr.
William Hon obtained his qualification from the Association of Chartered
Certified Accountants in 1998 and has been a member of the Malaysia Institute
of Accountants since 2002. He also holds a PhD in Business Administration
from Asia e University in 2024.
Datuk Dr. William Hon has an extensive background and experience in Finance,
Audit, Strategic Planning, Marketing, International Business Relations and
Biotechnology industry.
He began his career as an Auditor with an accounting firm in 1995 and later
joined commercial company as an Assistant Finance Manager in the same
year. In 1998, he joined an educational and business consultancy firm, as a
Consultant. He subsequently left and joined a public listed company in 2000
as Vice President of Business Development, where he was responsible for
identifying and/or assessing new business opportunities for the group in the
property investment and development industry as well as other new ventures
such as biotechnology. In 2003, he worked as a freelance consultant with few
companies, including companies in the healthcare industry, during which he
gained further knowledge of the biotechnology industry and enabled him to
establish Bioalpha International Sdn. Bhd. (“BISB”) in 2005.
He does not hold any directorship in any other public companies and listed
issuers.
He has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of
the Company. He has no conviction of any offences within the past five (5)
years and has no public sanctions and/or penalties imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year. He has no conflict of interest or
potential conflict of interest, including any interest in any competing business
with Bioalpha and its subsidiaries.
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 8
Mr. Ho Tze Hiung (“Mr. Ho”) is our Executive Director and was appointed to
our Board on 21 June 2011. As our Operations Director, he is responsible
overseeing the Group’s production operations. He is a member of the Risk
Management Committee and SIS Option Committee and the Chairman of the
Investment Committee.
Mr. Ho completed his Bachelor of Business, majoring in Business and
Management from Oxford Brooks University in 1999 and began his career as a
Marketing Executive in the same year. In 2000, he joined a seafood processing
industry as a Sales Supervisor. In 2002, he became a Operations Manager
in a grocery and frozen food wholesale company. He subsequently joined a
multinational insurance company as a Trainer in 2003. In 2004, he joined a
health supplement company as a Marketing Manager. Subsequently in 2005,
he joined Bioalpha International Sdn. Bhd. (“BISB”) as a Marketing Director and
was promoted to Operations Director in 2012.
He does not hold any directorship in any other public companies and listed
issuers.
He has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of
the Company. He has no conviction of any offences within the past five (5)
years and has no public sanctions and/or penalties imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year. He has no conflict of interest or
potential conflict of interest, including any interest in any competing business
with Bioalpha and its subsidiaries.
HO TZE HIUNG
Executive Director
Chairman of Investment
Committee
Member of Risk Management
Committee and SIS Option
Committee
48
AGE
NATIONALITY
GENDER
Mr. Koo Kien Yoon (“Mr. Koo”) was appointed to our Board on 4 April 2025.
Mr. Koo has 23 years of extensive and varied working experience in public
relations and managing business activity. Mr. Koo served as a Public Relations
Officer of Ipoh Specialist Centre from 1996 to 1997.
He served as a Product Manager of Amer Sports Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. from
November 2011 to November 2012 and Business Development Director of VRC
Sdn. Bhd. and VRC ENT from June 2010 to March 2012. He was a Freelance
Consultant of Soo Minn Korea from 2008 to 2010, Business Development
Manager of Polyflo Sdn. Bhd. from 2004 to 2007, Product Manager of Radcoflex
Sdn. Bhd. from 2000 to 2004 and Sales & Marketing Executive of Polyflo Sdn.
Bhd. from 1997 to 2000. Mr. Koo had been a Director at Jeratek Sdn. Bhd. from
December 2012 until 2013. He had been an Executive Director at Biosis Group
Berhad from 5 March 2013 until 2016. He had been managing a retail chain
since 2016.
Currently, Mr. Koo is the Executive Director of Lambo Group Berhad and Vsolar
Group Berhad, the public listed companies on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”), JOE Holding Berhad and Sinaran
Advance Group Berhad on the Main Market of Bursa Securities.
He has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of
the Company. He has no conviction of any offences within the past five (5)
years and has no public sanctions and/or penalties imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year. He has no conflict of interest or
potential conflict of interest, including any interest in any competing business
with Bioalpha and its subsidiaries.
KOO KIEN YOON
Executive Director
49
AGE
NATIONALITY
GENDER
profile of DIRECTORS
(cont’d)
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 9
profile of DIRECTORS
(cont’d)
Mr. Yee Yit Yang (“Mr. Yee”) was appointed to our Board as an Independent
Non-Executive Director on 1 June 2022. He is a member of Audit Committee,
Remuneration Committee, Investment Committee and Nomination Committee
and the Chairman of the Risk Management Committee.
He is a member of the Australian CPA and Malaysia Institute of Accountants.
He graduated with Bachelor of Economics (Major: Accounting & Finance) from
Latrobe University, Australia. He began his career with Deloitte Tohmatsu,
an international accounting firm upon his graduation in Australia in 1990.
After spending approximately 3 years with them, he joined the corporate
finance division of Affin Investment Bank in which he was involved in various
assignments, such as IPO, regional mergers and acquisitions as well as fund
raising for both listed and non-listed companies. After approximately 7 years
with Affin Investment Bank, he left to join a leading listed supermarket retail
chain in Malaysia as Head of Corporate Planning. During his tenure with them,
he was instrumental in raising the corporate profile by raising funds for the
purpose of acquisition of related businesses. In 2008, he left the Group to join
another listed company, which is principally involved in property investment and
healthcare business as Head of Corporate Finance. During his stay with them,
he had completed a fund-raising exercise for the purpose of consolidating the
property investment division as well as the acquisition of a renowned healthcare
company based in USA.
Currently, Mr. Yee is involved in a private corporate consultancy business. He
also sits on the board of AE Multi Holdings Berhad, Key Alliance Group Berhad,
Brahim’s Holdings Berhad and Joe Holding Berhad as Independent and Non-
Executive Director.
He has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of
the Company. He has no conviction of any offences within the past five (5)
years and has no public sanctions and/or penalties imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year. He has no conflict of interest or
potential conflict of interest, including any interest in any competing business
with Bioalpha and its subsidiaries.
YEE YIT YANG
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Chairman of Risk Management
Committee
Member of Audit Committee,
Remuneration Committee,
Investment Committee and
Nomination Committee
58
AGE
NATIONALITY
GENDER
45
AGE
NATIONALITY
GENDER
Mr. Kang Jimmi was appointed to our Board as Independent Non-Executive
Director on 22 May 2020. He graduated with Bachelor of Science from Binus
University, Jakarta. He is a member of the Remuneration Committee and
the Chairman of Audit Committee, Nomination Committee and SIS Option
Committee.
Currently, Mr. Kang Jimmi as a founder and leads a company listed in the
Indonesian Stock Exchange, which is responsible for the operation and
maintenance for Powerplant Company with total capacity 42 MW including
Diesel Power plant and Mini hydro Power plant. He possesses leadership skill
in IPP Development Processes which require experience in cross-functional
management skills with hundreds of employees, in addition to deep knowledge
of utility power plant infrastructure system as well as to produce good financial
results for the company. His background focus established strategic partnership
with others party and/or company.
He does not hold any directorship in any other public companies and listed
issuers.
He has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of
the Company. He has no conviction of any offences within the past five (5)
years and has no public sanctions and/or penalties imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year. He has no conflict of interest or
potential conflict of interest, including any interest in any competing business
with Bioalpha and its subsidiaries.
KANG JIMMI
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Chairman of Audit Committee,
Nomination Committee and
SIS Option Committee
Member of Remuneration
Committee
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 10
profile of DIRECTORS
(cont’d)
Ms. Tan Su Ning (“Ms. Tan”) was appointed to our Board as an Independent
Non-Executive Director on 4 September 2023. She is a member of Audit
Committee, Risk Management Committee, Investment Committee and
Nomination Committee and the Chairperson of Remuneration Committee.
She graduated with a LLB (Hons.) degree from University of Londan (external)
and was admitted as an Advocate and Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya in
2018.
Ms. Tan started her legal practice with an established law firm in 2018.
Subsequently, she joined Messrs Lim Chong Phang & Amy and Messrs
Chong+Kheng Hoe in 2019. Ms. Tan’s practice primarily focuses on corporate
and commercial disputes including breach of directors’ duties, shareholders’
dispute as well as litigation concerning capital market and securities laws.
Besides, she also advises public and private corporation on legal and regulatory
compliance. She is currently a partner of Messrs Terrence & Co.
Ms. Tan currently sits on the Board of Jadi Imaging Holdings Berhad, LKL
International Berhad, Sersol Berhad and Fast Energy Holdings Berhad.
She has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the
Company. She has no conviction of any offence within the past 5 years and has
no public sanctions and/or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year. She has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
interest, including any interest in any competing business with Bioalpha and its
subsidiaries.
TAN SU NING
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Chairperson of Remuneration
Committee
Member of Audit Committee,
Risk Management Committee,
Investment Committee and
Nomination Committee
33
AGE
NATIONALITY
GENDER
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 11
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
Dear esteemed
shareholders,
I am delighted to present the
Management Discussion and
Analysis (“MD&A”) report
for Bioalpha Holdings Berhad
(“Bioalpha” or the “Group”) for
the financial year ended
31 December 2024 (“FY2024”).
This report offers a review of
our financial and operational
achievements in Fiscal Year
2024, alongside our strategic
directions for 2025.
ECONOMIC LANDSCAPE
IN 2024
In 2024, the global economy faced significant headwinds, mirroring the difficulties encountered in the prior year.
Supply chain issues, high inflation, and weakened consumer sentiment presented key challenges to businesses.
Compounding this, trade tensions between major economies contributed further uncertainty to the operating
landscape. The elevated risk environment halted some business expansions, and investor confidence remained
subdued. Against this backdrop, the International Monetary Fund (“IMF”) forecasts a moderate global economic
growth of 3.2% in 2024, below the pre-pandemic historical average of 3.7% of between 2000 and 2019.
Back home in Malaysia, our economy exhibited resilience in 2024, achieving economic growth of 5.1%, compared
to 3.6% in 2023. Despite the headline growth, the economy was met with various challenges. Heightened inflation
eroded consumer purchasing power and squeezed household budgets, driven by rising food and energy prices. This
dampened consumer sentiments, with many Malaysians needing to allocate more income to cover basic needs.
Our weak currency compounded these challenges as imported goods (including raw materials) were more
expensive, which strained consumers and pressured businesses relying on foreign-sourced components. Coupled
with the ongoing supply chain issues for certain materials, the situation hindered business operations and
profitability. These disruptions led to production issues and inefficiencies, as well as increased costs, challenging
both consumers and businesses.
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 12
Bioalpha, a nutraceutical and health supplement group in Malaysia founded in 2005, operates a multi-faceted
value chain that includes agricultural development, research and development (“R&D”), and the manufacturing of
functional food and supplement products on an Original Design Manufacturer (“ODM”) basis.
Herbal Farming
Bioalpha operates two herbal parks, one in Pasir Raja,
Terengganu, while the other in Desaru, Johor. Both parks are
accredited with the Malaysian Good Agricultural Practices
(“MyGAP”) certification by the Ministry of Agriculture and
Food Security (“MAFS”), attesting to our commitment to
quality, safety, and sustainability.
At these parks, we cultivate a broad range of herbs and spices,
including Tongkat Ali, Kacip Fatimah, Misai Kucing, Hempedu
Bumi, roselle, and soursop, to name a few. We source raw
materials from own farms for our downstream supplement
products to ensure quality and maintain competitiveness.
As a responsible corporate entity, we are committed to environmental sustainability by integrating rigorous standard
operating procedures (“SOPs”) into our practices. For instance, we adhere to stringent guidelines on harvesting
methods, fertilizer selection, and organic pest control.
Research & Development (“R&D”)
Understanding the dynamic nature of consumer preferences in healthcare, we invest in R&D
to develop and tailor product formulations to meet evolving customer requirements. Our R&D
activities are conducted in-house at our laboratory, which is accredited to the internationally
recognized ISO 9001 quality management standards. To date, Bioalpha has developed over
300 proprietary formulations for our health supplement lineup.
We are committed to addressing the growing awareness of health and the demand for
supplement products, particularly those related to respiratory health, immunity, and anti-ageing.
Processing and Manufacturing
Bioalpha provides a diverse range of health products, including herbal and non-herbal supplements, as well as
functional foods. Through our ODM partnerships, we tailor health solutions to meet our customers' specific needs.
Our supplements are designed to support various health areas, such as general well-being, children's nutrition,
beauty and skincare, anti-ageing, as well as men and women’s health.
Presently, we operate two manufacturing facilities with our main plant located in Bangi, Selangor and our second
plant in Semenyih, Selangor. Our primary manufacturing facility in Bangi is equipped with
seven production lines, designed to accommodate a wide range of output formats, including
sachet powder, liquids, teabags, capsules, tablets, blister packs, and bottled products.
The Group prioritises quality assurance in every aspect of our operations, as evidenced by
our accreditations to Good Manufacturing Practices (“GMP”), Hazard Analysis and Critical
Control Points (“HACCP”), Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab Industri (“MeSTI”), and Halal
certification from the Department of Islamic Development Malaysia (“JAKIM”). In addition,
our facility is also registered with the United States Food and Drug Administration (“US FDA”) to ensure our product
quality adheres to international standards.
BUSINESS AND
OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW
Management discussion
and analysis
(cont’d)
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 13
BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW (CONT’D)
Processing and Manufacturing (Cont’d)
In addition, we operate two Collection, Processing & Packaging Centre (“CPPC”), namely at our Pasir Raja,
Terengganu and Desaru, Johor farms. This ensures the freshness and quality of our ingredients while enhancing
the efficiency of raw material handling from our farms.
Strategic Realignment Initiatives
In 2024, Bioalpha undertook a strategic realignment to sharpen focus on our core manufacturing operations.
As part of this shift, the Group made decisive changes to our business portfolio, including exiting from the retail
pharmacy segment and a reassessment of our presence in China. These measures were driven by the need to
enhance operational efficiency and ensure sustainable growth amid evolving market dynamics.
During the year, we streamlined our operations by divesting our retail pharmacy business, which operated under the
brand Constant Pharmacy (“Constant”). This decision was prompted by the increasingly competitive and saturated
market. The disposal exercise was subsequently completed in January 2025.
In China, we are re-evaluating our strategy and business model in response to the taxing operating environment
and low profitability. These challenges stem from economic uncertainties and trade complexities in the Chinese
market, which have impacted our health food supply business. Meanwhile, we maintain a conservative approach to
safeguard our capital resources while actively seeking sustainable opportunities.
Meanwhile, Bioalpha's development of the Langkawi Agro Park, is currently still pending regulatory approvals, with
the progress slower than expected, causing delays in the project's implementation. The Langkawi Agro Park is an
agro-tourism park which features attractions showcasing the entire health supplement supply chain.
Revenue
The Group's revenue increased to RM81.2 million in FY2024,
marking a 76.3% surge from the RM46.1 million reported in the
previous financial year ended 31 December 2023 (“FY2023”).
FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE REVIEW
FY2024 Group Revenue
RM
81.2million
Sales Mix by Segment in FY2024
In FY2024, the manufacturing business segment reported
RM11.8 million in revenue, compared to RM14.1 million in
FY2023. The performance was primarily attributed to lower
order volume in response to softer consumer sentiments and
demand. Within this segment, domestic sales accounted for
98.3%, amounting to RM11.6 million.
The trading segment generated revenue of RM50.2 million in
FY2024, as compared to RM16.6 million in FY2023. The jump
was bolstered by a spike in delivery volume following higher
orders from customers.
Meanwhile, the retail pharmacy segment recorded revenue of
RM18.6 million in FY2024, up from RM14.1 million a year ago,
supported by new store openings and higher sales volume. Trading
61.8%
Manufacturing
14.6%
Others
0.7%
Retail
Pharmacy
22.9%
Management discussion
and analysis
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 14
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE REVIEW (CONT’D)
Revenue (Cont’d)
The trading business segment was the primary revenue driver for the Group, accounting for 61.8% of total turnover.
This is followed by the retail pharmacy segment at 22.9%, the manufacturing arm at 14.6%, and others at 0.7%.
Profitability
Despite the increase in revenue, the Group posted a gross loss RM1.4 million, against a gross profit of RM0.1 million
in the preceding year. The contrasting performance was primarily due to significant rise in cost of sales, particularly
within our trading segment where the increased costs were not sufficiently offset by adequate gross profit margin.
During the year under review, the Group recorded several impairments related to our financial assets; property,
plant, and equipment; intangible assets; investment in associate; as well as goodwill, totalling RM40.1 million.
These actions, taken after careful deliberation and consultation with external auditor, reflect our prudent financial
management.
Given the abovementioned factors, Bioalpha closed the fiscal year with a net loss attributable to the owners of the
parent (“net loss”) of RM48.6 million in FY2024.
Financial Position
Bioalpha maintained a healthy financial position with cash and cash equivalents at RM10.8 million as of December
31, 2024, vis-à-vis RM11.4 million a year ago. Meanwhile, total borrowings reduced to RM1.0 million from RM6.1
million at the end of FY2023 after partial repayment of term loans. The Group continued to be in a net cash position
with net cash per share of 0.9 sen. Following the FY2024 net loss, shareholders' equity now stood at RM98.3 million
against RM127.4 million in FY2023.
Going forward, Bioalpha strives to maintain a balanced approach on capital resource management, ensuring
operational commitments are met while enhancing our financial position.
 
ANTICIPATED RISKS
Supply Chain Disruptions
Our business operations rely on a multi-stage supply chain, which is inherently vulnerable to various factors. External
events, such as weather changes, natural disasters, pandemics, and civil unrest, pose significant risks of disruption
to Bioalpha's daily operations. These unforeseen events could lead to increased input costs and reduced sales,
ultimately impacting our profit margins.
To mitigate these risks, we proactively implement strategies to ensure smooth operations.These include maintaining
sufficient insurance coverage for fire hazards and workplace accidents, as well as providing employee trainings to
address potential disruptions.
Management discussion
and analysis
(cont’d)
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 15
ANTICIPATED RISKS (CONT’D)
Changes in Economic, Political and Regulatory Conditions
Bioalpha is susceptible to shifts in economic, political, and regulatory policies, where changes may be unfavourable
to the Group. For instance, the rise in minimum wage to RM1,700 per month in February 2025 has resulted in
increased operational expenditures. This could possibly compromise our competitiveness and resilience against
external risks.
To effectively manage these challenges, Bioalpha keeps abreast with the latest developments and policy changes
by authorities, and implements proactive compliance initiatives. This approach ensures adherence to the latest
regulations, minimising risks to both operations and financial performance. This demonstrates our commitment to
regulatory compliance and risk management.
Product Liability Risk
Our Group operates within the nutraceutical and health supplement sector, where product integrity is paramount. Any
deviation from quality standards, such as defects or contamination, carries a threat to our reputation and financial
performance. Hence, such occurrences could potentially trigger product recalls and legal actions, jeopardising
public as well as customers’ confidence towards our products.
We are pleased to share Bioalpha has not experienced any personal injury claims related to product defects. This
is credited to our robust quality control checks and strict adherence to SOPs. Our primary manufacturing facility in
Bangi is certified with both GMP and HACCP standards. In addition, we have also secured comprehensive product
liability insurance to safeguard against any potential claims.
Dividend
Prospects
In consideration of the challenging operating environment and the current financial performance of the Group,
the Board of Directors (the “Board”) has resolved to prioritise financial prudence by conserving cash reserves.
Therefore, the Board has decided not to propose a dividend payment for the year under review. This decision
supports our commitment to maintaining adequate capital reserves for long-term sustainability amidst ongoing
global economic uncertainties.
The IMF projects a global economic growth of 3.3% for 2025. Meanwhile, Bank Negara Malaysia (“BNM”) had
forecasted Malaysia’s economy to expand between 4.5% and 5.5% in 2025, underpinned by sustained domestic
demand, increased foreign and local investments, alongside the implementation of major infrastructure projects,
which will boost employment and stimulate private consumption. Furthermore, the recent hike in minimum wage
to RM1,700 since February 2025 is expected to strengthen consumer purchasing power and bolster economic
growth. Nevertheless, the United States (“U.S.”) government’s recent announcement on 2 April 2025, of a 24% tariff
on Malaysian exports, has prompted BNM to reassess its growth projection, as higher export costs and disrupted
trade flows could temper momentum.
Management discussion
and analysis
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 16
At Bioalpha, we remain confident in our long-term prospects in the manufacturing of health supplement products,
underpinned by the aforementioned favourable industry trends. However, external headwinds are significant
in the near term, especially with the recent tariff announcement by the U.S. government that may affect trade
nations globally, including Malaysia. As such, we step into FY2025 with cautious outlook, recognising the potential
challenges and obstacles ahead.
Following our exit from the retail pharmacy segment, we have refined our strategy to focus on enhancing operational
resilience and streamlining resources within our manufacturing segment, while leveraging growth opportunities in
the Malaysian market.
Given the escalating global geopolitical tensions, including new trade barriers like the U.S. tariffs, we have
strategically shifted our focus to our home market, stepping back from overseas expansion. We are broadening our
product portfolio, with a particular emphasis on respiratory and immunity-related healthcare products offerings and
acquiring new ODM customers to expand our domestic market share.
Looking ahead, Bioalpha is reinforcing our position as a health supplement group in Malaysia. We are capitalizing
on our expertise and core competencies in nutraceuticals and health supplements, complemented by our herbal
parks, in-house R&D, and manufacturing facilities, to ensure quality and efficiency control throughout our business
value chain.
Sustainability has been a core value at Bioalpha. We are committed to operating our business
without compromising environmental responsibility, social well-being, and strong governance
practices. We pay utmost attention to minimising our carbon footprint, conserving natural
resources, fostering diversity and inclusion, and engaging with stakeholders to cultivate
robust and resilient communities. Our Group acknowledges that sustainability is a dynamic
process, and we are dedicated towards continuous advancement, refining our milestones,
and ensuring transparent reporting of our progress to stakeholders. Bioalpha is committed
to creating enhanced value for all stakeholders and fostering advanced development for the
future. For a detailed view of our sustainability journey, please refer to Bioalpha’s standalone
Sustainability Report FY2024.
Datuk Dr. Hon Tian Kok @ William
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer
Sustainability
Matters
Prospects (CONT’D)
On a positive note, the global healthcare sector is undergoing rapid transformation, driven by population ageing,
increasing urbanisation, and technological advancements, according to the World Economic Forum. Additionally,
rising public awareness of healthcare and increased reliance on supplements to address busy urban lifestyles
present solid growth opportunities within the nutraceutical and health supplement sector. According to Grand View
Research, the global dietary supplement market value reached USD192.7 billion in 2024, and is projected to grow
by 9.1% on compounded basis to USD327.4 billion by 2030.
In Malaysia, the vitamins and supplements market hit RM5.4 billion in 2023, according to a
report by the Euromonitor International. It projects that the industry will grow to RM7.9 billion
by 2028, driven by rising demand for dietary supplements to address specific deficiencies,
particularly those related to immunity.
Management discussion
and analysis
(cont’d)
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 17
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
The Board of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“the Company”) recognises the importance of good corporate governance
and fully supports the principles and best practices promulgated in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance
2021 (“MCCG 2021”) to enhance business prosperity and maximize shareholders’ value. The Board will continuously
evaluate the Group’s corporate governance practices and procedures, and where appropriate will adopt and
implement the best practices as enshrined in MCCG 2021 in the best interest of the shareholders of the Company.
Below is an overview statement and description in general of how the Group has applied the principles and complied
with the best practice provisions as laid out in MCCG 2021 throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2024
(“FYE 2024”) pursuant to Rule 15.25 of the ACE Market Listing Requirements (“AMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and it is to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report of the Company
which is available at the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
Part I - Board Responsibilities
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of our Company and the delivery of sustainable
value to its stakeholders. In discharging its fiduciary duties and leadership functions, the Board governs and sets
strategic directions for the Company whilst exercising oversight on management. The Board plays a critical role
in setting the appropriate supervision at the top, providing uncompromising leadership and championing good
governance and ethical practices throughout the Company.
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS
1.1 Set Strategic Aims, Values and Standards for the Company
TheBoardhasfullcontrolofandisresponsiblefor,theGroup’soverallstrategy,acquisitionanddivestment
policies, capital expenditure, annual budget, review of financial and operational performance, and
internal controls as well as investment and risk management processes. The Group’s overall strategic
direction, development, implementation and control remain of primary importance to the Board.
The Board is leading and managing the Group effectively and responsibly. Each Director has a legal duty
to act in the best interests of the Group. The Directors, individually and collectively, are aware of their
responsibilities to shareholders and stakeholders for how the affairs of the Company are managed.
The Board is entrusted with the responsibility to promote the success of the Group by directing and
supervising the Group’s affairs. Hence, to develop corporate objectives and position descriptions
including the limits to management’s responsibilities, which the management are aware of and are
responsible for achieving.
The details of the roles and responsibilities of the Board and matters reserved for the Board decision are
defined in the Board Charter, which is available on the Company at www.bioa.com.my.
In discharging its fiduciary duties, the Board has delegated specific tasks to six (6) Board Committees
namely the Audit Committee (“AC”), Nomination Committee (“NC”), Remuneration Committee (“RC”), Risk
Management Committee (“RMC”), Share Issuance Scheme (“SIS”) Option Committee and Investment
Committee (“IC”). The primary functions of which are to assist the Board in overseeing the affairs of
the Company. These Committees have been entrusted with specific responsibilities and authority, the
authorities and functions of these Board committees are properly set out in their respective Terms of
Reference.
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 18
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part I - Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS (CONT’D)
1.2 Appointment of Chairman
Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa was appointed as the Independent Non-Executive Chairman
since 4 September 2023.
The Chairman leads the Board with a keen focus on governance and compliance and acts as a
facilitator at Board meetings to ensure that contributions by Directors are forthcoming on matters being
deliberated and that no Board member dominates any discussion. Together with the other Independent
Non-Executive Directors, he leads the discussion on the strategies and policies recommended by
Management. He chairs the meetings of the Board and the shareholders thus ensuring effective
communication with the shareholders as well as the relevant stakeholders.
The Chairman of the Board is not a member of the Board Committees.
The Chairman holds an Independent Non-Executive role and his roles and responsibilities have been
clearly specified in the Board Charter, which is available on the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
1.3 The Positions of Chairman and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer are held by Different
Individuals
The positions of the Chairman and the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer are held by different
individuals. Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa is the Independent Non-Executive Chairman whilst
Datuk Dr. Hon Tian Kok @ William is the Managing Director/Chief Executive of the Company.
The Board recognises the importance of having a clear separation of responsibilities between the
Chairman and the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer to promote accountability, ensure an
appropriate balance of roles, and facilitate the division of responsibilities between them to ensure no
one individual can influence the Board’s discussions and decision making. The distinct and separate
roles of the Chairman and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer ensure an appropriate balance of
roles, responsibilities and accountability at the Board level.
The roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer are
provided in the Board Charter, which is available on the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
1.4 Qualified and competent Company Secretaries
IncompliancewithMCCG2021,theBoardissupportedbyqualifiedandcompetentCompanySecretaries.
The Company Secretaries of the Company are qualified to act as Company Secretary under Section
235 of the Companies Act 2016. The Company Secretaries have been guiding the Board, particularly
on corporate governance issues and compliance with relevant policies and procedures, rules, and
regulatory requirements and ensuring good information flow within the Board, Board Committees and
Management.
The Company Secretaries attend all meetings of the Board and Board Committees and ensure that all
Board and Board Committee meetings are properly convened, and that accurate and proper records of
proceedings and resolutions passed are recorded and maintained in the statutory register.
The Company Secretaries also keep abreast of the evolving capital market environment, regulatory
changes and developments in corporate governance through continuous training and guide the Directors
on the requirements encapsulated in the Company’s Constitution and legislative promulgations such as
the Companies Act 2016, AMLR, etc.
The Company Secretaries shall continue to guide the Directors on the requirements to be observed
arising from new regulations and guidelines issued by authorities.
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 19
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part I - Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS (CONT’D)
1.5 Access to information and advice
All Directors may seek independent professional advice at the Company’s expense on specific issues
to enable them to discharge their duties, where necessary. Board Meetings for the ensuing year are
scheduled in advance before the end of the current financial year, for the Directors to plan ahead and
ensure full attendance. The notice of agenda, together with minutes of the previous meeting and other
relevant information, will be circulated to the Board at least five (5) days before the meetings.
Notices of the closed periods for trading in the Company’s securities in accordance with Chapter 14 of
the AMLR are served on the Directors before the commencement of the closed periods.
The Board papers contain all relevant information and reports on financial, operational, corporate,
regulatory, and market developments, as well as minutes of meetings. These documents are
comprehensive and include qualitative and quantitative information to enable the Board members to
make informed decisions.
The Company Secretaries are entrusted to record the Board’s deliberations, in terms of issues
discussed, ensure that the deliberations at Board and Board Committee meetings are documented, and
subsequently communicate those deliberations to Management for appropriate actions.
The minutes of the previous Board and Board Committee meetings are distributed to the Directors/
Board Committees before the meeting for their perusal before confirmation of the minutes at the
commencement of the following Board and Board Committee meeting.
To facilitate productive and meaningful deliberations, the Directors will comment or request clarification
before the minutes are tabled for confirmation as a correct record of the proceedings of the meeting.
The Management provides Directors with complete and timely information prior to meetings and on an
ongoing basis to enable them to make informed decisions.
1.6 Sustainability Governance
The Board recognises the fundamental importance of sustainable business practices in creating long-
term value and believes that operating the business in a responsible manner is closely linked to achieving
operational excellence. The Board holds the primary responsibility for overseeing sustainability-related
matters, including the development of strategies, setting priorities, and establishing targets. Operational
execution pertaining to economic, sustainability and social (“ESS”) factors, as part of the Group’s
corporate strategies, falls within the purview of the Management.
The Board is committed to upholding exemplary corporate governance practices that prioritise ethics,
integrity, and corporate responsibility. Moreover, the Board ensures that both internal and external
stakeholders are well-informed about the Group’s sustainability strategies, priorities, targets, and overall
performance.
A comprehensive account of these efforts can be found in Bioalpha’s standalone Sustainability Report
FY2024. The Board also incorporated the assessment of the Board’s understanding of sustainability
issues in the annual performance evaluation process. This is critical to the Company’s performance and
reflects the Board’s ongoing commitment to sustainability.
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 20
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part I - Board Responsibilities (Cont’d)
2. DEMARCATION OF RESPONSIBILITIES
The Board acknowledges the importance of the demarcation of responsibilities between the Board, Board
Committees and Management. To achieve the aim of clarity in the authority of the Board, Board Committees
and individual directors, the Board has formalised and adopted a Board Charter.
2.1 Board Charter
The Board Charter adopted by the Board sets out the role, functions, composition, operation and
processes of the Board and is to ensure that all Board members acting on behalf of the Company are
aware of their duties and responsibilities as Board members. The Board Charter will be reviewed when
necessary and updated in accordance with the needs of the Company and any new regulations that may
have an impact on the discharge of the Board’s responsibilities. The Board Charter is available on the
corporate website - www.bioa.com.my.
3. GOOD BUSINESS CONDUCT AND CORPORATE CULTURE
The Board is committed to promoting good business conduct and maintaining a healthy corporate culture
that engenders integrity, transparency and fairness.
The Board, Management, employees and other stakeholders of the Group are clear on what is considered
acceptable behaviour and practices in Bioalpha Group.
3.1 Code of Ethics & Conduct
The Group is committed to achieving and monitoring high standards of behaviour at work.
The Board adhered strictly to the Code of Ethics and Conduct for Company Directors (“the Codes”) in
discharging its oversight role effectively. The Board will review the Codes when necessary to ensure they
remain relevant and appropriate.
The Codes require all Directors and Employees to observe high ethical business standards, to apply
these values to all aspects of the Group’s business and professional practice, and to act in good faith in
the best interests of the Group and its shareholders.
The details of the Code of Conduct and Ethics are available for reference on the Company’s website at
www.bioa.com.my.
3.2 Whistle Blowing Policy
The Board has adopted a Whistle Blowing Policy for the Group as a measure to promote the highest
standard of corporate governance. The whistleblowing policy outlines the avenues for the Directors,
employees and stakeholders to raise concerns or disclose in good faith any improper conduct within
the Group and to enable prompt corrective action and measures to resolve them effectively. The Whistle
Blowing Policy can be assessed at the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
3.3 Anti-Bribery Management System Policy
The Company had adopted the Anti-Bribery Management System Policy that set out the policies and
adequate procedures against bribery and corruption activities in the conduct of its business under the
gazetted Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (Amendment) Act 2018. The said
Policy can be assessed at the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 21
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part II - Board Composition
In order to achieve the intended outcome of the MCCG 2021, the Board decisions are made objectively in the best
interests of the Company taking into account diverse perspectives and insights, our Group has met most of the
good practices recommended by the MCCG 2021 as follows:
4. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY
4.1 Composition of the Board
The Company is managed by a well-balanced Board which consists of members with a wide range of
business, technical and financial backgrounds. This brings diversity and insightful depth to the company
leadership and management.
As of the date of this Statement, the Board consists of seven (7) members, as designated below:
one (1) Independent Non-Executive Chairman;
one (1) Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer;
two (2) Executive Directors; and
three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The present composition of the Board is in compliance with Rule 15.02 of the AMLR and MCCG 2021
Practice 4.1 which requires at least half of the Board members to be Independent Directors. The profile
of each Director is set out in the Profiles of Directors of this Annual Report.
The Board is aware of the importance of independence and objectivity in relation to the decision-making
process and the effectiveness of the Board’s function. The Board, therefore, has adopted the same
criteria for “independence” in tandem with the definition of “Independent Director” as prescribed by the
AMLR.
The Board members are persons of high calibre and integrity and provide a wealth of knowledge,
experience, and skills in the key areas of accountancy, business operations and development, finance
and risk management amongst others.
4.2 Tenure of Independent Directors
The NC carries out the evaluation of independence for each Independent Director annually.
The NC has undertaken a review and assessment of the level of independence of the Independent
Directors during FYE 2024 and is satisfied that they are able to discharge their responsibilities in an
independent manner. The independence of Directors is measured based on the criteria prescribed under
the AMLR of Bursa Securities, in which a director should be independent and free from any business or
other relationship that could interfere with the exercise of independent judgement or the ability to act in
the best interests of the Company.
The Independent Directors have also declared their independence to the Board under the annual Board
evaluation process during the FYE 2024.
Following the amendment to AMLR of Bursa Securities, tenure of an Independent Director had been
restricted to twelve (12) years. Consequent thereto, none of the Independent Directors has exceeded a
cumulative term of twelve (12) years as at the date of this Statement.
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 22
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
4. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
4.2 Tenure of Independent Directors (Cont’d)
The Company does not have a policy which limits the tenure of its independent directors to nine
(9) years. However, the Board takes note that the MCCG 2021 recommends that the tenure of an
Independent Director shall not exceed a cumulative term of nine (9) years unless shareholders’ approval
is obtained to retain such Director as an Independent Director. The Company has adopted the approach
that upon completion of nine (9) years, an Independent Directors may continue to serve on the Board
subject to the Director’s re-designation as a Non-Independent Director. If the Board intends to retain the
Independent Directors who have served the Company exceeding a cumulative term of nine (9) years, the
Board will need to justify and seek shareholders’ approval at the AGM through a two-tier voting process
in accordance with the MCCG 2021.
As of the date of this Statement, none of the Independent Directors has exceeded 9 years of tenure.
4.3 Diverse Board and Senior Management Team
The members of the Board are professionals with calibre and entrepreneurs equipped with industry-
specific knowledge and experience. This wide spectrum of skills and experience provides the strength
that is needed to lead the Company to meet its objectives. The Board is of the opinion that the directors,
with their different backgrounds and specialisations, collectively bring with them the required expertise
and experience to discharge the Board’s duties and responsibilities.
In assessing the suitability of candidates to the Board and Senior Management Team, consideration will
be given based on core competencies, commitment, contribution and performance of the candidates to
ensure that there is a range of professional knowledge, skills, experience and diversity (including gender
diversity). Understanding of the Business, the Market and the Industry in which the Group operates and
the accounting, finance and legal matters.
4.4 Gender Diversity
The Board has not set gender diversity target as of the reporting period. The Board is of the view that
the appointment of Board members or management should be determined based on objective criteria,
merit and with due regard for diversity in skills, experience and other qualities regardless of gender but
will nevertheless consider appointing more directors of the female gender where suitable to be in line
with the MCCG 2021’s target.
The Board currently has one female director among its six members, namely Ms Tan Su Ning. The Board
opined that gender should not be the basis of evaluation and given the current state of the Group’s
business and lifecycle, it is more important to have the right mix of skills, knowledge, experience and
expertise on the Board rather than to attain the threshold as stipulated in MCCG 2021.
The NC evaluates and matches the criteria of the candidate, will consider diversity, including gender,
where appropriate, and recommends to the Board for appointment. In its effort to promote boardroom
diversity, the NC has taken various steps to ensure that women candidates are sought from various
sources as part of its recruitment exercise.
Nevertheless, the Board supports the initiative to include women representation on the Board to achieve
a more gender-diversified Board, henceforth, the Board is on the look for potential women Directors and
shall appoint additional women Directors as and when suitable candidates are identified. No timeframe
has been set for the search concerned.
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 23
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
4. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
4.5 Appointment of Directors
The appointment of new Directors is the responsibility of the full Board after considering the
recommendations of the NC. As a whole, the Company maintains an adequate number of Board
members. The Board appoints its members through a formal and transparent selection process which
is consistent with the Constitution of the Company. This process has been reviewed, approved and
adopted by the Board. New appointees will be considered and evaluated by the NC. The NC will then
recommend the candidates to be approved and appointed by the Board. The Company Secretaries will
ensure that all appointments are properly met.
Generally, the Board adopts a flexible approach when selecting and appointing new directors depending
upon the circumstances and timing of the appointment. The NC will help to assess and recommend to
the Board, the candidature of directors, appointment of directors to board committees, review of Board’s
succession plans and training programmes for the Board.
In identifying suitable new candidates, the NC will not solely rely on recommendations from existing
Board members, Management or Major Shareholders, but will consider utilising independent sources.
As at the date of this Statement, there was a new appointment of Mr. Koo Kien Yoon as Executive
Director of the Company on 4 April 2025.
4.6 Re-election of retiring Director
In accordance with the Company’s Constitution states that an election of Directors shall take place each
year at the annual general meeting of the Company, where one-third of the Directors for the time being,
or, if their number is not three (3) or a multiple of three (3), then the number nearest to one-third shall
retire from office and be eligible for re-election, PROVIDED ALWAYS that Directors shall retire from office
once at least in each three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election. A retiring Director shall retain
office until the close of the meeting at which he retires. The Directors to retire each year are the Directors
who have been longest in office since their last appointment on re-election.
Pursuant to Clause 105(1) of the Company’s Constitution, Mr. Kang Jimmi and Mr. Yee Yit Yang
are subject to retirement by rotation pursuant to Clause 105 of the Company’s Constitution at the
forthcoming Thirteenth Annual General Meeting (“14th AGM”) and Mr. Kang Jimmi and Mr. Yee Yit Yang
has expressed their willingness to seek re-election. The profiles of retiring Directors standing for re-
election are set out in the Directors’ Profile in the Annual Report 2024.
The NC and the Board have considered the results of the annual assessment for Mr. Kang Jimmi and
Mr. Yee Yit Yang and agreed that they can each meet the criteria of character, experience, integrity,
competence, and time required to effectively discharge their roles as Director.
Clause 114 of the Company’s Constitution provides that any Director so appointed shall hold office only
until the next following annual general meeting and shall then be eligible for re-election but shall not be
taken into account in determining the Directors who are to retire by rotation at that meeting. Mr. Koo
Kien Yoon was appointed on 4 April 2025 as Executive Director of the Company. Hence, he subject to
retire by casual vacancy pursuant to Clause 114 of the Company’s Consitution at the 14th AGM and Mr.
Koo Kien Yoon has expressed his willingness to seek for re-election.
The Board approved the NC’s recommendation that these directors who retire following the Company’s
Constitution are eligible to stand for re-election.
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
4. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
4.7 NC
The Company has established the NC comprising exclusively of Non-Executive Directors, with the
responsibilities of assessing the balanced composition of Board members, nominating the proposed
Board member by looking into his skills and expertise for contribution to the Company on an ongoing
basis. The appointment of new Directors is the responsibility of the full Board after considering the
recommendations of the NC. The NC is aware of their duties and responsibilities.
The composition of NC comprised three (3) Non-Executive Directors. The present members of the NC
are as follows:
Name Designation Directorship
Kang Jimmi Chairman Independent Non-Executive Director
Yee Yit Yang Member Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Su Ning Member Independent Non-Executive Director
The Terms of Reference of the NC can be viewed on the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
The summary activities undertaken by the NC in the discharge of its duty for FYE 2024 are as follows:
i) Reviewed the size, structure and composition of the Board;
ii) Assessed and reviewed the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and the
contributions of the individual directors;
iii) Assessed and reviewed the independence of the independent directors;
iv) Assessed and reviewed the performance of AC and members of the AC;
v) Reviewed and recommended the adoption of the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy;
vi) Recommended the re-election of the Directors who are due for retirement by rotation at the 14th
AGM; and
vii) Assessed and reviewed the profile of the proposed new Executive Director, Mr. Koo Kien Yoon and
make recommendation to the Board for approval.
The NC had undertaken a review and assessment of the Independent Directors during FYE 2024 based
on the independence criteria as defined in the AMLR and is satisfied that they are able to discharge their
responsibilities in an independent manner.
The NC was satisfied that the Board has the right size, and the Board composition is well balanced
having considered the appropriate mix of skills, experience, strength and independence and the diversity
required to meet the current and future needs of the Company.
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 25
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
5. OVERALL BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
5.1 Annual assessment of the Directors, Board as a whole and Board Committees
The NC is required to assess the Board’s effectiveness in terms of its composition, roles and
responsibilities, and whether the Board Committees have discharged their functions and duties in
accordance with the terms of reference. The NC assesses on an annual basis the composition of the
Board to ensure that the Board has the appropriate mix of expertise and experience and collectively
possesses the necessary core competencies for effective functioning and informed decision-making.
All assessments and evaluations carried out by the NC in discharging its functions have been well
documented.
The Board has, through NC, conducted the following annual assessments in the FYE 2024:
a) Directors’ self-assessment;
b) Evaluation of the effectiveness of the Board as a whole and Board Committees;
c) Assessment of Independent Directors; and
d) Review of the term of office and performance of the AC and each of its members.
The annual assessment of individual Directors, Board as a whole and Board Committees commences
with the completion of a set of self-assessment forms detailing all assessment criteria to be completed
by all Directors for evaluation by the NC. Criteria for the self-assessment include self-ratings on the
Director’s knowledge, support of the goals of the Company, time commitment, and active participation
on the Board.
Based on the assessments conducted for FYE 2024, the NC was satisfied with the performance of the
Board as a whole, the Board Committees and each individual Director.
5.1.1		
Time Commitment and Directorship in Other Public Listed Companies
Under the Board Charter, the directorships in other public listed companies in Malaysia held
by any Board members at any one time shall not exceed any number as may be prescribed
by the relevant authorities. In addition, at the time of appointment, the Board shall obtain the
Director’s commitment to devote sufficient time to carry out his responsibilities. Directors are
required to notify the Chairman before accepting any new directorship(s). The notification would
include an indication of time that will be spent on the new appointment(s). Any Director is, while
holding office, at liberty to accept other Board appointments in other companies so long as the
appointment is not in conflict with the Company’s business and does not affect the discharge of
his/ her duty as a Director of the Company. To ensure that the Directors have time to focus and
fulfil their roles and responsibilities effectively, one (1) criterion as agreed by the Board is that
they must not hold directorships at more than five (5) public listed companies as prescribed in
Rule 15.06 of the AMLR of Bursa Securities.
Each Board member is required to achieve at least 50% attendance of total Board Meetings in
any applicable financial year with appropriate leave of absence and be notified to the Chairman
and/or Company Secretaries, where applicable.
The Directors have demonstrated their ability to devote sufficient time and commitment to their
roles and responsibilities as Directors of the Company. This is evidenced by the attendance
record of the Directors as set out in the section below.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 26
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
5. OVERALL BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
5.1 Annual assessment of the Directors, Board as a whole and Board Committees (Cont’d)
5.1.1		
Time Commitment and Directorship in Other Public Listed Companies (Cont’d)
During FYE 2024, there were five (5) Board Meetings were held and the attendance record of the
current Board members is reflected as follows:
Name of Directors Attendance
Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji Mustafa
(appointed on 4 September 2024)
5/5
Datuk Dr. Hon Tian Kok @ William 5/5
Ho Tze Hiung 5/5
Yee Yit Yang 5/5
Kang Jimmi 5/5
Tan Su Ning 5/5
Datuk Choong Loong Men (resigned 10 May 2024) 2/2
Goh Siow Cheng (resigned on 31 July 2024) 3/3
5.1.2 Continuing Education Programs/Directors’ Training
All Directors save for newly appointed Director have undergone the Mandatory Accreditation
Program (“MAP”) prescribed by Bursa Securities. Although the Board does not have a policy
requiring each Director to attend a specific number and types of training sessions each year, the
Directors are encouraged to attend continuous education programmes/seminars/ conferences
and shall as such receive further training from time to time to keep themselves abreast of the
latestdevelopmentinstatutorylaws,regulationsandbestpractices,whereappropriate,inlinewith
the changing business environment and enhance their business acumen and professionalism in
discharging their duties to the Group.
The Board has undertaken an assessment of the training needs of each of the Directors and
ensured that all the Directors undergo the necessary training programme to enable them to
effectively discharge their duties.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 27
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part II - Board Composition (Cont’d)
5. OVERALL BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
5.1 Annual assessment of the Directors, Board as a whole and Board Committees (Cont’d)
5.1.2 Continuing Education Programs/Directors’ Training (Cont’d)
Details of seminars/conferences/training programmes attended by the Board members during
FYE 2024 are listed below:
Director Seminars / Conferences / Training Programmes
Attended
Dato’ Haji Mohd Yazid Bin Haji
Mustafa
Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II:
Leading for Impact (LIP)
Datuk Dr. Hon Tian Kok @ William MIA Webinar Series: All You Need To Know About
Personal Income Tax
Ho Tze Hiung 1. 2024 JCI Asia Pacific Conference
2. 2024 JCI World Congress
3. 2024 JCI KL Local Officer Academy
Yee Yit Yang 1. MIA Town Hall 2024/2025 (Session 1)
2. MIA Webinar Series: MPERS: Issue in Financial
Instruments
3. E-Invoicing Full Day Workshop: Latest
Requirement & Essential of Implementation
Kang Jimmi Pembinaan Pengawasan Norma Keselamatan dan
Kesehatan Kerja
Tan Su Ning Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part ll:
Leading for Impact (LIP)
In addition to the above, the Directors would be updated on recent developments in the areas
of statutory and regulatory requirements from the briefing by the External Auditors, the Internal
Auditors and the Company Secretaries during the Board Committee and/or Board meetings.
Part III - Remuneration
The Board acknowledges the level and composition of remuneration of directors and senior management taking
into account the Company’s desire to attract and retain the right talent in the Board and senior management to
drive the Company’s long-term objectives. In order to achieve this aim, the Board has established a Remuneration
Committee and developed the remuneration policy to assist the Board in discharging its duties and responsibilities
in matters relating to the remuneration of the Board and senior management.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 28
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part III - Remuneration (Cont’d)
6. LEVEL AND COMPOSITION OF REMUNERATION
6.1 Remuneration Policies and Procedures
The Board believes the remuneration policy fairly supports the Directors’ responsibilities and fiduciary
duties in steering the Group to achieve its long-term goals and enhance shareholders’ value. The Board
offers a competitive remuneration package in order to attract, develop and retain talented individuals to
serve as directors.
The determination of the remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is a matter of the Board as a whole.
The level of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors reflects the amount paid by other comparable
organisations, adjusted based on the experience and levels of responsibilities undertaken by the
particular Non-Executive Director concerned. The remuneration package of Non-Executive Directors will
be a matter to be deliberated by the Board, with the Director concerned abstaining from deliberations
and voting on deliberations in respect of his individual remuneration. In addition, the Company also
reimburses reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by all the Non-Executive Directors in the
course of their duties as Directors of the Company. The aggregate annual Directors’ fees and other
benefits payable are to be approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting based on the
recommendations by the Board.
6.2 RC
The RC consists of entirely Independent Non-Executive Directors in order to assist the Board in
determining Directors’ remuneration. The present members of the RC are as follow:
Name Designation Directorship
Tan Su Ning Chairperson Independent Non-Executive Director
Kang Jimmi Member Independent Non-Executive Director
Yee Yit Yang Member Independent Non-Executive Director
The RC’s principal objective is to evaluate, deliberate and recommend to the Board a remuneration
policy for Executive Directors that is fairly guided by market norms and industry practice. The RC also
recommends the Executive Directors’ remuneration and benefits based on their individual performances
and that of the Group.
The RC held a meeting during FYE 2024 to review the proposed remuneration package of the Executive
DirectorsandtheDirectorfeepayabletotheNon-ExecutiveDirectorsandrecommendedtheremuneration
packages and fees to the Board for approval. The RC also reviews the remuneration package of the
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer and recommends adjustments in remuneration and/or
reward payments that reflect the respective contributions for the year and achievement goals and/or
quantified organisational targets established by the Company.
The Terms of Reference of the RC can be viewed at the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 29
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
Part III - Remuneration (Cont’d)
7.		
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
7.1 Details of Directors’ Remuneration
The details of Director’s remuneration are set out below:
Fees
Salaries and Other
Emoluments* Total
Executive Directors – 1,447,664 1,447,664
Non-Executive Directors 216,000 27,300 243,300
* Other emoluments include the meeting allowance for the Directors’ attendance in Board and Board’s
Committee Meetings.
The breakdown of the detailed Directors’ fees and other benefits paid during FYE 2024 is disclosed
in the Corporate Governance Report which is accessible to the public for reference at the Company’s
website at www.bioa.com.my.
PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Part I – AC
8. EFFECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT AC
8.1 Chairman of AC
Mr. Kang Jimmi, who is an Independent Non-Executive Director, is the Chairman of the AC. The Company
complied with Practice 8.1 of the MCCG 2021 which stipulates that the Chairman of the AC is not the
Chairman of the Board as Mr. Kang Jimmi is not the Chairman of the Board.
8.2 Former Key Audit Partner
None of the Board members is the former key audit partner of the External Auditors and the Directors
do not foresee any new appointment of former key audit partner to the Board. However, the Board will
observe the cooling-off period before appointing the former key audit partner, if any.
8.3 Assessment of Suitability and Independence of External Auditors
The Company has established a transparent arrangement with the External Auditors to meet their
professional requirements. From time to time, the External Auditors highlight to the AC and Board of
Directors matters that require the Board’s attention.
The AC is responsible for reviewing the audit, recurring audit-related and non-audit services provided by
the External Auditors. The AC has explicitly accorded the power to communicate directly with both the
External Auditors and Internal Auditors. The terms of engagement for services provided by the External
Auditors are reviewed by the AC prior to submission to the Board for approval. The effectiveness and
performance of the External Auditors are reviewed annually by the AC.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 30
PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
Part I – AC (Cont’d)
8. EFFECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT AC (CONT’D)
8.3 Assessment of Suitability and Independence of External Auditors (Cont’d)
In assessing or determining the suitability and independence of the External Auditors, the AC has taken
into consideration the following:
i) The adequacy of the experience and resources of the External Auditors;
ii) The External Auditor’s ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to issues in
a timely manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
iii) The nature of the non-audit services provided by the External Auditors and fees paid for such
services relative to the audit fee; and
iv) Whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity and
independence of the audit arising from the provision of non-audit services or tenure of the External
Auditors.
Every year, the AC will meet with the External Auditors without the presence of the Executive Director and
members of the Management to ensure that the independence and objectivity of the External Auditors
are not compromised and matters of concerns expressed by the AC are duly recorded by the Company
Secretaries.
The Board approved the AC’s recommendation for the shareholders’ approval to be sought at the Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”) on the re-appointment of Messrs ChengCo PLT as the External Auditors of the
Company for the financial year ending 31 December 2025.
8.4 Composition of the AC
The AC consists entirely of three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors. During FYE 2024, the
composition of the AC is Mr. Kang Jimmi (Chairman), Mr. Yee Yit Yang and Ms. Tan Su Ning. This
composition of the AC complied with the requirement of Rule 15.09(1)(a) and (b) of the AMLR.
The terms of reference and summary of activities of the AC are set out in the AC Report.
Part II – Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
9. Effective Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Board is entrusted with the overall responsibility of continually maintaining a sound system of internal
control, which covers not only financial controls but also operational and compliance controls as well as
risk management, and the need to review its effectiveness regularly in order to safeguard shareholders’
investments and the Company’s assets. The internal control system is designed to access current and
emerging risks and respond appropriate to risks of the Group.
As an effort to enhance the system of internal control, the Board together with the assistance of an external
professional Internal Audit firm adopted ongoing monitoring and review of the existing risk management
process in place within the various business operations, with the aim of formalising the risk management
functions across the Group. This function also acts as a source to assist the AC and the Board to strengthen
and improve current management and operating style in pursuit of best practices.
As an ongoing process, significant business risks faced by the Group are identified and evaluated and
consideration is given on the potential impact of achieving the business objectives. This includes examining
principal business risks in critical areas, assessing the likelihood of material exposures and identifying the
measures taken to mitigate, avoid or eliminate these risks.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 31
PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
Part II – Risk Management and Internal Control Framework (Cont’d)
9. Effective Risk Management and Internal Control Framework (Cont’d)
The details of the Group’s risk management and internal control framework are elaborated in pages 36 to
38 of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control of this Annual Report 2024, which has been
reviewed by the External Auditors.
9.1 RMC
The Board has set up an RMC with effect from 20 April 2018 and the present members of the RMC are
as follows:
Chairman: Yee Yit Yang (Independent Non-Executive Director)
Members: Ho Tze Hiung (Executive Director)
		 Tan Su Ning (Independent Non-Executive Director)
10. Internal Audit Function
The details of the Group’s internal audit function are elaborated in pages 40 to 41 on the AC Report of this
Annual Report 2024.
PRINCIPLE C - INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS
Part I – Communication with Stakeholders
There is continuous communication between the Company and stakeholders to facilitate mutual understanding of
each other’s objectives and expectations. Stakeholders are able to make informed decisions with respect to the
business of the Company, its policies on governance, the environment and social responsibility.
11. Continuous Communication between Company and Stakeholders
The Board recognises the importance of keeping the shareholders informed and updated of developments
concerning the Group. In this regard, the Group strictly adheres to the disclosure requirements of Bursa
Securities. The Group practices open communication with its investors.
In order to maintain its commitment to effective communication with shareholders, the Group embraces the
practice of comprehensive, timely and continuing disclosures of information to its shareholders as well as the
general investing public.
The Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my incorporates an Investor Relations section which provides all
relevant information on the Company accessible to the public. This section enhances the Investor Relations
function by including all announcements made by the Company and its annual reports.
The quarterly financial results are announced via Bursa LINK after the Board’s approval. This is important in
ensuring equal and fair access to information by the investing public. Shareholders and investors may also
forward their queries to the Company via email at investorrelations@bioa.com.my.
In addition to the dissemination of information to shareholders and other interested parties via announcements
to Bursa Securities, its website, circulars and press releases, the Board is of the view that the annual and any
extraordinary general meetings as ideal opportunities to communicate with shareholders.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 32
PRINCIPLE C - INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)
Part II – Conduct of General Meetings
General meetings serve as important and effective platforms for directors and senior management to communicate
with the shareholders. Shareholders are able to participate, engage the Board and senior management effectively
and make informed voting decisions at general meetings.
12. Shareholder Participation at General Meetings
The general meeting serves as a principal platform for the Board and Senior Management to engage with
shareholders and encourage effective shareholders’ communication on the Company’s performance,
corporate and business developments and any other matters affecting shareholder interests.
TheCompanyhasbeenpractisingsendingaNoticeof AGMto shareholdersatleast28daysprior to themeeting
and the Notice is also advertised in nationally circulated English daily newspapers. The Board recognises that
a longer notice allows ample time for shareholders to consider the resolutions before exercising their voting
rights, and to make arrangements to attend AGM either personally, through proxy or corporate representative.
The Notice of an AGM also provides information to the shareholders with regard to, amongst others their
entitlement to attend the AGM, the right to appoint a proxy and also the qualifications of a proxy.
The Company dispatched its notice of the 13th AGM dated 30 April 2024 to shareholders at least 28 days
before the 13th AGM held on 7 June 2024, which is in line with Practice 12.1 of the MCCG 2021. This is to
enable the shareholders to have sufficient time to read and understand the Company’s financial and non-
financial performance before the meeting.
The 13th AGM of the Company held on 7 June 2024 was conducted on a fully virtual basis via live streaming
and through the Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities. Shareholders who attended the 13th
AGM could submit their questions during the meeting, which would be addressed by the Board and/or the
Management during the AGM.
All the Directors were present at the 13th AGM to engage directly with shareholders and respond to all
questions raised and provide clarification as required by the shareholders. The Chairman of the Board ensured
that sufficient opportunities were given to shareholders and proxies to raise questions relating to the affairs
of the Company and that adequate responses were given.
In line with good corporate governance practice, the notice of the forthcoming 14th AGM, the Form of Proxy
and the Annual Report would be issued to the shareholders at least twenty-eight (28) days before the AGM.
This is to ensure that shareholders are given sufficient time to read and consider the resolutions to be
resolved. All the Directors of the Company will endeavour to attend all general meetings, and the Chair of the
Board Committee will provide a meaningful response to questions addressed to them.
13. Attendance of the Chair of the Board Committees at the AGM
The general meeting also serves as an avenue for the Chairman and the Board members to engage in two-way
communication with shareholders where the shareholders are encouraged to participate in the question-and-
answer session with the Board personally and exercise their right to vote on the proposed resolutions.
The Board will ensure that all Board members, particularly the chairperson of each Board committee will make
their endeavours to attend general meetings to facilitate engagement with shareholders and to address any
relevant questions and concerns raised by the shareholders.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 33
PRINCIPLE C - INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)
Part II – Conduct of General Meetings (Cont’d)
13. Attendance of the Chair of the Board Committees at the AGM (Cont’d)
The external auditors will be present at the AGM to respond to any queries from shareholders on the audit
conducted, the preparation and content of the auditors’ report, the accounting policies adopted by the
Company, and the independent audit review of the Company’s financial position.
At the fully virtual 13th AGM of the Company held on 7 June 2024, the Board members attended the fully
virtual 13th AGM, and the representatives of the Management and the external auditors attended the meeting
to respond to the questions raised by the shareholders or proxies.
14. Poll Voting
The Company conducts a poll voting on each resolution tabled during the general meetings to support
shareholders’ participation. As the number of shareholders of the Company is not large, the Company currently
conducts manual poll voting instead of electronic poll voting. With the poll voting, each shareholder presents
in person or represented by proxy at the general meeting will be entitled to vote on a one-share, one-vote basis.
An Independent scrutineer is appointed to validate the votes cast at the meeting.
In line with Rule 8.31A of the AMLR of Bursa Securities, the Company will ensure that any resolution set out in
the notice of any general meeting, or in any notice of resolution which may properly be moved and is intended
to be moved at any general meeting, is voted by poll. At the same time, the Company will appoint at least one
(1) independent scrutineer to validate the votes cast at the general meeting.
As for voting in absentia and remote shareholders’ participation, the existing proxy form authorizing proxies
or the Chairman of the meeting is an alternative measure adopted by the Company. Shareholders are allowed
to appoint any person(s) as their proxies to attend, participate, speak and vote in his/her stead at a general
meeting.
All resolutions set out in the Notice of the 13th AGM were put to vote by poll and the votes cast were validated
by an independent scrutineer appointed by the Company. The outcome of all resolutions proposed at the
general meeting is announced to Bursa Securities at the end of the meeting day.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
The Board has deliberated, reviewed and approved this Corporate Governance Overview Statement. The Board
considers and is satisfied that the Company has fulfilled its obligation under MCCG 2021, AMLR and all applicable
laws and regulations throughout the FYE 2024.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 April 2025.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENTS
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 34
STATEMENT OF
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
IN RELATION TO THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors are required by the Companies Act, 2016 to prepare the financial statements for each financial year which
have been made out in accordance with the applicable approved accounting standard in Malaysia.
The Directors are responsible to ensure that the financial statements is given a true and fair view of the financial
position of the Group and of the Company at the end of the financial year, and of the results and cash flows of the
Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have observed the following criteria:
• Overseeing the overall conduct of the company’s business and that of the group;
• Identifying principal risks and ensuring that an appropriate system of internal control exists to manage these
risks;
• Reviewing the adequacy and integrity of internal controls system and management information system in the
company and within the group;
• Adopting suitable accounting policies and apply them consistently;
• Making judgments and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
• Ensuring that the financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis and in compliance with
all applicable approved accounting standard in Malaysia subject to any material departures, if any, were
disclosed.
The Directors are satisfied that in preparing the financial statements of the Group and the Company for the financial
year ended 31 December 2024, appropriate accounting policies were used and applied consistently, and adopted
to include new and revised Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards where applicable. The Directors are also of
the view that relevant approved accounting standards have been followed in the preparation of these financial
statements.
The Directors are also responsible for taking such reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and to
minimize fraud and other irregularities.
This Statement was approved by the Board of Directors on 28 April 2025.
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 35
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
A. INTRODUCTION
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of Bioalpha Holdings Berhad (“Bioalpha” or the “Group”) is pleased to make
the following statement which outlines the key elements of the internal control system within the Group. The
Risk Management and Internal Control Statement is made in compliance with Rule 15.26(b) of Ace Market
Listing Requirements (“AMLR”) and Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for
Directors of listed Issuers (“Internal Control Guideline”).
B. BOARD RESPONSIBILITY
The Board affirms its overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and risk management to
maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets
and also for reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the system. Notwithstanding, due to the limitations
that are inherent in any system of internal control, Group’s internal control system is designed to manage,
rather than eliminate, the risk of not adhering to the Group’s policies, and achieving objectives within the risk
tolerance established by the Board and the Management. Therefore, the system provides reasonable, but not
absolute assurance against the occurrence of any material misstatement, loss or fraud.
C. RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board recognises that risk management is an integral part of the Group’s business operations and that
the identification and management of risks will affect the achievement of the Group’s business objectives.
The Board is thus committed to continually promote the culture of risk awareness and builds the necessary
knowledge in identifying, evaluating, mitigating, monitoring and managing the significant risks on an on-going
basis. In discharging its responsibilities, the Board has taken into account the guidance of the Malaysian Code
on Corporate Governance 2021(“MCCG 2021”).
The key risk management initiatives undertaken include among others:
(i) The responsibilities of the Board and the Management are clearly defined in the organisational structure
to ensure the effective discharge of the roles and responsibilities of the parties in overseeing the conduct
of the Group’s business;
(ii) Formation of operational policies and procedures by the Management with a view of establishing group
wide operational standards in order for all operating units to work cohesively towards achieving the
business objectives of the Group. For accounting systems and financial processes, efforts are being
taken to ensure consistency in the Group as a whole;
(iii) Frequent on-site visits to the operating units by senior management so as to acquire a first-hand view
on various operational matters and addressing the issues accordingly;
(iv) The Board gathers and reviews key financial and operating statistics on a monthly basis and constantly
keep track and monitor the achievement of the Group’s performance;
(v) Regular visit by internal auditors which provide independent assurance on the effectiveness of the
Group’s system of internal control and advising the Management on the areas for further improvement;
(vi) The Audit Committee (“AC”) reviews on a quarterly basis the quarterly unaudited financial results to
monitor the Group’s progress towards achieving the Group’s business objectives. Authority is given to
the AC members to investigate and report on any areas of improvement for the betterment of the Group;
and
(vii) Regular interactive meetings between the external and internal auditors to identify and rectify any
weakness in the system of internal controls. The Board on a timely basis would be informed of any
matters brought up in the Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”) meetings.
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 36
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(cont’d)
D. SYSTEM OF INTERNAL CONTROLS
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for maintaining a sound system of internal controls that
provides assurance of effective and efficient operations and compliance with laws and regulations and also
its internal procedures and guidelines. The size and complexity of the operations may give rise to risks of
unanticipated or unavoidable losses.
The Board outsources the internal audit function to an independent professional firm. The firm is appointed by
AC and reports directly to the AC. Its role is to provide the AC with regular assurance on the continuity, integrity
and effectiveness of the internal control system through regular monitoring and review of the internal control
framework and management processes.
The system of internal controls is designed to provide reasonable but not absolute assurance against the risk
of material errors, frauds or losses occurring. AC reviews the effectiveness of the system of internal controls,
which covers financial, operational and compliance controls, and also risk management.
The total cost incurred by the IA function is at RM15,000 for the financial year ended 31 December 2024.
E. ACCOUNTABILITY & AUDIT
The Board endeavours to present a balance and clear assessment of the Group’s financial position and
prospects through unaudited quarterly financial reporting via the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, annual
audited financial statements and Management Review in the annual reports.
The AC reviews the quarterly financial statements and the annual financial statements before they are
submitted to the Board for approval. A statement of the Directors’ responsibilities for preparing the financial
statements is set out on page 35 of this annual report.
F. OTHER KEY ELEMENTS OF INTERNAL CONTROL
The other key elements of the Group’s System of internal control are:
a) Management Structure
The Group maintains a formal organisation structure with clear lines of accountability and responsibility.
The daily running of the businesses is entrusted to the executive Directors and their Management
teams. The heads of each operating subsidiary and department of the Group are empowered with the
responsibility of managing their respective operations.
b) Strategic Business Plan and Annual Budget
The Board constructively challenges and contributes to the development of the Group’s strategic
directions and annually reviews the Group’s strategic business plan. The Board probes the Management
to ensure the Management has taken into consideration the varying opportunities and risks whilst
developing the strategic business plan.
The Group’s annual strategic business plan and budget is reviewed, deliberated and approved by the
Board.
The expectations of the Board are clearly discussed with, and understood by, the Management. The
Board is also responsible for monitoring the implementation of the strategic business plan and for
assessing the actual performance of the Group against the annual strategic business plan and budget
as well as to provide guidance to the Management.
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 37
F. OTHER KEY ELEMENTS OF INTERNAL CONTROL (CONT’D)
c) Reporting and Review
Periodic operational and financial reports are prepared and presented to the Board for discussion and
review based on the established reporting hierarchy within the Group. Ad-hoc and scheduled meetings
are held at operational and management levels to identify operational issues, discuss and review the
business plans, budgets, financial and operational performances of the Group etc.
d) Quality Compliance
The Group’s plant is certified as Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) compliance by the Ministry of
Health, Malaysia, which affirms that the Group has adopted the required standards in the manufacturing
processes and facilities, i.e. production of health supplements. Moreover, the GMP and the products are
Certified Halal by the Department of Islamic Development Malaysia.
e) Internal Policies and Procedures
Policy and procedures, handbook, guidelines and authority limits have been established to guide
personnel on day-to-day operational activities.
f) Related Party Transactions
Related party transactions (if any) are disclosed, reviewed and monitored by the ARMC and presented
to the Board on a periodical basis.
G. ADEQUACY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF THE GROUP’S RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL
CONTROL
The Board has received assurance from the Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer and Group Chief
Financial Officer of the Company that the Group’s risk management and internal control system is operating
adequately and effectively in all material aspects, based on the risk management and internal control system
of the Group.
H. REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT
Pursuant to Rule 15.23 of the AMLR, the external Auditors have reviewed this Risk Management and Internal
Control Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December
2024 and reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention that causes them to believe that
this statement is inconsistent with their understanding of the process adopted by the Board in reviewing the
adequacy and integrity of the system of internal controls.
I. BOARD CONCLUSIONS
The Board is satisfied that, during the year under review, the existing system of internal controls and risk
management is sound and adequate to safeguard the Group’s assets at the existing level of operations of the
Group. The Board recognises that the development of internal control system is an ongoing process.
Therefore, in striving for continuous improvement, the Board will continue to take appropriate action plans to
further enhance the Group’s system of internal control.
This statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board dated 28 April 2025.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 38
AC REPORT
The Board of Directors is pleased to present the Audit Committee (“AC”) Report for the financial year ended 31
December 2024 in accordance with Rule 15.15 of the AMLR of Bursa Securities.
COMPOSITION
The current composition of the AC is set out below:
1) Kang Jimmi (Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director)
2) Yee Yit Yang (Member, Independent Non-Executive Director)
3) Tan Su Ning (Member, Independent Non-Executive Director)
Mr. Yee Yit Yang, being a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants, fulfils the requirement of Rule 15.09(1)
(c) of the AMLR.
TERMS OF REFERENCE
The terms and reference of the AC is made available on the Company’s website at www.bioa.com.my.
ATTENDANCE OF MEETINGS
A total of five (5) meetings were held in FYE 2024. Details of attendance of the AC members are as follows:
Name of Members Total Meetings Attended
Kang Jimmi (Chairman) 5/5
Yee Yit Yang 5/5
Tan Su Ning 5/5
The composition of the AC is in compliance with Practice 1.4 of the MCCG 2021. At the invitation of the AC, the
Managing Director/Chief Executive Officer, relevant Management, External and Internal Auditors attended the AC
meetings and presented their reports on financial results, audit findings and other matters for the information and/
or approval of the AC.
The Company Secretaries act as Secretary to the AC and shall circulate the minutes of meetings of the AC to all
members of the AC. Detailed audit reports by the Internal Auditors and the respective management response are
circulated to the members of the AC before each Meeting at which the said reports are tabled. The AC Chairman later
updated the Board on relevant and salient issues with the recommendations of the AC for the Board’s consideration
and approval.
SUMMARY ACTIVITIES OF THE AC
The AC met at scheduled times during the year, with due notices of meetings issued, and with agendas planned and
itemised so that matters were deliberated and discussed in a detailed manner. Apart from the scheduled meetings,
ad-hoc meetings were also called at the discretion of the AC. The minutes of each meeting held were distributed to
each member of the Board at subsequent Board Meetings. The AC Chairman reported on each meeting to members
of the Board.
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 39
SUMMARY ACTIVITIES OF THE AC (Cont’d)
The activities of the AC during the financial year ended 31 December 2024 include the following:
a) Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results of the Group and the Company including the announcements
pertaining thereto, before recommending to the Board for their approval and release of the Group’s results to
Bursa Securities;
b) Reviewed with External Auditors on their audit planning memorandum on the statutory audit of the Group for
the financial year ended 31 December 2024;
c) Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the Group before recommending to the Board for their
approval and release of the Group’s results to Bursa Securities;
d) Reviewed and discussed with the external auditors their audit findings inclusive of system evaluation, audit
fees, issues raised, audit recommendations and the Management’s response to these recommendations;
e) Evaluated the performance of the External Auditors for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 covering
areas such as calibre, quality processes, audit team, audit scope, audit communication, audit governance and
independence and considered and recommended the re-appointment of the external auditors;
f) Reviewed the re-appointment of External Auditors, Messrs ChengCo PLT for the financial year ending 31
December 2024 and recommended to the Board’s for approval;
g) Reviewed and assessed the adequacy of the scope and functions of the internal audit plan;
h) Reviewed the internal audit reports presented and considered the findings of internal audit through the review
of the internal audit reports tabled and management responses thereof;
i) Reviewed the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control;
j) Reviewed the proposed fees for the external auditors and internal auditors in respect of their audit of the
Company and the Group;
k) Reviewed related party transactions and conflict of interest situations that may arise within the Company or
the Group;
l) Reviewed the Company’s compliance with the AMLR, applicable Approved Accounting Standards and other
relevant legal and regulatory requirements;
m) Reviewed the Audit Committee Report and Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control before
recommending to the Board for approval and inclusion in the Annual Report; and
n) Report to the Board on its activities and significant findings and results.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTIONS
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to Governanceadvisory.com Sdn Bhd (“GA”), an independent
professional firm engaged in risk advisory and internal audit services. The primary responsibility of the internal audit
function is to provide an independent, objective assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of governance, risk
and processes implemented by the management. The internal auditor adopts a risk-based approach to plan and
prioritise audit work on high-risk auditable areas.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(cont’d)
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 40
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTIONS (Cont’d)
The Internal Auditors reports directly to the AC quarterly by presenting their audit reports which include their findings
and recommendations for improvements to the AC for review and deliberation. The AC evaluated the adequacy of
the responses, actions and measures taken by the Management within the required timeframe in resolving the audit
issues reported. The Internal Auditors also carried out follow-up reviews to monitor the implementation of the said
action plans and measures reported to the AC. The AC Chairman then briefed the Board on the internal audit reports
on any major findings.
Presently, there are 10 internal auditors with relevant qualifications within GA. Mr Jason Tee who has 15 years’
experience and reports directly to the AC to ensure impartiality and independence leads the head of GA. Being
an external internal audit firm, all internal auditors are free from any relationships and conflict of interest with the
Group which could impair their objectivity and independence, GA carries out a Conflict of Interest Declaration yearly
to ensure their independence. The Internal Auditors adopt the International Professional Practices Framework for
their audit works.
The cost incurred for the Internal Audit Function during financial year ended 31 December 2024 is approximately
RM15,000.
During the financial year, the following activities were carried out by the internal auditors in discharge of its
responsibilities:
i) Safety, Health and Environment (“SHE”) review
• To ensure policies and procedures are in place and consistently practised.
• To ensure SHE Committee is established and consist of qualified personnel.
• To ensure safety training and seminar are regularly carried out to all personnel (including Contractors).
• To ensure employees and contractors are equipped with required personal protective equipment.
• To assess the sufficiency of safety equipment and periodically inspected of its conditions and properly
maintained.
• To ensure engaged Contractors are complied and meet Company’s SHE policy.
• To ensure hazardous goods/flammable items/chemicals are being stored at designated area under
lock and key.
• To ensure periodic inspection are performed to identify potential hazards and appropriate actions taken
accordingly.
• To ensure non-conformance/accident are timely reported to the Management immediately and
prevention method is executed in a timely manner.
• To assess the adequacy of insurance coverage for all risks during construction period.
The AC and the Board agreed that the internal audit review was done in accordance with the audit plan and the
coverage was adequate.
For further details on risk management, internal controls and internal audit functions, please refer to the Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control on pages 36 to 38 in this Annual Report 2024.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(cont’d)
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 41
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
INFORMATION
1. UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS
The Company has undertaken a Renounceable Rights Issue of Warrants which was completed on 14 February
2024 following the listing and quotation of 526,099,537 Warrants on the Ace Market of Bursa Securities and
has raised gross proceeds of RM18,413,494.
No. Purpose
Proposed
Usage
RM’000
Actual
Utilisation
RM’000
Balance as at
31 Dec 2024
RM’000
Intended time
Frame for
Utilisation
(a) Expansion of our Group’s
pharmacy business 5,500 5,500 – Within 24 months
(b) Launching of new
products 3,500 1,420 2,080 Within 24 months
(c) Repayment of bank
borrowing 6,000 6,000 – Within 12 months
(d) Working capital 2,663 2,663 – Within 12 months
(e) Estimate expenses in
relation to the Right Issue
of Warrants 750 750 – Within 1 month
Total 18,413 16,333 2,080
2. AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES
The amount of audit and non-audit fees paid to the firm or corporation affiliated with the External Auditors by
the Company and the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 are as follows:
Company
(RM)
Group
(RM)
Audit Services Rendered 85,000 316,815
Non-Audit Services Rendered
(a) Review of Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Control
5,000 5,000
(b) Review of foreign subsidiaries report for consolidation
purpose
31,000 31,000
3. MATERIAL CONTRACTS OR LOANS INVOLVING THE INTERESTS OF THE DIRECTORS, CHIEF
EXECUTIVE WHO IS NOT A DIRECTOR OR MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS
There were no material contracts or loans between the Company and its subsidiary that involve the interests
of the Directors, Chief Executive who is not a Director or Major Shareholders.
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
page. 42
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
(cont’d)
4. SHARE ISSUANCE SCHEME
The Share Issuance Scheme of the Company (“SIS”) is governed by the SIS By-Laws and was approved by
shareholders on 19 August 2016 and shall be in force for a period of five (5) years and may be extended for
such further period, at the sole and absolute discretion of the Board upon the recommendation by the SIS
Committee, provided always that the Initial Scheme Period above and such extension of the scheme made
pursuant to the By-laws shall not in aggregate exceed a duration of ten (10) years or such other period as may
be prescribed by Bursa Securities or any other relevant authorities from the effective date of the SIS.
The Company had on 9 November 2023 extended the duration of its existing SIS, which is expiring on 11
January 2024, for another 3 years from 12 January 2024 to 11 January 2027 in accordance with Clause 21 of
the SIS By-laws.
Movement of the number of share options and the weighted average exercise prices are as follows:-
Date of Offer
Exercise Price
(RM)
Number of options over Ordinary Shares
At 1.1.2024
(’000)
Exercised
(’000)
Lapsed
(’000)
At 31.12.2024
(’000)
27 February 2017 0.205 1,989 – – 1,989
16 April 2020 0.105 2,276 – – 2,276
11 October 2022 0.090 125,000 – – 125,000
Please refer to pages 121 to 122 of the Annual Report 2024 for the further details on the Share Issuance
Scheme.
a n n u a l r e p o r t 2 0 2 4
BIOALPHA
HOLDINGS BERHAD
page. 43
