002 About Us
003 Corporate Information
004 Corporate Structure
005 Financial Highlights
006 Corporate Milestones
008 Profile of Directors
013 Profile of Key Senior
Management
014 Management Discussion and
Analysis
022 Sustainability Statement
024 Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
033 Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control
037 Audit Committee Report
040 Additional Compliance
Information
042 Directors’ Responsibility
Statement
043 Financial Statements
120 List of Properties
121 Analysis of Shareholdings
123 Notice of 4th Annual General
Meeting
127 Statement Accompanying
Notice of 4th Annual General
Meeting
128 Administrative Guide
• Proxy Form
WHAT’S
INSIDE
Please scan to view
the pdf version
Share • Dine • Smile
ABOUT
US
As a Johor home-grown company, SDS Group develops our business with three
subsidiary brands including retail brand, SDS and wholesale brands, Top Baker
and Daily’s.
Our retail segment manufactured and sold our products via outlets operated under three (3) different concepts namely, bakery, cafe
and bakery-cum-cafe. SDS is well-recognised in Johor region for our quality confectionery products valuable for money and excellent
customer service. Since 1987, we continue to invent new creations to keep customer’s excitement in SDS products. Aligned with the
Share, Dine, Smile motto ~ SDS envisions to give its valued customer the most unique and enjoyable dining experience.
Top Baker and Daily’s products are catered for the mass market across the Peninsular Malaysia and Singapore. Our products are sold
through channels such as hypermarkets, supermarkets, convenience stores and sundry shops. Our wholesale distribution network
is supported by our in-house team of logistics personnel and various distribution centers across the Peninsula Malaysia.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
002
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Tan Kim Seng
Managing Director
Tan Kim Chai
Executive Director
Tan Yon Haw
Executive Director
Tan Kee Jin
Executive Director
Phang Sze Fui
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn
Independent Non-Executive Director
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Phang Sze Fui
Chairperson/Independent Non-Executive Director
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam
Member/Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn
Member/Independent Non-Executive Director
NOMINATING AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam
Chairman/Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn
Member/Independent Non-Executive Director
Phang Sze Fui
Member/Independent Non-Executive Director
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn
Chairman/Independent Non-Executive Director
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam
Member/Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Phang Sze Fui
Member/Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Kee Jin
Member/Executive Director
COMPANY SECRETARIES
• Siew Suet Wei (MAICSA NO.: 7011254)
SSM Practicing Certificate No. 202008001690
• Lim Yen Teng (LS0010182)
SSM Practicing Certificate No. 201908000028
AUDITORS
Crowe Malaysia PLT
(LLP0018817-LCA & AF 1018)
E-2-3 Pusat Komersial Bayu Tasek
Persiaran Southkey 1, Kota Southkey
80150 Johor Bahru, Johor
Tel No.: +607-288 6627
WEBSITE
www.sdsgroups.com
SPONSOR
M&A Securities Sdn. Bhd.
45-11 The Boulevard
Mid Valley City, Lingkaran Syed Putra
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel No.: +603-2284 2911
Fax No.: +603-2284 2718
SHARE REGISTRAR
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd.
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A,
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South, 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel No.: +603-2783 9299
Fax No.: +603-2783 9222
REGISTERED OFFICE
5-9A, The Boulevard Offices
Mid Valley City, Lingkaran Syed Putra
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel No.: +603-2282 6331
Fax No.: +603-2201 9331
BUSINESS ADDRESS
5, Jalan Selatan 8 (Off Jalan Kempas Lama)
Kawasan Perusahaan Ringan Pulai
81200 Johor Bahru, Johor
Tel No.: +607-288 8305
Fax No.: +607-556 7116
Email: info@sdsgroups.com
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
• Hong Leong Bank Berhad
• Malayan Banking Berhad
• Public Bank Berhad
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (ACE Market)
Stock Name & Code: SDS 0212
Sector: Consumer Products & Services
003
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
100%
SDS Food Manufacturing
Sdn Bhd
199201011621 (243124-V)
SDS GROUP BERHAD
201701026951 (1241117-T)
51%
City Cake House
Sdn Bhd
200001014725 (517331-P)
100%
SDS Bakery & Cafeteria
Sdn Bhd
199501030107 (359313-D)
100%
SDS Enterprise
Sdn Bhd
201501018039 (1143371-K)
100%
Daily Bakery
Sdn Bhd
198901013459 (190769-H)
100%
Super Arrow Trading
Pte Ltd
200819157G
100%
SDS Top Baker
Sdn Bhd
200701036505 (794534-T)
Wholesale Channel Retail Channel
CORPORATE
STRUCTURE
SDS GROUP BERHAD
004
		 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Revenue (RM‘000) 139,333 174,201 187,129 191,520 173,778
Profit After Taxation (PAT) (RM‘000) 6,319 5,890 7,854 4,212 7,078
Total Assets (RM‘000) 119,245 130,875 124,306 146,204 139,019
Shareholders’ Equity (RM‘000) 25,216 30,564 38,222 64,598 71,912
REVENUE
(RM’000)
TOTAL ASSETS
(RM’000)
139,333
119,245
6,319
25,216
187,129
124,306
7,854
38,222
174,201
130,875
5,890
30,564
173,778
191,520
139,019
146,204
7,078
4,212
71,912
64,598
2017
2017
2017
2017
2018
2018
2018
2018
2020
2020
2020
2020
2019
2019
2019
2019
2021
2021
2021
2021
PROFIT AFTER TAXATION (PAT)
(RM’000)
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(RM’000)
FINANCIAL
HIGHLIGHTS
005
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
CORPORATE
MILESTONES
Sin Lee Hiang
Bakery was
involved in the
manufacturing
and retailing of
bakery products
with its first
bakery being
established in
Masai, Johor
10 bakery outlets
across Johor, all
under the brand
name of ‘SDS’
Started to
manufacture
bakery products
on an OEM
basis for various
hypermarkets
and
supermarkets in
Singapore
Constructed a
1 1/2-storey
factory with a
warehouse and
office building
in Kempas,
Johor, as our
headquarters
and production
facility
Successfully
acquired
the entire
equity stake
in Wonderful
Moderate Sdn.
Bhd. (now known
as SDS Top
Baker Sdn. Bhd.)
Opened our first
bakery-cum-cafe
outlet under the
brand name of
‘SDS’ in Taman
Johor Jaya,
Johor
SDS Food was
incorporated as
a private limited
company
Diversified into the
wholesale trade of
bakery products
targeting sales
channels such as
convenience stores,
hypermarkets and
mini markets
1991 1999
1993 2009
1987 1995
1992 2008
SDS GROUP BERHAD
006
Took over the
distribution
business of Bees
Bakery Sdn.
Bhd. through the
acquisition of 35
delivery vehicles
and recruitment
of its sales and
marketing
personnel
Expanded
our existing
production facility
by building
an adjoining
3-storey building
with office,
factory and
warehouse
Daily Bakery Sdn.
Bhd. obtained
the certification
of ‘Makanan
Selamat
Tanggungjawab
Industri’
(“MeSTI”) which
is a food safety
programme
undertaken by
the Ministry of
Health Malaysia
SDS Top Baker
Sdn. Bhd.
obtained the
ISO22000:2005
certification
under the scope
of manufacturing
of bakery and
confectionery
products
Opened our
first two retail
outlets beyond
Johor, in Nilai and
Bangi and set up
first wholesale
distribution
centre in Kedah
Acquired Daily
Bakery Sdn. Bhd.
for its wholesale
distribution
team and new
manufacturing
plant in
Seremban
Took over the
distribution
business of
Sunshine Bakery
Sdn. Bhd. in
Klang Valley and
Negeri Sembilan
through the
acquisition of 8
delivery vehicles
and recruitment
of its sales
and marketing
personnel
Listed on the
ACE
Market of Bursa
Malaysia
2012 2018
2014 2020
2010 2016
2013 2019
CORPORATE
MILESTONES
007
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam was appointed to
our Board on 4 September 2018. He is
the Chairman of our Nominating and
Remuneration Committee and also a
member of our Audit Committee and Risk
Management Committee.
He obtained a Bachelor of Science
(Honours) in Housing, Building and
Planning and a Master of Science in
Planning from Universiti Sains Malaysia
in 1988 and 1989 respectively. In 2020,
he obtained his Doctor of Philosophy
in Business Administration from SEGi
University.
He is a Certified Financial Planner, a title
by the Financial Planning Association of
Malaysia which he has held since 2002.
He is also a Credit Risk Management
specialist whereby he was awarded the
designation as a Certified Risk Professional
from the Bank Administration Institute for
Certification from USA in 2003. He has
been a member of the Council of the Asian
Institute of Chartered Bankers (formerly
known as Institute of Bankers Malaysia)
since 1999. He is a fellow member of
the Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants (“CIMA”) and the Institute of
Corporate Director Malaysia (“ICDM”). He
is also a member of the Malaysian Institute
of Accountants (“MIA”), the Chartered
Global Management Accountant
(“CGMA”) and the ASEAN Chartered
Professional Accountants (“ASEAN CPA”).
DR. LIM PANG KIAM
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
He was working with a local bank for
over 15 years holding various senior
positions which include banking operation,
commercial and corporate banking and
investment banking. He left the bank in
2004 to become a business owner and
held several executive and non-executive
directorships in public and private
enterprises in Malaysia.
He currently sits on the Board of Directors
of Inta Bina Group Berhad, Engtex Group
Berhad and Lagenda Properties Berhad as
an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam attended all five (5)
Board Meetings of the Company held
during the financial year ended 31 March
2021.
Gender Male
Age 58 years old
Nationality Malaysian
SDS GROUP BERHAD
008
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
Mr. Tan Kim Seng was appointed to
our Board on 4 September 2018. He is
the co-founder of SDS Food and has
spearheaded the business growth of
our Group since its inception in 1987.
He is responsible for formulating and
implementing the overall business strategy
and corporate development of our Group.
He is considered an industry veteran with
50 years of working experience in the
bakery industry. In 1995, he led the Group
to venture into the Café business and
diversified the Group into the wholesale
channel,establishing“TopBaker”branding
in the 2008. In 2016, he led the Group to
expand further within the wholesale trade
market, by acquiring Daily Bakery and
establishing our manufacturing footprint
in the central region (Seremban).
TAN KIM SENG
Managing Director
Under the leadership of Mr. Tan Kim Seng
and his brother, Mr. Tan Kim Chai, our
Group has grown from a small retail bakery
with only 5 employees to an organisation
with approximately 1,200 employees.
Mr. Tan Kim Seng attended all five (5) Board
Meetings of the Company held during the
financial year ended 31 March 2021.
TAN KIM CHAI
Executive Director
Mr. Tan Kim Chai was appointed to our
Board on 4 September 2018. He is the
co-founder of SDS Food.
He has 41 years of working experience
in the bakery industry. In 1999, he
spearheaded the Group’s expansion of
the distribution channel into Singapore
by manufacturing bakery products on an
OEM basis. With the Group’s diversification
into the wholesale channel, he was mainly
responsible for overseeing our wholesale
logistic activities and establishing
an extensive distribution network.
In 2019, he took on the role of overseeing
the Group’s sales and marketing division
for the wholesale channel. Together
with his brother, Mr. Tan Kim Seng, they
transformed our Group from a small
retail bakery with only 5 employees to an
organisation with approximately 1,200
employees.
Mr. Tan Kim Chai attended all five (5) Board
Meetings of the Company held during the
financial year ended 31 March 2021.
Gender Male
Age 64 years old
Nationality Malaysian
Gender Male
Age 59 years old
Nationality Malaysian
009
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
Mr. Tan Yon Haw was appointed to our
Board on 4 September 2018.
Following the Group’s venture into the
wholesale channel, he was in-charge of
the production activities for the wholesale
channel. In 2008, he was promoted to
Head of Production and was in-charge of
the day-to-day operations of the wholesale
channel, which include production,
purchasing, inventory management and
research and development activities.
TAN YON HAW
Executive Director
He was also in charge of establishing the
food safety management system and
obtaining the ISO 22000:2005 certification
in 2014.
Mr. Tan Yon Haw attended all five (5) Board
Meetings of the Company held during the
financial year ended 31 March 2021.
TAN KEE JIN
Executive Director
Mr. Tan Kee Jin was appointed to our
Board on 4 September 2018. He is also
a member of our Risk Management
Committee.
He graduated from the University of
Western Australia with a Bachelor of
Commerce degree in 2007.
He joined the Group in 2006 and
was involved in overseeing the daily
invoicing operations and managing
products logistics at all our retail outlets.
In 2008, he was re-assigned to the
Business Development Department and
promoted to Business Development
Manager in 2012. In 2015, he was
promoted to Executive Director of SDS
Food Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd., and
was responsible for developing and
implementing strategies to drive our
Group’s retail revenue and growth.
Mr. Tan Kee Jin attended all five (5) Board
Meetings of the Company held during the
financial year ended 31 March 2021.
Gender Male
Age 44 years old
Nationality Malaysian
Gender Male
Age 37 years old
Nationality Malaysian
SDS GROUP BERHAD
010
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
Ms. Phang Sze Fui was appointed to
our Board on 4 September 2018, and is
the Chairperson of our Audit Committee.
She is also a member of our Nominating
and Remuneration Committee and Risk
Management Committee.
She obtained her Diploma in Commerce
(Financial Accounting) from Tunku Abdul
Rahman College in 1997. She obtained
her Professional Accounting Qualification
from the Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants (“ACCA”) of UK in 1998, and
has been a fellow member since 2005. She
is also a member of the Malaysian Institute
of Accountants (“MIA”) since 2009. She
has been an audit committee member of
The Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia
since 2019.
She has over 18 years of experience
in audits of small and medium size
companies and public listed companies
as well as Reporting Accountants
for various corporate exercises for
initial public offering, reverse takeover,
acquisitions and disposals of assets or
companies, funds raising, financial due
diligence review, investigation audits and
many more. Due to this, she has acquired
an in-depth knowledge in auditing,
accounting, taxation, Companies Act,
listing requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad and the Securities
Commission guidelines.
She began her career at Messrs. Baker Tilly
Monteiro Heng, Kuala Lumpur as an Audit
Assistant in 1997. She was subsequently
promoted to Senior Audit Manager,
Associate Director and Executive Director
of Transaction Reporting Division in 2005,
2007 and 2011 respectively. She left the
firm in 2015.
PHANG SZE FUI
Independent Non-Executive Director
In 2016, she joined Dolphin Applications
Sdn. Bhd. (a subsidiary of Dolphin
International Berhad, a company listed
on the Main Market of Bursa Securities)
as Corporate Affairs Director. She left
Dolphin Application Sdn. Bhd. in 2017 to
pursue her own business venture, Avia
Alliance Sdn. Bhd. which specialises in
the provision of business and accounting
consultancy, a business that she is
presently involved. She established
Dynamic Aqua Evolution Sdn. Bhd. in 2019
which specialises in aquaponic farming, a
business that she is presently involved.
In 2020, she established 1Advisory Sdn.
Bhd. which specialises in the provision of
business consultancy, a business that she
is presently involved.
She currently sits on the Board of Directors
of Kim Teck Cheong Consolidated Berhad
and Flexidynamic Holdings Berhad as an
Independent Non-Executive Director.
Ms. Phang Sze Fui attended all five (5)
Board Meetings of the Company held
during the financial year ended 31 March
2021.
Gender Female
Age 49 years old
Nationality Malaysian
011
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
PROFILE OF
DIRECTORS
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Family Relationship of Directors
Save as disclosed below, none of the Directors
has any family relationship with any Directors and/
or major shareholders of the Company:
1) Tan Kim Seng and Tan Kim Chai are brothers;
2) Tan Kee Jin is the son of Tan Kim Seng;
3) Tan Yon Haw is the nephew of Tan Kim Seng
and Tan Kim Chai;
4) Tan Kee Jin is the nephew of Tan Kim Chai; and
5) Tan Yon Haw and Tan Kee Jin are cousins.
Conflict of Interest
None of the directors has any conflict of interest
with the Company.
Conviction of Offence
None of the directors has conviction for any
offences within the past 5 years (other than traffic
offences, if any) and there was no public sanction or
penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
Securities Holdings
The particulars of the directors’ shareholdings are
set out in page 121 of this Annual Report.
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn was
appointed to our Board on 4 September
2018, and is the Chairman of our Risk
Management Committee. He is also
a member of our Audit Committee,
and Nominating and Remuneration
Committee.
He obtained a Bachelor of Laws (LLB) from
Bond University, Australia in 2002 and was
called and admitted as an Advocates and
Solicitors at the High Court of Malaya in
2005.
DATO’ ALBERT
DING CHOO EARN
Independent Non-Executive Director
He is a lawyer by profession registered
under the Malaysian Bar and has been
involved in private legal practice since
the start of his career. He started his legal
career as a legal practitioner at Messrs
Dennis Nik & Wong from 2005 to 2006,
Messrs Mak, Ng, Shao & Kee from 2006
to 2007 and Messrs Woon Wee Yuen &
Partners from 2007 to 2010. In 2010, he
co-founded Messrs Albert Ding, Chng
& Co as a partner (which was dissolved
in 2011). In 2011, he joined Messrs S P
Lee & Associates (now known as Messrs
Albert Ding, Lee & Partners) as one of the
Managing Partners. His areas of practice
involve but not limited to civil general
litigations, conveyancing law, corporate
law matters, intellectual property law and
more.
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn attended all
five (5) Board Meetings of the Company
held during the financial year ended 31
March 2021.
Gender Male
Age 42 years old
Nationality Malaysian
SDS GROUP BERHAD
012
Male l 33 years old l Malaysian
PROFILE OF
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
Tan Kee Meng is responsible for
overseeing our Group’s finance-related
functions including the execution of
financial reporting, compliance of tax
matters and maintenance of internal
controls.
He graduated with a Bachelor of
Commerce with double majors in
accounting and finance from University of
Queensland, Australia in 2010. He
became a member of CPA Australia
in 2015 and a Chartered Accountant
(Singapore) of Institute of Singapore
Chartered Accountants in 2016. He has
been a registered member of Malaysian
Institute of Accountants since 2017.
In 2011, he started his career with KPMG
LLP in Singapore as an Audit Associate
and was subsequently promoted to Audit
Manager in 2016. During his stint there,
he audited private limited companies
as well as public listed companies
across various different industries such
as manufacturing, trading, airline and
tourism. He was involved in conducting
independent statutory financial audit
works and special assignments such as
due diligence reviews. He left the firm in
2017 and assumed his current position.
TAN KEE MENG
Chief Financial Officer
Thong Poh Loong is responsible for
the planning, coordination and control
of manufacturing processes at our
production facilities.
He is a seasoned baking professional with
more than 20 years of combined related
working experience in Singapore and
Malaysia. He obtained a Diploma in Civil
Engineering from Politeknik Kota Bahru
in 1993.
In 1997, he joined King’s Confectionery
Sdn. Bhd. to gain practical working
experience in the baking industry. In 1999,
he joined his family business in Ipoh, selling
bakery products. In 2002, he co-founded
Delijoy Bakery and worked as Bakery Chef
until his exit from the business in 2004.
Thereafter, he worked as Bakery and
Pastry Chef with various companies such
as Silibin Cakes & Bakery and Marina Bay
Sands.
From 2012 to 2017, he worked for various
F&B companies under a Singaporean
investment company with F&B portfolio,
Commonwealth Capital Pte. Ltd. He was
responsible for managing production,
procurement and quality control as well
as ensuring compliance to food safety
and halal standards in these companies.
In 2017, he joined our Group and assumed
his current position.
Tan Siau Ling is responsible for managing
our wholesale production operations and
setting up new wholesale production lines.
She has 18 years of working experience in
quality assurance. She graduated with a
Bachelor of Science (Honours) in Industrial
Science from Universiti Teknologi Malaysia
in 2001.
In 2001, she started her career in URC
Snack Food (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. as
a Quality Assurance cum Research
and Development Executive where
she undertook R&D activities such as
conducting market research, developing
and testing new snacks, evaluating
their potential for commercialisation,
performing cost analysis and evaluation
as well as designing new packaging.
From 2004 to 2016, she was attached
to Standard Confectionery Sdn. Bhd.
(a subsidiary of High-5 Conglomerate
Berhad). During her tenure there, she was
Quality Assurance Manager from 2004 to
2012 and Operations Manager from 2012
to 2016 where she was responsible for
purchasing and production functions.
In 2017, she joined our Group and
assumed her current position.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
FamilyRelationshipofKeySeniorManagement
Save as disclosed below, none of the Key Senior
Management has any family relationship with any
Directorsand/ormajorshareholdersoftheCompany:
1) Tan Kee Meng is the son of Tan Kim Seng and
brother of Tan Kee Jin; and
2) Tan Kee Meng is the nephew of Tan Kim Chai
and cousin of Tan Yon Haw.
Conflict of Interest
None of the Key Senior Management has any
conflict of interest with the Company.
Conviction of Offence
None of the Key Senior Management has any
conviction for any offences within the past 5 years
(other than traffic offences, if any) and there was no
public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Male l 50 years old l Malaysian Female l 43 years old l Malaysian
TAN SIAU LING
Project Manager
THONG POH LOONG
Production Manager
013
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
Dear valued shareholders, it is with great pleasure that we present to you the Annual
Report and Audited Financial Statements of SDS Group Berhad (“SDS Group” or
the “Group”) for the financial year ended 31 March 2021 (“FY2021”).
OVERVIEW OF THE GROUP’S BUSINESS
Business Venture and Journey
SDS Group has embarked on its business as a manufacturer and retailer of bakery products in 1984. SDS
Group continues to develop varieties of new creative products to build customers’ excitement and interest in
its products in the market till today. The Group strives to enrich and satisfy customers’ needs and preferences
through its high-quality products at a reasonable price.
It was an astonishing achievement and business journey for SDS Group as it started its home-grown
business in Johor region with three subsidiary brands namely, retail brand, ‘SDS’, and wholesale brands,
‘Top Baker’ and ‘Daily’s’. Throughout the years, SDS Group has grown rapidly through business expansion
of its manufacturing and distribution facilities, and retail outlets in the Food and Beverages (F&B) industry.
Thereafter, the Group has successfully listed on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on
7 October 2019.
The Group provides an exceptional in-store experience by offering bakery and confectionary products which
are mostly sold in a ‘grab-and-go’ manner and a wide variety of F&B choices ranging from international
cuisines such as western and Japanese food to local cuisine. In addition, SDS Group also offers festive
cookies, hampers, mooncakes, baby full-month and wedding gift set to cater to customers’ needs and
preferences during the festive seasons. The Group’s venture into the wholesale trade of bakery products
further enables it to reach out to its customers through a wider sales channel such as convenience stores
and hypermarkets.
Today, the Group strives to remain buoyant in its competitive market especially during this pandemic period.
The Group aims to expand its geographical footprint particularly in the Central and Northern Region of
Peninsular Malaysia. Being one of the market leaders in the F&B industry, the Group continues to develop
business strategies to market its products and expand its operation and presence throughout the Country
and overseas.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
014
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
OUR STRATEGIES FOR MARKET
AND PRODUCT
Retail Channel
The Group has taken proactive steps and
actions through various forms of initiatives
and strategies to create sustainable
growth and long-term shareholders’ value
in its business.
After months of lockdown as a result of
the COVID-19 outbreak, consumers’
preferences and behaviours have changed
to adapt to the new way of living during
this pandemic. With working-from-
home arrangement becoming a norm
and stay-at-home becoming a new
trend, there is an increased spending
for online food delivery services. As
such, the Group has collaborated with
more external established food delivery
service providers to continue bringing
its products to customers despite the
restriction in movement. The Group
has also established its own ordering
hotline services to facilitate pre-ordering,
collection at its outlets or delivery services.
During the financial year, the Group has
begun selling its festive products in third-
party online platforms noting a shift of
focus to online ordering and purchases
among consumers.
With the rising trend of contactless
payment to reduce the risk of transmission
of COVID-19 through physical interaction,
the Group has enhanced its very own
SDS mobile application to include
E-wallet feature. This E-wallet feature
allows consumers to complete their
transactions using contactless payments
at any of its outlets. The Group continues
to offer innovative solutions to provide
greater consumer convenience and
addressing the ever-changing consumers’
preferences.
The Group has expanded its business
operations beyond Johor Bahru to the
Central Region of Peninsula Malaysia
during the financial year. Despite the
COVID-19 pandemic, the Group continues
to explore opportunities for growth and
has successfully set up two new outlets
at Nilai, Negeri Sembilan and Bangi,
Selangor.
Wholesale Channel
The Group has launched a series of new
products such as banana slice cakes,
pandan chiffon cake and danish bread
with chocolate chips during the financial
year. RM2 concept stores has been
gaining prominence and popularity from
consumers in Malaysia in recent years,
this is especially so during the pandemic
period when the current economic outlook
is uncertain and consumers are more
conscious in their spending. The Group
has collaborated with these chain stores
and developed a range of products which
are sold in their stores.
The Group further penetrated the market
in the Northern Region by establishing a
new distribution centre at Sungai Petani,
Kedah. With this expansion, the Group
wholesale distribution network is covering
10 states out of the 11 states in Peninsula
Malaysia. The Group aims to continue
its effort to expand its product range
and distribution network geographically,
enabling it to reach out for a wider
consumer base.
015
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NEGERI SEMBILAN
KUALA LUMPUR
PULAU PINANG
KEDAH
PERLIS
KELANTAN
TERENGGANU
PAHANG
SELANGOR
PERAK
PUTRAJAYA
MELAKA JOHOR
Distribution
Centre
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
SDS GROUP BERHAD
016
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
Financial Indicators FY2021 FY2020 Difference
RM’000 RM’000 (%)
Revenue 173,778 191,520 -9.3
Gross Profit 52,988 57,193 -7.4
Gross Profit Margin 30.5% 29.9% 2.0
Profit before tax 9,589 4,998 91.9
Profit after tax 7,078 4,212 68.0
Net profit margin 4.1% 2.2% 86.4
Earnings per share (Sen) 1.79 1.16 54.3
Revenue
The Group’s revenue has decreased from
RM191.5 million in FY2020 to RM173.8
million in FY2021, representing a decrease
of RM17.7 million or 9.3% as compared to
the previous financial year. The decrease
in revenue was mainly due to the various
measures implemented by the Malaysian
Government in view of the COVID-19
pandemic, which includes the Movement
Control Order (“MCO”), school closure,
restriction of dine-in at restaurants and
limitation on the maximum number of dine-
in customers. With the lower consumers’
traffic due to the various phases of MCO
implemented, the Group had experienced
a decrease in demand for our products.
Gross Profit Margin (“GPM”)
GPM had improved from 29.9% to 30.5%
as compared to the previous financial year.
This was mainly due to effective cost
management measures implemented as
well as the reduction of goods returned
rate as a result of better sales planning.
Since the outbreak of the COVID-19
pandemic, the management has initiated
various cost management measures such
as streamlining the production process
to achieve a reduction in wastages and
labour cost control. This helps the Group
to achieve an improvement in the GPM
despite the decrease in sales.
Profit Before Tax (“PBT”)
PBT has increased by RM4.6 million or
91.9% from RM5.0 million in FY2020 to
RM9.6 million in FY2021. Despite the
decrease in revenue and gross profit,
the increase in PBT was caused by a
one-off non-recurring listing expenses
of 2.1 million incurred in the previous
financial year, various labour cost control
measures implemented during the year,
and decreased in fuel expenses as a result
of the decrease in fuel prices during the
financial year.
017
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
FY2021 FY2020
		 RM’000 RM’000
Net cash from operating activities 		 24,377 14,243
Net cash for investing activities		 -4,038 -11,960
Net cash (for)/from financing activities 		 -13,178 1,959
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 		 7,161 4,242
Effect of foreign exchange translation 		 42 12
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the financial year 		 9,982 5,728
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the financial year		 17,185 9,982
FY2021 FY2020
		 RM’000 RM’000
Total Borrowings 		 43,068 54,761
Total Equity		 72,271 65,150
Gearing Ratio		 0.60 0.84
Cash and cash equivalents have increased by RM7.2 million from RM10.0 million in FY2020 to RM17.2 million in FY2021 mainly due
to the following reasons:
1. Net cash from operating activities has increased by RM10.1 million mainly as a result of the increase in operating profit during
the financial year and a one-off prompt repayment to trade payables that occurred in the previous financial year.
2. Net cash for investing activities has decreased by RM7.9 million from RM12.0 million in FY2020 to RM 4.1 million in FY2021
mainly due to a decrease in the purchase of property, plant and equipment as the Group was more cautious in its expansion
plan during the COVID-19 pandemic period.
3. Net cash for financing activities amounting to RM13.2 million in FY2021 as compared to net cash from financing activities
of RM2.0 million in FY2020 was mainly due to one-off listing proceeds received by the Group and the utilisation of the listing
proceeds for repayment of lease liabilities during the previous financial year.
The decrease in gearing ratio from 0.84 in FY2020 to 0.60 in FY2021 was mainly due to increase in total equity as a result of profit
made during the financial year and the decrease in total borrowings was caused by the repayment of term loans and lease liabilities.
Liquidity and Capital Resources
Gearing
SDS GROUP BERHAD
018
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
KEY RISK FACTORS
The Group is cognisant of the importance that the investors and shareholders need to understand the types of risks that it is exposed
to and how these risks may impact the Group’s business and its operating performance during this pandemic period.
The Management is consistently identifying anticipated or known risks that the Group is exposed to in which these risks will have a
material effect on the Group’s operations, performance, financial condition and liquidity. The Group’s risk management framework
covers risk identification, assessment and control activities such as monitoring, analysis, communication, internal control, action and
strategies. A continuous discussion of the plans or strategies is in place to make sure actions are taken to mitigate such risks. The
Group’s risks mitigation action plans include the following:
a) performing due diligence on the nature, scope and complexity of the activities to identify key risk areas and risk mitigation
strategies;
b) conducting review of its nature, current scope and activities to identify new risks which may arise; and
c) analysing the impact of the activities on the overall risk profile of the Group, and whether there are adequate measures and
resources in place to mitigate the risks identified.
Anticipated and Known Risk Profiles
Risks Description Mitigating Measures
Food contamination
Being in the food manufacturing industry,
the Group is exposed to the risk of food
contamination as its food products
undergo numerous manufacturing
processes during its production. The
food ingredients are generally perishable
and are vulnerable to contamination if not
properly handled, stored or packed.
The Group is taking the following steps to mitigate the food contamination risks:
1) All production staffs must undergo food handling classes.
2) The internal quality assurance department are tasked to review and inspect our
storage facilities to ensure that the place and raw materials are kept in a clean and
acceptable condition.
3) The Group will monitor the quality of raw materials received from the suppliers. Any
sub-standard raw material discovered will be returned to the supplier promptly and
will not be used in the production process.
4) The Group entities have obtained third parties food safety certification which requires
periodic audit to be performed to ensure compliance with the food safety standards
and quality of the manufacturing process.
019
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
Anticipated and Known Risk Profiles (Cont’d)
Risks Description Mitigating Measures
Disruption in the operations and
unplanned shutdowns
As most of our products are produced
by the Group internal manufacturing
facilities, any disruption in the operations
or unplanned shutdown would affect the
Group’s ability to generate revenue.
Force majeure events such as the
COVID-19 pandemic can cause
disruption in operation due to unforeseen
factory shutdowns and mandatory
working-from-home arrangement will
require employees to work from home.
The Group has taken up insurance policies to provide coverage against the risk of fire,
theft and personal accident for our workers.
As our manufacturing plants are located at two different locations, in the case when one
location cannot operate, the other location can function as a backup manufacturing
facility for those affected products. By having this immediate relief, it will help to lessen
the impact as a result of disruption of operation in one location.
The Group has taken immediate proactive preventive measures to curb the risk of
COVID-19 pandemic by having the following measures in place:
a) Mandatory staff and visitor temperature screening at doorstep.
b) Restricting visitors at our manufacturing facilities, unless necessary.
c) Upgrading infrastructure to enable work-from-home arrangement.
Dependent on foreign labour
The Group’s business operations are
highly dependent on the continued supply
of foreign labour. Hence, it is subjected
to the labour and immigration laws
that govern the employment of foreign
workers. Any substantial changes to the
policies on the employment of foreign
workers may result in a shortage in the
supply of foreign workers or an increase
in labour wages.
The Group continues to review and revamp its manufacturing process and workflow.
The Group believes that automations can help to streamline processes and reduce
reliance on manual labour.
Besides, the Group is collaborating with culinary school to take in students for our
internship program. This program will help to attract and retain talent by offering
permanent job opportunities to interns who perform well during their internship.
Competition Risk
The Group is operating in a highly
competitive environment, with a lot of
competitors in the market offering a great
variety of similar products or services.
In order to sustain its competitiveness in
this highly aggressive market, the Group
needs to constantly identify and satisfy
the consumers’ changing taste and
preference.
To remain resilient in the market place, the Group is taking the following steps:
1) Differentiating our brands or products by pricing them reasonably with good and
competitive quality.
2) Constantly update and adapt to the changes in consumers’ preference and taste
from time to time.
3) Offering a wide variety of products targeting a wide range of customers instead of
focusing on a particular group of customers.
4) Constantly looking for ideas and ways to increase our customer coverage such as
expanding footprint geographically or having different product range.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
020
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
REVIEWOFOPERATINGENVIRONMENT
TheCOVID-19pandemichasimpactedMalaysian
economy causing the devaluation of Ringgit
Malaysia (RM) and decline in the country’s gross
domestic product (GDP). The pandemic has
caused detrimental financial impact on several
key industries including entertainment, tourism,
travel agencies, retail outlets and hospitality.
Besides, many businesses are forced to cope
with standard operating procedures (SOP)
implemented by the Malaysian Government
such as social distancing, lockdown restriction
and movement restriction of workers which
caused disruption in the business supply chain
and operation, reducing business revenue and
increasing operating cost.
The Government has taken steps to cushion
the immediate impact of the sudden dropped
in economic activity on firms and households,
preserving the country’s productive capacity
by having rapid and extensive fiscal and
monetary packages. In Malaysia, financial
stimulus packages and PRIHATIN packages
were released to support the society, providing
assistance to lighten the burden of people from
various backgrounds, such as students, families
and business owners.
During the current financial year, various phases
of MCO were announced and the Group has to
comply with the SOPs set by the Government.
This has inevitably impacted on both the retail and
wholesalechannels.Forretailchannel,SOPssuch
as the restriction of dine-in at café and limitation
of the maximum number of dine-in customers
has caused a reduction of consumer traffics at
our retail outlets thus resulting in a decrease in
revenue. For wholesale channel, with the closure
of schools and factories during certain period of
the year, the Group experienced a decrease in
revenue in these areas particularly. Fortunately,
the Group was able to further streamline its
operating processes to help improve its margin
despite the decrease in the revenue. Also, the
Group collaborated with third party delivery
vendors, making its products available for online
purchases and delivery services which has seen a
surged in demand as more and more companies
introduced work-from-home arrangement for
their employees.
LOOKING AHEAD
While there is still uncertainty in the surge of the numbers of COVID-19 cases
globally and the subsequent lockdown in certain countries, the rolled-out of the
vaccination program is expected to path the way for the recoveries of economic
activities worldwide. Furthermore, the on-going expansionary monetary policy
and fiscal policy would continue to ease domestic financial conditions, particularly
in emerging market economies and further supporting the economic recovery.
The Group will continue to implement various plans and measures to help
manoeuvre through this challenging pandemic time. This includes continuing
its effort to streamline its operating processes, optimising human resources,
launching marketing campaigns and re-evaluating its business plans effectively.
The Group stays abreast of the latest regulatory requirement to combat the
COVID-19 pandemic and allowing our team to continue to deliver and provide
food products for our customers.
The Group remain sturdy towards its future prospect despite the current
challenging operating environment. The Group is confident that with the effective
implementation of sound business plans and strategies, the Group will emerge
stronger in its industry to withstand any vulnerability. For retail outlets, the Group
will continue to expand in the central region by setting up new outlets. The Group
is also upgrading its online store and platform to offer a wide range of products to
suit its customers’ needs and preferences. For wholesale channel, the Group will
continue to expand its geographical footprint and logistic fleets across Malaysia
to bring our products nearer to our customers.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
In conclusion, we wish to convey our sincere gratitude to the Management
and employees for their diligent effort, dedication and commitment during
this pandemic period. We would also like to express our appreciation to our
stakeholders, namely our shareholders, investors, clients, suppliers, business
partners, bankers, government and regulatory bodies for their continued support,
reliance and confidence in SDS Group Berhad. Please stay safe during this
pandemic period. Thank you.
021
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
SDS Group Berhad (“SDS” or the “Group”) recognises the importance of
integrating sustainability principles into the business practices of the Group as a
means of achieving continuous sustainable long-term growth. Our sustainability
approach enables us to review our performance strategically and provides
insights on the business opportunities and challenges ahead.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
Stakeholder engagement exercises and materiality assessments provide a sound basis for the Group to develop its sustainability
report, as they enable the identification of the sustainability topics that are most relevant to the business operations and the
shared interests of the stakeholders.
Based on the survey results and the materiality assessment conducted during the financial year ended 2021, the Group
reviewed and validated the material topics to ensure a consistent and balanced representation of the Group’s significant
sustainability performance and impact.
Influence on Stakeholder Assessments
and Decisions
Significance of Group’s Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts
10%
10%
40%
40%
80%
80%
0%
0%
30%
30%
70%
70%
20%
20%
60%
60%
50%
50%
90%
90%
100%
100%
Materiality Matrix
Procurement
Practices
<<Low Materiality>>
Diversity
Occupational
Safety and Health
<<Medium Materiality>>
Regulatory
Compliance
Anti-bribery and
Anti-Corruption
Practices
Training &
Development
<<Not Material>>
Employee
Benefits & Welfare
Water and
Energy
Consumption
Community
Investment
Waste
Management
Business
Performance
Food Safety
Management
System
<<High Materiality>>
SDS GROUP BERHAD
022
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
SDS upholds the principles and values of sustainable development and is actively integrating these values into its business processes.
The Group believes that reporting on sustainable development metrics provides a strong foundation on its commitments to create
value for all stakeholders. The Group conducts its business while taking into consideration of the following pillars:-
SUSTAINABILITY DEVELOPMENT GOALS
The United Nations General Assembly adopted the Sustainability Development Goals (“SDGs”) in 2015 to address significant economic,
environmental and social challenges. SDS endeavours to be part of the ecosystem in moving the needle for achieving these goals by
minimising impacts on the environment and developing local communities from the Group’s operational activities through maximising
positive values. The Group has focused on the following SDG in its Sustainability Report.
Further information on the Group’s sustainability governance structure, stakeholder engagement, sustainability related material
matters and strategies can be found in our stand-alone Sustainability Report 2021 at www.sdsgroups.com/investors/.
As a component of environment
protection
The Group seeks to reduce
environmental impact and maximise
positive environmental outcomes
from its business operations.
Food security and providing
“Good Food”
The Group aims to provide Good
Food to its customers and ensuring
food safety for all its food processes.
Thriving Communities And
Employees Development
Viewing our people as our
assets
We strive to ensure safe working
environment for employees,
competitive compensation packages
and professional development
opportunities.
We are also committed in creating
positive impact to the Communities.
Resource-Efficient
Operations Good Food
Strengthen global partnership for
sustainale development.
Promote peaceful and inclusive
societies for sustainable
development by complying with all
legislation including human rights.
Ensuring healthy lives and
promote well-being for all
employees.
Ensure inclusive and equitable
quality education and
promote lifelong learnings
opportunities for all.
Ensure the availability and
sustainable management
of water and sanitation by
reducing the consumption of
freshwater.
Ensure access to affordable,
reliable, sustainable and
modern energy for all by
reducing electricity usage in
each segment of SDS Group
business.
Promote sustained, inclusive
and sustainable economic
growth, employment and
decent work for all.
Built resilient infrastructure,
promote inclusive and
sustainable industrialisation
and foster innovation.
Make cities inclusive, resilient
and sustainable by investing
in the development of social
infrastructure.
Ensure sustainable
consumption and production
by reducing the amount
of waste generated and
increasingtheuseofrecycling.
Take urgent action to combat
climate change and its impact.
023
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS (“BOARD”) OF SDS GROUP BERHAD (“SDS” OR “THE COMPANY”) PRESENTS THIS
STATEMENT TO PROVIDE SHAREHOLDERS AND INVESTORS WITH AN OVERVIEW OF THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
PRACTICES OF THE COMPANY UNDER THE LEADERSHIP OF THE BOARD DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31
MARCH 2021 AND UP TO THE DATE OF THIS STATEMENT. THIS OVERVIEW TAKES GUIDANCE FROM THE KEY CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES AS SET OUT IN THE MALAYSIAN CODE ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (“MCCG”).
The Corporate Governance Overview Statement is made pursuant to Rule 15.25(1) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements
(“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and guidance was drawn from Guidance Note
11 of Bursa Securities’ Listing Requirements and the Corporate Governance Guide (3rd Edition) issued by Bursa Securities.
The overview statement is to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report 2021 (“CG Report”) of the Company which
is available on the Company’s website at www.sdsgroups.com. The detailed explanation on the application of the corporate
governance practices is reported under the CG Report.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
PART I - BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
The Board is collectively responsible for the long-term success of the Group and delivery of sustainable value to its stakeholders.
In discharging its fiduciary duties and leadership functions, the Board sets the strategic direction for the Group, and ensures
effective leadership through oversight of Management and robust monitoring of the activities and performance in the Group.
The Board recognises the key role it plays in charting the strategic direction of the Group and has assumed the following principal
responsibilities in discharging its fiduciary duties:
(a) Reviewing and adopting a strategic plan for the Group, addressing the sustainability of the Group’s business;
(b) Overseeing the conduct of the Group’s businesses and evaluating whether or not its businesses are being properly
managed;
(c) Identify principal business risks faced by the Group and ensuring the implementation of appropriate internal controls and
mitigating measures to address such risks;
(d) Reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the Group’s internal control and management information systems;
(e) Carrying out periodic review of the Group’s financial performance and operating results and major capital commitments;
and
(f) Reviewing and approving any major corporate proposals, new business ventures or joint ventures of the Group.
The Executive Directors are responsible for implementing policies of the Board, overseeing the Group’s operations and developing
the Group’s business strategies for the Board’s review and adoption. The Independent Directors fulfil a pivotal role in corporate
accountability by providing independent views, advices and judgement to enable a balanced and unbiased decision-making
process in safeguarding shareholders’ interest.
To ensure the effective discharge of its function and responsibilities, the Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the
following Committees:
(a) Audit Committee (“AC”)
(b) Nominating and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”)(*)
(c) Risk Management Committee (“RMC”)
(*) The Nominating Committee and Remuneration Committee were combined as one single Committee on 28 August 2020.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART I - BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
All committees have written terms of reference (“TOR”). The Chairman of the respective Committees will report to the Board the
outcome of the Committees meetings for the Board’s considerations and approvals and extracts of such reports are incorporated
in the minutes of the Board meetings. The Board retains full responsibility for the direction and control of the Company.
Chairman and CEO
The positions of the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer are held by different individuals to ensure an appropriate balance
of roles, responsibilities and accountability. Our Chairman, Dr. Lim Pang Kiam is an Independent Non-Executive Director and
manages the Board by focusing on strategy, governance and compliance. As Chairman, he is responsible for ensuring the
adequacy and effectiveness of the Board’s governance process and acts as a facilitator at Board meetings to ensure that
contributions from Directors are forthcoming on matters being deliberated and that no Board member dominates discussion.
The Managing Director, Mr. Tan Kim Seng is assisted by three (3) Executive Directors namely Mr. Tan Kim Chai, Mr. Tan Yon Haw
and Mr. Tan Kee Jin. The Managing Director is responsible for managing and supervising the day-to-day business operations in
accordance with the Group’s strategies, policies and business plans approved by the Board. The distinct and separate roles of
the Chairman and Managing Director, with their clear division of responsibilities, ensure a balance of power and authority, such
that no one individual has unfettered decision-making powers.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors are responsible for providing insights, unbiased and independent views, advice and
judgement to the Board and also ensuring effective checks and balances on Board’s decisions. Independent Non-Executive
Directors are essential for protecting the interests of shareholders, in particular minority shareholders, and can make significant
contributions to the Company’s decision making by bringing in the quality of detached impartiality.
Qualified and Competent Company Secretaries
Directors have unrestricted access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries to enable them to discharge their
duties effectively. The Board is regularly updated and advised by the Company Secretaries who are qualified in accordance
with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016, experienced and competent on statutory and regulatory requirements, and
the resultant implications of any changes therein to the Company and Directors in relation to their duties and responsibilities.
Access to Information and Advice
The Board recognises that the decision-making process is highly contingent on the quality of information furnished. As such, all
Directors have unrestricted access to any information pertaining to the Company and the Group. All the Directors are supplied
with relevant information and reports on financial, operational, corporate, regulatory, business development and audit matters,
by way of Board reports or upon specific requests, for decisions to be made on an informed basis and effective discharge of
Board’s responsibilities.
The Executive Directors and/or other relevant Board members will furnish comprehensive explanation on pertinent issues and
recommendationsbyManagement.TheissuesarethendeliberatedanddiscussedthoroughlybytheBoardpriortodecisionmaking.
External advisers are invited to attend meetings to provide insights and professional views, advice and explanation on specific
items on the meeting agenda, if necessary. When required, the Board will invite the Key Senior Management team to participate
at the Board meetings to enable all Board members to have equal access to the latest updates and developments of business
operations of the Group.
All proceedings at the Board meetings are minuted and signed by the Chairman of the meetings. Every Director also has
unhindered access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries as and when required to enable them to discharge
their duties effectively.
025
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART I - BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
Board Charter
The Board is guided by a Board Charter which sets out the principles governing the Board of Directors of the Company and
adopts the principles of good governance and practice in accordance with applicable laws, rules and regulations in Malaysia.
The Board Charter also sets out the respective roles and responsibilities of the Board, board committees, individual directors
and Management, and issues and decisions reserved for the Board.
The Board will review the Board Charter from time to time to ensure that the Board Charter remains consistent with the Board’s
objectives, current law and practices.
Whistle-Blowing Policy
The Board has put in place a Whistle-Blowing Policy which serves as a platform and laid out the procedures for employees to
raise genuine concerns about any suspected and/or known unethical behaviour, malpractices, illegal acts or failure to comply
with regulatory requirements that is taking place and/or has taken place and/or may take place in the future at the earliest
opportunity, without being subject to victimisation, harassment or discriminatory treatment.
The Whistle-Blowing Policy sets out the protection to any reporting individual who has made the disclosure or report in good faith,
the confidentiality and safeguarding in dealing with such disclosure or report, the communication channel and the procedurals
flow of making the disclosure or report.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
The Board is mindful of the provisions of Section 17A of the MACC Act and had adopted the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
Policy on 28 May 2020.
The Board Charter, Whistle-Blowing Policy and Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy are made available for reference on the
Company’s website at www.sdsgroups.com.
PART II - BOARD COMPOSITION
Board Composition and Balance
The Company is led by an experienced Board with diverse background in business and financial experience, and skills which
are vital for the continued progress and success of the Group.
The Board consists of seven (7) members and comprising four (4) Executive Directors and three (3) Independent Non-Executive
Directors. This composition of the Board fulfills the requirements as set out under the Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
which stipulate that at least two (2) Directors or one-third of the Board, whichever is higher must be independent.
The Directors play an active role in the Board’s decision-making process, offering vast experience and knowledge as well
as independence and objectivity, acting in the best interests of the Company. All Independent Non-Executive Directors are
independent from the management and free from any relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Group.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
026
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II - BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
Board Composition and Balance (Cont’d)
The Directors, with their diverse backgrounds and specialisations, collectively bring with them a wide range of experience and
expertise in areas such as manufacturing, finance, accounting and audit, legislative and administration, corporate governance,
risk management and internal audit, as well as marketing and operations. The profiles of the members of the Board are provided
in this Annual Report.
Tenure of Independent Non-Executive Directors
Currently, none of our Independent Non-Executive Directors has served the Board for a cumulative term of (9) years.
In accordance with the Company’s Constitution, all the Directors shall retire from office, and at the annual general meeting in every
subsequent year, one-third of the Directors for the time being or, if their number is not a multiple of three, then the number nearest
to but not exceeding one-third shall retire from office and be eligible for re-election, and all Directors including, the Managing
Director, shall retire from office once at least in each three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election. A retiring Director shall
retain office until the close of the meeting at which he retires.
Diverse Board and Senior Management Team
The appointments of our Board members and Senior Management are made based on merit, in the context of diversity in skills,
experience, age, background, gender, ethnicity and other factors which is in the best interests of our Group.
The composition of the Board which comprises of seven (7) members are as follows:
AGE GROUP GENDER
31 - 40 1
Male 6
41 - 50 3
51 - 60 2
Female 1
61 -70 1
Gender Diversity Policy
Although the Group does not have a written policy on the gender diversity, the Board is supportive of diversity in gender, ethnicity
and age as such diversification would enlarge the pool of skills, talents, perspective and ideas within the Board. The Group is an
equal opportunity employer and does not practise discrimination of any form, whether based on age, gender, race and religion,
throughout the organisation.
The evaluation of the suitability of candidates as the new Board member or as a member of the workforce is based on the
candidates’ competency, skills, character, time commitment, knowledge, experience and other qualities in meeting the needs
of the Group, regardless of gender.
027
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II - BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
Directors’ Commitment
To facilitate the Directors’ time planning, the annual meeting calendar is prepared and discussed in advance during Board
meetings. The calendar provides Directors with scheduled dates for Board meetings, Board Committees meetings and Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”).
The Board ordinarily meets at least five (5) times a year to review the operations, financial performance, reports from the various
Board Committees and other significant matters of the Group. Additional meetings will also be convened when urgent and
important decisions are required to be made in between scheduled meetings.
During the financial year ended 31 March 2021, the details of the Directors’ full attendance at Board and Committees meetings
are as follows:
Executive Directors Board AC NC RC RMC
Tan Kim Seng 5/5 - - - -
Tan Kim Chai 5/5 - - - -
Tan Yon Haw 5/5 - - - -
Tan Kee Jin 5/5 - - - 1/1
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam 5/5 5/5 1/1 1/1 1/1
Phang Sze Fui 5/5 5/5 - - 1/1
Azahar bin Baharudin (*) 2/2 2/2 1/1 1/1 -
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn 5/5 5/5 1/1 1/1 1/1
(*) Retired on 28 August 2020
The Board is satisfied with the time commitment given by the Directors and is confident that the Directors are able to devote
sufficient time commitment to their roles and responsibilities as Directors of the Company.
Nominating and Remuneration Committee
On 28 August 2020, the Board resolved to combine the Nominating Committee and Remuneration Committee as the NRC.
The current composition of NRC comprises of three (3) members, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors and
chaired by Dr. Lim Pang Kiam.
The NRC is entrusted to assess the adequacy and appropriateness of the Board composition, identify and recommend suitable
candidates for Board membership and also to assess annually the performance of the Directors, succession plans and Board
diversity, including gender, age and ethnicity diversity, training courses for Directors and other qualities of the Board, including
core-competencies, which the Independent Non-Executive Directors should bring to the Board. The Board has the ultimate
responsibility of making the final decision on the appointment of new Directors.
Chairman Member
SDS GROUP BERHAD
028
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II - BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
Nominating and Remuneration Committee (Cont’d)
In searching for suitable candidates, the Board may receive suggestions from existing Board Members, Management, and major
shareholders. The Board is also open to referrals from external sources available, such as industry and professional associations,
as well as independent search firms.
The TOR of NRC are available for reference at the Company’s website at www.sdsgroups.com.
The Board is mindful of the importance for its members to undergo continuous education and training programmes to be apprised
of the changes to regulatory requirements and the impact such regulatory requirements have on the Group.
During the financial year under review, the trainings attended by the Directors included briefings, seminars, workshops and
conferences conducted by the relevant regulatory authorities and professional bodies. Details of the training programmes
attended/ participated by the Directors are as follows:
Director Programme Date
Tan Kim Seng Session on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 29 May 2020
Fraud Risk Management 18 November 2020
Tan Kim Chai Session on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 29 May 2020
Fraud Risk Management 3 December 2020
Tan Kee Jin Session on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 29 May 2020
Thematic Workshop on Corporate Liability Provision – Session 4 16 July 2020
Staying Ahead with Data Analytics by Asia School of Business (ICLIF
Executive Education Centre)
18 August 2020
Tan Yon Haw Session on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 29 May 2020
Vision 2020 – The Pandemic Digital Tipping Point and What to Expect in
2021
11 December 2020
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam Power Talk #10: The path to the next normal; so what now for leadership 21 April 2020
Impact of Covid 19- Perspective from China 22 April 2020
The new normal: expected trends in tax, economics and corporate
transaction
25 April 2020
The new normal amid Covid-19, Leverage on regional experiences
confirmation
27 April 2020
Navigating the Covid-19; the new normal of the work force 4 May 2020
Covid 19 and The New Normal; Corporate Rescue mechanism in times
of crisis
4 May 2020
Preparation on Corporate Liability on Corruption by David Cheng 25 July 2020
Roadmap to IPO: In Times of crisis 22 September 2020
Revolution and proven STAR BARS Technology with corrosion free, cost
effective and green solution for concrete reinforcement
22 September 2020
Fraud Risk Management and Cybersecurity 18 November 2020
029
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II - BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
Nominating and Remuneration Committee (Cont’d)
Director Programme Date
Phang Sze Fui Leveraging on Tax Measures to Maximise Cash flow 8 April 2020
COVID-19: In the Eyes of CFOs 16 April 2020
MASB Virtual Conference: Presentation of Financial Statements - A Change
for Better Comparability and Transparency of Companies’ Performance
Reporting
27 April 2020
Training on MACC Section 17A 18 June 2020
Capital Market Advisory Committee (CMAC) Webinar: Guidance Note on
Accountant’s Report by Reporting Accountants
25 June 2020
How business benefit from Human Resource Automation 5 November 2020
Managing your fraud risk: Are you doing enough (PWC Malaysia) 23 November 2020
2021 Budget Seminar 3 December 2020
Financial Modelling for forecasting, budgeting and financial statements
in excel
7 & 8 December 2020
Dato’ Albert Ding
Choo Earn
Session on Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption 29 May 2020
Annual Assessment
The Board conducted an annual assessment to evaluate the effectiveness of the Board and the Board Committees through the
NRC for the financial year ended 31 March 2021. Each Director completed separate evaluation questionnaires regarding the
processes of the Board and its Committees, their effectiveness and where improvements could be considered.
Based on the annual assessment conducted on 25 June 2021, the NRC was satisfied in its annual assessment of the effectiveness
of our Board as a whole and its Committee. The Board was of the opinion that the independence of the existing Independent Non-
Executive Directors remained unimpaired and their judgement over business dealings of the Company has not been influenced
by the interest of the other Directors or substantial shareholders.
All assessments and evaluations carried out will be documented and minuted by the Company Secretary. The results of all
assessment and comments by Directors are summarised and deliberated at the NRC meeting and thereafter reported to the
Board for deliberation.
PART III - REMUNERATION
The TOR of NRC are available for reference at the Company’s website at www.sdsgroups.com.
The NRC oversees the remuneration of directors. The remuneration for directors is in line with the Board’s aim to retain, attract
and reward talent based on industry benchmarks. The remuneration packages for Executive Directors and Senior Management
are linked to performance, qualifications, experience and scope of responsibility. As a matter of practice, the Directors concerned
abstain from deliberation and voting on their own remuneration at Board Meetings.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
030
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART III - REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
In accordance with the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), payment of directors’ fees and benefits shall be approved at a general
meeting. The Board shall seek shareholders’ approval at the upcoming AGM for the payment of directors’ fees and benefits for
the directors of the Group for the financial year 31 March 2021. The total remuneration of the Directors on a named basis whose
remuneration falls into each successive bands of RM50,000 are set out under Practice 7.1 of the CG Report 2021.
The Board is of the view that the disclosure of the Senior Management’s remuneration components will not be in the best interest
of the Group given the competitive human resources environment as such disclosure may give rise to talent recruitment and
retention issue. Also premised on the confidentiality of the remuneration package of our Senior Management, the Board has
adopted a disclosure of our Senior Management remuneration in bands of RM50,000 on an unnamed basis.
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
PART I - AUDIT COMMITTEE
In assisting the Board to discharge its duties on financial reporting, the Board has established an AC, comprising wholly
Independent Non-Executive Directors with Ms. Phang Sze Fui as the Committee Chairperson. The members of the AC collectively
are financially literate and are qualified to discharge their duties and responsibilities set out in its TOR. They constantly keep
abreast of relevant changes to financial reporting standards and pertinent issues which have a significant impact on financial
statements through regular updates from the external auditors and membership in professional bodies.
The AC assesses the suitability and independence of the external auditors on an annual basis. Areas of assessment including
amongst others, the external auditor’s objectivity and independence, audit fees, size and competency of the audit team, audit
strategy, audit reporting and partner involvement. The inputs/opinions from the Company’s personnel who had constantly
contacted with the external audit team throughout the year would also be used as a tool in the judgement of the suitability of
the external auditor.
The external auditors, in supporting their independence, will provide the AC with a written assurance confirming their independence
throughout the conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with the relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
The external auditors have provided such declaration in their annual audit plan presented to the AC during the financial year.
A summary of the activities carried out by the AC is set out in the AC Report of this Annual Report 2021.
PART II - RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
The Board has ultimate responsibility for reviewing the Company’s risks, approving the risk management framework and policy
and overseeing the Company’s strategic risk management and internal control framework to achieve its objectives within an
acceptable risk profile as well as safeguarding the interest of stakeholders and shareholders and the Group’s assets.
The RMC assists the Board in fulfilling its responsibility with respect to evaluating, reviewing and monitoring the Group’s risk
management framework and activities on on-going basis. The RMC reports to the Board regarding the Group’s risk exposures,
including review risk assessment model used to monitor the risk exposures and Management’s view on the acceptable and
appropriate level of risks faced by the Group.
Further information on the Group’s risk management and internal control framework is made available in the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control of this Annual Report 2021.
031
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP
WITH STAKEHOLDERS
PART I - COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS
The Board recognises the importance of being transparent and accountable to the Company’s shareholders and other
stakeholders.
Through its website www.sdsgroups.com and its announcements on Bursa Malaysia’s website, the Group shares mandatory
public announcements as well as publishes its quarterly and annual results. The quarterly financial results are announced via
Bursa LINK immediately after the Board’s approval. This is important in ensuring equal and fair access to information by the
investing public. The Company also has a dedicated electronic mail, i.e. info@sdsgroups.com to which stakeholders can direct
their queries or concerns.
The AGM also serves as a principal forum for dialogue with the shareholders where they will be given the opportunity to seek
and clarify any issues on the resolutions being proposed and also matters relating to the performance, developments within
and the future direction of the Group.
The Annual Report serves to provide a detailed account of SDS’s performance for the financial year as well as its business plans
and strategies going forward. The Notice of AGM together with Proxy Form is sent to shareholders 28 days prior to the AGM in
fulfilment of Practice 12.1 of the MCCG to enable shareholders to have sufficient time to make arrangements to attend, or to
send a proxy in their stead.
The Board continues to encourage shareholders to attend and voice their opinions and concerns and to vote accordingly.
PART II - CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS
The Company values its AGM as a key shareholder engagement channel. AGMs are conducted in a transparent manner with
comprehensive disclosure of financial results, business strategies, the Group’s risk factors and its prospects going forward.
Pursuant to the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, any resolution set out in the notice of any general meeting, or in any
notice of resolution which may properly be moved and is intended to be moved at any general meeting, must be voted by poll.
Hence, voting for all resolutions as set out in the Notice of the forthcoming AGM and future general meetings will be conducted
by poll. An independent scrutineer will be appointed to validate the votes cast at the general meetings.
Barring unforeseen circumstances, all Directors as well as the Chairman of the respective Board Committees will be present at
the forthcoming AGM of the Group to enable the shareholders to raise questions and concerns directly to those responsible.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
Saved as disclosed above, the Board is satisfied that throughout the financial year ended 31 March 2021, the Company has
applied the principles and recommendations of the corporate governance set out in MCCG, where necessary and appropriate.
This Statement is made by a resolution of the Directors dated 23 July 2021.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
032
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Introduction
Pursuant to Rule 15.26(b) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, the Board of Directors
(“the Board”) of SDS Group Berhad (“SDS” or “the Company”) is pleased to report on its Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control (the “Statement”), which provides an overview of the nature and state of risk management and internal controls
of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) for the financial year ended 31 March 2021. This Statement is guided by the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers and Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance 2017 (“MCCG 2017”).
Board Responsibility
The Board recognises the importance of good risk management practices and sound internal controls as a platform to good
corporate governance. The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility for maintaining a sound system of risk management
and internal control, and for reviewing its adequacy and effectiveness to ensure shareholders’ interest and the Group’s assets
are safeguarded. The Group’s risk management and internal controls not only covers the financial aspect of the Group, but
operational and compliance aspects of the Group system.
Given the inherent limitations in any risk management and internal control system, such a system is designed to manage rather
than eliminate risks that may impede the achievement of the Group’s business objectives. Therefore, the risk management and
internal control system can only provide reasonable and not absolute assurance against any material misstatement, loss, fraud
or irregularities.
Risk Management
The Board recognised that risk management is an integral part of the Group’s business operation and has, through delegation
to the Audit Committee (“AC”) and Risk Management Committee (“RMC”), established an on-going process for identifying,
evaluating and managing the significant risks faced by the Group and this process includes enhancing the risk management and
internal control system as and when there are changes to the business environment and regulatory requirements. The process
is subject to regular reviews by the Board.
The duties and responsibilities of the RMC in relation to risk management are as follows:
1. To oversee and recommend the risk management policies and procedures for our Group;
2. To review and recommend changes as needed to ensure that our Group has in place at all times a risk management policy
which addresses the strategic, operational, financial and compliance risks;
3. To implement and maintain a sound risk management framework which identifies, assesses, manages and monitors our
Group’s business risks;
4. To set reporting guidelines for management to report to the committee on the effectiveness of our Group’s management
of its business risks;
5. To review the risk profile of our Group including all our subsidiaries and to evaluate the measures taken to mitigate the
business risks; and
6. To review the adequacy of management response to issues identified in risk registers, ensuring that our risks are managed
within our Group’s risk appetite.
The Board has established an enterprise risk management policy which facilitates and enhance the Group’s ability to identify
and manage key business risk which the Group may face during its day-to-day management of operations, processes and
structures. A Risk Management Working Group (“RMWG”) comprising of the Head of Departments was established to assume
the overall responsibility for developing procedures and processes which identify, evaluate and monitor key business risks in
the operations of the Group. The RMWG has conducted discussions during the year to identify and address key business risks
faced by the Group. These risks were summarised and included in the Group’s risk management assessment report.
033
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Risk Management (Cont’d)
The RMC, supported by the IA, provides an independent assessment of the effectiveness of the Group’s Risk Management
framework and reports to the Board. This helps to reduce the uncertainties surrounding the Group’s internal and external
environment, thus allowing it to maximise opportunities and minimise adverse incidences that may arise.
Internal Audit
The Board is fully aware of the importance of the internal audit function. The Group has engaged an independent professional
consulting firm, Sterling Business Alignment Consulting Sdn. Bhd. (“IA Firm”), which report to the AC directly and assists the
Board and AC in providing an independent assessment on the adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of the Group’s system
of internal control.
The IA firm is free from any relationships or conflicts of interest, which could impair its objectivity and independence of the internal
audit function. The IA firm does not have any direct operational responsibility or authority over any of the activities audited. The
AC is of the opinion that the internal audit functions are effective and able to function independently.
Scheduled internal audits are carried out based on the annual audit plan approved by the AC. The internal auditors align their
current internal audit practices with the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) internal
Controls – Integrated Framework. Using this framework, all internal control assessments performed by IA are based on the
internal control elements, scope and coverage.
The assessment of the adequacy and effectiveness of internal controls established in mitigating risks is carried out through
interviews and discussion with the Management team, review of relevant established policies and procedures and authority
limits, and observing and testing of the internal controls on a sampling basis. The IA firm has presented its audit findings and
recommendation together with Management’s response and action plans to the AC. Subsequent review will be carried out to
follow up on the status of implementation of Management’s action plans and report to the AC accordingly.
For the financial year ended 31 March 2021, three (3) internal audit reviews had been carried out and reported by Internal Auditors:
Name of Entity Audited Audited Areas
• SDS Bakery & Cafeteria Sdn. Bhd. • Outlet Operations
• SDS and its subsidiaries • Anti-Bribery Management System
• City Cake House Sdn. Bhd.
• Daily Bakery Sdn. Bhd.
• SDS Bakery & Cafeteria Sdn. Bhd.
• SDS Food Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
• SDS Top Baker Sdn. Bhd.
• Super Arrow Trading Pte. Ltd.
• Finance and Accounts
Internal Control
The Board acknowledges that a sound system of internal control reduces, but cannot eliminate the possibility of poor judgement
in decision-making, human error, control processes being deliberately circumvented by employees, management overriding
controls, and the occurrence of unforeseeable circumstances.
The Management receives and reviews regular reports on key financial data, performance indicators and regulatory matters.
This is to ensure that matters requiring the Board’s attention are highlighted for review, deliberation and decision making on a
timely basis. The Board will approve the appropriate responses or amendments to the Group’s policies.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
034
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Internal Control (Cont’d)
The internal control matters are reviewed and the Board is updated on significant control gaps, if any, for the Board’s attention
and action. Issues relating to the business operations are also highlighted to the Board’s attention during Board meetings and
any significant fluctuation or exception noted will be analysed and acted in a timely manner.
Other key elements of the Group’s internal control systems are as follows:
• An organisational structure in the Group with clear lines of authority, accountability and responsibility;
• Clearly defined terms of reference, authorities and responsibilities of the various Board committees which include the AC,
RMC, Nominating Committee and Remuneration Committee;
• Formalised internal policies and procedures are in place to support the Group in achieving its business objectives. These
policies and procedures provide a basis for ensuring compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and also internal
controls with respect to the conduct of business;
• Quarterly review of financial performance by the Board and the AC;
• Active participation and involvement by the Managing Director (“MD”) and Executive Directors (“ED”) in the day-to-day
running of the major businesses and regular discussions with the Management of business units on operational issues;
• Review of internal audit reports and findings by the AC; and
• Monthly management meetings are conducted to review operational and financial performance.
The Group will continue to foster a risk-awareness culture in all decision making and manage all risks in a proactive and effective
manner. This is to enable the Group to respond effectively to the changing business and competitive environment.
Assurance
The Board regularly receives and reviews the report on the effectiveness of the risk management and internal control, and is of
the view that it is adequate to safeguard the shareholders’ interest and the Group’s assets. The role of the Management is to
implement the Board’s policies and guidelines on risks and controls, to identify and evaluate the risks faced and to operate a
suitable system of internal controls to manage these risks.
The Board has obtained assurances from the MD and Chief Financial Officer that the Group’s system of Risk Management and
Internal Control is operating adequately and effectively for the financial year under review and up to date as of this Statement.
Review of the Statement by External Auditors
As required by Rule 15.23 of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, the External Auditors
have reviewed this Statement pursuant to the scope set out in Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3: Guidance for
Auditors on Engagements to Report on the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control included in the Annual Report
issued by the Malaysia Institute of Accounts.
AAPG 3 does not require the External Auditors to consider whether this Statement covers all risks and controls, or to form an
opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control system.
Based on their procedures performed, the External Auditors have reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention
that cause them to believe that this Statement is not prepared, in all material aspects, in accordance with the disclosure required
by paragraphs 41 and 42 of the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers
to be set out, nor is factually inaccurate.
035
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Conclusion
For the financial year under review, the Board is of the view that the Group’s system of internal control and risk management
is adequate to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets. However, the Board is also cognisant of the fact
that the Group’s system of internal control and risk management practices must continuously evolve to meet the changing and
challenging business environment. Therefore, the Board will, when necessary, put in place appropriate action plans to further
enhance the Group’s system of internal control and risk management framework.
This Statement was approved by the Board on 23 July 2021.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
036
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
1. Membership and Meetings
The Audit Committee (“AC”) comprises of three (3) members of which all are Independent Non-Executive Directors, in
compliance with Rule 15.09 of the ACE Market Listing Requirements (“AMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”).
The members of the AC and details of their attendance at the AC Meetings during the financial year ended (“FYE’’)
31 March 2021 are as follows:
Name Designation Directorship Number of Meeting(s) Attended
Phang Sze Fui ^ Chairperson Independent Non-Executive 5/5
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam ^ Member Independent Non-Executive 5/5
Azahar bin Baharudin* Member Independent Non-Executive 2/2
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn Member Independent Non-Executive 5/5
^ Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
* Retired on 28 August 2020
The AC met five (5) times during the financial year. Other Board members and the Chief Financial Officer attended the
meetings by invitation of the AC. The representatives of internal and external auditors were also present during deliberations
of the subjects which required their input and advices.
2. Terms of Reference
The Terms of Reference of the AC are aligned with the AMLR of Bursa Securities and recommendations of the Malaysian
Code on Corporate Governance. The Terms of Reference will be revised accordingly, to cater for changes, if any. The
Terms of Reference is available at the Company’s website at www.sdsgroups.com.
3. Summary of Activities
During the FYE 31 March 2021, the AC carried out its duties as set out in its Terms of Reference which included the
following:
3.1 Financial Reporting
a) The AC had reviewed and ensured that the quarterly financial results of the Group complied with the Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards (“MRFS”) and Appendix 9B of the AMLR.
b) The AC had reviewed and made recommendation to the Board in respect of the annual Audited Financial
Statements of the Group and the Company for the FYE 31 March 2020 to ensure that it presented a true and
fair view of the Group’s and the Company’s financial position and performance for the year and compliance
with all the regulatory requirements.
037
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
3. Summary of Activities (Cont’d)
During the FYE 31 March 2021, the AC carried out its duties as set out in its Terms of Reference which included the
following (Cont’d):
3.1 Financial Reporting (Cont’d)
c) The summary of the AC meetings held were as follows:
Date of Meeting Activities
26 June 2020 Review of Fourth Quarter Results ended 31 March 2020
21 July 2020 Review of Audited Financial Statement for the FYE 31 March 2020
28 August 2020 Review of First Quarter Results ended 30 June 2020
27 November 2020 Review of Second Quarter Results ended 30 September 2020
26 February 2021 Review of Third Quarter Results ended 31 December 2020
3.2 Related Party Transactions
The AC had reviewed on quarterly basis the report of Recurrent Related Party Transactions (“RRPTs”) of the
Group presented by Management and ensured that these transactions are undertaken in the best interest of the
Company, fair, reasonable and on normal commercial terms as well as not detrimental to the interest of the minority
shareholders.
3.3 Annual Reporting
The AC had reviewed the AC Report, Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control and Circular on Proposed
Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for RRPTs to ensure adherence to legal and regulatory reporting requirements
and recommended the same to the Board for approval.
3.4 External Audit
a) On 26 June 2020, the AC had received and discussed the Audit Review Memorandum for the FYE 31 March
2020 presented by Crowe Malaysia PLT.
b) The AC evaluated the performance of the External Auditors covering areas such as calibre, quality processes,
audit team, independence, audit scope and audit communication as well as the audit fees. Based on the
evaluation, the AC had recommended to the Board for approval, the re-appointment of the External Auditors
for the financial year of 31 March 2021 at its meeting held on 21 July 2020.
c) On 26 February 2021, the AC had received and discussed the Audit Planning Memorandum for the FYE 31
March 2021 presented by Crowe Malaysia PLT.
3.5 Internal Audit
During the financial year, the AC had received and discussed the Internal Audit Reports on the internal control
environment of Production Planning, Production and Packing, Quality Assurance and Food Safety Management
System, Anti-Bribery Management System, and Outlet Operations functions. The AC had reviewed the results of
Internal Audit Report together with the recommendations from the Internal Auditors. The AC considered the Internal
Auditors’ recommendations taking into account Management’s responses.
The AC is of the opinion that it has discharged its duties in accordance with the Terms of Reference.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
038
AUDIT COMMITTEE
REPORT
4. Internal Audit Function
The Group’s Internal Audit function is outsourced to Sterling Business Alignment Consulting Sdn. Bhd., who assisted the
AC and the Board in providing independent assessment on the adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of the Group’s
internal control system. The IA audit processes were mainly:
- To review the adequacy and test the integrity of the system of internal controls;
- To assess compliance with policies and procedures and recommended best practices; and
- To review and identify any potential areas for improvement in the effectiveness and efficiency of the processes (if
any).
The Internal Auditor reports directly to the AC. The Internal Auditor is guided by the Professional Practices Framework by
the Institute of Internal Auditors. Observations and findings from the audit reviews, including the recommended corrective
actions were discussed with the Management. The internal audit report together with the Management’s response and
proposed corrective action plans were then presented to the AC for their review during the AC meetings. Follow up reviews
were also conducted to ensure corrective actions have been implemented.
The fees incurred for the outsourcing of the internal audit function for the FYE 31 March 2021 was RM30,000.
039
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
ADDITIONAL
COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES
The amount of audit fees and non-audit fees paid or payable to the Company’s External Auditors by the Group and the Company
for the financial year ended 31 March 2021 are as follows:
					
Group Company
					RM’000 RM’000
Audit services rendered					 145 20
Non-audit services rendered					 5 5
Total					
150 25
MATERIAL CONTRACTS
There were no material contracts entered into by the Group involving Directors’ and major shareholders’ interest which were still
subsisting as at the end of the financial year or which were entered into since the end of the previous financial period.
MATERIAL CONTRACTS RELATING TO LOANS
There were no material contracts relating to loans entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’, chief
executive’s and/or major shareholders’ interests.
UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS
The Company carried out its Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) exercise in 2019 and was listed on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad on 7 October 2019. Pursuant to the said listing, the Company had successfully raised gross proceeds of
RM23.99 million from the issuance of 104,296,800 new ordinary shares in the Company at an issue price of RM0.23 per share.
As at 31 March 2021, we have utilised RM20.77 million of the total IPO gross proceeds of RM23.99 million, details of which are
as described in the following table:
Details of Utilisation
Proposed
Utilisation
RM’000
Actual
Utilisation
RM’000
Unutilised
Amount
RM’000
Estimated
Timeframe for
Utilisation (from the
date of listing)
1. Capital expenditure 6,000 2,780 3,220 Within 24 months
2. Repayment of bank borrowings 7,000 7,000 - Within 6 months
3. General working capital 7,788 7,788 - Within 12 months
4. Estimated listing expenses 3,200 3,200 - Immediately
Total 23,988 20,768 3,220
Note: The utilisation of proceeds disclosed above should be read in conjunction with the Prospectus of the Company dated 23
August 2019.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
040
ADDITIONAL
COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS (“RRPT”)
The breakdown of the aggregate value of the RRPT made during the financial year ended 31 March 2021 is as follows:
Nature of RRPTs
Transacting Related Parties Relationship of Related
Parties with SDS Group
Berhad (“SDSG”)
Aggregate value of
RRPT for 31 March
2021 (RM’000)
Provider Recipient
1. Rental expense of
premises
KS Tan Properties
Sdn. Bhd.
SDS Food
Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
Tan Kim Seng is a Director and
Substantial Shareholder of
SDSG and KS Tan Properties
Sdn. Bhd. respectively.
Tan Kee Jin is a Director of
SDSG and the son of Tan Kim
Seng.
48
2. Rental income of
premises
SDS Bakery &
Cafeteria Sdn.
Bhd.
KS Tan Properties
Sdn. Bhd.
6
3. Rental expense of
premises
SDS Tan
Properties Sdn.
Bhd.
• SDS Top Baker
Sdn. Bhd.
• SDS Bakery &
Cafeteria Sdn.
Bhd.
• Daily Bakery
Sdn. Bhd.
Tan Kim Seng and Tan Kim
Chai are Directors and
Substantial Shareholders of
SDSG and SDS Tan Properties
Sdn. Bhd. respectively.
Tan Kee Jin is a Director of
SDSG and the son of Tan Kim
Seng.
335
4. Rental expense of
premises
Ng Chau Meng SDS Top Baker
Sdn. Bhd.
Ng Chau Meng is the spouse
of Tan Kim Chai who is Director
and Substantial Shareholder
of SDSG.
18
041
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
FOR THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(Pursuant to Rule 15.26(a) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements)
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”) to prepare the financial statements for each financial year
which have been made out in accordance with applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia.
The Directors are responsible to ensure that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group
and of the Company at the end of the financial year, and of the results and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have:
(i) Adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
(ii) Made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
(iii) Prepared the financial statements on a going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible to ensure that the Group and the Company keep accounting records which disclose the financial
position of the Group and of the Company with reasonable accuracy at any time, thus enabling the financial statements to be
complied with the requirements of the Act and have been made out in accordance with applicable Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities.
The Directors are responsible for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group and of
the Company and to detect and prevent fraud and other irregularities.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
042
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
44 Directors’ Report
49 Statement by Directors
49 Statutory Declaration
50 Independent Auditors’ Report
54 Statements of Financial Position
56 Statements of Profit or Loss and
Other Comprehensive Income
57 Statements of Changes in Equity
60 Statements of Cash Flows
62 Notes to the Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
The directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the financial
year ended 31 March 2021.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in the business of investment holding. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are set
out in Note 5 to the financial statements.
RESULTS
					The The
					
Group Company
					RM’000 RM’000
Profit after tax for the financial year 					 7,078 1,547
Attributable to:-
Owners of the Company 					 7,271 1,547
Non-controlling interests 					 (193) -
					7,078 1,547
DIVIDEND
No dividend was recommended by the directors for the financial year.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed in the
financial statements.
ISSUES OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
During the financial year:-
(a) there were no changes in the issued and paid-up share capital of the Company; and
(b) there were no issues of debentures by the Company.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
During the financial year, no options were granted by the Company to any person to take up any unissued shares in the Company.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
044
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
BAD AND DOUBTFUL DEBTS
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the directors took reasonable steps to ascertain
that action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of allowance for impairment losses on
receivables and satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that adequate allowance had been made
for impairment losses on receivables.
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances that would require the further writing off of bad debts,
or the making of additional allowance for impairment losses on receivables in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company.
CURRENT ASSETS
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the directors took reasonable steps to ensure
that any current assets, which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business, including their value as shown in
the accounting records of the Group and of the Company, have been written down to an amount which they might be expected
so to realise.
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which would render the values attributed to the current
assets in the financial statements misleading.
VALUATION METHODS
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances which have arisen which render adherence to the
existing methods of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.
CONTINGENT AND OTHER LIABILITIES
At the date of this report, there does not exist:-
(a) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company that has arisen since the end of the financial year which secures
the liabilities of any other person; or
(b) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.
No contingent or other liability of the Group and of the Company has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable
within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the directors, will or may substantially
affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to meet their obligations when they fall due.
CHANGE OF CIRCUMSTANCES
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company which would render any amount stated in the financial statements misleading.
045
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
ITEMS OF AN UNUSUAL NATURE
The results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year were not, in the opinion of the directors,
substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.
There has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report any item, transaction or event
of a material and unusual nature likely, in the opinion of the directors, to affect substantially the results of the operations of the
Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.
DIRECTORS
The names of directors of the Company who served during the financial year and up to the date of this report are as follows:-
Tan Kim Chai
Tan Kim Seng
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam
Phang Sze Fui
Tan Kee Jin
Tan Yon Haw
Azahar Bin Baharudin (Retired on 28.08.2020)
The names of directors of the Company’s subsidiaries who served during the financial year and up to the date of this report, not
including those directors mentioned above, are as follows:-
Lee Mok Koon
Tan Yong Thye
Teou Chau Hoyk
Ibrahim Bin Abd. Hamid (Demised on 29.05.2021)
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
According to the register of directors’ shareholdings, the interests of directors holding office at the end of the financial year in
shares of the Company and its related corporations during the financial year are as follows:-
<------------------ Number of Ordinary Shares ------------------>
			
At		 At
The Company			 1.4.2020 Bought Sold 31.3.2021
Direct Interests
Tan Kim Chai 			 98,885,580 - - 98,885,580
Tan Kim Seng 			 99,040,780 - - 99,040,780
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn 			 250,000 20,000 - 270,000
Tan Kee Jin 			 1,131,800 - - 1,131,800
Tan Yon Haw 			 21,366,970 - (2,250,000) 19,116,970
Indirect Interests
Tan Kim Chai ^ 			 4,451,620 - (650,000) 3,801,620
Tan Kim Seng # 			 4,701,620 - (650,000) 4,051,620
SDS GROUP BERHAD
046
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS (CONT’D)
^ Deemed interested by virtue of his direct substantial shareholding in SDS Tan Properties Sdn. Bhd.
# Deemed interested by virtue of his direct substantial shareholding in SDS Tan Properties Sdn. Bhd. and interest through
his son’s direct shareholding in the Company.
By virtue of their substantial shareholding in the Company, Tan Kim Chai and Tan Kim Seng are deemed to have interests in
shares in its related corporations during the financial year to the extent of the Company’s interests, in accordance with Section
8 of the Companies Act 2016.
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, no director has received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other than a
benefit included in the aggregate amount of remuneration received or due and receivable by directors shown in the financial
statements, or the fixed salary of a full-time employee of the Company or related corporations) by reason of a contract made
by the Company or a related corporation with the director or with a firm of which the director is a member, or with a company in
which the director has a substantial financial interest except for any benefits which may be deemed to arise from transactions
entered into in the ordinary course of business with companies in which certain directors have substantial financial interests as
disclosed in Note 30(b) to the financial statements.
Neither during nor at the end of the financial year was the Group or the Company a party to any arrangements whose object is
to enable the directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other
body corporate.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The details of the directors’ remuneration paid or payable to the directors of the Group and of the Company during the financial
year are disclosed in Note 29(a) to the financial statements.
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE COST
During the financial year, there was no indemnity given to or professional indemnity insurance effected for directors, officers or
auditors of the Group and of the Company.
SUBSIDIARIES
The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
The significant event during the financial year is disclosed in Note 34 to the financial statements.
047
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
AUDITORS
The auditors, Crowe Malaysia PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
The details of the auditors’ remuneration are disclosed in Note 25 to the financial statements.
Signed in accordance with a resolution of the directors dated 23 July 2021.
____________________ ____________________
Tan Kim Chai Tan Kim Seng
SDS GROUP BERHAD
048
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
AND STATUTORY DECLARATION
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
We, Tan Kim Chai and Tan Kim Seng, being two of the directors of SDS Group Berhad, state that, in the opinion of the directors,
the financial statements set out on pages 54 to 119 are drawn up in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards,
International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true
and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as of 31 March 2021 and of their financial performance
and cash flows for the financial year ended on that date.
Signed in accordance with a resolution of the directors dated 23 July 2021.
____________________ ____________________
Tan Kim Chai Tan Kim Seng
STATUTORY DECLARATION
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1)(b) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
I, Tan Kee Meng, MIA Membership Number: 42904, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of SDS
Group Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 54 to 119 are, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the declaration to be true, and by
virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the abovementioned
Tan Kee Meng
at Johor Bahru
in the State of Johor
on this 23 July 2021
____________________
		 Tan Kee Meng
Before me
Nur Amreeta Kaur Gubachen Singh
Commissioner for Oaths
No. J276
049
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF SDS GROUP BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia) Registration No: 201701026951 (1241117-T)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of SDS Group Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as at 31
March 2021 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statements
of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended, and notes
to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 54 to 119.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of
the Company as at 31 March 2021, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then ended in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements
of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing.
Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial
Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide
a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and
Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’
International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”),
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the context of our
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do
not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue Recognition
Refer to Notes 4.19 and 24 to the financial statements
Key Audit Matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Total revenue of the Group for the financial year ended 31
March 2021 amounted to RM173.78 million, which represents
the most significant amount in the financial statements.
We identified this area as our key audit matter due to the
voluminous transactions, whereby there is a risk that revenue
may be over or understated intentionally or unintentionally.
Our procedures included, amongst others:-
• Tested the business process controls over the timing for
the recognition of revenue and the amount of revenue
recognised;
• Tested sales transactions recorded to the relevant
documents which evidenced the delivery of goods to
customers as an indication of transfer of control on
goods to ascertain validity of sales; and
• Tested the recording of sales transactions close to the
financial year end, including test of revenue cut-off
and review of credit notes issued after the financial
year ended, to establish whether the transactions were
recorded in the correct reporting period.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
050
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF SDS GROUP BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia) Registration No: 201701026951 (1241117-T)
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included
in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our auditors’ report
thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of
the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are
required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that
give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards
and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also responsible for such internal control as the
directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s
and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using
the going concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement
when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing, we
exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:-
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence
that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and the Company’s
internal control.
051
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing, we
exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also (Cont’d ):-
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by the directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt
on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists,
we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or
the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the underlying
transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within
the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction, supervision
and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence,
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence,
and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the key audit matters.
We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when,
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiary of which we have not
acted as auditors, is disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF SDS GROUP BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia) Registration No: 201701026951 (1241117-T)
SDS GROUP BERHAD
052
OTHER MATTERS
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.
________________________________ ________________________________
Crowe Malaysia PLT Tan Lin Chun
201906000005 (LLP0018817-LCA) & AF 1018 02839/10/2021 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Johor Bahru
23 July 2021
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF SDS GROUP BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia) Registration No: 201701026951 (1241117-T)
053
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AT 31 MARCH 2021
The Group The Company
			 2021 2020 2021 2020
		 Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Investments in subsidiaries		 5 - - 30,572 30,572
Property, plant and equipment 		 6 82,927 86,544 - -
Right-of-use assets 		 7 18,842 26,775 - -
Amount owing by subsidiaries 		 8 - - 10,050 14,272
Goodwill 		 9 162 162 - -
Deferred tax assets 		 10 1,447 2,405 - -
			 103,378 115,886 40,622 44,844
CURRENT ASSETS
Inventories 		 11 5,706 5,330 - -
Trade receivables 		 12 7,681 9,392 - -
Other receivables, deposits and prepayments 13 4,274 4,539 15 218
Amount owing by subsidiaries		 8 - - 2,036 271
Current tax assets 			 795 600 - -
Cash and bank balances 			 17,185 10,457 10,318 6,094
			 35,641 30,318 12,369 6,583
TOTAL ASSETS 			 139,019 146,204 52,991 51,427
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
054
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AT 31 MARCH 2021
The Group The Company
			 2021 2020 2021 2020
		 Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Share capital 		 14 53,111 53,111 53,111 53,111
Reserves 		 15 18,801 11,487 (269) (1,816)
Equity attributable to owners of the Company 		 71,912 64,598 52,842 51,295
Non-controlling interests 			 359 552 - -
TOTAL EQUITY 			 72,271 65,150 52,842 51,295
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Lease liabilities 		 16 9,633 16,539 - -
Term loans 		 17 22,727 26,610 - -
Deferred tax liabilities 		 18 2,671 2,659 - -
Contract liabilities 		 19 197 78 - -
			 35,228 45,886 - -
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Trade payables 		 20 14,892 17,041 - -
Other payables and accruals 		 21 5,531 6,394 109 77
Amount owing to subsidiaries 		 22 - - * 32
Lease liabilities 		 16 7,808 8,380 - -
Term loans 		 17 2,900 2,757 - -
Bank overdrafts 		 23 - 475 - -
Contract liabilities 		 19 278 26 - -
Current tax liabilities 			 111 95 40 23
			 31,520 35,168 149 132
TOTAL LIABILITIES 			 66,748 81,054 149 132
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 			 139,019 146,204 52,991 51,427
* Denotes amount less than RM500.
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
055
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
The Group The Company
			 2021 2020 2021 2020
		 Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue 		 24 173,778 191,520 1,536 306
Cost of sales 			 (120,790) (134,327) - -
Gross profit 			 52,988 57,193 1,536 306
Other income 			 1,161 1,478 589 382
Administrative expenses 			 (12,040) (13,688) (326) (284)
Selling and distribution expenses 			 (30,259) (34,280) - -
Other operating expenses 			 (210) (2,465) (131) (2,164)
Finance costs 			 (2,051) (3,240) - -
Profit/(Loss) before tax 		 25 9,589 4,998 1,668 (1,760)
Income tax expense 		 26 (2,511) (786) (121) (44)
Profit/(Loss) after tax 			 7,078 4,212 1,547 (1,804)
Other comprehensive income
Item that will be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss
Foreign currency translation differences 		 43 7 - -
Total comprehensive income/(expenses)
for the financial year 			 7,121 4,219 1,547 (1,804)
PROFIT/(LOSS) AFTER TAX
ATTRIBUTABLE TO:-
Owners of the Company 			 7,271 4,074 1,547 (1,804)
Non-controlling interests			 (193) 138 - -
			 7,078 4,212 1,547 (1,804)
TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME/
(EXPENSES) ATTRIBUTABLE TO:-
Owners of the Company 			 7,314 4,081 1,547 (1,804)
Non-controlling interests 			 (193) 138 - -
			 7,121 4,219 1,547 (1,804)
EARNINGS PER SHARE (SEN)
Basic / Diluted		 27 1.79 1.16
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
056
<-- Non-Distributable--> Distributable
						
Foreign 		
Attributable
						 Exchange 		 to Owners Non-
				 Share Merger Translation Retained of the controlling Total
				 Capital Deficit Reserve Profits Company Interests Equity
The Group 				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Balance at 1.4.2020 				 53,111 (27,760) 461 38,786 64,598 552 65,150
Profit/(Loss) after tax for the financial year 			 - - - 7,271 7,271 (193) 7,078
Other comprehensive income for the financial year:
- Foreign currency translation differences 			 - - 43 - 43 - 43
Total comprehensive income/(expenses) for the financial year		 - - 43 7,271 7,314 (193) 7,121
Balance at 31.3.2021 				 53,111 (27,760) 504 46,057 71,912 359 72,271
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
057
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
<- Non-Distributable -> Distributable
						 Foreign 		 Attributable
						 Exchange 		 to Owners Non-
				 Share Merger Translation Retained of the controlling Total
				 Capital Deficit Reserve Profits Company Interests Equity
The Group 			 Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Balance at 1.4.2019 				 2,750 - 454 35,018 38,222 512 38,734
Initial application of MFRS 16 				 - - - (244) (244) - (244)
Balance at 1.4.2019 (restated) 				 2,750 - 454 34,774 37,978 512 38,490
Profit after tax for the financial year 				 - - - 4,074 4,074 138 4,212
Other comprehensive income for the financial year:
- Foreign currency translation differences 			 - - 7 - 7 - 7
Total comprehensive income for the financial year 			 - - 7 4,074 4,081 138 4,219
Contributions by and distributions to owners of the
Company:
- Issuance of shares pursuant to acquisitions of
subsidiaries 			 14 30,572 (27,760) - (62) 2,750 - 2,750
- Elimination of subsidiaries’ share capital 		 14 (2,750) - - - (2,750) - (2,750)
- Issuance of shares pursuant to public issue 		 14 23,988 - - - 23,988 - 23,988
- Dividends by a subsidiary to non-controlling interests 		 - - - - - (98) (98)
Total transactions with owners 				 51,810 (27,760) - (62) 23,988 (98) 23,890
Listing expenses 			 14 (1,449) - - - (1,449) - (1,449)
Balance at 31.3.2020 				 53,111 (27,760) 461 38,786 64,598 552 65,150
Merger accounting has been adopted in respect of the acquisitions of subsidiaries in the previous financial year. The Group’s comparatives have been presented
on the combined basis that the business had been effected from the earliest period presented.
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
058
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
				 Share Accumulated Total
				 Capital Losses Equity
The Company			 Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Balance at 1.4.2019 				 * (12) (12)
Loss after tax/Total comprehensive expenses
for the financial year 				 - (1,804) (1,804)
Contributions by owners of the Company:
- Issuance of shares pursuant to:
- acquisitions of subsidiaries 			 14 30,572 - 30,572
- public issue 			 14 23,988 - 23,988
Total transactions with owners 				 54,560 - 54,560
Listing expenses 			 14 (1,449) - (1,449)
Balance at 31.3.2020/1.4.2020 				 53,111 (1,816) 51,295
Profit after tax/Total comprehensive income
for the financial year 				 - 1,547 1,547
Balance at 31.3.2021 				 53,111 (269) 52,842
* Denotes amount less than RM500.
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
059
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
The Group The Company
			 2021 2020 2021 2020
		 Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM/(FOR) OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit/(Loss) before tax 			 9,589 4,998 1,668 (1,760)
Adjustments for:-
Allowance for impairment losses on
trade receivables 			 34 74 - -
Bad debts written off 			 14 13 - -
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 		 8,053 7,487 - -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 			 7,519 8,328 - -
Interest expense on lease liabilities 			 975 1,674 - -
Other interest expense 			 1,076 1,566 - -
Inventories written down 			 45 - - -
Property, plant and equipment written off 		 20 4 - -
Unrealised loss/(gain) on foreign exchange 		 3 (4) - -
(Gain)/Loss on disposal of property, plant and
equipment 			 (430) 68 - -
Gain on lease termination 			 (140) (82) - -
Dividend income 			 - - (1,536) (306)
Interest income 			 (175) (142) (589) (382)
Operating profit/(loss) before working capital changes 		 26,583 23,984 (457) (2,448)
Increase in inventories			 (421) (127) - -
Decrease/(Increase) in trade and other receivables 		 2,120 1,436 203 (201)
(Decrease)/Increase in trade and other payables 		 (2,554) (9,820) 32 75
(Decrease)/Increase in amount owing to subsidiaries 		 - - (32) 32
Increase/(Decrease) in contract liabilities 		 371 (32) - -
CASH FROM/(FOR) OPERATIONS 			 26,099 15,441 (254) (2,542)
Income tax paid			 (1,722) (2,193) (104) (21)
Income tax refunded 			 - 995 - -
NET CASH FROM/(FOR) OPERATING ACTIVITIES 		 24,377 14,243 (358) (2,563)
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
060
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
The Group The Company
			 2021 2020 2021 2020
		 Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
CASH FLOWS (FOR)/FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Addition to right-of-use assets 		 28(a) - (450) - -
Deposit paid for future purchase of property,
plant and equipment 			 (614) (424) - -
Dividend received 			 - - 1,536 306
Interest received 			 175 142 824 111
Net repayment from/(advances to) subsidiaries		 - - 2,222 (14,272)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and
equipment:
- current financial year 			 571 128 - -
- previous financial year 			 34 - - -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment: 28(a)
- current financial year 			 (3,581) (11,356) - -
- previous financial year 			 (623) - - -
NET CASH (FOR)/FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES (4,038) (11,960) 4,582 (13,855)
CASH FLOWS (FOR)/FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Dividend paid 			 - (98) - -
Drawdown of bankers’ acceptance 		 28(b) 1,654 2,348 - -
Drawdown of term loans 		 28(b) 75 2,346 - -
Interest paid			 (2,051) (3,240) - -
Payment of listing expenses 			 - (1,449) - (1,449)
Proceeds from issuance of shares 			 - 23,988 - 23,988
Repayment of bankers’ acceptance 		 28(b) (1,654) (3,296) - -
Repayment of lease liabilities 		 28(b) (7,387) (15,829) - -
Repayment of term loans 		 28(b) (3,815) (2,811) - -
Repayment to other payable 			 - - - (40)
NET CASH (FOR)/FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES 		 (13,178) 1,959 - 22,499
NET INCREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 		 7,161 4,242 4,224 6,081
EFFECT OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE TRANSLATION 		 42 12 - -
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT
BEGINNING OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR 		 9,982 5,728 6,094 13
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT
END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR 		 28(d) 17,185 9,982 10,318 6,094
The annexed notes form an integral part of these financial statements.
061
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia. The registered office and
principal place of business are as follows:-
Registered office : 5-9A, The Boulevard Offices
			 Mid Valley City
			 Lingkaran Syed Putra
			 59200 Kuala Lumpur
Principal place of business : 5, Jalan Selatan 8
			 Off Jalan Kempas Lama
			 Kawasan Perusahaan Ringan Pulai
			 81200 Johor Bahru
			Johor
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the directors
dated 23 July 2021.
2. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in the business of investment holding. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are
set out in Note 5 to the financial statements.
3. BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements of the Group are prepared under the historical cost convention and modified to include other
bases of valuation as disclosed in other sections under significant accounting policies, and in compliance with Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
3.1 During the current financial year, the Group has adopted the following new applicable accounting standards and/
or interpretation (including the consequential amendments, if any):-
MFRSs (Including The Consequential Amendments)
Amendments to MFRS 3: Definition of a Business
Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 139 and MFRS 7: Interest Rate Benchmark Reform
Amendments to MFRS 101 and MFRS 108: Definition of Material
Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in MFRS Standards
The adoption of the above applicable accounting standards (including the consequential amendments, if any) did
not have any material impact on the Group’s financial statements.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
062
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
3. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONT’D)
3.2 The Group has not applied in advance the following applicable accounting standards (including the consequential
amendments, if any) that have been issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (MASB) but are not yet
effective for the current financial year:-
MFRSs (Including The Consequential Amendments) Effective Date
Amendments to MFRS 3: Reference to the Conceptual Framework 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 139, MFRS 7, MFRS 4 and MFRS 16: Interest Rate Benchmark
Reform – Phase 2 1 January 2021
Amendment to MFRS 16: Covid-19-Related Rent Concessions 1 June 2020
Amendment to MFRS 16: Covid-19-Related Rent Concessions beyond 30 June 2021 1 April 2021
Amendment to MFRS 101: Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 101: Disclosure of Accounting Policies 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 108: Definition of Accounting Estimates 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 112: Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single
Transaction 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 116: Property, Plant and Equipment – Proceeds before Intended Use 1 January 2022
Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018 – 2020 1 January 2022
The adoption of the above accounting standards (including the consequential amendments, if any) is expected to
have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group upon their initial application.
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
4.1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS
The outbreak of the COVID-19 has brought unprecedented challenges and added economic uncertainties in
Malaysia and markets in which the Group operates. While the Group has considered the potential financial impact
of the COVID-19 pandemic in the preparation of these financial statements, the full financial impact to the Group
remains uncertain. Accordingly, there is a possibility that factors not currently anticipated by management could
occur in the future and therefore affect the recognition and measurement of the Group’s assets and liabilities at the
reporting date.
063
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONT’D)
Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty
Management believes that there are no key assumptions made concerning the future, and other key sources of
estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year other than as disclosed below:-
(a) Depreciation of Property, Plant and Equipment and Right-of-use Assets
The estimates for the residual values, useful lives and related depreciation charges for the property, plant
and equipment and right-of-use assets are based on commercial factors which could change significantly
as a result of technical innovations and competitors’ actions in response to the market conditions. The
Group anticipates that the residual values of its property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets will
be insignificant. As a result, residual values are not being taken into consideration for the computation of the
depreciable amount. Changes in the expected level of usage and technological development could impact
the economic useful lives and the residual values of these assets, therefore future depreciation charges could
be revised.
(b) Income Taxes
There are certain transactions and computations for which the ultimate tax determination may be different
from the initial estimate. The Group recognises tax liabilities based on its understanding of the prevailing
tax laws and estimates of whether such taxes will be due in the ordinary course of business. Where the final
outcome of these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recognised, such difference will
impact the income tax expense and deferred tax balances in the year in which such determination is made.
(c) Deferred Tax Assets
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all unabsorbed capital allowances and reinvestment allowance to the
extent that it is probable that future taxable profits would be available against which the unabsorbed capital
allowances and reinvestment allowance could be utilised. Management judgement is required to determine
the amount of deferred tax assets that can be recognised, based on the assessment of the probability of the
future taxable profits.
Critical Judgements Made in Applying Accounting Policies
Management believes that there are no instances of application of critical judgement in applying the Group’s
accounting policies which will have a significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements other
than as disclosed below:-
Lease Terms
Some leases contain extension options exercisable by the Group before the end of the non-cancellable contract
period. In determining the lease term, management considers all facts and circumstances including the past practice
and any cost that will be incurred to change the asset if an option to extend is not taken. An extension option is only
included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be extended (or not terminated).
SDS GROUP BERHAD
064
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.1 CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND JUDGEMENTS (CONT’D)
Critical Judgements Made in Applying Accounting Policies (Cont’d)
Lease Terms (Cont’d)
In determining the incremental borrowing rate of the respective leases, the Group first determines the closest
available borrowing rates before using significant judgement to determine the adjustments required to reflect the
term, security, value or economic environment of the respective leases.
4.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION
The consolidated financial statements include the financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries made
up to the end of the reporting period.
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The Group controls an entity when the Group is exposed to, or
has rights to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through
its power over the entity. Potential voting rights are considered when assessing control only when such rights are
substantive. The Group also considers it has de facto power over an investee when, despite not having the majority
of voting rights, it has the current ability to direct the activities of the investee that significantly affect the investee’s
return.
Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Group up to the effective date on
which control ceases, as appropriate.
Intragroup transactions, balances, income and expenses are eliminated on consolidation. Intragroup losses
may indicate an impairment that requires recognition in the consolidated financial statements. Where necessary,
adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to ensure consistency of accounting policies with
those of the Group.
(a) Business Combinations
Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. Under the acquisition method,
the consideration transferred for acquisition of a subsidiary is the fair value of the assets transferred, liabilities
incurred and the equity interests issued by the Group at the acquisition date. The consideration transferred
includes the fair value of any asset or liability resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement.
Acquisition-related costs, other than the costs to issue debt or equity securities, are recognised in profit or
loss when incurred.
In a business combination achieved in stages, previously held equity interests in the acquiree are remeasured
to fair value at the acquisition date and any corresponding gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss.
Non-controlling interests in the acquiree may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non-controlling
interests’ proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the date of acquisition.
The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-by-transaction basis.
065
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION (CONT’D)
(b) Merger Accounting for Common Control Business Combinations
A business combination involving entities under common control is a business combination in which all the
combining entities or subsidiaries are ultimately controlled by the same party and parties both before and
after the business combination, and that control is not transitory.
Subsidiaries acquired which have met the criteria for pooling of interest are accounted for using merger
accounting principles. Under the merger method of accounting, the results of the subsidiaries are presented
as if the merger had been effected throughout the current financial year.
The assets and liabilities combined are accounted for based on the carrying amounts from the perspective
of the common control shareholder at the date of transfer. No amount is recognised in respect of goodwill
and excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities
and contingent liabilities over cost at the time of the common control business combination to the extent of
the continuation of the controlling party and parties’ interests.
When the merger method is used, the cost of investment in the Company’s books is recorded at the nominal
value of shares issued. The difference between the carrying value of the investment and the nominal value
of the shares of the subsidiaries is treated as a merger deficit or merger reserve as applicable. The results of
the subsidiaries being merged are included for the full financial year.
(c) Non-controlling Interests
Non-controlling interests are presented within equity in the consolidated statements of financial position,
separately from the equity attributable to owners of the Company. Profit or loss and each component of other
comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-controlling interests.
Total comprehensive income is attributed to non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling
interests having a deficit balance.
(d) Changes in Ownership Interests in Subsidiaries Without Change of Control
All changes in the parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted
for as equity transactions. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted
and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in the equity of the Group.
(e) Loss of Control
Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group recognises any gain or loss on disposal in profit or loss
which is calculated as the difference between:-
(i) the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest
in the former subsidiary; and
(ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the former subsidiary
and any non-controlling interests.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
066
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.2 BASIS OF CONSOLIDATION (CONT’D)
(e) Loss of Control (Cont’d)
Amounts previously recognised in other comprehensive income in relation to the former subsidiary are
accounted for in the same manner as would be required if the relevant assets or liabilities were disposed of
(i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained profits). The fair value of any investments
retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value of the initial
recognition for subsequent accounting under MFRS 9 or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of
an investment in an associate or a joint venture.
4.3 GOODWILL
Goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any. The carrying value of goodwill is reviewed
for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount
may be impaired. The impairment value of goodwill is recognised immediately in profit or loss. An impairment loss
recognised for goodwill is not reversed in a subsequent period.
Under the acquisition method, any excess of the sum of the fair value of the consideration transferred in the business
combination, the amount of non-controlling interests recognised and the fair value of the Group’s previously held
equity interest in the acquiree (if any), over the net fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable assets and liabilities at the
date of acquisition is recorded as goodwill.
Where the latter amount exceeds the former, after reassessment, the excess represents a bargain purchase gain
and is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
4.4 FUNCTIONAL AND FOREIGN CURRENCIES
(a) Functional and Presentation Currency
The individual financial statements of each entity in the Group are presented in the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the entity operates, which is the functional currency.
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Group’s functional
and presentation currency and has been rounded to the nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.
(b) Foreign Currency Transactions and Balances
Transactions in foreign currencies are converted into the respective functional currencies on initial recognition,
using the exchange rates at the transaction dates. Monetary assets and liabilities at the end of the reporting
period are translated at the exchange rates ruling as of that date. Non-monetary assets and liabilities are
translated using exchange rates that existed when the values were determined. All exchange differences
are recognised in profit or loss.
067
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.4 FUNCTIONAL AND FOREIGN CURRENCIES (CONT’D)
(c) Foreign Operations
Assets and liabilities of foreign operations (including any goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on
acquisition) are translated to the Group’s presentation currency at the exchange rates at the end of the
reporting period. Income, expenses and other comprehensive income of foreign operations are translated at
exchange rates at the dates of the transactions. All exchange differences arising from translation are taken
directly to other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity; attributed to the owners of the Company
and non-controlling interests, as appropriate.
Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising from the acquisition of foreign operations are treated as assets
and liabilities of the foreign operations and are recorded in the functional currency of the foreign operations
and translated at the closing rate at the end of the reporting period.
4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the statements of financial position when the Group has
become a party to the contractual provisions of the instruments.
Financial instruments are classified as financial assets, financial liabilities or equity instruments in accordance with
the substance of the contractual arrangement and their definitions in MFRS 132. Interest, dividends, gains and
losses relating to a financial instrument classified as liability are reported as an expense or income. Distributions
to holders of financial instruments classified as equity are charged directly to equity.
Financial instruments are offset when the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset and intends to settle either
on a net basis or to realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously.
A financial instrument is recognised initially at its fair value (other than trade receivables without significant financing
component which are measured at transaction price as defined in MFRS 15 at inception). Transaction costs that
are directly attributable to the acquisition or issue of the financial instrument (other than a financial instrument at
fair value through profit or loss) are added to/deducted from the fair value on initial recognition, as appropriate.
Transaction costs on the financial instrument at fair value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit
or loss.
Financial instruments recognised in the statements of financial position are disclosed in the individual policy
statement associated with each item.
(a) Financial Assets
All recognised financial assets are measured subsequently in their entirety at either amortised cost or fair
value (through profit or loss, or other comprehensive income), depending on the classification of the financial
assets.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
068
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(a) Financial Assets (Cont’d)
Debt Instruments
(i) Amortised Cost
The financial asset is held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent
solely payments of principal and interest. Interest income is recognised by applying the effective
interest rate to the gross carrying amount of the financial asset. When the asset has subsequently
become credit-impaired, the interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to
the amortised cost of the financial asset.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial asset and of
allocating interest income over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts
estimated future cash receipts (including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part
of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts), excluding expected
credit losses, through the expected life of the financial asset or a shorter period (where appropriate).
(ii) Fair Value through Other Comprehensive Income
The financial asset is held for both collecting contractual cash flows and selling the financial asset,
where the asset’s cash flows represent solely payments of principal and interest. Movements in the
carrying amount are taken through other comprehensive income and accumulated in the fair value
reserve, except for the recognition of impairment, interest income and foreign exchange difference
which are recognised directly in profit or loss. Interest income is calculated using the effective interest
rate method.
(iii) Fair Value through Profit or Loss
All other financial assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or fair value through other
comprehensive income are measured at fair value through profit or loss. The fair value changes do
not include interest or dividend income.
The Group reclassifies debt instruments when and only when its business model for managing those assets
change.
Equity Instruments
All equity investments are subsequently measured at fair value with gains and losses recognised in profit or loss
except where the Group has elected to present the subsequent changes in fair value in other comprehensive
income and accumulated in the fair value reserve at initial recognition.
The designation at fair value through other comprehensive income is not permitted if the equity investment
is either held for trading or is designated to eliminate or significantly reduce a measurement or recognition
inconsistency that would otherwise arise.
Dividend income from this category of financial assets is recognised in profit or loss when the Group’s right
to receive payment is established unless the dividends clearly represent a recovery of part of the cost of the
equity investments.
069
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.5 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
(b) Financial Liabilities
(i) Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss
Fair value through profit or loss category comprises financial liabilities that are either held for trading
or are designated to eliminate or significantly reduce a measurement or recognition inconsistency
that would otherwise arise. The changes in fair value (excluding interest expense) of these financial
liabilities are recognised in profit or loss.
(ii) Other Financial Liabilities
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of
allocating interest expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly
discounts estimated future cash payments (including all fees and points paid or received that form an
integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or discounts), through
the expected life of the financial liability or a shorter period (where appropriate).
(c) Equity Instruments
Equity instruments classified as equity are measured initially at cost and are not remeasured subsequently.
Ordinary shares are classified as equity and recorded at the proceeds received, net of directly attributable
transaction costs.
Dividends on ordinary shares are recognised as liabilities when approved for appropriation.
(d) Derecognition
A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the contractual rights to the cash flows
from the financial asset expire or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards
of ownership of the asset to another entity. On derecognition of a financial asset measured at amortised
cost, the difference between the carrying amount of the asset and the sum of the consideration received and
receivable is recognised in profit or loss. In addition, on derecognition of a debt instrument classified as fair
value through other comprehensive income, the cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated in the fair
value reserve is reclassified from equity to profit or loss. In contrast, there is no subsequent reclassification
of the fair value reserve to profit or loss following the derecognition of an equity investment.
A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation specified in the contract
is discharged or cancelled or expires. On derecognition of a financial liability, the difference between the
carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration
paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
070
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.6 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Investments in subsidiaries are stated at cost in the statement of financial position of the Company, and are reviewed
for impairment at the end of the reporting period if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
values may not be recoverable. The cost of the investments includes transaction costs.
On the disposal of the investments in subsidiaries, the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the
carrying amount of the investments is recognised in profit or loss.
4.7 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
All items of property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. Cost includes expenditure that are directly
attributable to the acquisition of the asset and other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working
condition for its intended use.
Subsequent to initial recognition, all property, plant and equipment, other than freehold land, are stated at cost less
accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Freehold land is stated at cost less any impairment losses.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate,
only when the cost is incurred and it is probable that the future economic benefits associated with the asset will flow
to the Group and the cost of the asset can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of parts that are replaced is
derecognised. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are recognised in profit or
loss as incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation on other property, plant and equipment is charged to profit or loss
(unless it is included in the carrying amount of another asset) on a straight-line method to write off the depreciable
amount of the assets over their estimated useful lives. Depreciation of an asset does not cease when the asset
becomes idle or is retired from active use unless the asset is fully depreciated. The principal annual rates used for
this purpose are:-
Buildings 2%
Motor vehicles 8.33% - 20%
Office equipment, furniture, fittings and renovation 10% - 20%
Plant, machinery and factory equipment 7% - 20%
The depreciation method, useful lives and residual values are reviewed, and adjusted if appropriate, at the end of
each reporting period to ensure that the amounts, method and periods of depreciation are consistent with previous
estimates and the expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits embodied in the items of the
property, plant and equipment. Any changes are accounted for as a change in estimate.
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted
for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are
expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising from derecognition of the asset, being the difference between the
net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount, is recognised in profit or loss.
071
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.8 LEASES
The Group assesses whether a contract is or contains a lease, at the inception of the contract. The Group recognises
a right-of-use asset and corresponding lease liability with respect to all lease arrangements in which it is the lessee,
except for low-value assets and short-term leases with 12 months or less. For these leases, the Group recognises
the lease payments as an operating expense on a straight-line method over the term of the lease unless another
systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased assets are
consumed.
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use
assets and the associated lease liabilities are presented as a separate line item in the statements of financial position.
The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost. Cost includes the initial amount of the corresponding lease
liability adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs
incurred, less any incentives received.
The right-of-use asset is subsequently measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses,
and adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The depreciation starts from the commencement date
of the lease. If the lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset to the Group or the cost of the right-of-use
asset reflects that the Group expects to exercise a purchase option, the related right-of-use asset is depreciated
over the useful life of the underlying asset. Otherwise, the Group depreciates the right-of-use asset to the earlier
of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of the
right-of-use assets are determined on the same basis as those property, plant and equipment.
Theleaseliabilityisinitiallymeasuredatthepresentvalueoftheleasepaymentsthatarenotpaidatthecommencement
date, discounted by using the rate implicit in the lease. If this rate cannot be readily determined, the Group uses its
incremental borrowing rate.
The lease liability is subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured
when there is a change in the future lease payments (other than lease modification that is not accounted for as
a separate lease) with the corresponding adjustment made to the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset or is
recognised in profit or loss if the carrying amount has been reduced to zero.
4.9 INVENTORIES
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost of raw materials is determined on the
first-in, first-out method and comprises the purchase price and incidentals incurred in bringing the inventories to
their present location and condition. Cost of finished goods includes cost of materials, labour and an appropriate
proportion of production overheads.
Net realisable value represents the estimated selling price less the estimated costs of completion and the estimated
costs necessary to make the sale.
4.10 CONTRACT LIABILITY
A contract liability is stated at cost and represents the obligation of the Group to transfer goods or services to a
customer for which consideration has been received (or the amount is due) from the customers.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
072
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.11 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand and bank balances. For the purpose of the statements of cash
flows, cash and cash equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts.
4.12 IMPAIRMENT
(a) Impairment of Financial Assets
The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses on investments in debt instruments that
are measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other comprehensive income.
The expected credit loss is estimated as the difference between all contractual cash flows that are due to the
Group in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive, discounted
at the original effective interest rate.
The amount of expected credit losses is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since
initial recognition of the respective financial instrument. The Group always recognises lifetime expected credit
losses for trade receivables using the simplified approach. The expected credit losses on these financial
assets are estimated using a provision matrix based on the Group’s historical credit loss experienced and
are adjusted for forward-looking information (including time value of money where appropriate).
For all other financial instruments, the Group recognises lifetime expected credit losses when there has
been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition. However, if the credit risk on the financial
instrument has not increased significantly since initial recognition, the Group measures the loss allowance
for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12-month expected credit losses.
The Group recognises an impairment gain or loss in profit or loss for all financial instruments with a
corresponding adjustment to their carrying amount through a loss allowance account, except for investments
in debt instruments that are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, for which the loss
allowance is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the fair value reserve, and does
not reduce the carrying amount of the financial asset in the statements of financial position.
(b) Impairment of Non-financial Assets
The carrying values of assets, other than those to which MFRS 136 does not apply, are reviewed at the end
of each reporting period for impairment when an annual impairment assessment is compulsory or there is
an indication that the assets might be impaired. Impairment is measured by comparing the carrying values
of the assets with their recoverable amounts. When the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its recoverable
amount, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount and an impairment loss shall be recognised. The
recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value-in-use,
which is measured by reference to discounted future cash flows using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Where it is not
possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual asset, the Group determines the recoverable
amount of the cash-generating unit to which the asset belongs.
073
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.12 IMPAIRMENT (CONT’D)
(b) Impairment of Non-financial Assets (Cont’d)
An impairment loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately. Any impairment loss recognised in respect of
a cash-generating unit is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-
generating unit and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the cash-generating unit on
a pro rata basis.
In respect of assets other than goodwill, and when there is a change in the estimates used to determine the
recoverable amount, a subsequent increase in the recoverable amount of an asset is treated as a reversal of
the previous impairment loss and is recognised to the extent of the carrying amount of the asset that would
have been determined (net of amortisation and depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised. The
reversal is recognised in profit or loss immediately.
4.13 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
(a) Short-term Benefits
Wages, salaries, paid annual leave and bonuses are measured on an undiscounted basis and are recognised
in profit or loss in the period in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group.
(b) Defined Contribution Plans
The Group’s contributions to defined contribution plans are recognised in profit or loss in the period to which
they relate. Once the contributions have been paid, the Group has no further liability in respect of the defined
contribution plans.
4.14 INCOME TAXES
(a) Current Tax
Current tax assets and liabilities are the expected amount of income tax recoverable or payable to the taxation
authorities.
Current taxes are measured using tax rates and tax laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted
at the end of the reporting period and are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent that the tax relates
to items recognised outside profit or loss (either in other comprehensive income or directly in equity).
(b) Deferred Tax
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method for all temporary differences other than those that arise
from goodwill or from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction which is not a business
combination and at the time of the transaction, affects neither accounting profit nor taxable profit.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when
the asset is realised or the liability is settled, based on the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively
enacted at the end of the reporting period.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
074
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.14 INCOME TAXES (CONT’D)
(b) Deferred Tax (Cont’d)
Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax
credits to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the deductible
temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits can be utilised. The carrying amounts of
deferred tax assets are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that the related tax benefits will be realised.
Current and deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transactions either in profit or loss,
other comprehensive income or directly in equity. Deferred tax arising from a business combination is adjusted
against goodwill or negative goodwill.
Current tax assets and liabilities or deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable
right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same taxable
entity (or on different tax entities but they intend to settle current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis) and the
same taxation authority.
(c) Sales and Service Tax (“SST”)
Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of SST.
The amount of SST incurred in a purchase of assets or services obtained is not recoverable from the taxation
authority and is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item as
applicable.
The amount of the SST payable to the taxation authority at the end of the reporting period is included in other
payables.
4.15 OPERATING SEGMENTS
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn
revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s
other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision
maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which
discrete financial information is available.
4.16 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic earnings per ordinary share is calculated by dividing the consolidated profit or loss attributable to ordinary
shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the reporting
period, adjusted for own shares held.
Diluted earnings per ordinary share is determined by adjusting the consolidated profit or loss attributable to ordinary
shareholders of the Company and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the effects of
all dilutive potential ordinary shares.
075
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.17 BORROWING COSTS
Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset
are recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method.
4.18 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or
estimated using a valuation technique. The measurement assumes that the transaction takes place either in the
principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market. For non-financial asset,
the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic benefits by using
the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its
highest and best use.
For financial reporting purposes, the fair value measurements are analysed into level 1 to level 3 as follows:-
Level 1: Inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liability that the entity
			 can access at the measurement date;
Level 2: Inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within level 1, that are observable for the asset
			 or liability, either directly or indirectly; and
Level 3: Inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The transfer of fair value between levels is determined as of the date of the event or change in circumstances that
caused the transfer.
4.19 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS
Revenue is recognised by reference to each distinct performance obligation in the contract with customer and is
measured at the consideration specified in the contract of which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for
transferring promised goods or services to a customer, net of sales and service tax, returns, rebates and discounts.
The Group recognises revenue when (or as) it transfers control over a product or service to customer. An asset is
transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of that asset.
The Group transfers control of a good or service at a point in time unless one of the following overtime criteria is
met:-
• The customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the Group performs.
• The Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created
or enhanced.
• The Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has an enforceable
right to payment for performance completed to date.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
076
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
4.19 REVENUE FROM CONTRACTS WITH CUSTOMERS (CONT’D)
(a) Sale of Goods with Cash Term
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred control of the goods to the
customer, being at the point when the customer purchases the goods at the retail outlet. Payment for the
transaction is due immediately at the point when the customer purchases the goods and takes delivery at
the retail outlet.
(b) Sale of Goods with Credit Term
Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the Group has transferred control of the goods to the
customer, being when the goods have been delivered to the customer and upon its acceptance.
A receivable is recognised when the goods are delivered as this is the point in time that the consideration is
unconditional because only the passage of time is required before the payment is due.
(c) Rendering of Licensing Services
Revenue from providing licensing services is recognised over time in the period in which the services are
rendered. As a practical expedient, the Group recognises revenue on a straight-line method over the period
of services.
(d) Rendering of Outlet Management and Consultancy Services
Revenue from providing outlet management and consultancy services is recognised at a point in time.
Customers are invoiced on a monthly basis and consideration is payable when invoiced.
4.20 OTHER OPERATING INCOME
(a) Interest Income
Interest income is recognised on an accrual basis using the effective interest method.
(b) Lease Income
Lease income is accounted for on a straight-line method over the lease term.
(c) Dividend Income
Dividend income from investment is recognised when the right to receive dividend payment is established.
5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
		 The Company
						
2021 2020
						
RM’000 RM’000
Unquoted shares, at cost 					 30,572 30,572
077
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
5. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:-
Name of Subsidiaries
Principal Place of
Business/Country
of Incorporation
Percentage of
Issued Share Capital
Held by Parent
Principal Activities
2021 2020
% %
Subsidiaries of the Company
SDS Food Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd. (“SDS Food”)
Malaysia 100 100 Manufacturing and distributing of
bakery products
SDS Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.
(“SDS Enterprise”)
Malaysia 100 100 Licensor of food & beverage
(“F&B”) outlets
Super Arrow Trading Pte. Ltd.
(“Super Arrow”) ^
Singapore 100 100 Wholesale of bakery products in
Singapore
Subsidiaries of SDS Food
SDS Top Baker Sdn. Bhd.
(“SDS Top Baker”)
Malaysia 100 100 Manufacturing and distributing of
bakery products
SDS Bakery & Cafeteria Sdn. Bhd.
(“SDS B&C”)
Malaysia 100 100 Operator of F&B outlets
Daily Bakery Sdn. Bhd.
(“Daily Bakery”)
Malaysia 100 100 Manufacturing and distributing of
bakery products
Subsidiary of SDS B&C
City Cake House Sdn. Bhd.
(“City Cake”)
Malaysia 51 51 Operator of F&B outlet
^ This subsidiary was audited by a member firm of Crowe Global of which Crowe Malaysia PLT is a member.
The non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period comprise the following:-
Effective Equity Interest The Group
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
				 % % RM’000 RM’000
City Cake 			 49 49 359 552
Summarised financial information of non-controlling interests has not been presented as the non-controlling interests of
the subsidiary are not material to the Group.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
078
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
									
Transferfrom
							
Written Depreciation Right-of-use
				 At Additions		 Off Charges Assets At
				 1.4.2020 (Note28(a)) Disposals (Note25) (Note25) (Note7) 31.3.2021
The Group 				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2021
Carrying Amount
Freehold land 				 17,808 - - - - - 17,808
Buildings 				 21,401 - (65) - (488) - 20,848
Motor vehicles 				 2,385 485 (46) (8) (1,154) 27 1,689
Office equipment, furniture, fittings and renovation 		 13,036 1,730 - (2) (2,310) 34 12,488
Plant, machinery and factory equipment 			 31,914 1,930 (41) (10) (4,101) 402 30,094
				 86,544 4,145 (152) (20) (8,053) 463 82,927
[The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]
079
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
<------------- 1.4.2019 ------------->
									
Transfer from
As Initial				
Written Depreciation 		
Right-of-use
Previously Application As Additions 		 Off Charges Reclassifi- Assets At
Reported of MFRS 16 Restated (Note 28(a)) Disposals (Note 25) (Note 25) cation (Note 7) 31.3.2020
The Group RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2020
Carrying Amount
Freehold land 17,808 - 17,808 - - - - - - 17,808
Leasehold land 477 (477) - - - - - - - -
Buildings 19,528 (626) 18,902 - - - (442) 2,941 - 21,401
Motor vehicles 11,264 (9,244) 2,020 935 - - (1,503) - 933 2,385
Office equipment,
furniture, fittings
and renovation 11,756 (124) 11,632 3,582 - - (2,268) - 90 13,036
Plant, machinery and
factory equipment 33,536 (15,822) 17,714 5,769 (230) (4) (3,274) - 11,939 31,914
Construction in progress 1,158 - 1,158 1,783 - - - (2,941) - -
95,527 (26,293) 69,234 12,069 (230) (4) (7,487) - 12,962 86,544
[The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]
SDS GROUP BERHAD
080
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
6. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
						
Accumulated
					 Accumulated Impairment Carrying
				 At Cost Depreciation Losses Amount
The Group 			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2021
Freehold land 			 17,808 - - 17,808
Buildings 			 25,144 (3,850) (446) 20,848
Motor vehicles 			 16,945 (15,256) - 1,689
Office equipment, furniture, fittings and renovation 28,967 (16,479) - 12,488
Plant, machinery and factory equipment 		 63,548 (33,454) - 30,094
				 152,412 (69,039) (446) 82,927
2020
Freehold land 			 17,808 - - 17,808
Buildings 			 25,209 (3,362) (446) 21,401
Motor vehicles 			 17,618 (15,233) - 2,385
Office equipment, furniture, fittings and renovation 27,160 (14,124) - 13,036
Plant, machinery and factory equipment 		 61,236 (29,322) - 31,914
				 149,031 (62,041) (446) 86,544
The freehold land and buildings of the Group have been pledged to licensed banks as security for banking facilities granted
to the Group as disclosed in Notes 17 and 23 to the financial statements.
[The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]
081
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
7. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
							
Modifi-		
Transfer to
							
cation 		
Property,
							 of Lease Depreciation Plant and
				 At Additions Lease Liabilities Charges Equipment At
				1.4.2020 (Note 28(a)) Termination (Note 16) (Note 25) (Note 6) 31.3.2021
The Group 				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2021
Carrying Amount
Leasehold land 				 470 - - - (8) - 462
Buildings 				 610 - - - (16) - 594
Motor vehicles 				 7,510 - - - (2,846) (27) 4,637
Office equipment, furniture, fittings and renovation 		 100 - - - (19) (34) 47
Plant, machinery and factory equipment 			 3,385 - - - (303) (402) 2,680
Retail outlets, depots and hostels 				 14,700 647 (936) 338 (4,327) - 10,422
				 26,775 647 (936) 338 (7,519) (463) 18,842
[The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]
SDS GROUP BERHAD
082
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
7. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONT’D)
<------------- 1.4.2019 ------------->
							
Modifi-		
Transfer to
							
cation 		
Property,
		 As Initial				 of Lease Depreciation Plant and
		 Previously Application At Additions Lease Liabilities Charges Equipment At
		 Reported of MFRS 16 Restated (Note 28(a)) Termination (Note 16) (Note 25) (Note 6) 31.3.2020
The Group 		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2020
Carrying Amount
Leasehold land 		 - 477 477 - - - (7) - 470
Buildings 		 - 626 626 - - - (16) - 610
Motor vehicles 		 - 9,244 9,244 2,167 - - (2,968) (933) 7,510
Office equipment, furniture, fittings
and renovation 		 - 124 124 93 - - (27) (90) 100
Plant, machinery and factory
equipment 		 - 15,822 15,822 379 - - (877) (11,939) 3,385
Retail outlets, depots and hostels 		 - 13,378 13,378 6,800 (1,109) 64 (4,433) - 14,700
		 - 39,671 39,671 9,439 (1,109) 64 (8,328) (12,962) 26,775
The Group
									
2021 2020
									
RM’000 RM’000
Analysed by:-
Cost									
38,312 41,434
Accumulated depreciation 									
(19,470) (14,659)
									
18,842 26,775
083
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
7. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONT’D)
(a) The Group leases a piece of leasehold land and building, various retail outlets, depots and hostels, motor vehicles,
office equipment, furniture, fittings and renovation, and plant, machinery and factory equipment of which the leasing
activities are summarised below:-
(i) Leasehold land and building The remaining lease period of the leasehold land and building is
64 years, which is expiring in 2085.
(ii) Retail outlets, depots and hostels The Group has leased a number of retail outlets, depots and
hostels that run between 1 to 5 years, with an option to renew the
lease after that date.
Some leases contain variable lease payments that are based on
sales that the Group makes at the retail outlets. Any reasonably
possible change in this key variable does not have a material
impact on the profit after tax and other comprehensive income
of the Group.
(iii) Motor vehicles, office equipment,
furniture, fittings and renovation
and plant, machinery and factory
equipment and building
The Group has leased certain motor vehicles, office equipment,
furniture, fittings and renovation, plant, machinery and factory
equipment and building under hire purchase arrangements. The
leases are secured by the leased assets.
(b) The leasehold land and building have been pledged to licensed banks as security for banking facilities granted to
a subsidiary of the Group as disclosed in Notes 17 and 23 to the financial statements.
8. AMOUNT OWING BY SUBSIDIARIES
		 The Company
						
2021 2020
						
RM’000 RM’000
Non-current
Non-trade balances 					 10,050 14,272
Current
Non-trade balances 					 2,036 271
						
12,086 14,543
(a) The non-trade balances (non-current) represent unsecured advances which are repayable within financial year 2023
to 2029 (2020 – 2022 to 2030) and bore effective interest rate of 3.47% (2020 – 4.60%) per annum. The amounts
owing are to be settled in cash.
(b) The non-trade balances (current) represent advances and interest charged for advances. The advances bore
effective interest rate of 3.47% (2020 – 4.60%) per annum. The amounts owing are to be settled in cash.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
084
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
9. GOODWILL
		 The Group
						
2021 2020
						
RM’000 RM’000
Cost:-
At 1 April / 31 March 					 162 162
The carrying amount of goodwill allocated to cash-generating unit is as follows:-
		 The Group
						
2021 2020
						
RM’000 RM’000
SDS Top Baker 					 162 162
No impairment testing is done on this cash-generating unit as it is considered immaterial to the Group.
10. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS
					
Recognised in
					 At Profit or Loss At
					 1.4.2020 (Note 26) 31.3.2021
The Group				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2021
Deferred Tax Liabilities
Property, plant and equipment 				 (1,284) (955) (2,239)
Right-of-use assets 				 (83) 11 (72)
					 (1,367) (944) (2,311)
Deferred Tax Assets
Unabsorbed reinvestment allowance 			 3,662 1 3,663
Unutilised tax losses 				 - 2 2
Contract liabilities 				 25 (6) 19
Lease liabilities 				 85 (11) 74
					 3,772 (14) 3,758
					 2,405 (958) 1,447
085
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
10. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS (CONT’D)
<----------------- 1.4.2019 ----------------->
		 As Initial 		 Recognised in
			 Previously Application As Profit or Loss At
			 Reported of MFRS 16 Restated (Note 26) 31.3.2020
The Group		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2020
Deferred Tax Liabilities
Property, plant and equipment 		 (1,078) - (1,078) (206) (1,284)
Right-of-use assets 		 - (53) (53) (30) (83)
			 (1,078) (53) (1,131) (236) (1,367)
Deferred Tax Assets
Unabsorbed reinvestment allowance 2,172 - 2,172 1,490 3,662
Contract liability 		 33 - 33 (8) 25
Lease liabilities 		 - 54 54 31 85
			 2,205 54 2,259 1,513 3,772
			 1,127 1 1,128 1,277 2,405
11. INVENTORIES
		 The Group
						
2021 2020
						
RM’000 RM’000
Raw materials 					 5,372 5,069
Finished goods 					 334 261
						
5,706 5,330
Recognised in profit or loss:-
Inventories recognised as cost of sales 				 109,984 120,308
Amount written down to net realisable value (Note 25) 			 45 -
SDS GROUP BERHAD
086
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
12. TRADE RECEIVABLES
		 The Group
						
2021 2020
						
RM’000 RM’000
Trade receivables 					 7,732 9,484
Allowance for impairment losses 				 (51) (92)
						
7,681 9,392
Allowance for impairment losses:-
At 1 April 					 92 121
Addition during the financial year (Note 25) 				 34 74
Reversal during the financial year (Note 25) 				 (21) (7)
Written off during the financial year				 (54) (96)
At 31 March 					 51 92
The Group’s normal trade credit terms range from 15 to 60 (2020 – 15 to 60) days.
13. OTHER RECEIVABLES, DEPOSITS AND PREPAYMENTS
The Group The Company
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Other receivables:-
Third parties 			 33 145 - 139
Goods and services tax recoverable 		 - 108 - -
				 33 253 - 139
Deposits 			 2,734 2,487 1 -
Prepayments 			 1,507 1,799 14 79
				 4,274 4,539 15 218
Included in deposits of the Group at the end of the reporting period was an amount of RM613,854 (2020 – RM424,472)
which represented downpayment paid for future purchase of property, plant and equipment.
087
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
14. SHARE CAPITAL
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
The Group		 Number of Shares (‘000) 		RM’000 RM’000
Issued and Fully Paid-Up
Ordinary Shares
Share capital of combined entities at 1 April 		 405,824 2,750 53,111 2,750
Elimination of subsidiaries’ share capital 		 - (2,750) - (2,750)
Share capital of the Company 			 405,824 ** 53,111 *
New shares issued under the listing scheme:
- acquisition of subsidiaries (Note (b)(i) below) 		 - 301,527 - 30,572
- public issue (Note (b)(ii) below) 		 - 104,297 - 23,988
Listing expenses 			 - - - (1,449)
At 31 March 			 405,824 405,824 53,111 53,111
The Company
Issued and Fully Paid-Up
Ordinary Shares
At 1 April 			 405,824 ** 53,111 *
New shares issued under the listing scheme:
- acquisition of subsidiaries (Note (b)(i) below) 		 - 301,527 - 30,572
- public issue (Note (b)(ii) below) 		 - 104,297 - 23,988
Listing expenses 			 - - - (1,449)
At 31 March 			 405,824 405,824 53,111 53,111
* Denotes RM10.
** Denotes 100 shares.
(a) The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company and are
entitled to one vote per ordinary share at meetings of the Company. The ordinary shares have no par value.
(b) Inthepreviousfinancialyear,theCompanyincreaseditsissuedandpaid-upsharecapitalfromRM10toRM54,560,604
by way of:-
(i) Acquisition of Subsidiaries
− Acquired the entire equity interest in SDS Food for a purchase consideration of RM28,994,890 which
was wholly satisfied by the issuance of 285,752,600 new ordinary shares of the Company at an issue
price of approximately RM0.10 per ordinary share.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
088
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
14. SHARE CAPITAL (CONT’D)
(b) Inthepreviousfinancialyear,theCompanyincreaseditsissuedandpaid-upsharecapitalfromRM10toRM54,560,604
by way of (Cont’d):-
(i) Acquisition of Subsidiaries (Cont’d)
− Acquired the entire equity interest in SDS Enterprise for a purchase consideration of RM26,360 which
was wholly satisfied by the issuance of 263,600 new ordinary shares of the Company at an issue price
of RM0.10 per ordinary share.
− Acquired the entire equity interest in Super Arrow for a purchase consideration of RM1,551,080 which
was wholly satisfied by the issuance of 15,510,800 new ordinary shares of the Company at an issue
price of RM0.10 per ordinary share.
The above acquisitions were completed on 5 July 2019.
(ii) Public Issue
On 3 October 2019, the Company issued 104,296,800 new ordinary shares at an issue price of RM0.23 each
under the listing scheme. The issuance of these new ordinary shares has increased the share capital of the
Company by RM23,988,264.
The new ordinary shares issued rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the Company.
15. RESERVES
(a) Merger Deficit
The merger deficit represents the difference between the carrying value of the investment in subsidiaries and the
share capital of the Company’s subsidiaries upon consolidation under the merger accounting principle.
(b) Foreign Exchange Translation Reserve
The foreign exchange translation reserve arose from the translation of the financial statements of a foreign subsidiary
whose functional currency is different from the Group’s presentation currency.
089
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
16. LEASE LIABILITIES
		 The Group
				 2021 2020
			 RM’000 RM’000
At 1 April
- As previously reported 					 24,919 -
- Initial application of MFRS 16 					 - 32,902
- As restated 					 24,919 32,902
Additions (Notes 7 and 28(b)) 					 647 8,989
Interest expense recognised in profit or loss (Note 25) 			 975 1,674
Changes due to lease modification (Note 7) 				 338 64
Deposit paid offset with lease payment 				 - (16)
Lease termination (Note 28(b)) 					 (1,076) (1,191)
Repayment of principal 					 (7,387) (15,829)
Repayment of interest expense 					 (975) (1,674)
At 31 March 					 17,441 24,919
Analysed by:-
Current liabilities 					 7,808 8,380
Non-current liabilities					 9,633 16,539
						
17,441 24,919
Certain lease liabilities of the Group are secured by the Group’s motor vehicles, office equipment, furniture, fittings and
renovation and plant, machinery and factory equipment and building under hire purchase arrangements as disclosed
in Note 7(a)(iii) to the financial statements, with lease terms ranging from 3 to 5 (2020 – 3 to 5) years and bear effective
interest rates ranging from 1.08% to 6.52% (2020 – 1.08% to 6.52%) per annum.
17. TERM LOANS
		 The Group
				 2021 2020
			 RM’000 RM’000
Current liabilities 					 2,900 2,757
Non-current liabilities 					 22,727 26,610
						
25,627 29,367
SDS GROUP BERHAD
090
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
17. TERM LOANS (CONT’D)
The term loans are secured by:-
(a) legal charges over freehold land, leasehold land and buildings of the Group as disclosed in Notes 6 and 7 to the
financial statements;
(b) legal charges over a piece of land owned by certain directors of the Group, a director of the subsidiaries, persons
connected to certain directors of the Group and a third party;
(c) legal charges over land and building owned by a company in which certain directors of the Group have controlling
interests; and
(d) jointly and severally guaranteed by certain directors of the Group and a director of certain subsidiaries.
The above floating rate term loans of the Group bore effective interest rates ranging from 3.17% to 5.39% (2020 – 3.92%
to 6.60%) per annum.
18. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
					
Recognised in
					 At Profit or Loss At
					 1.4.2020 (Note 26) 31.3.2021
The Group				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2021
Deferred Tax Liabilities
Property, plant and equipment * 				 3,435 47 3,482
Unrealised foreign exchange gain 			 1 - 1
Right-of-use assets 				 3,445 (1,015) 2,430
					 6,881 (968) 5,913
Deferred Tax Assets
Unabsorbed capital allowances 				 (12) 12 -
Unabsorbed reinvestment allowance 			 (612) 39 (573)
Lease liabilities 				 (3,598) 929 (2,669)
					 (4,222) 980 (3,242)
					 2,659 12 2,671
091
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
18. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
		 <----------------- 1.4.2019 ----------------->
		 As Initial 		 Recognised in
			 Previously Application As Profit or Loss At
			 Reported of MFRS 16 Restated (Note 26) 31.3.2020
The Group		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2020
Deferred Tax Liabilities
Property, plant and equipment * 		 2,791 - 2,791 644 3,435
Unrealised foreign exchange gain 3 - 3 (2) 1
Right-of-use assets 		 - 3,158 3,158 287 3,445
			 2,794 3,158 5,952 929 6,881
Deferred Tax Assets
Unabsorbed capital allowances 		 (23) - (23) 11 (12)
Unabsorbed reinvestment allowance (659) - (659) 47 (612)
Lease liabilities 		 - (3,234) (3,234) (364) (3,598)
			 (682) (3,234) (3,916) (306) (4,222)
			 2,112 (76) 2,036 623 2,659
* Includes deferred tax from fair value adjustment in a purchase price allocation exercise.
At the end of the reporting period, the Group has unused tax losses and unabsorbed capital allowances (stated at gross) of
approximately RM266,300 (2020 – RM Nil) and RM11,300 (2020 – RM Nil) respectively that are available for offset against
future taxable profits of the subsidiary in which the losses arose. No deferred tax assets are recognised in respect of these
items as it is not probable that taxable profits of the subsidiary will be available against which the deductible temporary
differences can be utilised.
The unused tax losses are allowed to be utilised for 7 consecutive years of assessment (“YA”) while the unabsorbed capital
allowances are allowed to be carried forward indefinitely.
The unused tax losses can be carried forward up to YA 2028.
19. CONTRACT LIABILITIES
		 The Group
				 2021 2020
			 RM’000 RM’000
Current liabilities 					 278 26
Non-current liabilities 					 197 78
						
475 104
SDS GROUP BERHAD
092
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
19. CONTRACT LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
Contract liabilities relate to the unsatisfied performance obligation in which the Group has yet to deliver the licensing and
membership services to its customers. The contract liabilities are recognised to profit or loss only when the performance
obligation has been fulfilled.
20. TRADE PAYABLES
The normal trade credit terms granted to the Group range from 30 to 150 (2020 – 30 to 150) days.
21. OTHER PAYABLES AND ACCRUALS
The Group The Company
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Other payables:-
Third parties 			 2,079 2,324 9 3
Goods and services tax payable 		 7 2 - -
Sales and service tax payable 			 223 201 - -
				 2,309 2,527 9 3
Deposits received 			 143 147 - -
Accruals 			 780 993 100 74
Payroll liabilities			 2,299 2,727 - -
				 5,531 6,394 109 77
22. AMOUNT OWING TO SUBSIDIARIES
The non-trade balance owing to subsidiaries represents unsecured, interest-free payments made on behalf. The amount
owing is repayable on demand and is to be settled in cash.
23. BANK OVERDRAFT (SECURED)
The bank overdraft of the Group was secured in the same manner as the term loans as disclosed in Note 17 to the financial
statements.
The bank overdraft of the Group at the end of the previous reporting period bore floating interest rate of 6.72% per annum.
093
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
24. REVENUE
The Group The Company
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue from Contracts with Customers
Recognised at a point in time
Sales of goods 			 173,340 191,282 - -
Others 			 219 206 - -
				 173,559 191,488 - -
Recognised over time
License fee 			 26 32 - -
Membership fee 			 193 - - -
				 173,778 191,520 - -
Revenue from Other Sources
Dividend income 			 - - 1,536 306
				 173,778 191,520 1,536 306
25. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX
The Group The Company
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Profit/(Loss) before tax is arrived at:-
After Charging
Auditors’ remuneration:
- audit fees 			 185 209 20 25
- non-audit fee:
- auditors of the Company 			 5 5 5 5
Bad debts written off 			 14 13 - -
Depreciation:
- property, plant and equipment (Note 6) 		 8,053 7,487 - -
- right-of-use assets (Note 7) 			 7,519 8,328 - -
Impairment loss on trade receivables (Note 12) 		 34 74 - -
Interest expense on financial liabilities that are
not at fair value through profit or loss:
- bank overdrafts 			 13 47 - -
- bankers’ acceptance 			 18 37 - -
- term loans 			 1,045 1,482 - -
SDS GROUP BERHAD
094
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
25. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX (CONT’D)
The Group The Company
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Profit/(Loss) before tax is arrived at (Cont’d):-
After Charging (Cont’d)
Interest expense on lease liabilities (Note 16) 		 975 1,674 - -
Inventories written down (Note 11) 		 45 - - -
Lease expenses:
- short-term leases 			 637 871 - -
- low-value assets			 125 106 - -
- variable lease payments 			 143 176 - -
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment - 199 - -
Loss on foreign exchange:
- realised 			 9 12 - -
- unrealised 			 3 - - -
Property, plant and equipment written off (Note 6)		 20 4 - -
Staff costs (including other key management personnel
as disclosed in Note 29):
- short-term employee benefits 		 32,415 38,215 158 176
- defined contribution benefits 		 2,953 3,230 - -
After Crediting
Bad debts recovered 			 2 5 - -
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 430 131 - -
Gain on lease termination 			 140 82 - -
Insurance compensation 			 239 643 - -
Interest income on financial assets measured
at amortised cost 			 175 142 589 382
Lease income 			 53 72 - -
Reversal of impairment loss on trade receivables (Note 12) 21 7 - -
Unrealised gain on foreign exchange 		 - 4 - -
095
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
26. INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Income Tax Expenses Recognised in Profit or Loss
The Group The Company
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Income tax:
- current financial year 			 1,513 1,478 126 44
- under/(over) provision in the previous financial year 28 24 (5) -
				 1,541 1,502 121 44
Over provision of real property gains
tax in the previous financial year 		 - (62) - -
Deferred tax (Notes 10 & 18):
- origination and reversal of temporary differences 1,033 (1,033) - -
- additional provision for real property gains tax
arising from increase in real property gains tax rate - 527 - -
- under provision of deferred tax assets in the
previous financial year 			 (11) (89) - -
- over provision of deferred tax liabilities in the
previous financial year 			 (52) (59) - -
				 970 (654) - -
				 2,511 786 121 44
[The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]
SDS GROUP BERHAD
096
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
26. INCOME TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)
Income Tax Expenses Recognised in Profit or Loss (Cont’d)
A reconciliation of tax expense/(income) applicable to the profit/(loss) before tax at the statutory tax rate to income tax
expense at the effective tax rate of the Group and of the Company is as follows:-
The Group The Company
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Profit/(Loss) before tax			 9,589 4,998 1,668 (1,760)
Tax expense/(income) at the statutory tax rate of 24%
(2020 - 24%) 			 2,301 1,200 400 (422)
Tax effects of:-
Non-taxable income 			 (11) (72) (368) (73)
Non-deductible expenses 			 467 1,018 94 557
Reduction in tax rate on small scale company up to
RM600,000 (2020 - RM500,000) at 17% (2020 - 17%)
in Malaysia			 - (44) - (18)
Deferred tax assets not recognised during the
financial year 			 67 - - -
Additional provision for real property gains tax
arising from increase in real property gains tax rate - 527 - -
Differential in tax rate of a foreign subsidiary 		 (55) (52) - -
Reduction in tax rate on company in other jurisdiction (53) (53) - -
Tax incentives:
- deduction for costs of renovation 		 (72) - - -
- reinvestment allowance 			 (98) (1,552) - -
Over provision of real property gains tax in the
previous financial year 			 - (62) - -
Under/(Over) provision of income tax in the previous
financial year			 28 24 (5) -
Under provision of deferred tax assets in the previous
financial year 			 (11) (89) - -
Over provision of deferred tax liabilities in the previous
financial year 			 (52) (59) - -
				 2,511 786 121 44
Domestic income tax is calculated at the Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24% (2020 – 24%) of the estimated assessable
profit for the financial year. The taxation of other jurisdiction is calculated at the rate prevailing in that jurisdiction.
097
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
27. EARNINGS PER SHARE
		 The Group
				 2021 2020
Profit after tax attributable to owners of the Company (RM’000) 			 7,271 4,074
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue (‘000) 			 405,824 351,966
Basic earnings per share (Sen) 					 1.79 1.16
The Company has not issued any dilutive potential ordinary shares and hence, the diluted earnings per share is equal to
the basic earnings per share.
28. CASH FLOW INFORMATION
(a) The cash disbursed for the purchase of property, plant and equipment and the addition of right-of-use assets is as
follows:-
		 The Group
				 2021 2020
			 RM’000 RM’000
Property, plant and equipment
Cost of property, plant and equipment purchased (Note 6) 			 4,145 12,069
Less: Downpayment paid in the previous financial year 			 (399) (90)
Less: Other payables - amount not yet due for payment 			 (165) (623)
						
3,581 11,356
Right-of-use assets
Cost of right-of-use assets acquired (Note 7) 			 647 9,439
Less: Addition of new lease liabilities (Note (b) below) 			 (647) (8,989)
						
- 450
SDS GROUP BERHAD
098
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
28. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)
(b) The reconciliations of liabilities arising from financing activities are as follows:-
		 Bankers’ Lease Term
		 Acceptance Liabilities Loans Total
The Group		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2021
At 1 April 2020 							 - 24,919 29,367 54,286
Changes in Financing Cash Flows
Proceeds from drawdown 							 1,654 - 75 1,729
Repayment of principal 							 (1,654) (7,387) (3,815) (12,856)
Repayment of interests 							 (18) (975) (1,045) (2,038)
							
(18) (8,362) (4,785) (13,165)
Non-cash Changes
Acquisition of new leases (Notes 16 and (a) above) 					 - 647 - 647
Modification of leases (Note 16) 						 - 338 - 338
Lease termination (Note 16) 							 - (1,076) - (1,076)
Interest expense recognised in profit or loss (Note 25) 					 18 975 1,045 2,038
							
18 884 1,045 1,947
At 31 March 2021 							 - 17,441 25,627 43,068
099
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
28. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)
(b) The reconciliations of liabilities arising from financing activities are as follows (Cont’d):-
					 Bankers’ Hire Lease Term Other
					
Acceptance Purchases Liabilities Loans Payable Total
The Group 					 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2020
At 1 April 2019, as previously reported 				 948 18,533 - 29,832 670 49,983
Effects on adoption of MFRS 16 				 - (18,533) 32,902 - (670) 13,699
At 1 April 2019, as restated					 948 - 32,902 29,832 - 63,682
Changes in Financing Cash Flows
Proceeds from drawdown 					 2,348 - - 2,346 - 4,694
Repayment of principal 					 (3,296) - (15,829) (2,811) - (21,936)
Repayment of interests 					 (37) - (1,674) (1,482) - (3,193)
					 (985) - (17,503) (1,947) - (20,435)
Non-cash Changes
Acquisition of new leases (Notes 16 and (a) above) 			 - - 8,989 - - 8,989
Modification of leases (Note 16) 				 - - 64 - - 64
Lease termination (Note 16) 					 - - (1,191) - - (1,191)
Deposit paid offset with lease payment 				 - - (16) - - (16)
Interest expense recognised in profit or loss (Note 25) 			 37 - 1,674 1,482 - 3,193
					 37 - 9,520 1,482 - 11,039
At 31 March 2020 					 - - 24,919 29,367 - 54,286
SDS GROUP BERHAD
100
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
28. CASH FLOW INFORMATION (CONT’D)
(c) The total cash outflows for leases as a lessee are as follows:-
		 The Group
				 2021 2020
			 RM’000 RM’000
Payment of short-term leases 				 637 871
Payment of low-value assets				 125 106
Variable lease payments 					 143 176
Interest paid on lease liabilities 				 975 1,674
Payment of lease liabilities 				 7,387 15,829
						
9,267 18,656
(d) The cash and cash equivalents comprise the following:-
The Group The Company
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cash and bank balances 			 17,185 10,457 10,318 6,094
Bank overdraft 		 - (475) - -
				 17,185 9,982 10,318 6,094
[The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]
101
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
29. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COMPENSATION
The key management personnel of the Group and of the Company include executive directors and non-executive directors
of the Company and certain members of senior management of the Group and of the Company.
The key management personnel compensation during the financial year are as follows:-
The Group The Company
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
(a) Directors
		
Directors of the Company
		
Short-term employee benefits:
- fees 			 142 164 142 164
- salaries, bonuses and other benefits 		 1,699 1,653 16 12
				 1,841 1,817 158 176
		
Defined contribution benefits 		 195 183 - -
				 2,036 2,000 158 176
Directors of the Subsidiaries
Short-term employee benefits:
- salaries, bonuses and other benefits 		 301 357 - -
		
Defined contribution benefits 		 24 35 - -
				 325 392 - -
Total directors’ remuneration 		 2,361 2,392 158 176
(b) Other Key Management Personnel
Short-term employee benefits 		 548 762 - -
Defined contribution benefits 		 65 82 - -
Total compensation for other key management
personnel 			 613 844 - -
SDS GROUP BERHAD
102
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
30. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
(a) Identities of Related Parties
Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group or the Company has the ability, directly or indirectly,
to control or jointly control the party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating
decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group or the Company and the party are subject to common control.
In addition to the information detailed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group has related party relationships
with its directors, key management personnel, companies in which certain directors have controlling interests and
entities within the same group of companies.
(b) Significant Related Party Transactions and Balances
Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the Company also carried out the
following significant transactions with the related parties during the financial year:-
		 The Group
				 2021 2020
			 RM’000 RM’000
Companies in which certain directors have controlling interests
Sales of goods 					 - 288
Lease paid/payable 					 383 336
Rental of premises paid/payable 				 - 3
Rental of premises received/receivable 				 6 6
Director’s family member
Lease paid/payable 					 18 8
		 The Company
				 2021 2020
			 RM’000 RM’000
Subsidiaries
Advances to subsidiaries 					 6,267 19,093
Dividend income received/receivable 				 1,536 306
Interest income received/receivable 				 463 271
Payments on behalf of the Company 				 29 2,201
Repayment from subsidiaries 				 8,489 4,821
The significant outstanding balances of the related parties together with their terms and conditions are disclosed
in the respective notes to the financial statements.
The related party transactions described above were entered into in the normal course of business carried out
based on negotiated terms and conditions and are mutually agreed with respective parties.
103
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
31. OPERATING SEGMENTS
Operating segments are prepared in a manner consistent with the internal reporting provided to the Managing Director
as its chief operating decision maker in order to allocate resources to segments and to assess their performance on a
monthly basis. For management purposes, the Group is organised into business units based on their products and services
provided.
The Group is organised into 3 main reportable segments as follows:-
• Retail – involved in the manufacturing of products and dealing directly with ultimate customers through
				 the Group’s retail outlets. Companies under this segment included SDS Food, SDS B&C, City Cake
				 and SDS Enterprise.
• Wholesale – involved in the manufacturing of products and distributing to the retailer through the Group’s fleet
				 of lorries. Companies under this segment included SDS Top Baker, Daily Bakery and Super Arrow.
• Other – provide group-level management services. Company under this segment is SDS Group Berhad.
(a) The Managing Director assesses the performance of the reportable segments based on their profit before interest
expense and tax. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as the Group’s accounting
policies.
Borrowings and investment-related activities are managed on a group basis by the central treasury function and
are not allocated to reportable segments.
(b) Each reportable segment assets is measured based on all assets (including goodwill) of the segment other than
tax-related assets.
(c) Each reportable segment liabilities is measured based on all liabilities of the segment other than borrowings and
tax-related liabilities.
(d) Assets, liabilities and expenses which are common and cannot be meaningfully allocated to the reportable
segments are presented under unallocated items. Unallocated items comprise mainly corporate assets (primarily
the Company’s headquarters) and head office expenses.
Transactions between reportable segments are carried out on agreed terms between both parties. Transfer prices between
operating segments are at arm’s length basis in a manner similar to transactions with third parties. The effects of such
inter-segment transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
104
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
31. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)
31.1 BUSINESS SEGMENTS
				 Retail Wholesale Other
				 Segment Segment Segment Group
31.3.2021 			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue
External revenue 			 56,837 116,941 - 173,778
Inter-segment revenue 			 12,664 1,439 1,536 15,639
				 69,501 118,380 1,536 189,417
Consolidation adjustments					 (15,639)
Consolidated revenue 						
173,778
Represented by:-
Revenue recognised at a point in time
Sales of goods 			 69,063 118,380 - 187,443
Others 			 219 - 1,536 1,755
Revenue recognised over time
License fee 			 26 - - 26
Membership fee 			 193 - - 193
				 69,501 118,380 1,536 189,417
Consolidation adjustments 					 (15,639)
							
173,778
Results
Segment profit 			 6,827 6,949 2,125 15,901
Finance costs 						
(2,051)
Unallocated expenses 						
(457)
Consolidation adjustments					 (3,804)
Consolidated profit before tax 					 9,589
Segment profit includes the followings:-
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (2,674) (5,379) - (8,053)
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 		 (4,208) (3,311) - (7,519)
Lease expenses 			 (234) (671) - (905)
105
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
31. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)
31.1 BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)
				 Retail Wholesale Other
				 Segment Segment Segment Group
31.3.2021 			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Assets
Segment assets			 76,920 75,137 52,991 205,048
Unallocated assets:
- current tax assets 						 795
- deferred tax assets 						 1,447
Consolidation adjustments 					 (68,271)
Consolidated total assets 					 139,019
Addition to non-current assets other
than financial instruments are:-
Property, plant and equipment 		 2,503 1,642 - 4,145
Right-of-use assets 			 439 208 - 647
Liabilities
Segment liabilities 			 11,955 24,242 109 36,306
Unallocated liabilities:
- current tax liabilities 						 111
- deferred tax liabilities 						 2,671
- lease liabilities 						 17,441
- term loans 						 25,627
Consolidation adjustments 					 (15,408)
Consolidated total liabilities 					 66,748
SDS GROUP BERHAD
106
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
31. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)
31.1 BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)
				 Retail Wholesale Other
				 Segment Segment Segment Group
31.3.2020			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue
External revenue 			 67,697 123,823 - 191,520
Inter-segment revenue 			 10,521 1,192 306 12,019
				 78,218 125,015 306 203,539
Consolidation adjustments					
(12,019)
Consolidated revenue 						
191,520
Represented by:-
Revenue recognised at a point in time
Sales of goods 			 77,980 125,015 - 202,995
Others 			 206 - 306 512
Revenue recognised over time
License fee 			 32 - - 32
				 78,218 125,015 306 203,539
Consolidation adjustments 					 (12,019)
							
191,520
Results
Segment profit 			 6,383 4,481 688 11,552
Finance costs 						
(3,240)
Unallocated expenses 						
(2,448)
Consolidation adjustments					 (866)
Consolidated profit before tax 					 4,998
Segment profit includes the followings:-
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment (2,432) (5,055) - (7,487)
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 		 (4,383) (3,945) - (8,328)
Lease expenses 			 (521) (632) - (1,153)
Listing expenses 			 - - (2,164) (2,164)
107
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
31. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)
31.1 BUSINESS SEGMENTS (CONT’D)
				 Retail Wholesale Other
				 Segment Segment Segment Group
31.3.2020 			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Assets
Segment assets			 79,970 84,611 51,427 216,008
Unallocated assets:
- current tax assets 						 600
- deferred tax assets 						 2,405
Consolidation adjustments 					 (72,809)
Consolidated total assets 					 146,204
Addition to non-current assets other
than financial instruments are:-
Property, plant and equipment 		 5,949 6,120 - 12,069
Right-of-use assets 			 7,193 2,246 - 9,439
Liabilities
Segment liabilities 			 13,219 30,644 108 43,971
Unallocated liabilities:
- current tax liabilities 						 95
- deferred tax liabilities 						 2,659
- lease liabilities 						 24,919
- term loans 						 29,367
Consolidation adjustments 					 (19,957)
Consolidated total liabilities 					 81,054
SDS GROUP BERHAD
108
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
31. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)
31.2 GEOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION
Revenue is based on the country in which the customers are located.
Non-current assets are determined according to the country where these assets are located. The amounts of non-
current assets do not include deferred tax assets.
Revenue Non-current Assets
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
The Group			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Malaysia 			 161,554 179,172 101,931 113,481
Singapore 			 10,452 11,231 - -
Indonesia 			 1,772 1,117 - -
				 173,778 191,520 101,931 113,481
31.3 MAJOR CUSTOMERS
There is no single customer that contributed 10% or more to the Group’s revenue.
32. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
		 The Group
				 2021 2020
			 RM’000 RM’000
Purchase of property, plant and equipment				 820 247
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group’s activities are exposed to a variety of market risks (including foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and equity
price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall financial risk management policy focuses on the unpredictability
of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the Group’s financial performance.
33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES
The Group’s policies in respect of the major areas of treasury activity are as follows:-
(a) Market Risk
(i) Foreign Currency Risk
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions and balances that are denominated in
currencies other than the respective functional currencies of entities within the Group. The currency
giving rise to this risk is primarily Singapore Dollar (“SGD”). Foreign currency risk is monitored closely
on an ongoing basis to ensure that the net exposure is at an acceptable level.
109
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(a) Market Risk (Cont’d)
(i) Foreign Currency Risk (Cont’d)
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk (a currency which is other than the functional currencies
of the entities within the Group) based on the carrying amounts of the financial instruments at the end
of the reporting period is summarised below:-
Foreign Currency Exposure
		 The Group
				 2021 2020
			 RM’000 RM’000
SGD
Financial Liability
Trade payables 				 (557) (1,062)
Currency Exposure				 (557) (1,062)
Foreign Currency Risk Sensitivity Analysis
Any reasonably possible change in the foreign currency exchange rate at the end of the reporting
period against the respective functional currencies of the entities within the Group does not have a
material impact on the profit after tax and other comprehensive income of the Group and hence, no
sensitivity analysis is presented.
(ii) Interest Rate Risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk arises mainly
from long-term borrowings with variable rates. The Group’s policy is to obtain the most favourable
interest rates available and by maintaining a balanced portfolio mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings.
The Group’s fixed rate borrowings are carried at amortised cost. Therefore, they are not subject to
interest rate risk as in defined MFRS 7 since neither carrying amounts nor the future cash flows will
fluctuate because of a change in market interest rates.
The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk based on the carrying amounts of the financial instruments
at the end of the reporting period is disclosed in Notes 17 and 23 to the financial statements.
Interest Rate Risk Sensitivity Analysis
Any reasonably possible change in the interest rates of floating rate term loans at the end of the reporting
period does not have a material impact on the profit after taxation and other comprehensive income
of the Group and hence, no sensitivity analysis is presented.
SDS GROUP BERHAD
110
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(a) Market Risk (Cont’d)
(iii) Equity Price Risk
The Group does not have any quoted investments and hence, is not exposed to equity price risk.
(b) Credit Risk
The Group’s exposure to credit risk, or the risk of counterparties defaulting, arises mainly from trade and other
receivables. The Group manages its exposure to credit risk by monitoring procedures on an ongoing basis.
For other financial assets (including cash and bank balances), the Group minimises credit risk by dealing
exclusively with high credit rating counterparties.
The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from advances to subsidiaries. The Company
monitors the results of these subsidiaries regularly and repayments made by the subsidiaries.
(i) Credit Risk Concentration Profile
The Group’s major concentration of credit risk relates to the amount owing by 1 (2020 – 1) customer
which constituted approximately 14% (2020 – 12%) of its trade receivables at the end of the
reporting period.
In addition, the Group also determines the concentration of credit risk by monitoring the geographical
region of its trade receivables on an ongoing basis. The credit risk concentration profile of trade
receivables at the end of the reporting period is as follows:-
		 The Group
				 2021 2020
			 RM’000 RM’000
Malaysia 					 5,793 7,299
Singapore 					 1,687 1,841
Indonesia 					 201 252
						
7,681 9,392
(ii) Exposure to Credit Risk
At the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying
amount of each class of financial assets recognised in the statements of financial position of the Group
and of the Company after deducting any allowance for impairment losses (where applicable).
111
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)
(iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses
At each reporting date, the Group assesses whether any of the financial assets at amortised cost are
credit impaired.
The gross carrying amounts of financial assets are written off when there is no reasonable expectation
of recovery (i.e. the debtor does not have assets or sources of income to generate sufficient cash flows
to repay the debt) despite the fact that they are still subject to enforcement activities.
Trade Receivables
The Group applies the simplified approach to measure expected credit losses using a lifetime expected
credit loss allowance for all trade receivables.
To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been grouped based on the months
past due.
Also, the Group considers any trade receivables having financial difficulty or in default with significant
balances outstanding for more than 12 months are deemed credit impaired.
The expected loss rates are computed based on the Group’s historical credit losses experienced. The
historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect current and forward-looking information on macroeconomic
factors affecting the ability of the customers to settle their debts.
The information about the exposure to credit risk and the loss allowances calculated under MFRS 9
for trade receivables are summarised below:-
					 Gross Lifetime Loss Carrying
					 Amount Allowance Amount
The Group 				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2021
Current (not past due) 			 4,675 - 4,675
Past due:
- less than 3 months 			 2,834 - 2,834
- 3 to 6 months 			 23 - 23
- more than 6 months 			 87 - 87
- more than 1 year 			 113 (51) 62
					 7,732 (51) 7,681
SDS GROUP BERHAD
112
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)
(iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)
Trade Receivables (Cont’d)
The information about the exposure to credit risk and the loss allowances calculated under MFRS 9
for trade receivables are summarised below (Cont’d):-
					 Gross Lifetime Loss Carrying
					 Amount Allowance Amount
The Group 				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2020
Current (not past due) 			 5,366 - 5,366
Past due:
- less than 3 months 			 3,770 - 3,770
- 3 to 6 months 			 180 - 180
- more than 6 months 			 66 (6) 60
- more than 1 year 			 102 (86) 16
					 9,484 (92) 9,392
The movements in the loss allowance in respect of trade receivables are disclosed in Note 12 to the
financial statements.
The Group believes that no impairment allowance is necessary in respect of other trade receivables
because they are companies with good collection track record and no recent history of default.
Other Receivables
Other receivables are also subject to the impairment requirements of MFRS 9. Based on the assessment
performed, the identified impairment loss was immaterial and hence, it is not provided for.
Cash and Bank Balances
The Group considers these banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. In addition, some of
the bank balances are insured by Government agencies. Therefore, the Group is of the view that the
loss allowance is immaterial and hence, it is not provided for.
113
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(b) Credit Risk (Cont’d)
(iii) Assessment of Impairment Losses (Cont’d)
Amount Owing by Subsidiaries (Non-trade Balances)
The Company applies the 3-stage general approach to measure expected credit losses for all inter-
company balances. Generally, the Company considers advances to subsidiaries have low credit risks.
The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial
position deteriorates significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of the
subsidiaries’ advances when they are payable, the Company considers the advances to be in default
when the subsidiaries are not able to pay when demanded. The Company considers a subsidiary’s
advance to be credit impaired when the subsidiary is unlikely to repay its advance in full or the subsidiary
is continuously loss making or the subsidiary is having a deficit in its total equity.
The Company determines the probability of default for these advances individually using internal
information available.
Based on the assessment performed, the identified impairment loss was immaterial and hence, it is
not provided for.
(c) Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk arises mainly from general funding and business activities. The Group practises prudent risk
management by maintaining sufficient cash and bank balances and the availability of funding through certain
committed credit facilities.
Maturity Analysis
The following table sets out the maturity profile of the financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period
based on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest payments computed using contractual
rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end of the reporting period):-
Effective		 Contractual
		 Interest Carrying Undiscounted Within 1 – 5 Over
		 Rate Amount Cash Flows 1 Year Years 5 Years
The Group % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2021
Non-derivative Financial
Liabilities
Trade payables - 14,892 14,892 14,892 - -
Other payables and
accruals - 5,158 5,158 5,158 - -
Lease liabilities 1.08 - 6.52 17,441 18,638 8,456 10,182 -
Term loans 3.17 - 5.39 25,627 33,714 3,761 12,680 17,273
			 63,118 72,402 32,267 22,862 17,273
SDS GROUP BERHAD
114
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)
Maturity Analysis (Cont’d)
The following table sets out the maturity profile of the financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period
based on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest payments computed using contractual
rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end of the reporting period) (Cont’d):-
Effective		 Contractual
		 Interest Carrying Undiscounted Within 1 – 5 Over
		 Rate Amount Cash Flows 1 Year Years 5 Years
The Group % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2020
Non-derivative Financial
Liabilities
Trade payables - 17,041 17,041 17,041 - -
Other payables and
accruals - 6,044 6,044 6,044 - -
Lease liabilities 1.08 - 6.52 24,919 27,202 9,453 17,344 405
Term loans 3.92 - 6.60 29,367 39,704 3,991 14,668 21,045
Bank overdraft 6.72 475 475 475 - -
			 77,846 90,466 37,004 32,012 21,450
		 Effective		 Contractual
		 Interest Carrying Undiscounted Within 1 – 5 Over
		 Rate Amount Cash Flows 1 Year Years 5 Years
The Company % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2021
Non-derivative Financial
Liabilities
Other payables and
accruals - 109 109 109 - -
Amount owing to
subsidiaries - * * * - -
			 109 109 109 - -
115
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
33.1 FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT POLICIES (CONT’D)
(c) Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)
Maturity Analysis (Cont’d)
The following table sets out the maturity profile of the financial liabilities at the end of the reporting period
based on contractual undiscounted cash flows (including interest payments computed using contractual
rates or, if floating, based on the rates at the end of the reporting period) (Cont’d):-
		 Effective		 Contractual
		 Interest Carrying Undiscounted Within 1 – 5 Over
		 Rate Amount Cash Flows 1 Year Years 5 Years
The Company % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2020
Non-derivative Financial
Liabilities
Other payables and
accruals - 77 77 77 - -
Amount owing to
subsidiaries - 32 32 32 - -
			 109 109 109 - -
* Denotes amount less than RM500.
33.2 CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group manages its capital to ensure that entities within the Group will be able to maintain an optimal capital
structure so as to support its businesses and maximise shareholders value. To achieve this objective, the Group
may make adjustments to the capital structure in view of changes in economic conditions, such as adjusting the
amount of dividend payment, returning of capital to shareholders or issuing new shares.
[The rest of this page is intentionally left blank]
SDS GROUP BERHAD
116
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
33.2 CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
The Group manages its capital based on debt-to-equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory, if
any. The debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total equity. The Group includes within net debt,
loans and borrowings from financial institutions less cash and cash equivalents. Capital includes equity attributable
to the owners of the parent and non-controlling interests. The debt-to-equity ratio of the Group at the end of the
reporting period was as follows:-
		 The Group
				 2021 2020
			 RM’000 RM’000
Lease liabilities (Note 16) 					 17,441 24,919
Term loans (Note 17) 					 25,627 29,367
Bank overdraft (Note 23) 					 - 475
						
43,068 54,761
Less: Cash and bank balances 				 (17,185) (10,457)
Net debt 					 25,883 44,304
Total equity					 72,271 65,150
Debt-to-equity ratio 					 36% 68%
There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
33.3 CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group The Company
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Financial Assets
Amortised Cost
Amount owing by subsidiaries (Note 8) 		 - - 12,086 14,543
Trade receivables (Note 12) 		 7,681 9,392 - -
Other receivables (Note 13) 		 33 145 - 139
Cash and bank balances 			 17,185 10,457 10,318 6,094
				 24,899 19,994 22,404 20,776
117
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
33.3 CLASSIFICATION OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
The Group The Company
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Financial Liabilities
Amortised Cost
Term loans (Note 17)			 25,627 29,367 - -
Trade payables (Note 20) 			 14,892 17,041 - -
Other payables and accruals (Note 21)		 5,158 6,044 109 77
Amount owing to subsidiaries (Note 22) 		 - - * 32
Bank overdraft (Note 23) 			 - 475 - -
				 45,677 52,927 109 109
* Denotes amount less than RM500.
33.4 GAINS OR LOSSES ARISING FROM FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
The Group The Company
				 2021 2020 2021 2020
				 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Financial Assets
Amortised Cost
Net gains recognised in profit or loss 		 150 67 589 382
Financial Liabilities
Amortised Cost
Net losses recognised in profit or loss 		 (1,076) (1,566) - -
SDS GROUP BERHAD
118
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 MARCH 2021
33. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
33.5 FAIR VALUE INFORMATION
The fair values of the financial assets and financial liabilities of the Group and of the Company which are maturing
within the next 12 months approximated their carrying amounts due to the relatively short-term maturity of the
financial instruments or repayable on demand terms.
As the Group does not have any financial instruments carried at fair value, the following table sets out only the fair
value profile of financial instruments that are not carried at fair value at the end of the reporting period:-
		 Fair Value of Financial Instruments not
					 Carried At Fair Value Total Fair Carrying
			 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Value Amount
The Group		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2021
Financial Liability
Term loans 		 - 25,627 - 25,627 25,627
2020
Financial Liability
Term loans 		 - 29,367 - 29,367 29,367
Fair Value of Financial Instruments Not Carried at Fair Value
The fair value of the Group’s term loans that carry floating interest rates approximated their carrying amounts as
they are repriced to market interest rates on or near the reporting date.
34. SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
On 11 March 2020, the World Health Organisation declared the COVID-19 outbreak as global pandemic. Following the
declaration, the Government of Malaysia has imposed the Movement Control Order (“MCO”) on 18 March 2020 and
subsequently entered into various phases of the MCO to curb the spread of the COVID-19 pandemic in Malaysia.
The Company’s operations have been disrupted by a series of precautionary and control measures taken by the government
and private corporations in response to the emergency of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Although the Company’s operations have been disrupted, its financial performance and cash flows for the current financial
year remained positive.
119
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
LIST OF PROPERTIES
AS AT 31 MARCH 2021
No. Address of
property
Description
of property/
Existing use
Tenure/
Date of
expiring
of lease
Land.
area/
Built-up
area
(Sq ft)
Approximate
age of the
buildings
(Years)
Net Book
Value as at
31/3/2021
(RM’000)
Date of last
revaluation/
Date of
acquisition*
1. PTD 162517, No.
5 & 5A, Jalan
Selatan 8, Taman
Perindustrian
Ringan Pulai, 81200
Johor Bahru, Johor
1 1/2 storey
factory with a
warehouse and
office annexed to
a 3-storey factory
with warehouse
and office and
a 4-storey
factory building /
Warehouse, office
and production
Freehold 152,385/
165,962
24 15,118 13/4/2016
2. PTD 64574, No.62,
Jalan Bukit Kempas
5/1, Taman Bukit
Kempas, 81200
Johor Bahru, Johor
2-storey terrace
house / Hostel
Freehold 1,302/
1,571
26 142 16/10/2014
3. PTD 64573, No.64,
Jalan Bukit Kempas
5/1, Taman Bukit
Kempas, 81200
Johor Bahru, Johor
2-storey terrace
house / Hostel
Freehold 1,300/
1,571
26 142 1/5/1995*
4. Lot 18696 (PT6123),
Jalan Techvalley
1, Kawasan
Perindustrian
Sendayan
Techvalley, Bandar
Sri Sendayan,
71950 Seremban,
Negeri Sembilan
1 1/2 storey
factory with
a warehouse
annexed to a
2-storey office /
Warehouse, office
and production
Freehold 321,292/
74,880
5 23,254 30/4/2016
5. No.6, Jalan Niaga 2,
Bandar Baru Kota
Tinggi, 81900 Kota
Tinggi, Johor
2-storey
shophouse /
Ground Floor -
Outlet operation
First floor -
Rent to KS Tan
Properties Sdn.
Bhd.
Leasehold
of 99
years
expiring in
14.5.2085
1,540/
2,460
32 510 19/11/2004
SDS GROUP BERHAD
120
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 7 JULY 2021
Number of Shares Issued : 405,823,900
Voting rights : One vote for one ordinary share
No. of Shareholders : 2,943
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS
			 NO. OF		 NO. OF
CATEGORY			HOLDERS % SHARES %
Less than 100 			 0 0.00 0 0.00
100 - 1,000 			 434 14.75 200,000 0.05
1,001 - 10,000 			 1,253 42.58 7,391,600 1.82
10,001 - 100,000 			 1,071 36.39 37,187,000 9.16
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 		 182 6.18 162,428,780 40.03
5% and above of issued shares 			 3 0.10 198,616,520 48.94
TOTAL 			 2,943 100.00 405,823,900 100.00
SHAREHOLDINGS
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS			 Direct Interest % Deemed Interest %
1. TAN KIM SENG 			 99,040,780 24.40 2,541,620(a) 0.63
2. TAN KIM CHAI 			 98,885,580 24.37 2,291,620 (b) 0.56
3. TAN YONG THYE 			 20,690,160 5.10 - -
SHAREHOLDINGS
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS			 Direct Interest % Deemed Interest %
1. TAN KIM SENG 			 99,040,780 24.40 2,541,620(a) 0.63
2. TAN KIM CHAI 			 98,885,580 24.37 2,291,620 (b) 0.56
3. TAN YON HAW 			 19,116,970 4.71 - -
4. TAN KEE JIN 			 1,131,800 0.28 - -
5. DR. LIM PANG KIAM 			 - - - -
6. PHANG SZE FUI 			 - - - -
7. DATO’ ALBERT DING CHOO EARN 		 70,000 0.02 - -
Note:
(a) Deemed interested by virtue of his interests in SDS Tan Properties Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8(4) of the Companies Act 2016 and
his son’s direct shareholding in the Company pursuant to Section 59(11)(c) of the Act.
(b) Deemed interested by virtue of his interests in SDS Tan Properties Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section 8(4) of the Companies Act 2016.
121
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 7 JULY 2021
THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS
NO. NAME OF SHAREHOLDER 			 NO. OF SHARES %
1. TAN KIM CHAI 					 98,885,580 24.37
2. TAN KIM SENG					 79,040,780 19.48
3. TAN YONG THYE 					 20,690,160 5.10
4. ALLIANCEGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 			 20,000,000 4.93
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN KIM SENG (7003782)
5. TAN YON HAW 					 19,116,970 4.71
6. TEOU CHAU HOYK 					 18,753,470 4.62
7. TAN YONG HERNG 					 18,753,360 4.62
8. TAN YONG PING 					 18,703,360 4.61
9. CIMB GROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 			 9,061,800 2.23
CIMB COMMERCE TRUSTEE BERHAD FOR KENANGA SHARIAH
GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES FUND (50156 TR01)
10. CIMB GROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 			 2,881,800 0.71
CIMB COMMERCE TRUSTEE BERHAD FOR KENANGA
GROWTH OPPORTUNITIES FUND (50154 TR01)
11. SDS TAN PROPERTIES SDN. BHD. 				 2,291,620 0.56
12. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD				 2,070,000 0.51
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR HENG SUE KHE (E-BPT/EDU) 		
13. WONG TUCK LEE 					 1,855,000 0.46
14. CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD 				 1,284,000 0.32
EXEMPT AN FOR BARCLAYS CAPITAL SECURITIES LTD (SBL/PB)
15. CIMB GROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 			 1,271,700 0.31
CIMB COMMERCE TRUSTEE BERHAD FOR KENANGA DIVERSIFIED
FUND (50157 TR01)
16. YAP FEI YUN 					 1,233,300 0.30
17. CIMB GROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 			 1,231,400 0.30
CIMB COMMERCE TRUSTEE BERHAD - KENANGA BALANCED FUND
18. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 				 1,190,000 0.29
YAU YOKE LAN
19. TAN KEE JIN 					 1,131,800 0.28
20. LIM HAN KONG 					 920,000 0.23
21. ENKO HOLDINGS SDN. BHD. 					 902,200 0.22
22. TOH LEE CHENG 					 887,000 0.22
23. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD 				 692,000 0.17
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TEW CHIN YAN
24. TAY WAN TING 					 655,000 0.16
25. TOH LAY LEE 					 606,000 0.15
26. TAN KA LIAN					 600,000 0.15
27. YAP CHOON HWA					 600,000 0.15
28. ONG TECK LOONG 					 579,000 0.14
29. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD				 565,500 0.14
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TEH MIANG TECK (E-TJJ)
30. YAK MENG HOCK 					 540,000 0.13
TOTAL 					
326,992,800 80.57
SDS GROUP BERHAD
122
NOTICE OF
4TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the 4th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of SDS Group Berhad will be conducted as a fully
virtual meeting on Friday, 27 August 2021 at 10:00 a.m., or any adjournment thereof via livestreaming and online remote voting
using Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities for the following purposes:
AGENDA
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2021 together
with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
(Refer to
Explanatory Note 1)
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ Fees to Non-Executive Directors of the Company for the
financial year ended 31 March 2021.
RESOLUTION 1
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ Benefit up to an amount of RM25,000 for the period from
the conclusion of the 4th AGM of the Company scheduled on 27 August 2021 until the date of
the 5th AGM of the Company.
RESOLUTION 2
4. To re-elect the following Directors, who retire in accordance with Article 18.2 of the Company’s
Constitution and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election:
(i) Mr. Tan Yon Haw
(ii) Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn
RESOLUTION 3
RESOLUTION 4
5. To re-appoint Messrs Crowe Malaysia PLT (LLP0018817-LCA & AF 1018) as Auditors of the
Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
RESOLUTION 5
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolutions:
6. ORDINARY RESOLUTION - AUTHORITY UNDER SECTIONS 75 AND 76 OF THE COMPANIES
ACT 2016 FOR THE DIRECTORS TO ALLOT AND ISSUE SHARES
“THAT subject to the Companies Act, 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the Company, the
ACE Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”), the Directors be and are hereby authorised and empowered pursuant to
Sections 75 and 76 of the Act, to issue and allot shares in the Company, at any time to such
persons and upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes as the Directors may, in their
absolute discretion deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares to be issued pursuant
to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of
the Company at any point in time; AND THAT the Directors be and are hereby also empowered
to obtain approval from the Bursa Securities for the listing and quotation of the additional shares
so issued on Bursa Securities; AND THAT such authority shall commence immediately upon the
passing of this resolution and continue to be in force until the conclusion of the next AGM of the
Company.”
RESOLUTION 6
7. ORDINARY RESOLUTION - PROPOSED RENEWAL OF SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR
RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE
“THAT approval be and is hereby given to the Company and its subsidiary (“Group”) to enter
into and give effect to the recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature
particulars with the specified classes of related parties as specified in Section 2.6 of the Circular
to Shareholders dated 29 July 2021, provided that:
(a) such arrangements and/or transactions are necessary for the Group’s day-to-day
operations;
RESOLUTION 7
123
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
(b) such arrangements and/or transactions undertaken are in the ordinary course of business,
at arm’s length basis and on normal commercial terms which are not more favourable to
the related parties than those generally available to third party;
(c) such arrangements and/or transactions are not detrimental to the minority shareholders
of the Company; and
(d) the disclosure is made in the annual report on the aggregate value of transactions
conducted pursuant to the shareholders’ mandate during the financial year in relation to:
(i) the related transacting parties and their respective relationship with the Company;
and
(ii) the nature of the recurrent transactions.
THAT such authority shall continue to be in force until:
(a) the conclusion of the next AGM, unless the authority is renewed by a resolution passed
at the next AGM; or
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM is required to be held pursuant to
Section 340(2) of the Act (but will not extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant
to Section 340(4) of the Act); or
(c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in general meeting,
whichever is the earlier.
AND THAT the Directors be and are hereby authorised to complete and do all such acts and
things (including executing such documents as may be required) to give effect to the transactions
contemplated and/or authorised by this Ordinary Resolution.”
8. To transact any other business for which due notice shall have been given.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
SIEW SUET WEI (MAICSA 7011254)
SSM Practicing Certificate No. 202008001690
LIM YEN TENG (LS0010182)
SSM Practicing Certificate No. 201908000028
Company Secretaries
Kuala Lumpur
Date: 29 July 2021
NOTICE OF
4TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
SDS GROUP BERHAD
124
NOTICE OF
4TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTES:
1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose names appear on the Record of Depositors on 20 August 2021
(General Meeting Record of Depositors) shall be eligible to attend the meeting or appoint proxy(ies) to attend and/or vote
on his behalf.
2. A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend
and vote in his stead. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company. There shall be no restriction as to the
qualification of the proxy.
3. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy but not more than two (2) proxies, the appointments shall be invalid
unless he specifies the proportions of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial
owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories)
Act, 1991, there shall be no limit to the number of proxies which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect
of each omnibus account it holds.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in
writing or, if the appointor is a corporation, either under its Common Seal or signed by an officer or attorney so authorised.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy or proxies and the power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed
or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, must be deposited at the office of the Poll Administrator, Mega
Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd., Level 15-2, Bangunan Faber Imperial Court, Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50250 Kuala Lumpur or
email to AGM-support.SDS@megacorp.com.my not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting
or any adjournment thereof.
7. Pursuant to Rule 8.31A(1) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“AMLR”), voting
at the AGM of the Company will be conducted by poll. Poll Administrator and Independent Scrutineers will be appointed
respectively to conduct the polling/e-voting process and to verify the results of the poll.
EXPLANATORY NOTES
1. Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 March 2021
This Agenda No. 1 is meant for discussion only as under the provisions of Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act 2016, the
audited financial statements do not require the approval of the shareholders. As such, this matter will not be put forward
for voting.
2. Ordinary Resolution 1 & 2: Payment of Directors’ Fees & Benefits
Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016, the shareholders’ approval is sought for the proposed payment
of Directors’ Fees for financial year ended 31 March 2021 and Benefits to the Non-Executive Directors (“NEDs”) for the
period from 27 August 2021 until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company. The calculation of the benefits which
include meeting allowance is based on the estimated number of scheduled and/or special Board and Board Committees’
meetings.
3. Ordinary Resolution 3 and 4: Re-election of Directors
Article 18.2 of the Company’s Constitution provides that an election of Directors shall take place each year at the AGM
of the Company where one third (1/3) of the Directors for the time being, or, if their number is not three (3) or a multiple
of three (3), then the number nearest to one third (1/3) shall retire from office and be eligible for re-election. PROVIDED
ALWAYS THAT all Directors shall retire from office once at least in each three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election.
Hence, two (2) out of seven (7) Directors are to retire in accordance with Article 18.2 of the Constitution.
125
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
3. Ordinary Resolution 3 and 4: Re-election of Directors (Cont’d)
Mr. Tan Yon Haw and Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn are standing for re-election as Directors of the Company and being
eligible, have offered themselves for re-election. The profiles of the Directors standing for re-election are set out in the
Directors’ Profile of this Annual Report 2021.
4. Ordinary Resolution 5: Re-appointment of Auditors
The Board and Audit Committee had at their respective meetings on 25 June 2021 recommended the re-appointment
of Messrs Crowe Malaysia PLT for the financial year ending 31 March 2022. Messrs Crowe Malaysia PLT have met the
criteria prescribed under the Rule 15.21 of the ACE Listing Requirements and indicated their willingness to continue their
services for the next financial year.
5. Ordinary Resolution 6: Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 for the Directors to Allot
and Issue Shares
The proposed Resolution 6 is a renewal of mandate given by the shareholders at the previous AGM held on 28 August
2020, primarily to give flexibility to the Directors to issue and allot shares at any time in their absolute discretion and for
such purposes as they consider would be in the interest of the Company without convening a general meeting. This
authority, unless revoked or varied at a general meeting, will expire at the next AGM of the Company.
The Company continues to consider opportunities to broaden its earnings potential. If any of the expansion/diversification
proposals involves the issue of new shares, the Directors, under certain circumstance when the opportunity arises, would
have to convene a general meeting to approve the issue of new shares even though the number involved may be less than
10% of the total number of issued shares.
In order to avoid any delay and costs involved in convening a general meeting to approve such issue of shares, it is thus
considered appropriate that the Directors be empowered to issue shares in the Company, up to any amount not exceeding
in total 10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company. The renewed authority will provide flexibility to the
Company for the issuance of shares for the purpose of the possible fund-raising activities for the purpose of funding future
project/investment, working capital and/or acquisitions. This authority, unless revoked or varied at a general meeting will
expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
No shares have been issued and allotted by the Company since obtaining the said authority from its shareholders at the
last AGM held on 28 August 2020.
6. Ordinary Resolution 7: Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of
a Revenue or Trading Nature
For further information on the proposed Ordinary Resolution 7, please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 29 July
2021 accompanying the Annual Report 2021.
NOTICE OF
4TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
SDS GROUP BERHAD
126
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF
4TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Pursuant to Rule 8.29(2) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements (“AMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad)
1. Details of individual who are standing for election as Directors (excluding Directors standing for re-election)
No individual is seeking election as Director at the 4th AGM of the Company.
2. General mandate for issue of securities in accordance with Rule 6.04 of the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities
The Company will seek shareholders’ approval on the general meeting for issue of securities in accordance with Rule
6.04(3) of the AMLR of Bursa Securities. Please refer to the Proposed Ordinary Resolution 6 as stated in the Notice of the
4th AGM of the Company for details.
127
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
FOR THE 4TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“4TH AGM”)
Date : Friday, 27 August 2021
Time : 10.00 a.m.
Meeting Platform : megacorp.com.my
MYNIC ID : D1A018851
Voting via Digital Ballot Form at a Fully Virtual 4th AGM
1. This is a fully virtual meeting in adherence to the Guidance Note and FAQs on the Conduct of General Meetings for
Listed Issuers issued by the Securities Commission Malaysia to curb the spiking of Covid-19. Shareholders who wish to
participate at the 4th AGM will therefore have to do so remotely. Pre-registration of attendance is required via the link at
https://vps.megacorp.com.my/txKA3T (please refer to para 4 for further details). After the registration is validated and
accepted, shareholders will receive an email with a link to grant access to the Digital Ballot Form (“DBF”).
2. With the DBF, you may exercise your right as a shareholder of the Company to participate (including to pose questions to
the Board/Management of the Company) and vote during the 4th AGM, at the comfort of your home or from any location.
3. Shareholders may use the Questions’ Pane facility (located at the top right corner of the screen) to submit questions in
real time during the meeting via the livestreaming solution. Shareholders may also submit questions before the meeting
via email to AGM-support.SDS@megacorp.com.my in relation to the agenda items for the 4th AGM.
Registration Procedures
4. Kindly follow the steps below to ensure that you are able to obtain your DBF and details to log in to the livestreaming
session to participate and vote remotely during the AGM online:
a. Open this link https://vps.megacorp.com.my/txKA3T, or scan the QR code as stated above, and submit all the
details requested at least 48 hours before the date of 4th AGM.
b. Only shareholders are allowed to register their details online. Shareholders can also appoint proxies or Chairman of
the meeting as proxy via online, as in step (a) above. Please ensure that your details are accurate as non-compliance
would result in you not being able to participate in the meeting.
c. Alternatively, you may deposit your proxy form, duly completed with the proxy’s email address and mobile phone
number, at the office of the Poll Administrator, Mega Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd., Level 15-2, Bangunan Faber
Imperial Court, Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50250 Kuala Lumpur or email to AGM-support.SDS@megacorp.com.my not
less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
d. For corporate shareholders/nominee accounts, please execute proxy form as per step (c) above.
e. Upon verification on your registration, the Poll Administrator, Mega Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd., will send you
two emails:
i. Meeting Link - to join the livestreaming session
ii. DBF - for remote voting purposes.
Record of Depositors (“ROD”) for the 4th AGM
5. The date of ROD for the 4th AGM is Friday, 20 August 2021. As such, only shareholders whose name appears in the
ROD as at 20 August 2021 shall be entitled to participate, speak and vote at the 4th AGM or appoint proxy(ies)/corporate
representative(s) to participate, speak and vote on his/her behalf.
SCAN ME
SDS GROUP BERHAD
128
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
FOR THE 4TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“4TH AGM”)
Poll Voting
6. The voting of the 4th AGM will be conducted by poll. The Company has appointed Mega Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd.
as the Poll Administrator to conduct the polling process by way of electronic voting, and Cygnus Technology Solutions
Sdn. Bhd. as Scrutineers to verify the poll results.
7. Shareholders or proxies can proceed to vote on the resolutions and submit your votes during the voting period as stipulated
in the DBF. Upon completion of the voting session for the 4th AGM, the Scrutineers will verify the poll results after which
the Chairman will announce the poll results of the resolutions.
Enquiry
If you have any enquiries on the above, please contact the Poll Administrator during office hours (Monday to Friday):
Mega Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd.
Level 15-2, Bangunan Faber Imperial Court
Jalan Sultan Ismail
50250 Kuala Lumpur
Tel No : +60 (3) 2692 4271
Email : AGM-support.SDS@megacorp.com.my
Person in Charge:
Alfred : +60 (12) 912 2734
Hisham : +60 (12) 252 9136
129
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
I/We _________________________________________________________ of ______________________________________________
being a member of SDS GROUP BERHAD, hereby appoint:
FULL NAME (IN BLOCK) NRIC/PASSPORT NO. PROPORTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS
NO. OF SHARES %
E-MAIL ADDRESS MOBILE NO.
(the next name should be completed where it is desired to appoint two proxies)
FULL NAME (IN BLOCK) NRIC/PASSPORT NO. PROPORTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS
NO. OF SHARES %
E-MAIL ADDRESS MOBILE NO.
or failing him/her, the Chairman of the Meeting as my/our proxy/proxies to attend and vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the 4th
Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company which is a fully virtual meeting on Friday, 27 August 2021 at 10:00 a.m., or any
adjournment thereof through livestreaming and online remote voting using Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities.
Please indicate with a cross (X) in the space whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolution. In the absence
of such specific directions, your proxy will vote or abstain as he thinks fit.
FOR AGAINST
RESOLUTION 1 To approve the payment of Directors’ Fees for the financial year ended
31 March 2021
RESOLUTION 2 To approve the payment of Directors’ Benefit up to an amount of RM25,000 for
the period from the conclusion of the 4th AGM of the Company scheduled on
27 August 2021 until the following AGM of the Company
RESOLUTION 3 To re-elect Mr. Tan Yon Haw who retires pursuant to Article 18.2 of the Company’s
Constitution
RESOLUTION 4 To re-elect Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn who retires pursuant to Article 18.2 of
the Company’s Constitution
RESOLUTION 5 To re-appoint Messrs Crowe Malaysia PLT as Auditors and to authorise the
Directors to fix their remuneration
RESOLUTION 6 Authority to issue shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies
Act 2016
RESOLUTION 7 Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
Dated this ___________ day of __________________ 2021
___________________________________
Signature(s)/Common Seal of Member
No. of shares held
CDS Account No.
No. of shares to be
represented by each proxy
Proxy 1 Proxy 2
PROXY FORM
NOTES: -
1. In respect of deposited securities, only members whose names appear on
the Record of Depositors on 20 August 2021 (General Meeting Record of
Depositors) shall be eligible to attend the meeting or appoint proxy(ies) to
attend and/or vote on his behalf.
2. A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the meeting is entitled
to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and vote in his stead. A proxy may but
need not be a member of the Company. There shall be no restriction as to the
qualification of the proxy.
3. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy but not more than two (2)
proxies, the appointments shall be invalid unless he specifies the proportions
of his holdings to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary
shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities
account (“omnibus account”) as defined under the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act, 1991, there shall be no limit to the number of proxies which
the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus
account it holds.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the
appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointor is a
corporation, either under its Common Seal or signed by an officer or attorney
so authorised.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy or proxies and the power of attorney or other
authority (if any) under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such
power or authority, must be deposited at the office of the Poll Administrator,
Mega Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd., Level 15-2, Bangunan Faber Imperial
Court, Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50250 Kuala Lumpur or email to AGM-support.
SDS@megacorp.com.my not less than 48 hours before the time appointed
for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof.
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
THE POLL ADMINISTRATOR
SDS GROUP BERHAD Registration No. 201701026951 (1241117-T)
c/o MEGA CORPORATE SERVICES SDN BHD
Level 15-2, Bangunan Faber Imperial Court
Jalan Sultan Ismail
50250 Kuala Lumpur
“FOURTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING”
Then fold here
1st fold here
AFFIX
STAMP
