Registration No. 201701026951 (1241117-T)
SHARE
DINE
SMILE
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
W H AT ’ S I N S I D E
OVERVIEW
PERFORMANCE
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIALS
ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION
About Us 002
Corporate Information 003
Corporate Structure 004
Financial Highlights 005
Corporate Milestones 006
Profile of Directors 008
Profile of Key Senior
Management 013
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement 035
Statement on
Risk Management
and Internal Control 046
Audit Committee Report 049
Additional Compliance
Information		
052
Directors’ Responsibility
Statement 054
Financial Statements 055
List of Properties 132
Analysis of Shareholdings 133
Notice of 5th Annual General
Meeting 135
Statement Accompanying
Notice of 5th Annual
General Meeting 140
Administrative Guide 141
• Proxy Form
Management Discussion
and Analysis 014
Sustainability Statement 019
Please scan to visit
SDS Group Berhad
https://sdsgroups.com/
AS A JOHOR HOME-GROWN
COMPANY, SDS GROUP DEVELOPS
OUR BUSINESS WITH THREE
SUBSIDIARY BRANDS INCLUDING
RETAIL BRAND, SDS AND
WHOLESALE BRANDS, TOP
BAKER AND DAILY’S.
Our retail segment manufactured and sold our
products via outlets operated under three (3) different
concepts namely, bakery, cafe and bakery-cum-cafe.
SDS is well-recognised in Johor region for our quality
confectionery products valuable for money and
excellent customer service. Since 1987, we continue to
invent new creations to keep customer’s excitement
in SDS products. Aligned with the Share, Dine, Smile
motto ~ SDS envisions to give its valued customer the
most unique and enjoyable dining experience.
Top Baker and Daily’s products are catered for the mass
market across the Peninsular Malaysia and Singapore.
Our products are sold through channels such as
hypermarkets, supermarkets, convenience stores and
sundry shops. Our wholesale distribution network is
supported by our in-house team of logistics personnel
and various distribution centers across the Peninsular
Malaysia.
002 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
ABOUT US
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Phang Sze Fui
Chairperson/Independent Non-Executive Director
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam
Member/Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn
Member/Independent Non-Executive Director
NOMINATING AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam
Chairman/Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn
Member/Independent Non-Executive Director
Phang Sze Fui
Member/Independent Non-Executive Director
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn
Chairman/Independent Non-Executive Director
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam
Member/Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Phang Sze Fui
Member/Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Kee Jin
Member/Executive Director
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Siew Suet Wei (MAICSA NO.: 7011254)
SSM Practicing Certificate No. 202008001690
Lim Yen Teng (LS0010182)
SSM Practicing Certificate No. 201908000028
AUDITORS
Crowe Malaysia PLT
201906000005 (LLP0018817-LCA & AF 1018)
E-2-3 Pusat Komersial Bayu Tasek
Persiaran Southkey 1, Kota Southkey
80150 Johor Bahru, Johor
Tel No.: +607-288 6627
WEBSITE
www.sdsgroups.com
SPONSOR
M&A Securities Sdn. Bhd.
45-11 The Boulevard
Mid Valley City, Lingkaran Syed Putra
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel No.: +603-2284 2911
Fax No.: +603-2284 2718
SHARE REGISTRAR
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd.
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A,
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South, 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel No.: +603-2783 9299
Fax No.: +603-2783 9222
REGISTERED OFFICE
5-9A, The Boulevard Offices
Mid Valley City, Lingkaran Syed Putra
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel No.: +603-2282 6331
Fax No.: +603-2201 9331
BUSINESS ADDRESS
5, Jalan Selatan 8 (Off Jalan Kempas Lama)
Kawasan Perusahaan Ringan Pulai
81200 Johor Bahru, Johor
Tel No.: +607-288 8305
Fax No.: +607-556 7116
Email: info@sdsgroups.com
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Hong Leong Bank Berhad
Malayan Banking Berhad
Public Bank Berhad
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (ACE Market)
Stock Name & Code: SDS 0212
Sector: Consumer Products & Services
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Tan Kim Seng
Managing Director
Tan Kim Chai
Executive Director
Tan Yon Haw
Executive Director
Tan Kee Jin
Executive Director
Phang Sze Fui
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn
Independent Non-Executive Director
CORPORATE INFORMATION
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 003
SDS GROUP BERHAD
201701026951 (1241117-T)
100%
SDS Enterprise
Sdn Bhd
201501018039 (1143371-K)
100%
Daily Bakery
Sdn Bhd
198901013459 (190769-H)
100%
SDS Food Manufacturing
Sdn Bhd
199201011621 (243124-V)
100%
SDS Bakery & Cafeteria
Sdn Bhd
199501030107 (359313-D)
Wholesale
Channel
Retail
Channel
51%
City Cake House
Sdn Bhd
200001014725 (517331-P)
100%
Super Arrow Trading
Pte Ltd
200819157G
100%
SDS Top Baker
Sdn Bhd
200701036505 (794534-T)
CORPORATE STRUCTURE
004 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
Revenue (RM‘000) 174,201 187,129 191,520 173,778 198,283
Profit After Tax Attributable to Owners of the
Company ("PAT")
(RM‘000) 5,739 7,695 4,074 7,271 10,618
Total Assets (RM‘000) 130,875 124,306 146,204 139,019 143,090
Shareholders’ Equity (RM‘000) 30,564 38,222 64,598 71,912 81,527
REVENUE
(RM’000)
TOTAL ASSETS
(RM’000)
PAT
(RM’000)
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
(RM’000)
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
174,201 187,129 191,520 173,778 198,283 5,739 7,695 4,074 7,271 10,618
130,875 124,306 146,204 139,019 143,090 30,564 38,222 64,598 71,912 81,527
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 005
SDS GROUP BERHAD
1991
1999
1995
2008
2009
1987
Sin Lee Hiang
Bakery was
involved in the
manufacturing
and retailing of
bakery products
with its ﬁrst
bakery being
established in
Masai, Johor
10 bakery outlets
across Johor, all
under the brand
name of ‘SDS’
1992
SDS Food was
incorporated as
a private limited
company
1993
Constructed a
1 1/2-storey
factory with a
warehouse and
ofﬁce building
in Kempas,
Johor, as our
headquarters
and production
facility
Opened our ﬁrst
bakery-cum-cafe
outlet under the
brand name of
‘SDS’ in Taman
Johor Jaya, Johor
Started to
manufacture
bakery products
on an OEM
basis for various
hypermarkets and
supermarkets
in Singapore
Diversiﬁed into
the wholesale trade
of bakery products
targeting sales
channels such as
convenience stores,
hypermarkets and
mini markets
Successfully
acquired
the entire
equity stake
in Wonderful
Moderate Sdn.
Bhd. (now known
as SDS Top
Baker Sdn. Bhd.)
CORPORATE MILESTONES
006 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
2014
2016
2018
2013
Took over the
distribution business
of Sunshine Bakery
Sdn. Bhd. in
Klang Valley and
Negeri Sembilan
through the
acquisition of 8
delivery vehicles
and recruitment
of its sales and
marketing personnel
SDS Top Baker
Sdn. Bhd.
obtained the
ISO22000:2005
certiﬁcation
under the scope
of manufacturing
of bakery and
confectionery
products
Acquired Daily
Bakery Sdn. Bhd.
for its wholesale
distribution
team and new
manufacturing
plant in
Seremban
2020
Opened our
ﬁrst two retail
outlets beyond
Johor, in Nilai and
Bangi and set up
ﬁrst wholesale
distribution
centre in Kedah
2019
Listed on the
ACE
Market of Bursa
Malaysia
Daily Bakery Sdn.
Bhd. obtained
the certiﬁcation
of ‘Makanan
Selamat
Tanggungjawab
Industri’
(“MeSTI”) which
is a food safety
programme
undertaken by
the Ministry of
Health Malaysia
2010
2012
Expanded
our existing
production facility
by building
an adjoining
3-storey building
with ofﬁce,
factory and
warehouse
Took over the
distribution
business of Bees
Bakery Sdn.
Bhd. through the
acquisition of 35
delivery vehicles
and recruitment
of its sales and
marketing
personnel
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 007
SDS GROUP BERHAD
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam was appointed to our Board
on 4 September 2018. He is the Chairman of our
Nominating and Remuneration Committee and
also a member of our Audit Committee and Risk
Management Committee.
He obtained a Bachelor of Science (Honours) in
Housing, Building and Planning and a Master of
Science in Planning from Universiti Sains Malaysia
in 1988 and 1989 respectively. In 2020, he obtained
his Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration
from SEGi University.
He is a Certified Financial Planner, a title by the
Financial Planning Association of Malaysia which
he has held since 2002. He is also a Credit Risk
Management specialist whereby he was awarded
the designation as a Certified Risk Professional from
the Bank Administration Institute for Certification
from USA in 2003. He has been a member of the
Council of the Asian Institute of Chartered Bankers
(formerly known as Institute of Bankers Malaysia)
since 1999. He is a fellow member of the Chartered
Institute of Management Accountants (“CIMA”) and
the Institute of Corporate Director Malaysia (“ICDM”).
He is also a member of the Malaysian Institute
of Accountants (“MIA”), the Chartered Global
Management Accountant (“CGMA”) and the ASEAN
Chartered Professional Accountants (“ASEAN CPA”).
He was working with a local bank for over 15 years
holding various senior positions which include
banking operation, commercial and corporate
banking and investment banking. He left the bank in
2004 to become a business owner and held several
executive and non-executive directorships in public
and private enterprises in Malaysia.
He currently sits on the Board of Directors of Inta
Bina Group Berhad, Engtex Group Berhad and
Lagenda Properties Berhad as an Independent
Non-Executive Director. He was appointed as Chief
Executive Officer in K. Seng Seng Corporation
Berhad on 3 January 2022.
He is also actively involved in non-government
organisation, serving as a Director and Council
Member at the Tung Shin Hospital, Kuala Lumpur, a
well-known private hospital in Malaysia.
Dr. Lim Pang Kiam attended all five (5) Board
Meetings of the Company held during the financial
year ended 31 March 2022.
DR. LIM PANG KIAM
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Malaysian 59 Male
AGE
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
008 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Mr. Tan Kim Chai was appointed to our Board on 4
September 2018. He is the co-founder of SDS Food.
He has 42 years of working experience in the bakery
industry. In 1999, he spearheaded the Group’s
expansion of the distribution channel into Singapore
by manufacturing bakery products on an OEM basis.
With the Group’s diversification into the wholesale
channel, he was mainly responsible for overseeing
our wholesale logistic activities and establishing an
extensive distribution network.
In 2019, he took on the role of overseeing the Group’s
sales and marketing division for the wholesale
channel. Together with his brother, Mr. Tan Kim
Seng, they transformed our Group from a small retail
bakery with only 5 employees to an organisation
with approximately 1,200 employees.
Mr. Tan Kim Chai attended all five (5) Board Meetings
of the Company held during the financial year ended
31 March 2022.
Mr. Tan Kim Seng was appointed to our Board on 4
September 2018. He is the co-founder of SDS Food
and has spearheaded the business growth of our
Group since its inception in 1987. He is responsible for
formulating and implementing the overall business
strategy and corporate development of our Group.
He is considered an industry veteran with 51 years of
working experience in the bakery industry. In 1995, he
led the Group to venture into the Café business and
diversified the Group into the wholesale channel,
establishing “Top Baker” branding in 2008. In 2016,
he led the Group to expand further within the
wholesale trade market, by acquiring Daily Bakery
and establishing our manufacturing footprint in the
central region (Seremban).
Under the leadership of Mr. Tan Kim Seng and his
brother, Mr. Tan Kim Chai, our Group has grown from
a small retail bakery with only 5 employees to an
organisation with approximately 1,200 employees.
Mr. Tan Kim Seng attended all five (5) Board Meetings
of the Company held during the financial year ended
31 March 2022.
TAN KIM CHAI
Executive Director
Malaysian 60 Male
TAN KIM SENG
Managing Director
Malaysian 65 Male
AGE
AGE
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 009
SDS GROUP BERHAD
Mr. Tan Kee Jin was appointed to our Board on 4
September 2018. He is also a member of our Risk
Management Committee.
He graduated from the University of Western
Australia with a Bachelor of Commerce degree in
2007.
He joined the Group in 2006 and was involved
in overseeing the daily invoicing operations and
managing products logistics at all our retail outlets.
In 2008, he was re-assigned to the Business
Development Department and promoted to
Business Development Manager in 2012. In 2015, he
was promoted to Executive Director of SDS Food
Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd., and was responsible for
developing and implementing strategies to drive
our Group’s retail revenue and growth.
Mr. Tan Kee Jin attended all five (5) Board Meetings
of the Company held during the financial year ended
31 March 2022.
Mr. Tan Yon Haw was appointed to our Board on 4
September 2018.
Following the Group’s venture into the wholesale
channel, he was in-charge of the production activities
for the wholesale channel. In 2008, he was promoted
to Head of Production and was in-charge of the day-to-
day operations of the wholesale channel, which include
production, purchasing, inventory management and
research and development activities.
He was also in-charge of establishing the food
safety management system and obtaining the ISO
22000:2005 certification in 2014.
Mr. Tan Yon Haw attended all five (5) Board Meetings
of the Company held during the financial year ended
31 March 2022.
TAN YON HAW
Executive Director
Malaysian 45 Male
AGE
AGE
TAN KEE JIN
Executive Director
Malaysian 38 Male
010 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Ms. Phang Sze Fui was appointed to our Board
on 4 September 2018, and is the Chairperson of
our Audit Committee. She is also a member of our
Nominating and Remuneration Committee and
Risk Management Committee.
She obtained her Diploma in Commerce (Financial
Accounting) from Tunku Abdul Rahman College
in 1997. She obtained her Professional Accounting
Qualification from the Association of Chartered
Certified Accountants (“ACCA”) of UK in 1998, and
has been a fellow member since 2005. She is also a
member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
(“MIA”) since 2009. She has been an audit committee
member of The Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia
since 2019. In addition, she has been a member of
the Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia since
November 2021.
She has over 18 years of experience in audits of
small and medium size companies and public listed
companies as well as Reporting Accountants for
various corporate exercises for initial public offering,
reverse takeover, acquisitions and disposals of assets
or companies, funds raising, financial due diligence
review, investigation audits and many more. Due
to this, she has acquired an in-depth knowledge
in auditing, accounting, taxation, Companies Act,
listing requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad and the Securities Commission guidelines.
She began her career at Messrs. Baker Tilly Monteiro
Heng, Kuala Lumpur as an Audit Assistant in 1997.
She was subsequently promoted to Senior Audit
Manager, Associate Director and Executive Director
of Transaction Reporting Division in 2005, 2007 and
2011 respectively. She left the firm in 2015.
In 2016, she joined Dolphin Applications Sdn. Bhd.
(a subsidiary of Dolphin International Berhad,
a company listed on the Main Market of Bursa
Securities) as Corporate Affairs Director. She left
Dolphin Application Sdn. Bhd. in 2017 to pursue
her own business venture, Avia Alliance Sdn. Bhd.
which specialises in the provision of business and
accounting consultancy, a business that she is
presently involved. She established Dynamic Aqua
Evolution Sdn. Bhd. in 2019 which specialises in
aquaponic farming, a business that she is presently
involved. In 2020, she established 1Advisory Sdn.
Bhd. which specialises in the provision of business
consultancy, a business that she is presently involved.
She currently sits on the Board of Directors of Kim
Teck Cheong Consolidated Berhad, Flexidynamic
Holdings Berhad and Orgabio Holdings Berhad as
an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Ms. Phang Sze Fui attended four (4) Board Meetings
of the Company held during the financial year ended
31 March 2022.
PHANG SZE FUI
Independent Non-Executive Director
Malaysian 50 Female
AGE
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 011
SDS GROUP BERHAD
Family Relationship of Directors
Save as disclosed below, none of the Directors has any family
relationship with any Directors and/ or major shareholders of
the Company:
1) Tan Kim Seng and Tan Kim Chai are brothers;
2) Tan Kee Jin is the son of Tan Kim Seng;
3) Tan Yon Haw is the nephew of Tan Kim Seng and
Tan Kim Chai;
4) Tan Kee Jin is the nephew of Tan Kim Chai; and
5) Tan Yon Haw and Tan Kee Jin are cousins.
Conflict of Interest
None of the directors has any conflict of interest with the
Company.
Conviction of Offence
None of the directors has conviction for any offences within the
past 5 years (other than traffic offences, if any) and there was no
public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year.
Securities Holdings
The particulars of the directors’ shareholdings are set out in
page 133 of this Annual Report.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn was appointed to our
Board on 4 September 2018, and is the Chairman
of our Risk Management Committee. He is also a
member of our Audit Committee, and Nominating
and Remuneration Committee.
He obtained a Bachelor of Laws (LLB) from Bond
University, Australia in 2002 and was called and
admitted as an Advocates and Solicitors at the High
Court of Malaya in 2005.
He is a lawyer by profession registered under the
Malaysian Bar and has been involved in private legal
practice since the start of his career. He started his
legal career as a legal practitioner at Messrs Dennis
Nik & Wong from 2005 to 2006, Messrs Mak, Ng, Shao
& Kee from 2006 to 2007 and Messrs Woon Wee Yuen
& Partners from 2007 to 2010. In 2010, he co-founded
Messrs Albert Ding, Chng & Co as a partner (which
was dissolved in 2011). In 2011, he joined Messrs S P
Lee & Associates (now known as Messrs Albert Ding,
Lee & Partners) as one of the Managing Partners.
His areas of practice involve but not limited to civil
general litigations, conveyancing law, corporate
law matters, intellectual property law and more. He
was appointed as the notary public at Johor Bahru
by Attorney General of Malaysia with effect from 16
March 2022 till 15 March 2024.
Dato’ Albert Ding Choo Earn attended all five (5)
Board Meetings of the Company held during the
financial year ended 31 March 2022.
DATO’ ALBERT
DING CHOO EARN
Independent Non-Executive Director
Malaysian 43 Male
AGE
012 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
THONG POH LOONG
Production Manager
Thong Poh Loong is responsible for the planning,
coordination and control of manufacturing processes at
our production facilities.
He is a seasoned baking professional with more than
20 years of combined related working experience in
Singapore and Malaysia. He obtained a Diploma in Civil
Engineering from Politeknik Kota Bahru in 1993.
In 1997, he joined King’s Confectionery Sdn. Bhd. to gain
practical working experience in the baking industry. In
1999, he joined his family business in Ipoh, selling bakery
products. In 2002, he co-founded Delijoy Bakery and
worked as Bakery Chef until his exit from the business in
2004. Thereafter, he worked as Bakery and Pastry Chef
with various companies such as Silibin Cakes & Bakery and
Marina Bay Sands.
From 2012 to 2017, he worked for various F&B companies
under a Singaporean investment company with F&B
portfolio, Commonwealth Capital Pte. Ltd. He was
responsible for managing production, procurement and
quality control as well as ensuring compliance to food
safety and halal standards in these companies. In 2017, he
joined our Group and assumed his current position.
Tan Kee Meng is responsible for overseeing our Group’s
finance-related functions including the execution of
financial reporting, compliance of tax matters and
maintenance of internal controls.
He graduated with a Bachelor of Commerce with double
majors in accounting and finance from University of
Queensland,Australiain2010.HebecameamemberofCPA
Australia in 2015 and a Chartered Accountant (Singapore)
of Institute of Singapore Chartered Accountants in 2016.
He has been a registered member of Malaysian Institute of
Accountants since 2017. In 2011, he started his career with
KPMG LLP in Singapore as an Audit Associate and was
subsequently promoted to Audit Manager in 2016. During
his stint there, he audited private limited companies as
well as public listed companies across various different
industries such as manufacturing, trading, airline and
tourism. He was involved in conducting independent
statutory financial audit works and special assignments
such as due diligence reviews. He left the firm in 2017 and
assumed his current position.
TAN KEE MENG
Chief Financial Officer
Malaysian 34 Male Malaysian 51 Male
AGE AGE
Family Relationship of Key Senior Management
Save as disclosed below, none of the Key Senior Management has
any family relationship with any Directors and/or major shareholders
of the Company:
1) Tan Kee Meng is the son of Tan Kim Seng and brother of Tan
Kee Jin; and
2) Tan Kee Meng is the nephew of Tan Kim Chai and cousin of Tan
Yon Haw.
Conflict of Interest
None of the Key Senior Management has any conflict of interest
with the Company.
Conviction of Offence
None of the Key Senior Management has any conviction for any
offences within the past 5 years (other than traffic offences, if
any) and there was no public sanction or penalty imposed by the
relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
PROFILE OF
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 013
SDS GROUP BERHAD
SDS Group Berhad and its subsidiaries (“SDS” or the “Group”) are
primarily involved in the manufacturing and retailing of bakery
products since 1984. It grew from its Johor homebase throughout
Peninsular Malaysia with its three brands, namely the retail brand
‘SDS’ and two wholesale brands, ‘Top Baker’ and ‘Daily’s’.
As the Group entered its third year as an ACE Market listed issuer, this
discussion encompasses the financial year ended (“FYE”) 31 March
2022 and should be read in conjunction with the Group’s audited
financial statements.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
“
”
OVERVIEW & JOURNEY IN THE NEW NORMAL
From an operational angle, FYE 2022 has been a challenging year as the nation went through different
Movement Control Order (MCO) phases. The constant adjustment to the Group’s operating procedures
to ensure compliance with the Government’s Standard Operating Procedures (“SOPs”) was felt heavily
especially in the retail channel, owing to the fact that the Group has significant Food and Beverage
("F&B") components offering dine-in experiences for a variety of cuisines.
Despite this challenge, the Group has managed to open 2 new outlets in Bandar Seri Putra, Selangor
and Taman Nusantara, Johor while the wholesale channel set up another distribution centre in Gua
Musang, Kelantan, bringing the Group’s total to 20 centres in 10 out of the 11 states in Peninsular
Malaysia.
The Group’s journey in FYE 2022 was a continuing story of operating under lockdown conditions,
particularly in the early part of the financial year under review. Governmental SOPs to close all non-
essential businesses and services impacted the Group’s operations and potential earnings from the
retail channel as the retail outlets had to comply with certain SOPs including restricted dine-in, social
distancing, closure of schools, malls and non-essential sectors had also affected foot traffic. Although
the bakery section of the Group’s operations was classified as essential goods and was allowed to
operate, the impact to revenue stream from the café operations was dampened during this period.
Part of the Group’s responsibility as a caring corporate citizen was to ensure the wellbeing of its
employees during this period. The Group participated in the employees’ vaccination program under
PIKAS to increase its employees’ vaccination rate and ensure the customers’ wellbeing and peace of
mind through this action. In addition, when market activities resumed, it also ensured that the Group
was ready to function at normal operational capability in the endemic stage.
The Group pivoted its strategy to meet the pandemic challenge by introducing a digital solution to
meet market demand. The market was still hungry for the Group’s products, so to reach and serve the
customer base better, the Group improved and refined its online and delivery channels which was set
up in FYE 2021. This improvement allowed the Group to receive customers’ orders via a greater range
of internal and external food delivery platforms. As a responsible employer, the Group also retrained
its outlet staff for customer service, allowing them to handle online and mobile orders, and deploying
some for the delivery service. This, coupled with the Group’s vaccination program participation, showed
that the Group cares about both the physical wellbeing as well as the career path of its employees.
014 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
During this quiet period, which lasted up till the middle of FYE 2022, the Group intensified its F&B’s research and
development ("R&D") programs, swinging into full roll out once the Government announced the easing of pandemic
restrictions. Its refinement of products and offerings, along with a new café menu was incubated during this period.
On the operation front, the business development team looked into new potential locations for expansion, while
simultaneously renegotiating existing tenancy agreements with malls and landlords for rebates and rental relief during
this period.
The wholesale channel was also affected by the COVID-19 restrictions as there was lower demand for wholesale bakery
products from customers due to the closure of hotels, schools, factory canteens and others. This knock-on effect to the
Group’s order book allowed for some corresponding strategies including:
a. The review of distribution networks and reorganisation of sales distribution routes of affected delivery vehicles;
b. Expansion of coverage area by sourcing new customers;
c. Promotional marketing campaigns at local and regional retail chains to boost sales; and
d. Expansion of customers base through collaboration with more local and regional retail chains.
Thankfully, as the vaccination rate of the nation rose and the country entered the endemic phase, there was a relaxation
of SOPs by the third quarter of FYE 2022. This meant that the economy and interstate borders were fully reopened. With
the easing of SOPs, all F&B outlets were reopened for normal operation hour and dine-in with social distancing observed
became the new norm. The Group’s R&D during the quieter period of the pandemic paid off. Customers walked in again
and the Group experienced a recovery in sales figures from the café operations. Meanwhile, the wholesale orders began
to flow in once again as the economy regained strength.
REVIEW OF OPERATIONS
Retail Channel
The chief success of the retail segment over the years has been the Group’s fundamentals in providing excellent service,
affordable and delicious food with nutritious and healthy qualities. The diversity of offering and variety in the menu is
also what caters to the customers’ tastebuds. On the financial side, the Group exercises prudent spending and balances
its R&D activities with the scalability of roll out.
In FYE 2022, the Group experienced slower operations, especially in malls, when they were closed temporarily under the
Government’s lockdown rules. However, the Group’s key strategic pivot towards the enhancement of food ordering and
delivery experience for its customers was realised through the improvement in delivery services and collaboration with
externally established food delivery service providers. In line with this, the Group’s R&D introduced changes to the café
menu for better product variety and experience for customers as well as launching a ready-to-eat series of products to
cater to the ever-changing palate of customers’ preference.
All of these activities added to the Group’s previous innovation of having its own contactless payment system through
the SDS mobile application, which includes an e-Wallet feature, customer hotline service that facilitates pre-ordering,
collection or delivery of products and a rejigged marketing strategy of selling festive items on third-party online platforms
has helped the Group reached out to its customers during the pandemic and also adapt to the new norms of consumer
behaviour.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 015
SDS GROUP BERHAD
Financial Indicators FY2022
RM’000
FY2021
RM’000
Difference
(%)
Revenue 198,283 173,778 14.1%
Gross Profit 61,596 52,988 16.2%
Gross Profit Margin 31.1% 30.5% 1.9%
Profit Before Tax 14,103 9,589 47.1%
Profit After Tax Attributable to
Owners of the Company ("PAT")
10,618 7,271 46.0%
Net profit margin 5.4% 4.2% 28.0%
Wholesale Channel
As mentioned in the overview, the wholesale channel’s market penetration grew with the addition of the Gua Musang
distribution centre, however the first half of FYE 2022 required a relook into the Group’s distribution network as closures
of non-essential sectors had a knock-on effect on the Group’s order book. Among some of the actions taken by the Group
included cost control over the replanning of sales distribution routes and streamlining the operating and manufacturing
processes. On the customer end of operations, the Group improved its variety of products and offered it to customers at
reasonable and competitive prices. The accessibility to customers became the Group’s main innovation for this channel
as it ensured that coverage and customer base of the distribution network was improved.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE & KEY CORPORATE HIGHLIGHTS
The Group’s year-on-year trend shows strong performance with a healthy revenue growth of 14.1% from RM173.78 million
in FYE 2021 to RM198.28 million in FYE 2022. This has in turn reflected on the Group’s PAT of RM10.62million in FYE 2022
as compared to RM7.27 million in FYE 2021, representing an improvement of 46.0%.
All in all, the Group’s financial performance is mainly attributable to a variety of internal and external factors, chief of
which was the gradual easing of lockdown and increase of economic activities through FYE 2022. The return to a new
normal saw the increase of footfall in the retail channel and the reopening of schools, factory canteens and interstate
borders all helped bolster the Group’s order book and increased the demand for wholesale channel.
The Group’s recognition of the higher profit is in line with its realisation of higher revenue. Along with the Group’s
effective cost management in controlling the challenges from the pandemic, its sales planning allowed the Group to
reduce the goods returned rate. All these translates to more accurate profit realisation from its sales channels.
016 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Liquidity and Capital Resources FY2022
RM’000
FY2021
RM’000
Net cash from operating activities 32,485 24,377
Net cash for investing activities -8,986 -4,038
Net cash for financing activities -20,572 -13,178
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 2,927 7,161
Effect of foreign exchange translation 6 42
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the financial year 17,185 9,982
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the financial year 20,118 17,185
Shareholders were also delighted to note that two rounds of dividends have been announced by the Group in respect of
FYE2022. The first interim single dividend of 0.25 sen per ordinary share amounting to approximately RM1.01 million was
declared by the Board of Directors on 27 August 2021 and fully paid up on 30 September 2021. On 27 May 2022, the Board
of Directors declared a second interim single tier dividend of 0.50 sen per ordinary share amounting to approximately
RM2.03 million with an entitlement date of 13 June 2022, and fully paid up on 30 June 2022. The Group would like to
express its gratitude to its shareholders for the trust and belief they have in the Group’s management and operational
excellence to produce such a financial outcome.
In addition to the key financial highlights above, the Group has been managing its liquidity and borrowings
prudently. In the year under review, the Group has seen an increase in cashflow from operating activities grow by
33.26% or RM8.11 million mainly due to the increase in operating profit. To expand the business’ capacity, the Group
has invested in activities such as the opening of new retail outlets, acquisition of new delivery lorries, and plant and
machinery amounting to RM8.99 million over the course of the financial year. In FYE 2022, the Group has increased
its commitment to pare down borrowings which contributed to the net cash flow for financing activities of RM20.57
million, shaving off the Group’s gearing ratio from 0.60 in the previous year to 0.35 in FYE 2022.
The IPO proceeds have also been fully utilised by the Group in the fourth quarter of FYE 2022. With a healthier cash
position and lowered gearing ratio, the Group is more agile to pursue various modes of expansion when the right
opportunity presents itself.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 017
SDS GROUP BERHAD
KEY BUSINESS OPPORTUNITIES & CHALLENGES
Among the key business opportunities that have presented itself to the Group include the influx of customers from
Singapore to the Johor outlets the moment international borders were reopened. The surge in human traffic reflected
the growth in demand from the F&B retail segment. The gradual easing into the new normal also presents an opportunity
for the Group to enhance its geographical footprint particularly in the Central Region of Peninsular Malaysia for new retail
outlets and the Northern Region of Peninsular Malaysia for new distribution centres. In fact, as recent as June 2022, the
Group has opened a new distribution centre in Alor Setar, Kedah. The R&D arm of the Group continues to introduce new
F&B offerings to meet the customers’ tastes and expectations.
In the meantime, the Group is cognisant of the risks and actively anticipate known business risks to the Group through
its Risk Management framework, which is discussed in the Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control on page
046 of this Annual Report. Connecting business risks with its strategy for Sustainability is key in understanding the Group’s
framework on Sustainability. The Sustainability Statement for the Group can be found on page 019 of this Annual Report.
Meanwhile, the Group identifies the main known risks from three main areas, which are People, Marketplace
and Industry.
People
In any given business, the main challenge has been and will always be the people who turn the wheels of the business.
In the case of the Group, we foresee that the flow of talent to a neighbouring country such as Singapore would increase
as the economy picks up and the borders have reopened. The attraction of talent to Singapore is purely economic due to
the exchange rates between the two nations’ currencies. The departure of talent has left a vacuum in the employment
market with many outlets facing severe shortage of front-line staff.
In contrast to this, the freeze on hiring foreign labour during the MCO has resulted in manpower shortages for the factory
production line. During the course of this financial year, the management had to relook into production processes to
mitigate this issue.
Marketplace
In the space of the return to the new normal, new F&B retail outlets have been growing like mushrooms after the rain.
Competition for market share and dominance has now become stiffer than before. Some of the risks in new market
segments are product dominance as there is a duplicity of products in a highly competitive market.
The improvement in logistics in the endemic period has also seen an increase in overseas quality brands which are
brought in from franchising businesses. The digital nature of e-commerce platforms which were the mainstay during
the pandemic has also posted new challenges in the shape of online sales on a regular basis to gain a larger foothold
in the market. In addition to this, individual and standalone businesses have also surged in popularity with their
homemade products that are marketed on social media. All these contribute to a more dynamic marketplace with
increased competition for the attention of the man in the street.
Industry
One of the direct impacts of the endemic and global events has brought a new wave of cost-pushed inflation to our
shores. We have seen the recent rise in raw material prices corresponding with a surge in the consumer product
prices. With this rise, the Group is developing strategies to mitigate this impact, using a mixture of resources
allocation and cost control management.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Throughout this past year, the Management would like thank our employees for their hard work, diligence and
support during the unimaginable pandemic and subsequently, endemic times. The Group also wishes to thank
the various stakeholders that have ensured the business’ success and sustainability. Though there are too many to
name individually, we would like to thank our shareholders, investors, clients, suppliers, business partners, bankers,
Government and Regulatory bodies for their continued support, trust and confidence in SDS Group Berhad.
018 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
The Sustainability Statement (the “Statement”) of SDS Group Berhad and its
subsidiaries (“SDS” or the “Group”) highlights the integration of sustainability
efforts in its business processes and ensuring continuous sustainable mid and
long-term growth. This Statement covers two major core business segments,
namely the retail and wholesale segments, for the financial year ended 31
March 2022 ("FYE 2022"). The FYE 2022 data presented in this Statement will be
based on the baseline data from last year's reporting.
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
“
”
REPORTING PRINCIPLES
This report was prepared in accordance with the core option of the Global Reporting Initiative Sustainability
Reporting Standards ("GRI Standards") and the Sustainability Reporting Guide ("ESG Guide") issued by Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad. In addition, the Group has considered the concerns of stakeholders as identified
through engagement exercises such as sustainability materiality matrix surveys and stakeholder surveys.
REPORTING BOUNDARIES
The reporting boundaries cover two (2) core business areas, namely the retail and wholesale segments.
Entities covered in this Statement are:
DATA PREPARATION METHODOLOGY
The data and statistics in this Statement are presented in absolute figures and displayed comparably to
enable stakeholders to make informed decisions. Aligned to this, the Group strives to improve its internal
processes, risk management and stakeholder relations continuously.
The calculation, collection and consolidation of economic, environmental and social indicators presented in this
Statement were carried out in accordance with GRI Standard reporting principles and requirements. This was the basis
of the current procedures for collecting and preparing management information in the Group.
The financial information in this Statement is presented in Ringgit Malaysia (RM). Personnel management, labour
protection, industrial safety and environmental protection-related details, which are mandatory for submission to the
State, were used as a basis of our reporting.
CONTACT INFORMATION
SDS welcomes further feedback from stakeholders on the completeness, objectivity and materiality of the information
disclosed in this Statement which helps improve our sustainability performance and non-financial reporting processes.
Please send any questions and suggestions you may have to the authorised contact person which can be found on the
Company’s website at www.sdsgroups.com under the “investors” section.
Retail SDS Food Manufacturing Sdn Bhd
SDS Bakery & Cafeteria Sdn Bhd
City Cake House Sdn Bhd
SDS Enterprise Sdn Bhd
Wholesale Daily Bakery Sdn Bhd
SDS Top Baker Sdn Bhd
Super Arrow Trading Pte Ltd
Segment Company covered in this Statement
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 019
SDS GROUP BERHAD
Customers - Customer visit and
feedback channels
- Corporate website and
social media
- Marketing and
promotional activities
- Food safety and
hygiene at all premises
- Customer service
experience
- Product quality
- Food safety
management system
Employees - Company events and
activities
- Whistle-blowing policy
- Performance appraisal
- Career development
- Competitive
remuneration package
- Employee welfare
- Fair employment policy
- Occupational safety
- Diversity
- Occupational health
and safety
- Training & development
- Employee benefit &
welfare
Investors - Annual general meeting
- Annual report
- Corporate website
- Tele-conferences
- Investor meetings
- Corporate
announcements
- Business growth
strategy
- Corporate governance
- Group’s financial
performance
- Regulatory compliance
- Business performance
- Regulatory compliance
Suppliers - Suppliers and products
assessment
- Meetings with suppliers
on products feedback
- Fair procurement
- Product quality
- Timely payment
- Procurement practices
Regulatory Authorities - Compliance with
health and food safety
standards
- Policies in place to
comply with relevant
government law and
regulations
- Compliance with laws
and regulations such as
food safety standards,
economic contributions
such as taxes
- Food safety
management system
- Regulatory compliance
- Anti-bribery and anti-
corruption practices
Media - Press releases
- Meetings and
interviews
- Corporate
announcements
- Timely and accurate
press release
- Raising product
and corporate social
responsibility program
awareness
- Business performance
- Community investment
Communities - Corporate social
responsibility program
- Management of direct
and indirect impacts on
the community
- Community investment
- Waste management
- Water and energy
consumption
Stakeholders
Engagement
methods
Areas of interest
Sustainability
matters
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Stakeholder engagement exercises provide a means of communication with our key stakeholders and thus
allowing us to identify the sustainability issues which are most relevant to the business operations and the area of
interest to stakeholders.
SDS has established several engagement programs to gauge stakeholders’ views on its operations and services.
Communications with stakeholders are established through surveys, face-to-face meetings and investor briefings
which are conducted from time to time. The Group works with the stakeholders to maintain an ecosystem of
sustainable development. The Group plans to develop active and transparent relationship with all stakeholders,
seeking new ways of engagement in this social media age.
The Group has reviewed and validated the material topics to ensure a consistent and balanced representation of
the Group’s significant sustainability performance and impact. As a result, the material topics have been prioritised
for disclosure in the Statement.
The table below shows the different segments of the stakeholder engagements and area of interest identified:
020 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
The Group conducted materiality assessment to identify issues which are most relevant to the business. This
assessment comprised of three main stages:
I. Collecting and consolidating stakeholders' feedback;
II. Drawing up a list of topics concerned; and
III. Assessing the degree of materiality of each issue using the materiality matrix.
The materiality assessment was performed in accordance with the ESG Guide. Two main criteria were used when
assessing whether a topic is material, namely, the significance of the Group's economic, environmental and social
impacts, and the influence on stakeholders' assessments and decisions.
The table below shows the material sustainability matters identified in the FYE 2022:
We have addressed these material sustainability matters through the four pillars as identified under the
“Sustainability Governance” section of this Statement.
Materiality Matrix
Significance of Group’s Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts
100%
90%
80%
70%
60%
50%
40%
30%
20%
10%
0%
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Regulatory
Compliance
«Medium Materiality» «High Materiality»
«Low Materiality»
«Not Material»
Occupational
Health and Safety
Diversity
Training &
Development
Employee
Benefits & Welfare
Food Safety
Management
System
Waste
Management
Anti-bribery and
Anti-Corruption
Practices
Procurement
Practices
Business
Performance
Community
Investment
Water and
Energy
Consumption
Influence on Stakeholder Assessments
and Decisions
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 021
SDS GROUP BERHAD
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
SDS upholds the principles and values of sustainable development and is actively integrating these values into
its business processes. The Group believes that reporting on sustainable development metrics provides a strong
foundation on its commitments to create value for all stakeholders. The Group conducts its business while taking
into consideration of the four pillars identified below.
Within each pillar, we have made reference to the Sustainability Development Goals ("SDG") which are most
relevant to what we would like to achieve through our sustainability efforts.
16.5 Substantially
reduce corruption
and bribery in all
their forms
12.2 Achieve the
sustainable management
and efficient use of
natural resources
12.3 Halve per capita
global food waste at the
retail and consumer levels
and reduce food losses
along production and
supply chains, including
post-harvest losses
12.5 Substantially reduce
waste generation through
prevention, reduction,
recycling and reuse
3.0 Ensure healthy lives
and promote well-being
for all at all ages
Our
Sustainability
Approach
4.0 Ensure inclusive
and equitable quality
education and promote
lifelong learning
opportunities for all
8.0 Promote inclusive
and sustainable economic
growth, employment and
decent work for all
8.8 Protect labour
rights and promote safe
and secure working
environments for all
workers
10.2 Empower and
promote the social,
economic and political
inclusion of all,
irrespective of age, sex,
disability, race, ethnicity,
origin, religion or
economic or other status
Ethics and
Business
Conduct
Good
Food
Resource
Efficient
Operations and
Sustainable
Practices
Employees
Development
and Thriving
Communities
022 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Sustainability
Working Group
The Board
Managing Director
Executive Directors
Head of Department
(Sales Operation)
Head of Department
(Production)
Head of Department
(Corporate Office)
GROUP SUSTAINABILITY STRUCTURE
The Board assumes the ultimate accountability for the integration of sustainability into the Group’s business processes.
The Board recognises the importance of embedding sustainability practices and values into our business
operations and is aware that businesses are not judged solely on their financial performance but also its conducts
in respect of governance, economic, environmental and social aspects with the ultimate goal of creating long term
sustainable value to its stakeholders. The sustainability principles instilled by the Board are:
∞ To observe and comply with all relevant legislation, regulations, recommended trade practices and codes, where
applicable and appropriate to the Group;
∞ To engage and communicate with all relevant stakeholders for the identification, assessment and management of
sustainable material issues;
∞ To consider sustainability matters and integrate these considerations into the Group's business operations and
when making and implementing business strategies;
∞ To manage sustainability matters in a structured and systematic manner, whereby sustainability matters are
embedded throughout the Group, assessed continuously and reporting to the Board on scheduled intervals or as
and when the materiality of the sustainability matters requires such reporting; and
∞ To promote, train and communicate with all employees, suppliers, business partners and other relevant stakeholders
to ensure that they are aware of and are committed to implementing and measuring sustainability activities as
part of the Group's strategy, taking into consideration economic, environment, social and governance aspects.
In doing so, the Group has tasked the Sustainability Working Group (“SWG”) with the role of overseeing the
identification, formulation, implementation and monitoring of sustainability matters and performance within the
Group. The responsibilities of the SWG are as follows:
∞ Identifying sustainability issues present within the Group;
∞ Developing and recommending business strategies in the area of sustainability to the Board for adoption;
∞ Supervising the implementation of the sustainability initiatives and procedures as approved by the Board;
∞ Monitoring the effectiveness of sustainability-related initiatives and strategies;
∞ Overseeing the preparation of sustainability disclosures as required by laws and rules, recommending it for the
Board's approval; and
∞ Reporting to the Board on any material sustainability-related matters.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 023
SDS GROUP BERHAD
ETHICS AND BUSINESS CONDUCT
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
Framework
The Framework's objective is to establish adequate
procedures, policies and controls to ensure the Group's
compliance with the principle of zero-tolerance towards
all forms of bribery, corruption and gratification as
well as applicable Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
laws and regulations in the country we operate in.
This Framework encourages reporting any form of
bribery, corruption or gratification incident in good
faith, in confidence and without the fear of reprisal. The
Group communicates the Framework to stakeholders,
including our employees, through the Company's
website, intranet, face-to-face sessions, internal memos,
and other tools.
Whistleblowing Policy
To further emphasise our commitment to achieving
our corporate governance, the Group encourages all
stakeholders to report any suspicious activities through
its corporate whistleblowing channels as mentioned in
the Whistleblowing Policy, which can be found on the
Company's website at www.sdsgroups.com under the
"Corporate Governance" section.
Approach to Promoting Fair
Business Practices
The Group strives to meet the highest standard of
ethics and integrity in all business conduct. In line
with the Board's sustainability principles, the Group
promotes fair business practices and good corporate
governance throughout its organisation. To meet this
requirement, the Group is supported by the Code of
Ethics and Conduct policy ("the Code"), Anti-Bribery
and Anti-Corruption Framework ("the Framework") and
Whistleblowing Policy, which complement each other
to creating an ethical, transparent and fair working
environment.
Code of Ethics and Conduct Policy
The Code is intended to apply to every employee,
customer and business partner of the Group and
highlights our commitment to enhancing long-term
shareholder value, retaining and developing employees,
meeting customers' expectations, upholding the
highest professional and ethical relationship with
business partners while complying with all laws and
regulations and being a responsible corporate citizen.
024 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
2021
7,414
42.66
GHG Emission
(Tonne CO2)
Intensity ratio
against revenue
7,483
37.74
2022
Diesel Consumed
2021
7,133
41.04
GHG Emission
(Tonne CO2)
Intensity ratio
against revenue
7,294
36.79
2022
Electricity Usage
RESOURCE EFFICIENT OPERATIONS AND SUSTAINABLE PRACTICES
Efficient Use of Natural Resources
We are mindful of how we conserve our energy and reduce our carbon emissions during our manufacturing
process and in our retail outlets. We will also continue optimising energy-saving materials such as LED lighting.
Our strategies to reduce greenhouse gas ("GHG") emissions include exploring more effective use of renewable
energy in production and additional solutions to optimise fuel efficiency in our bakery goods transportation. We will
measure our carbon emissions in line with the two categories defined by the GHG Protocol Corporate Standards:
Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions from sources controlled or owned by the organisation (e.g., emissions associated
with fuel combustion in vehicles).
Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions associated with the purchase of electricity.
All carbon emission metrics are converted from the amount of energy and resources consumed by our business
activities using the carbon calculator published at https://greentechmalaysia.my/carboncalculator/.
As part of our business operation, our delivery fleet delivers finished products to our customers and retail outlets
for sale. The Group explores ways to maximise its delivery routes and optimise the delivery schedule to our outlets
and customers, so as to achieve an efficient use of diesel within the operations.
The chart below shows that bread delivery operations generated carbon emission of 7,483 Tonne
CO2 during the FYE 2022. The intensity ratio against revenue for the carbon emission (Tonne CO2 /
RM million) is 37.74 for diesel consumption. This represents a decrease of 12% against the previous
financial year, thus evidencing the Group’s achievement of delivering more products for every
litre of diesel consumed.
The electricity consumed by our manufacturing facilities, retails outlets and distribution centres
has generated 7,294 Tonnes CO2 during the FYE 2022. We noted an improvement in the intensity
ratio against revenue attributed to higher revenue achieved and increased footfall at our outlets
during the year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 025
SDS GROUP BERHAD
2021
365
2.10
GHG Emission
(Tonne CO2)
Intensity ratio
against revenue
433
2.18
2022
Water Usage
SDS stresses the importance of water conservation in its
production facilities. We have sought various methods to
optimise the use of water and minimise wastage. The Group
promotes sustainable water practices in all our plants and
identifies areas for improvement in water consumption, such as
implementing rainwater harvesting. Efficient use of technology
to improve water-related production will also be considered.
The Group primarily relies on municipal sources for its water
resources and does not have any other source of water inlets.
Given the scarcity of water resources, the Group emphasises
better management of its water resources and will explore the
use of rainwater harvesters as much as possible for non-food
processing purposes such as landscaping.
Carbon emission generated from water usage was 433 Tonnes
CO2 in the FYE 2022. The intensity ratio against revenue was 2.18,
which translate to a 4% increase in carbon emission per RM one
million revenue. The Group will continue its effort in exploring
ways to use its water resources more efficiently.
Sustainable Business Practices
Restaurant-Oriented Sustainable Food Initiatives
As consumers expect businesses to engage in greener and more socially responsible behaviours, SDS believes
restaurant-oriented sustainable food initiatives would help to reflect and promote the trends of sustainability. SDS
breaks up the common kitchen wastes into three categories:
Pre-consumer waste – stock wasted before food leave the kitchen
In reducing pre-consumer waster, the Group is committed in training our staff with better food preparation
techniques to reduce food waste as a result of poor food handling. The Group also placed importance in its inventory
management system, making sure that perishables are being properly stored and used, so that they do not turn
bad or go to waste before they are even cooked.
Post-consumer waste – food wasted after it reaches the customers
SDS understand that there are limited things which we can do with the food once it leaves our kitchen. What is
within our means, is setting a proper and reasonable food portion size per item such that customers can eat until
they are comfortably full and minimise food wastage due to excessive portion size.
Disposables – things like paper goods, plastic utensils and packaging
We understand the use of packaging materials in our manufacturing process and takeaway boxes are inevitable.
However, SDS will strive to initiate various measures to reduce the use of packaging materials in the wholesale
and retail segments. Some of the initiatives taken include the campaign to encourage the use of fewer straws or
upon request at our retail outlets and use of environmentally friendly products such as Forest Sustainable Certified
paper packaging for takeaways.
SDS works collaboratively with our customers in reducing the use of non-sustainable packaging thus reducing the
negative impact we contribute to our planet in the long run.
026 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
2021
16,807 kg 15,638 kg
2022
Used Cooking Oil Recycled
Sustainable procurement practices
We strive to achieve sustainable procurement by
adapting to the recent geopolitical events and how
they will disrupt our business. We work hand in hand
with our suppliers to ensure that our supply chain is not
disrupted which help minimise business interruptions
due to ingredients supply and manufacturing processes
while adhering to good ingredients procurement
practices.
Procurement plays an essential role in our supply chain
towards ensuring resource efficiency and our suppliers
abide by the engagement of sustainable processes. For
decades, we collaborated with our suppliers to provide
advice, share best practices and helped to future-proof
our operations.
To ensure that SDS does not encounter business
interruptions as a result of supply chain issues due to
the volatility of the global macroeconomic environment,
SDS has expanded its range of suppliers to ensure that
every part of the procurement will have redundancy
backup.
Some of the sustainable practice initiatives adopted by
SDS are as follows:
1. To enhance the yearly supplier evaluation exercise;
2. Ensuring the sustainability of the supply chain;
3. To seek better operations eff iciency in the
manufacturing process and achieving lower raw
materials wastage; and
4. Expanding supplier base and seek alternative
ingredients to overcome shortages of certain
ingredients.
SDS adopts a procurement practice that supports
sourcing or purchasing from local supplier for business
use where possible. The table below shows local
purchases accounted for more than 90% of the overall
purchase of raw materials in both reporting year.
Purchases 2021 2022
Local Purchases (%) 95% 95%
Oversea Purchases (%) 5% 5%
Total (%) 100% 100%
Recycling used cooking oil
As part of our effort on achieving the SDG target
reducing waste generation through prevention,
reduction, recycling and reuse, the Group has recycled
used cooking oil from our café outlets operation. The
Group does this by engaging a certified company
which will collect these used cooking oils from
individual outlets and recycle them to produce
biodiesel instead of treating them as general waste
that causes harm to the environment. Biodiesel is a
form of renewable energy used in diesel vehicles that
help reduces carbon and sulphur emissions.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 027
SDS GROUP BERHAD
Ensuring the truth in advertising is the Group’s top priority.
As consumers become increasingly health-conscious, more
and more food product packagings include nutrition-
related buzzwords, such as "No Trans Fat" or "Higher in
Whole-Grains". We take pride in ensuring those claims are
authentic and are not overinflated or misleading consumers
into believing products are healthier than they are.
Providing accurate labelling is not only crucial for providing
consumer the information on what is in the food they are
eating, it also helps to gain consumers’ trust and confidence
in our product. It is utmost importance for the Group in
providing the truth through food labelling and transparency.
SDS does so by ensuring accurate labelling and that the
ingredients included in formulations are what they claimed
to be and truly reflects the qualities consumers are looking
for.
Today's discerning consumers are highly knowledgeable.
With a click of a finger on the internet, almost instantly,
consumers can determine whether one natural ingredient
is fake. We worked with every food manufacturer,
emphasising natural ingredients labelling and striving to
provide health benefits while keeping costs in check. We
take pride in our product labelling and clean labels with
recognisable ingredients are our way of being authentic
and transparent.
Building Trust Through Transparency
1. Building Trust Through Transparency
2. Expanding Healthier Food Choices
3. Pioneering Positive Changes Through Food Safety
GOOD FOOD
Creating Good Food is fundamental to how we do business at SDS. We believe our Group will succeed in the long term
by creating value through our products for our stakeholders. Our activities and products should impact the community
positively while contributing to SDS ongoing success.
Pioneering our Good Food policy by providing nutritional values to our consumers and offering new and healthier
choices, SDS takes pride in ensuring all its food is prepared to the highest standards. The Group is known for producing
high-quality loaves of bread, pastries and wide variety of cuisines, which thousands of people enjoy in Malaysia.
The Group builds its Good Food policy on the three core principles: -
028 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Expanding Healthier Food Choices
The Group continues to expand our product portfolio to include greener or healthier food choices for our customer.
With consumers becoming increasingly health conscious and rising critical global health challenges such as rising
obesity levels and non-communicable diseases due to unhealthy eating habits, the Group prepares healthy food choices
in accordance with property dietary value to ensure the food we serve contains nutritional value. Offering affordable
healthy food choices in our café outlets allow customers to make healthier food choices.
We developed a range of products to meet the health and wellness needs of school children. Our team has included
a variety of fruits and vegetables in our kid’s set meal. Probiotic milk beverages are also included in the meal to help
children improve digestion and build immunity.
As part of our continuous improvement on our product portfolio, we listen to our consumers feedback and seek to
improve our products quality and variety.
Aside from offering healthier food choices, the Group uses cooking oil in our food preparation process which is trans-
fat-free, rich in Vitamin E, and has no Cholesterol. We purchase 100% of our cooking oil from Roundtable on Sustainable
Palm Oil certified suppliers or manufacturers to ensure that our activities do not harm the environment and impact
deforestation. Our suppliers or manufacturers are RSPO Certified thus ensuring our supply chain is not compromised by
non-RSPO audits.
Pioneering Positive Change through Food Safety
As detailed in the section on “Resource Efficient Operations and Sustainable Practices”, SDS emphasises on ethical
sourcing and chain of custody of all food ingredients. SDS works with food manufacturers to ensure a strict chain of
control and quality of ingredient purchased through understanding their ingredient sourcing and quality control
practices.
The Group maintains a rigorous traceability program on all its manufacturing processes which increase product quality,
improve inventory tracking and also enables quick and efficient product recall when required. SDS embarks on building
its brand based on these principles.
SDS continues to place emphasis on the quality of our manufacturing processes. As a food manufacturer, food safety
holds great significance and is of top priority. All of our manufacturing facilities are certified with external food safety
programs ensuring that the Group demonstrates compliance and aligns with the food safety control requirements while
maintaining a system for food hygiene and process control, which includes food safety assurance and food traceability.
Most of our products are HALAL certified thus adhering to the Islamic Shariah requirement. This process involves
stringent quality control and hygienic conditions before the Group can be accorded with this recognition.
We are committed to deliver quality and safe food products for consumption. The Group explores different ways of
enhancing food safety such as through the use to machinery automation to reduce human interaction and prevent
product contamination during the manufacturing process.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 029
SDS GROUP BERHAD
Total Workforce by Age
Total Workforce by Gender
2021
2021
6% 7% Age 30 or below
Male
Age 31 - 40
Female
Age 41 - 50
Age 51 or above
18%
28% 30%
18%
30% 30%
46%
72% 70%
45%
2022
2022
EMPLOYEES DEVELOPMENT AND THRIVING COMMUNITIES
Diversity and Inclusion
Employees are the Group's greatest asset, without which the Group’s achievement and success would not be possible.
The Group appreciates how workforce diversity can ensure business development and ethical standards compliance.
Irrespective of race, nationality, gender, or age, the Group will provide an appropriate level of playing field for all its
employees. We work continuously to ensure the effectiveness of the personnel management practices, including those
relating to employee recruitment, retention, training, engagement and internal social programmes. Besides, the Group
provides equal rights and opportunities to all our employees.
The Group is committed to creating favourable working conditions, guaranteeing social security and safeguarding our
employee rights. Our Code of Ethics and Conduct Policy applies to all employees and set out the requirement of fair
treatment of employees and promotes non-discrimination of gender, race, religion, ethnicity, nationality, age, etc.
The Group’s labour practices are in line with the respective legislation and applicable Malaysian labour standards. Our
Code of Ethics and Conduct Policy are incorporated in our employment letter to set forth the expectations, standard of
practice and principles of conduct of the Group. Employees must ensure that their actions and behaviours align with
these principles.
In FYE 2022, the Group boasts a family of 1,237 employees and they spread across different age and gender group.
030 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Employees Turnover
2021 2022
250
150
50
200
100
0
Male
210
133
184 195
135
25 20
7
85
16
162
16
85
12
17
2
Male
Female Female
<30 <31-40 41-50 >51
Discrimination
Fatal injuiry
Child labour
Non-compliancce
with wages law
Forced Labour
Human Rights
Labour related
legal action
Harassment
2021-2022
NIL
Employee Turnover
The Group has a high turnover rate due to the nature of its business, particularly among the part-time retail employees.
As a result of the COVID-19 pandemic, we were forced to let go of our employees at the retail outlets. The Group needs to
work with the various department heads to deep dive into the reason for the high turnover. When an employee leaves
the Group for whatever reasons, we are able to understand the reason further through the exit interview performed and
work out a solution to overcome this challenge. Below is the employee turnover for both wholesale and retail segments.
Labour Rights
The Group understands the importance of respecting human rights and will do its utmost to prevent human rights
violations, minimise the consequences if breaches occur, and devote special attention to ensuring personnel diversity.
The Group has had ZERO human rights and labour incidents since 2021. There was neither legal action taken nor non-
compliance with wages law during our last two years within our reporting period.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 031
SDS GROUP BERHAD
Freely Chosen
Labour
Zero Tolerance
to all types
of Harassment
Anti-Bribery
and
Anti-Corruption
No
Discrimination
Wages and
Benefits
Comply with all
Local Law
Child Labour
Prohibition
Occupation
Health
and Safety
Freedom
of Association
Working Hours
According to
Local Law
Availability of
Grievance
Channel
Human
Resource
Policy
The Group endeavours to act ethically and require the suppliers to conduct their businesses within the same ethical
framework. Our Code of Ethics and Conduct includes a commitment to treat the employees in a way that ensures equal
opportunities. The Group communicates the Human Resource Policy to our new and existing employees.
Our Human Resource Policy encompasses the following principles:
∞ Freely Chosen Labour
The Group does not use forced bonded, or involuntary labour and ensures that the general terms of employment are
voluntary. Employees are free to terminate their work following the law and upon reasonable notice period and the
employee is not required to pay any deposit upon being hired.
∞ Child Labour Prohibition
The Group has strict enforcement in place to prevent child labour in the workplace.
∞ Working Hours According to Local Law
The Group manages its operations to ensure that the working hours comply with local laws and do not require employees
to work more than the maximum daily hours set by local laws or work without adequate rest periods. Any work performed
more than regular hours will be voluntarily done by employees.
∞ Availability of Grievance Channel
A whistleblowing mechanism has been put in place by the Board, with a serious effort being taken to communicate the
whistleblowing policy to all our employees. Specific grievance procedures are readily available as a formal channel of
reporting staff grievance(s) to the appropriate level of authority on labour practices. A general email and whistleblowing
box was also set up for whistle-blowers to report any inappropriate ethical behaviours and workplace grievances. The
confidentiality of the whistle-blower's identity is to be strictly maintained unless prohibited by law.
∞ Zero Tolerance to all Types of Harassment
The Group prohibits mental or physical coercion, verbal abuse and corporal punishment as part of disciplinary measures.
Harassment (including sexual or offensive gestures) or bullying in any form will not be tolerated. This has been
communicated to all employees during our Orientation Program and is stated in our Company Policy.
∞ Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
The Group's has zero-tolerance on all forms of bribery, corruption and gratification. The Group has put in place an Anti-
Bribery and Anti-Corruption policy which is in compliance with the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption laws and regulations
in the country we operate in.
032 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
∞ No Discrimination
The Group is committed to equal employment opportunity and affirmative action. Factors such as sex, race, religion,
nationality, marital status and disability play no part in the Group's hiring decision, promotions, rewards and access to
training.
∞ Wages and Benefits Comply with all Local Law
The Group provides compensation and benefits that are competitive and always comply with the law for minimum
wages, overtime hours and mandated benefits. The Group also provides employees with an understandable wage
statement that includes sufficient information to verify accurate compensation for work performed in each pay period.
∞ Freedom of Association
The employees have the freedom of association and the right to join or form a trade union of their choosing and to
bargain collectively. Furthermore, employees are encouraged to communicate openly and share grievances with
management through the human resource department or through whistleblowing communication channels regarding
working conditions and management practices without fear of reprisal, intimidation or harassment.
∞ Occupation Health and Safety
The Group aims to create a safe and conducive working environment for the employees. Occupational Health and Safety
("OHS") forms a core part of the Group's sustainability activities for long-term success and prevention of work-related
injuries, illnesses and fatalities.
The approach incorporates several elements, including compliance with OHS legislation, monitoring key risk factors
and promoting safe behaviour and culture among employees and contractors. The Group is constantly introducing
improvements to its health and safety management system.
The Group is committed to protecting the safety and health of employees, contractors, visitors and the community who
are impacted by our activities and believes that all injuries incidents are preventable through careful planning and safe
work environment.
The Group strive to:
∞ Provide and maintain safe working conditions following industry standards;
∞ Comply with applicable occupational safety and health legal requirements;
∞ Provide a workplace free of hazards and infectious diseases through a vaccination/ immunisation program;
∞ Provide employees in-house training relating to safety and health rules at the workplace; and
∞ Improving OHS management systems continuously.
During the COVID-19 Pandemic, the Group undertook the following COVID-19 preventive measure to safeguard our
employees and reduce the risk of transmission at work place:
∞ Wearing of masks are mandatory and put on at all times;
∞ Frequent hand wash and sanitisation at workplace;
∞ Maintain a safe distance from others;
∞ Temperature screening at workplace;
∞ Conduct COVID-19 self test regularly or when required; and
∞ Stay home if employees are feeling unwell.
The Group also participated in the employees’ vaccination program under PIKAS to increase our employees’ vaccination
rate.
OHS Training
Our regular and comprehensive OHS education and training courses aim to provide employees with the knowledge and
skills they need to perform their work safely and efficiently. The Group delivers various courses and on-the-job training
on its premises for different business segments. In line with promoting safe practices, the Group provides safety training
to all staff involved in its operations.
ANNUAL REPORT 2022 | 033
SDS GROUP BERHAD
Safety Culture and Safe Work Procedures
Measures related to improving the safety culture and engaging employees in OHS are critical metrics within the Group.
Below is a six-step procedure that helps determine safety risks and streamlines communication channels:
- An employee arrives at the workplace
- The employee observes their surrounding environment
- The employee identifies risks to their life and health, and the safety of other workers
- In case of a threat to life or health:
∞ The employee should stop performing their work
∞ The employee reports these identified risks
∞ The identified risks are properly assessed and mitigated
Treating Occupational Disease
The Group implemented several measures to prevent occupational diseases and provide employees with a healthy and
safe environment. Some of the measures implemented are stated below:
1. Stack Emission Monitoring
2. Noise Risk Assessment
3. Chemical Health Risk Assessment
All food handling employees are required to undergo typhoid vaccination before starting their work.
External OHS Activities
The overall safety performance of the Group also depends on the active engagement of our external parties and adhering
to our comprehensive health, safety and environment management system. The Group strives to ensure minimal
injuries and fatalities involving our external consultants when visiting our plants or premises. We also provide a safe and
conducive environment for customers visiting our food outlets.
Local Community Development
The Group values the importance of giving back to society and making a difference in people's lives. We have initiated
several Corporate Social Responsibility programmes during FYE 2022:
1. Sponsorship of danish chocolate buns and mascot appearance during the children COVID-19 vaccination
programs.
2. Sponsorship of breads during blood donation program.
3. Sponsorship of breads for the Project Perumahan Rakyat to help people who are affected by the COVID-19
pandemic and low-income group.
4. Christmas Charity Event in collaboration with Fanpekka at Children’s Home where the Group sponsored
Christmas meals, Christmas cakes and mascot appearance, to bring joy to the residents.
5. Chinese New Year event at elderly centre with the sponsorship of festive cookies.
Through these events, we hope to raise awareness in our workplace and the society to contribute to the needy within
one's means. We can all play a part in protecting the well-being and improving the quality of life of those who need help.
034 | ANNUAL REPORT 2022
