CORPORATE INFORMATION
CORPORATE STRUCTURE
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
PROFILE OF KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW
STATEMENT
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
REPORT
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND
INTERNAL CONTROL
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP PROPERTIES
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
PROCEDURES TO SUBMIT PROXY FORM
FORM OF PROXY
2
3
4
12
15
23
31
55
58
59
63
65
124
126
129
135
TABLE OF
CONTENTS
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
02
CORPORATE INFORMATION
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
Chairperson
Phang Sze Fui
Members
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew
Dr. Teh Chee Ghee
NOMINATION AND
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Chairman
Dr. Teh Chee Ghee
Committee Members
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew
Phang Sze Fui
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Chong Voon Wah
SSM Practicing Certificate No.:
202008001343
MAICSA 7055003
Thai Kian Yau
SSM Practicing Certificate No.:
202008001515
MIA 36921
HEAD OFFICE
Lot 83, Jalan Kesuma 2/3
Phase 5D, Bandar Tasik
Kesuma Techno Park
43700 Beranang, Selangor
Tel: +603-8723 1439
Fax: +603-8723 2827
Email: enquiry@orgabio.com
Website: www.orgabio.com
Ean Yong Hian Wah
Executive Chairman
Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin
Executive Deputy Chairman
Ean Yong Hien Voon
Executive Director/Chief
Executive Officer
REGISTERED OFFICE
22-09, Menara 1MK
No. 1 Jalan Kiara, Mont Kiara
50480 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: +603-2856 7333
Email: vw.chong@silverocean.com.my
AUDITORS
Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT
(Member firm of Grant Thornton
International Ltd.)
Registration No. 201906003682 &
LLP0022494-LCA (AF 0737)
Chartered Accountants
Level 11, Sheraton Imperial Court
Jalan Sultan Ismail
50250 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: +603-2692 4022
Fax: +603-2691 5229
SHARE REGISTRAR
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services
Sdn. Bhd.
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: +603-2783 9299
Fax: +603-2783 9222
Email: is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
Ean Yong Hen Loen
Executive Director
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Dr. Teh Chee Ghee
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Phang Sze Fui
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Tay Bee Koo
Independent Non-Executive
Director
SPONSOR
M & A Securities Sdn. Bhd.
Level 11, 45 & 47, The Boulevard
Mid Valley City
Lingkaran Syed Putra
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: +603- 2284 2911
Fax: +603-2284 2718
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia)
Berhad
Malayan Banking Berhad
RHB Bank Berhad
Alliance Bank Malaysia Berhad
Public Bank Berhad
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
ACE Market of the Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad
Stock Name: ORGABIO
Stock Code: 0252
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 03
CORPORATE STRUCTURE
Orgabio
Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
Orgapharma Herbal
Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
Orgapharma
Marketing
Sdn. Bhd.
Everyday F&B
Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
100%
100%
100%
100%
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Registration No.201801016797 (1278813-M))
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
04
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
EAN YONG HIAN WAH
Executive Chairman
45
M
Length of Services (as of 30 September 2024)
6 months
Mr Ean Yong Hian Wah (“Mr Hian Wah”) was appointed to our Board on 1 March 2024. He holds a Diploma
in Commerce & Administration from New Era College, a Certificate in Accounting & Finance for Non-
financial Managers, completed the Executive Education Programme from NUS Business School, Singapore
and a Bachelor of Arts (Hons) in Business Studies from the University of Bradford, United Kingdom. He also
awarded the Dongfang Scholarship from Peking University, China which he completed the program in
June 2024.
Mr Hian Wah began his career in 2004 when he was appointed as Marketing Director of Orgapharma
Herbal Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. ("OHMSB") where he is responsible for the development of marketing
initiatives for OHMSB, overseeing branding strategies and promoting the Company’s products in the
market.
In 2008, Mr Hian Wah served as a dedicated State Assemblyman for Seri Kembangan for a remarkable
tenure of 15 years. Throughout his tenure, he exhibited an unwavering commitment to the welfare and
interests of his constituents, tirelessly advocating for their needs, championing legislative reforms, and
actively contributing to formulating policies that foster socio-economic development and community
empowerment within the region.
Mr Hian Wah commitment to public service extended further as he assumed the role of State Executive
Councilor (EXCO) of the Selangor State Government from 2008 to 2018. He also served as a Director
of Invest Selangor Berhad from 2013 to 2015, where he played a pivotal role in attracting investment,
fostering business growth, and promoting Selangor as a premier investment destination.
In 2023, Mr Hian Wah was appointed as the Chairman of the Port Klang Authority, overseeing strategic
initiatives and operations to optimise port efficiency and drive economic growth in the region. Currently,
he is a General Manager of Everyday F&B Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
Company.
Mr Hian Wah is the son of Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin (Executive Deputy Chairman of Orgabio) and Datin Lai You
Mooi, and the sibling of Ean Yong Hien Voon (Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer of Orgabio), Ean
Yong Hen Loen (Executive Director of Orgabio), Ean Yong Hien Chal, Ean Yong Han Khian and Ean Yong
Sik Siew (Chief Operating Officer of Orgabio), all of which are the major shareholders of the Company.
Mr Hian Wah has no conflict of interest with the Company and does not hold any directorships in any other
public listed companies. He has no conviction of any offences within the past 5 years (other than traffic
offences, if any), and there was no public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 05
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
DATO’ EAN YONG TIN SIN
Executive Deputy Chairman
73
M
Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin (“Dato’ Ean Yong”) was appointed to our Board on 15 March 2021. He is responsible
for determining the strategic direction and growth of our Group, as well as overseeing the overall business
development of our Group.
Upon completing his Form 1 studies in 1966, Dato’ Ean Yong left Sekolah Menengah Kebangsaan Batu
Kikir, Negeri Sembilan, and worked as a rubber tapper. In 1969, he moved to Singapore and was involved
in construction works and signboard making. In 1974, he moved to Kuala Lumpur and was involved in the
manufacturing of signboards. With the experience he gained in signboard making, he established Syarikat
Salon Advertising, a sole proprietorship involved in the manufacturing of signboards.
He dissolved Syarikat Salon Advertising in February 1978 and in July 1978, he became a Political Secretary
to the then State Assembly Representative for Kajang. His responsibilities included assisting the then State
Assembly Representative in various political duties and as well as building relationships with authorities,
officers and to assist people in his constituency with appropriate political advice.
He completed his political term in March 1982 when The House of Representative was dissolved and in June
1982, he established Perkhidmatan Ean Yong Tin Sin to provide general insurance agency services and
typewriting services. In 1989, he ceased to operate Perkhidmatan Ean Yong Tin Sin (and was subsequently
dissolved in March 1991) when he ventured into the food and beverage business with the setting up of a
restaurant.
In 1993, he ceased to operate the restaurant business when he joined Hai-O Marketing Sdn. Bhd. as a
fulltime sales agent where he was involved in the sales and marketing of food products and supplements
such as coffee, fibre products, slimming products and nutritional supplements. He also undertook the role
of a trainer to train new sales agents. In 1997, he ceased to be a sales agent with Hai-O Marketing Sdn.
Bhd.
In 1998, he was appointed as Executive Director of Orgacare Pharmaceutical Sdn. Bhd., where his
responsibility was to oversee and manage the overall operations including production activities, and sales
and marketing of traditional herbs and food supplements (e.g. tongkat ali, kacip Fatimah and alfafa). He
left Orgacare Pharmaceutical Sdn. Bhd. in 2001.
In May 2002, he incorporated Orgapharma Herbal to undertake the processing and packing of local
traditional herbs and Chinese herbs. He led the development of our Group’s business direction into
the provision of instant beverage premix manufacturing services through the incorporation of Orgabio
Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. in May 2006. Over the years, Dato’ Ean Yong has played a pivotal role in
contributing to the growth of our Group.
From March 2008 to April 2013, he was elected as the State Assembly Representative for Lukut, Negeri
Sembilan and was re-elected for the second term from May 2013 to April 2018.
Dato’ Ean Yong is the spouse of Datin Lai You Mooi and father of Ean Yong Hian Wah (Executive Chairman
of Orgabio), Ean Yong Hien Voon (Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer of Orgabio), Ean Yong Hen
Loen (Executive Director of Orgabio), Ean Yong Hien Chal, Ean Yong Han Khian and Ean Yong Sik Siew
(Chief Operating Officer of Orgabio), all of which are the major shareholders of the Company.
Dato’ Ean Yong has no conflict of interest with the Company and does not hold any directorships in any
other public listed companies. He has no conviction of any offences within the past 5 years (other than
traffic offences, if any), and there was no public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year.
Length of Services (as of 30 September 2024)
3 years 6 months
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
06
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
EAN YONG HIEN VOON
Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer
44
M
Mr Ean Yong Hien Voon (“Mr Hien Voon”) was appointed to our Board on 15 March 2021. He holds a
Diploma in Business Studies (Major in Accounting and Finance) from New Era University College, Malaysia.
He is responsible for the overall business operations and execution of business strategies, and leading
the planning and development of our business growth primarily within the area of digital transformation,
identifying new suppliers for product development activities, and enhancing operational efficiencies
through the implementation of machinery upgrade and automation.
Mr Hien Voon began his career in May 2002 when he was appointed as Marketing Director of Orgapharma
Herbal Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd., where his responsibility was to assist Dato’ Ean Yong in the development
of business plans to grow the business as well as managing daily business operations such as executing
customers’ orders, sourcing for supplies of raw materials and spearheading quality control initiatives on
manufactured products to meet international quality standards.
In May 2006 when the Group ventured into the provision of instant beverage premix manufacturing services,
he was appointed as Marketing Director of Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. His responsibility was to assist
Dato’ Ean Yong in the development of business plans to grow the instant beverage premix manufacturing
business, managing and executing daily business operations, and spearheading the implementation of
quality control initiatives to meet international quality standards. He was also involved in overseeing the
development and formulation of instant beverage premixes and initiated the development of our in-house
brand. Further, he also headed our Group’s digital transformation through the introduction of online sales
channel and leveraging on digital marketing tools such as search engine optimisation, to enhance our
brand presence. In January 2018, he was appointed as Chief Executive Officer of Orgabio Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd. and assumed his current responsibilities. On 15 March 2021, he was appointed as Executive
Director / Chief Executive Officer of our Group.
Mr Hien Voon is the son of Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin (Executive Deputy Chairman of Orgabio) and Datin Lai
You Mooi, and the sibling of Ean Yong Hian Wah (Executive Chairman of Orgabio), Ean Yong Hen Loen
(Executive Director of Orgabio), Ean Yong Hien Chal, Ean Yong Han Khian and Ean Yong Sik Siew (Chief
Operating Officer of Orgabio), all of which are the major shareholders of the Company.
He has no conflict of interest with the Company other than those disclosed in the Company’s circular to
shareholders dated 30 October 2024.
Mr Hien Voon does not hold any directorships in any other public listed companies. He has no conviction
of any offences within the past 5 years (other than traffic offences, if any), and there was no public
sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Length of Services (as of 30 September 2024)
3 years 6 months
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 07
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
EAN YONG HEN LOEN
Executive Director
37
M
Mr Ean Yong Hen Loen (“Mr Hen Loen”) was appointed to our Board on 15 March 2021. He holds a
Bachelor of Business Administration in Banking and Cooperative Management from National Taipei
University, Taiwan. He is responsible for overseeing and managing our Group’s overall marketing activities
and product development activities including the formulation of new instant beverage premixes.
In February 2012, Mr Hen Loen began his career as a Purchasing Administrator of Orgapharma Marketing
Sdn. Bhd., where he is involved in purchasing raw materials and managing inventory levels as well as
identifying new suppliers and building business relationships with suppliers.
In December 2013, he was promoted to Marketing Executive where he was involved in developing and
executing sales and marketing strategies to expand our local presence and export markets, building
relationships with customers, and executing product development activities including formulation of new
instant beverage premixes. In November 2017, he was promoted to Marketing Manager and assumed his
current responsibilities. On 15 March 2021, he was appointed as Executive Director of our Group.
Mr Hen Loen is the son of Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin (Executive Deputy Chairman of Orgabio) and Datin Lai
You Mooi, and the sibling of Ean Yong Hian Wah (Executive Chairman of Orgabio), Ean Yong Hien Voon
(Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer of Orgabio), Ean Yong Hien Chal, Ean Yong Han Khian and
Ean Yong Sik Siew (Chief Operating Officer of Orgabio), all of which are the major shareholders of the
Company.
Mr Hen Leon has no conflict of interest with the Company and does not hold any directorships in any other
public listed companies. He has no conviction of any offences within the past 5 years (other than traffic
offences, if any), and there was no public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
Length of Services (as of 30 September 2024)
3 years 6 months
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
08
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
DATO’ SERI CHAN KONG YEW
Independent Non-Executive Director
52
M
Length of Services (as of 30 September 2024)
3 years 3 months
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew (“Dato’ Seri Chan”) was appointed to our Board on 8 June 2021. He is a
member of our Audit and Risk Management Committee, and Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
Dato’ Seri Chan graduated with a Bachelor of Social Science with Honours from Universiti Sains Malaysia.
He has been a Chartered Member of The Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport since December
2006.
He began his career when he joined Union-Transport Logistics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. in March 1996 as a
Management Trainee where he was involved in the day-to-day air freight and sea freight operations.
He left Union-Transport Logistics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. in November 1996 to join Target Warehouse (M)
Sdn Bhd as a Warehouse Manager, where he was responsible for managing sea freight and bonded
warehouse operations. He left Target Warehouse (M) Sdn. Bhd. in February 1997 to join TS Warehouse &
Distribution Sdn. Bhd. as a Project Executive. He was subsequently promoted to Project Manager and
Business Development Director in January 1998 and January 2000 respectively, where he was responsible
for overseeing the rail transport business of the company.
In February 2003, he left TS Warehouse & Distribution Sdn. Bhd. and established Infinity Logistics & Transport
Sdn. Bhd., a company principally involved in Integrated Freight Forwarding, Land Logistics, Freight Villages,
Forth Party Logistics and Bulk Liquid Solutions. He is the Managing Director of the company and is responsible
for business planning, operational development and execution of the strategic direction of the company.
In January 2020, Infinity Logistics and Transport Ventures Limited, the holding company of Infinity Logistics
& Transport Sdn Bhd, was listed on the Main Board of the Stock Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
In July 2019, he was appointed as an Independent Non-Executive Director of Boustead Plantations Berhad,
a company listed on the Main Market of Bursa Securities, until June 2020.
Dato’ Seri Chan does not hold any directorships in any other public listed companies. He does not have any
family relationships with any director or major shareholders of the Company, nor does he have any conflict
of interest with the Company. He has no conviction of any offences within the past 5 years (other than
traffic offences, if any), and there was no public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 09
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
DR. TEH CHEE GHEE
Independent Non-Executive Director
58
M
Dr. Teh Chee Ghee (“Dr. Teh”) was appointed to our Board on 15 March 2021. He is the chairman of our
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and member of our Audit and Risk Management Committee.
Dr. Teh holds a Doctor of Philosophy degree in Credit Management, a Master of Business Administration
degree and an Honours Degree in Accounting, all from the University of Malaya. He is a member of the
Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants (MICPA) and served as a Council Member of MICPA
from 2015-2022, a fellow member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and the
Chartered Tax Institute of Malaysia (CTIM). He is also a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
(MIA).
Dr. Teh commenced his career in 1990 at Arthur Andersen-HRM (Management Services) Sdn. Bhd. as an
Associate Consultant. He then served in the audit and business advisory division of Arthur Andersen &
Co. from 1990 to 1994. He then joined CWS Hygiene Sdn. Bhd. (“CWS”) as the Finance & Administration
Manager in 1994 and when the Zuellig Group acquired CWS in 1995, he was appointed as the Regional
Financial Controller of Gold Coin Feedmills (M) Sdn. Bhd. In 1996, he joined Engtex Sdn. Berhad (“Engtex”)
as the Group Financial Controller. He was also appointed as the Personal Assistant (“PA”) to the Group
Managing Director from January 2000 and the Company Secretary of Engtex Group Berhad from 2002,
respectively, until he left Engtex in May 2006.
After leaving Engtex in May 2006, he served TH Group Berhad from June 2006 to October 2010 as the
PA to the Group Managing Director. He was also the Acting Chief Operating Officer of Nilai Medical
Centre (now known as Aurelius Hospital Negeri Sembilan) from February 2010 to October 2010. He was
the General Manager - Strategic Planning and Operations of TSH Resources Berhad from October 2010 to
October 2012.
Subsequently, he joined Monash University Malaysia in October 2012 as a Senior Lecturer in Accounting
and Finance in the School of Business. He was also the Deputy Director of Research at the School of
Business at Monash University Malaysia from January 2013 to January 2014, the Deputy Director of the
MBA Programme from 2017 to 2018, and the Deputy Director - Development & External Engagement
of the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Hub (eiHub) of the School of Business since 2018 to July 2019.
Dr. Teh was also appointed as the Head of Research of the Socio-Economic Research Centre (SERC),
an independent think-tank initiated by the Associated Chinese Chambers of Commerce and Industry
of Malaysia (ACCCIM) under a paid outside work retainer arrangement with Monash University Malaysia
from January 2014 to February 2016. He retired from academia in January 2022 after reaching the age of
55.
In February 2022, Dr. Teh re-joined Engtex Group as its Chief Operating Officer and left in May 2024 after
completion of his contract of service. He currently also sits on the board of ACO Group Berhad, LGMS
Berhad and Flexidynamic Holdings Berhad.
Dr. Teh does not have any family relationships with any director or major shareholders of the Company, nor
does he have any conflict of interest with the Company. He has no conviction of any offences within the
past 5 years (other than traffic offences, if any), and there was no public sanction or penalty imposed by
the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Length of Services (as of 30 September 2024)
3 years 6 months
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
10
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
PHANG SZE FUI
Independent Non-Executive Director
52
F
Length of Services (as of 30 September 2024)
3 years 6 months
Ms Phang Sze Fui (“Ms Phang”) was appointed to our Board on 15 March 2021. She is the chairperson of our
Audit and Risk Management Committee and member of our Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
Ms Phang obtained her Diploma in Commerce (Financial Accounting) from Tunku Abdul Rahman College
in May 1997. She has been a member of The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants since
November 2000, a fellow member of The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants since November
2005 and a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants since July 2009. Further, she has been a
member of the Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia since November 2021.
She enrolled for her tertiary studies at Tunku Abdul Rahman College. Upon obtaining her diploma, she
returned to work in July 1997 when she joined Monteiro & Heng (now known as Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng)
as a Graduate Assistant, where she was primarily involved in various statutory audit assignments. She
was subsequently promoted to Senior Audit Manager, Associate Director of the Transaction Reporting
Division and Executive Director of the Transaction Reporting Division in 2005, 2008 and 2011 respectively.
During her tenure, she undertook various responsibilities, including leading the audit team to conduct the
audit and special assignments, liaising with stakeholders, conducting training, ensuring compliance with
auditing and accounting standards as well as regulatory requirements and expanding the growth of the
Transaction Reporting Division. She left the firm in October 2015 and took a career break.
In May 2016, she joined Dolphin Applications Sdn. Bhd. (a subsidiary of Dolphin International Berhad,
a company listed on the Main Market of Bursa Securities) as Corporate Affairs Director, responsible for
supervising corporate exercises, handling special projects, overseeing investor relations and public relations
matters, improving internal control systems and reporting structure, overseeing compliance matters and
liaising with stakeholders.
She left Dolphin Applications Sdn. Bhd. in July 2017 to pursue her own business venture, Avia Alliance Sdn.
Bhd., which specialises in the provision of business and accounting consultancy, a business that she is
presently involved in. In June 2020, she established 1Advisory Sdn. Bhd., which specialises in the provision
of business consultancy, a business that she is presently involved in.
Ms Phang currently also sits on the boards of Kim Teck Cheong Consolidated Berhad and Skyworld
Development Berhad.
She does not have any family relationships with any director or major shareholders of the Company, nor
does she have any conflict of interest with the Company. She has no conviction of any offences within the
past 5 years (other than traffic offences, if any), and there was no public sanction or penalty imposed by
the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 11
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
TAY BEE KOO
Independent Non-Executive Director
64
F
Length of Services (as of 30 September 2024)
4 months
Madam Tay Bee Koo (“Madam Tay”) was appointed to our Board on 1 May 2024. She is a fellow member
of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants and a member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants.
Madam Tay began her career in 1986 as an Assistant Audit Manager where she gained experience among
others, specific audit, tax and special investigation assignments and conduct feasibility studies for major
loan applications, property and theme park development and hotel projects as well as coordinating
mergers and acquisitions and company take-over.
In 1990, Madam Tay joined Sunrider International (M) Sdn Bhd (“Sunrider”), one of the world’s leading
manufacturers, distributors and marketers of weight management, beauty and herbal health products
as an accountant and has served Sunrider for 32 years before her retirement as the Regional Corporate
Director (Southeast Asia) in 2022. During her term of office in Sunrider, she was assigned to represent the
company as a symposium and conference speaker in the regional and international arena and supervise
the operations in Indonesia, Singapore, Thailand, Vietnam, and the Philippines. She designed several major
changes in operations and sales and business strategies, which were later adopted by the company for
worldwide implementation.
Madam Tay is currently managing her own company which is principally trading in social commerce.
Madam Tay is actively involved in various trade and non-trade associations. She is currently the Honorary
Past President of the Malaysia Retail Chain Association, the Chairperson of the Commerce Committee of
The Chinese Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Kuala Lumpur and Selangor, the Deputy Chairperson
of the Commerce Committee (National Council Member) of The Associated Chinese Chambers of
Commerce and Industry of Malaysia.
Madam Tay does not hold any directorships in any other public listed companies. She does not have
any family relationships with any director or major shareholders of the Company, nor does she have any
conflict of interest with the Company. She has no conviction of any offences within the past 5 years
(other than traffic offences, if any), and there was no public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
12
PROFILE OF KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
EAN YONG HIEN CHAL
Aged 42, Male, Malaysian
Production Manager
Mr Ean Yong Hien Chal (“Mr Hien Chal”) is our Head of Production and is responsible for overseeing our
Group’s overall production operations for instant beverage premixes including production schedule
planning, workforce management, and upkeep of our machinery and equipment to ensure the smooth
operation of our production operations.
In December 2004, he graduated with a Diploma in Electrical Technology from Feng Chia University,
Taiwan.
He was appointed as Director of Orgapharma Herbal Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. in May 2002, a position
which he presently assumes. In March 2005, he began his career in Orgapharma Herbal Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd. as Production Supervisor, where he was responsible for supervising the processing and packing
activities of local traditional herbs and Chinese herbs.
In May 2006, when the Group ventured into the provision of instant beverage premix manufacturing
services, his responsibilities extended to include supervising the production operations of instant beverage
premixes.
In April 2011, he was appointed as Production Manager of Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. In January
2021, he was appointed as Head of Production of our Group, where he assumed his current responsibilities.
Mr Hien Chal is the son of Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin (Executive Deputy Chairman of Orgabio) and Datin
Lai You Mooi, and the sibling of Ean Yong Hian Wah (Executive Chairman of Orgabio), Ean Yong Hien
Voon (Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer of Orgabio), Ean Yong Hen Loen (Executive Director of
Orgabio), Ean Yong Han Khian and Ean Yong Sik Siew (Chief Operating Officer of Orgabio), all of which
are the major shareholders of the Company.
Mr Hien Chal has no conflict of interest with the Company and does not hold any directorships in any other
public listed companies. He has no conviction of any offences within the past 5 years (other than traffic
offences, if any), and there was no public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 13
PROFILE OF KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
(CONT’D)
EAN YONG SIK SIEW
Aged 33, Female, Malaysian
Chief Operating Officer
Ms Ean Yong Sik Siew (“Ms Sik Siew”) is our Chief Operating Officer and is responsible for guiding,
implementing, and monitoring the Group’s operations, workflow strategy, regulatory and compliance,
enterprise risk management, total quality management (TQM), quality assurance (QA/QC), Environmental
Social and Governance (ESG), and overseeing the Group’s daily operation functions working along with
the head of operations at each entity.
She graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in International Relations with Japanese (Honours) from the
University of Nottingham, United Kingdom and holds a Master of Science in Corporate Governance and
Compliance from Hong Kong Baptist University, Hong Kong. She is a member of The Hong Kong Chartered
Governance Institute and an associate member of The Asian Institute of Chartered Bankers.
In July 2014, she joined Hays Specialist Recruitment (M) Sdn Bhd as a Talent Associate where she was
involved in the provision of outsourced recruitment services. She left Hays Specialist Recruitment (M) Sdn
Bhd in April 2015 and joined HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad in May 2015 as a Global Standards Manager
where she undertook risk management and compliance work. In November 2017, she left HSBC Bank
Malaysia Berhad and joined Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. as a Compliance Manager where she
was involved in overseeing compliance with food safety standards. She left Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn.
Bhd. in August 2019 to pursue her Master’s degree. In July 2020, she joined Hong Leong Bank Berhad as
an Assistant Manager, Compliance where she undertakes regulatory compliance work. In October 2022,
she left Hong Leong Bank Berhad and joined Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. as Chief Operating Officer
where she assumed her current responsibilities.
Ms Sik Siew is the daughter of Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin (Executive Deputy Chairman of Orgabio) and Datin
Lai You Mooi, and the sibling of Ean Yong Hian Wah (Executive Chairman of Orgabio), Ean Yong Hien
Voon (Executive Director/Chief Executive Officer of Orgabio), Ean Yong Hien Chal, Ean Yong Han Khian
and Ean Yong Hen Loen (Executive Director of Orgabio), all of which are the major shareholders of the
Company.
Ms Sik Siew has no conflict of interest with the Company and does not hold any directorships in any other
public listed companies. She has no conviction of any offences within the past 5 years (other than traffic
offences, if any), and there was no public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
14
PROFILE OF KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
(CONT’D)
NGOOI SOK LING
Aged 56, Female, Malaysian
Chief Financial Officer
Ms Ngooi Sok Ling (“Ms Ngooi”) is our Chief Financial Officer and is responsible for overseeing and managing
the overall financial and accounting functions of our Group, preparing financial budgets and providing
financial advice to the management for decision making as well as developing and implementing
financial policies to improve the profitability of our Group.
In July 1992, she graduated with a Diploma in Commerce (Management Accounting) from Tunku
Abdul Rahman College, Malaysia. She has been a member of the Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants since November 1999 and the Malaysian Institute of Accountants since March 2002.
In September 1993, she began her career at Kempar Empat Sdn. Bhd. as an Accounts Assistant where
she assisted in the accounting functions of the company such as preparation of account receivables and
account payables reports, financial reporting, and bank reconciliation and cash receipt reports.
In April 1995, she left Kempar Empat Sdn. Bhd. and joined Soon Hun Technologies (M) Sdn. Bhd. as an
Assistant Accountant where she was responsible for the management of daily accounting functions of
the company.
In September 1999, she left Soon Hun Technologies (M) Sdn. Bhd. and in October 1999, she joined
Mardec Berhad, as an Accountant where she was involved in the finance and accounting functions of
the company and its subsidiaries. In October 2010, she was promoted to Senior Accountant, where she
led an accounting team in carrying out the finance and accounting functions of the company and its
subsidiaries. She is also involved in the preparation of financial analysis reports for potential investments
and acquisitions. In January 2014, she was promoted to Assistant General Manager (Finance/Accounts),
where her responsibilities extended to include managing corporate affairs in relation to the finance division
of the company and its subsidiaries. In December 2016, she left Mardec Berhad and took a career break.
In September 2017, she joined GA Hotel Management Sdn. Bhd. as a Financial Controller where she
oversaw the overall finance and accounting functions of the company. In March 2018, she left GA Hotel
Management Sdn. Bhd. and joined Goodway Rubber Industries Sdn. Bhd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Goodway Integrated Industries Berhad (a company listed on Main Market of Bursa Securities) as Group
Finance Manager where she oversaw the overall finance and accounting functions of the company.
In April 2019, she left Goodway Rubber Industries Sdn. Bhd. and joined Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
as Group Accountant where she assumed her current responsibilities. In April 2020, she was appointed as
Chief Financial Officer of our Group.
Ms Ngooi does not hold any directorships in any other public listed companies. She does not have any
family relationships with any director or major shareholders of the Company, nor does she have any conflict
of interest with the Company. She has no conviction of any offences within the past 5 years (other than
traffic offences, if any), and there was no public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 15
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
Reflecting on the financial year ended 30 June 2024 (“FY2024”), Orgabio Holdings
Berhad (“Orgabio” or “the Group”), has successfully navigated its second year
as a publicly listed entity amidst challenging economic conditions. Despite
the volatility, including fluctuating market demand and sustained inflationary
pressures, our strategic initiatives have solidified our market position as a leader in
the instant beverage premix industry. This year was marked by significant growth
efforts, notably in expanding our customer base. These developments have not
only strengthened our operational capabilities but have also poised us to meet an
anticipated increase in market demand in the instant beverage sector. Looking
ahead, we are committed to leveraging our enhanced production capacity and
broader market reach to capture emerging opportunities and drive sustainable
growth. As we continue to build on this momentum, we are optimistic about our
ability to deliver enhanced value to our shareholders in the years to come.”
“Dear Valued Shareholders,
OVERVIEW OF GROUP’S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
FY2024 saw Orgabio consolidating its position in the instant beverage premix industry, building on our
successful second year on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”). Despite
facing headwinds such as market volatility, inflationary pressures, and a weakening Malaysian Ringgit,
our strategic initiatives have enabled us to further strengthen our market presence. We expanded our
customer base and augmented our operational capabilities with the completion of our state-of-the-art
production facility, setting the stage for increased production to meet growing market demands.
Historical Milestones:
Foundation of Orgapharma Herbal Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd., initiating our journey in
traditional and Chinese herbs.
Expansion into the instant beverage premix sector, building on our herbal expertise.
Establishment of Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd., securing our inaugural direct-
selling customer.
Creation of Orgabio Holdings Sdn. Bhd. to streamline and expand our operations.
Transition to Orgabio Holdings Berhad, unifying our subsidiaries under one investment
holding framework.
listed on the ACE Market, leveraging decades of industry experience under the
leadership of the Ean Yong family.
Transition into a listed company on the ACE Market lays down a strong foundation for
growth amidst economic challenges and market volatility.
2002
2005
2006
2018
2020
2022
2023
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
16
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
Today, Orgabio is a prominent name in the instant beverage industry, offering comprehensive
manufacturing services to a diverse clientele, including major supermarket chains and pharmaceutical
entities, and nurturing in-house brands like EveryDay and BrogaHill. Once the newly completed factory
commences its operations, we are poised to expand our production capabilities further and explore new
opportunities in bulk packaging and plant-based beverage sectors, reinforcing Malaysia’s role as a key
player in the global market for instant beverage premixes.
As we continue to innovate and expand, we remain committed to enhancing shareholder value through
strategic growth and operational excellence.
BUSINESS OVERVIEW
In FY2024, Orgabio has substantially advanced its position within the instant beverage premix industry,
showcasing a blend of strategic foresight, robust financial growth, and technological enhancement.
Following its debut on Bursa Securities, Orgabio has been proactive in broadening its operational and
market capabilities, making this year pivotal in its ongoing journey toward industry leadership.
Strategic Initiatives to Drive Growth
FY2024 marked a significant stride in Orgabio’s operational capabilities with the completion and upcoming
commencement of a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility. This new plant, poised to begin operations,
represents a critical element in Orgabio's strategy to scale production capacity and enhance product
quality. Equipped with cutting-edge technology, the facility is designed to efficiently manage large-
scale production while maintaining flexibility to adapt to changing market demands and new product
innovations. This expansion enables Orgabio to solidify its supply chain and improve production logistics,
ultimately enhancing its ability to serve both existing and new markets more effectively.
During FY2024, we have also seen notable improvements in revenue streams and profitability, reflecting
its strategic initiatives. The expansion into new markets and the enhancement of its manufacturing
capabilities have played a significant role in this financial uptrend. The Group’s efforts to optimize
operational efficiencies and cost management have resulted in higher profit margins and a stronger
balance sheet. These financial indicators are crucial as they demonstrate the Group’s resilience and
capability to leverage market opportunities for sustained growth.
Aside from that, the Group has also put a strong emphasis on sustainability in the expansion of its operations.
This commitment extends beyond environmental considerations, with Orgabio focused on ensuring that
its products are safe and of high quality, meeting the stringent standards required by both local and
international markets.
Competitive Strength and Market Positioning
Orgabio’s competitive advantage is significantly bolstered by its innovative production capabilities and its
proactive approach to market expansion and sustainability. The Group’s strategic investment in advanced
manufacturing technology not only enhances its operational efficiency but also provides the agility to
swiftly respond to market trends and consumer preferences. This ability to adapt is complemented by a
strong R&D focus, which allows Orgabio to continuously improve its product offerings and tailor them to
meet diverse consumer needs.
Moreover, Orgabio’s extensive distribution network and established brand presence continue to support
steady business operations. This reach, along with ongoing marketing efforts, helps maintain visibility and
keeps us well-positioned in the market.
Conclusion
In summary, FY2024 has been transformative for Orgabio, marked by strategic growth, operational
enhancements, and a steadfast commitment to sustainability and market leadership. With its enhanced
manufacturing capabilities, strong financial performance, and strategic market initiatives, Orgabio is well-
equipped to navigate the complexities of the global market and continue its path toward becoming a
leader in the instant beverage industry. As Orgabio moves forward, it remains dedicated to delivering
high-quality, innovative beverage solutions that cater to the evolving needs of a diverse and growing
global customer base.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 17
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
Orgabio has demonstrated significant financial improvement in FY2024 as the Group has successfully
capitalized on increased demand in both domestic and international markets, particularly in the
manufacturing of instant beverage premixes for third-party brand owners. This strategic positioning has
allowed Orgabio to achieve substantial profitability during this period.
Revenue
Orgabio reported a significant increase in revenue to RM74.14 million for the financial year ended 30
June 2024 up from RM58.83 million in the last financial year, marking an increase of 26%. This increase is
attributed to heightened product demand and an expansion in Orgabio's market reach.
Revenue Analysis by Business Segments
The provision of instant beverage premix manufacturing services
Our core business, the manufacturing of instant beverage premixes for third-party brand owners, continues
to play a vital role, with a contribution of about 99% to our total revenue. For FY2024, the segment
experienced an increase of 26% year-on-year (“yoy”) to RM73.45 million compared to RM58.16 million in
FY2023. The increase was mainly due to the robust demand for our instant beverage premix manufacturing
services among third-party brand owners, spanning both overseas and domestic markets. This heightened
demand is reflective of the Group’s strong market position and its ability to cater to evolving consumer
preferences for instant beverage options globally.
Here are several key factors that contributed to this revenue growth:
1. Expanded Market Reach: Orgabio successfully penetrated new geographic markets while deepening
its penetration in existing ones, thereby capturing a broader customer base. This expansion was
driven by targeted marketing strategies and leveraging existing client relationships to explore new
opportunities.
2. Enhanced Product Offering: Continuous innovation in product development allowed Orgabio to offer
customized solutions that meet the specific needs of third-party brand owners, making it a preferred
partner for these services.
3. Operational Efficiency: Improvements in production processes and supply chain management
enabled the Group to meet the increased demand efficiently, ensuring timely delivery and
maintaining product quality, which in turn reinforced customer satisfaction and loyalty.
Others
Provision of instant beverage premixes manufacturing services for third party brand owners
Revenue By Business Segments
-
10,000
20,000
30,000
40,000
50,000
60,000
70,000
80,000
73,454
685
RM‘000
FY2024
671
58,164
FY2023
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
18
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
Others
This segment encompasses the trading of our Group’s house-brands instant beverage premixes and
the sale of aloe vera gel. There was an increase of 1% in revenue, registering RM0.68 million for FY2024
compared to RM0.67 million in the previous financial year.
Revenue Analysis by Geographical Markets
For FY2024, Orgabio experienced robust double-digit growth across both domestic and international
markets. The domestic market revenue increased by 26% yoy to RM29.25 million, while revenue from
overseas markets rose by 26% to RM44.89 million. This surge is primarily attributed to escalating demand for
our instant beverage premix manufacturing services among third-party brand owners.
The export market remains the predominant revenue contributor for Orgabio, accounting for 60% of the
Group’s total revenue. The increase aligns with Orgabio's strategic long-term goal to foster a resilient
business model. Notably, before the public listing, the overseas market constituted only about 30% of total
revenue. This shift underscores Orgabio’s successful expansion and growing influence in global markets,
reflecting the Group’s ongoing commitment to diversifying and strengthening its international presence.
Revenue By Geographical Markets (RM'000)
29,247
44,892
Domestic Overseas
23,172
35,663
FY 2023
SALES
REVENUES
RM 58,835
FY 2024
SALES
REVENUES
RM 74,139
Domestic Overseas
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 19
Profit before tax
In FY2024, Orgabio experienced a significant financial turnaround, reporting a Profit Before Tax (PBT) of
RM5.65 million, a substantial improvement from the PBT of RM0.15 million recorded in FY2023. This remarkable
recovery is attributed to a combination of effective strategic initiatives and operational adjustments. The
Group’s resurgence in profitability was driven primarily by increased revenue, which saw a substantial
uptick due to heightened demand in both domestic and international markets for its instant beverage
premix manufacturing services. Additionally, the financial results for FY2024 were positively impacted by
the absence of one-off listing expenses totaling RM2.25 million, which had weighed down the previous
fiscal year's earnings.
Furthermore, the gross profit margin saw an improvement, rising to 19% in FY2024 from 17% in FY2023,
reflecting tighter cost management and enhanced operational efficiency. The gross profit in monetary
terms followed the revenue uptrend, climbing to RM13.87 million from RM9.86 million. This increase in gross
profit underscores the Group’s ability to optimize its production processes and supply chain management
effectively. These measures not only helped in reducing the cost of goods sold but also improved the
overall profitability framework of Orgabio. Such financial metrics demonstrate the Group’s resilience and
capability to adapt to market demands and economic conditions, positioning it well for sustained growth
and stability in the competitive landscape of beverage manufacturing.
Financial Position
Orgabio’s financial performance and balance sheet have shown significant improvements, indicating a
robust growth trajectory since its listing on Bursa Securities. As of June 30, 2024, the Group’s total assets have
increased to RM77.41 million from RM69.13 million the previous year, reflecting a strategic expansion in
operational capabilities and resource allocation. This growth in assets underscores Orgabio’s commitment
to scaling its operations and enhancing its market footprint.
The Group’s equity position has also strengthened considerably, with total equity rising from RM51.68
million at the end of June 2023 to RM55.79 million by June 2024. This increase in equity not only bolsters
the Group’s financial stability but also provides a solid foundation to mitigate potential future risks. The
effective management of liabilities, with a total standing at RM21.62 million, demonstrates a disciplined
approach to financial management and strategic planning. This controlled growth in liabilities is well-
aligned with the asset expansion, ensuring a balanced financial structure.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
Profit Before Tax
-
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
5,647
RM‘000
FY2024
151
FY2023
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
20
Cash and cash equivalents have decreased to RM13.06 million from RM18.70 million, a reflection of
strategic capital deployment towards long-term assets including a significant investment in constructing
a new factory and acquisition of new machinery. These investments are poised to enhance Orgabio’s
production capabilities and drive future revenue growth.
Furthermore, Orgabio has maintained a healthy gearing ratio, improving to 0.17 times as of June 30, 2024,
from 0.20 times the previous year. This favorable ratio provides the Group with additional capacity to
leverage borrowings for future expansion and other strategic initiatives.
In summary, Orgabio’s financial position as at FY2024 demonstrates a Group that has not only rebounded
from previous financial challenges but is also strategically positioned for continued growth and success.
The enhancements in revenue, profitability, asset management, and equity strength form a resilient
financial framework that supports the Group's strategic objectives and operational demands. This robust
financial health positions Orgabio well to capitalize on upcoming market opportunities and effectively
navigate future challenges.
Outlook and Prospects
As Orgabio Holdings Berhad navigates through a rapidly evolving market landscape, its future prospects
appear promising, anchored by strategic initiatives and market dynamics.
1. Global Demand for Instant Beverage Premixes
The global market for instant beverage premixes is exhibiting impressive growth, with its value
estimated between USD 60-70 billion in 2023 and projected to expand at a Compounded Annual
Growth Rate (“CAGR”) of approximately 7% over the next decade (Source: www.insightaceanalytic.
com & www.360iresearch.com). The Asia-Pacific region stands out as a particularly promising area
for expansion, highlighted by the instant coffee segment which is valued at USD 15.4 billion and
anticipated to grow at a CAGR of around 5% from 2024 to 2030 (Source: www.virtuemarketresearch.
com). This robust growth trajectory is primarily fueled by the increasing consumer demand for
convenience and high-quality products.
In contrast, the local Malaysian market for instant coffee is expected to grow more modestly, with
projections suggesting it will reach approximately USD 200 million in 2024 and grow at a CAGR of 1.41%
from 2024 to 2028 (Source: www.statista.com). Despite the slower growth rate domestically, Orgabio
is well-positioned to capitalize on the more substantial growth potential internationally. As a leading
manufacturer of instant beverage premixes for third-party brand owners, Orgabio is strategically
poised to tap into this escalating global demand, leveraging its established market presence and
expertise to capture significant growth opportunities in the expanding global marketplace.
2. Strategic Expansion and Market Penetration
Orgabio is actively expanding its production capacities, as evidenced by investments in new
facilities and technology. The Group’s recent completion of a new factory is expected to enhance
its production capabilities, enabling it to meet the increasing demand. Moreover, Orgabio’s efforts
to penetrate new geographic markets are pivotal in diversifying its revenue streams and reducing
dependency on any single market.
3. Navigating Global Challenges and Opportunities
In facing global economic volatilities, such as fluctuating exchange rates and regulatory changes,
Orgabio’s proactive management and strategic financial planning are key. The Group also stands to
benefit from Malaysia’s position as a major exporter in the instant premix beverage sector, leveraging
international trade agreements that favour its business model.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 21
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
4. Technological Integration and Innovation
Orgabio is embracing technological advancements to streamline operations and enhance product
quality. This includes digital integrations and the adoption of advanced manufacturing technologies
that help meet customer demands efficiently and innovatively.
Conclusion
Orgabio is set to continue its growth trajectory, supported by strategic expansions, a strong focus on
sustainability, and leveraging technology for innovation. With its strategic investments and market-focused
initiatives, Orgabio is well-equipped to capitalize on both global and local market opportunities, ensuring
its long-term success and sustainability in the competitive landscape of beverage manufacturing.
ANTICIPATED OR KNOWN RISKS
As Orgabio expands its global presence and continues on its growth trajectory, the Group is keenly aware
of several known and anticipated risks that could impact its operations and performance. Proactively
addressing these risks is crucial for maintaining resilience and ensuring long-term sustainability. Below is an
overview of these risks and the strategic measures Orgabio has implemented to mitigate them.
1. Currency Fluctuations
Orgabio faces currency fluctuation risks due to its reliance on imports and earnings from diverse
international markets. To mitigate these risks, the Group maintains multiple foreign currency accounts,
allowing it to hedge against adverse currency movements effectively. This strategy helps minimize
the impact of currency volatility on the Group’s profitability.
2. Regulatory Changes
Orgabio navigates complex regulatory environments by continuously monitoring regulatory changes,
ensuring compliance, and aligning operations with global standards. This proactive approach helps
manage sudden changes that could impact market access and operational flows.
3. Market Competition
In a highly competitive market, Orgabio stands out through continuous innovation and exceptional
customer service. The Group’s significant investment in R&D allows for the development of new and
improved products that cater to evolving consumer preferences. Strategic marketing efforts further
bolster brand visibility and engagement.
4. Environmental and Sustainability Challenges
Orgabio is committed to sustainable practices, which include optimizing resource usage, and
sustainably sourcing raw materials. The Group regularly updates its sustainability targets to align with
global environmental standards, underscoring its commitment to environmental stewardship.
5. Consumer Preferences
Orgabio's agility in product development allows it to respond swiftly to changing consumer
preferences. Regular market research and consumer feedback loops are instrumental in ensuring
that product offerings remain relevant and meet current market demands.
6. Raw Material Price Variations
The Group's dependence on imported raw materials exposes it to price variations. Orgabio’s
diversified supply chain strategy not only provides negotiation leverage but also enhances cost
efficiency, safeguarding against significant price fluctuations.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
22
7. Product Quality and Safety
Maintaining high product standards is paramount. Orgabio enforces stringent quality control and
assurance protocols at every production stage, safeguarding its reputation and mitigating potential
financial risks associated with product recalls or safety concerns.
Conclusion
Orgabio’s integrated approach to risk management involves identifying potential risks and implementing
strategicresponsestoturnthesechallengesintoopportunitiesforgrowthandinnovation.Thiscomprehensive
framework supports Orgabio’s aim to sustain market leadership and continue its upward trajectory in the
competitive global marketplace. For a detailed account of our internal controls to measure and manage
risks, please refer to our Statement on Risk Management and Internal Controls on pages 59-62.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 23
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
THE STATEMENT
Orgabio Holdings Berhad (“Orgabio” or “the Group”) is please to present its Sustainability Statement for
the financial year ended 30 June 2024 (“FY2024”). This statement reflects our steadfast commitment to
Environmental, Social, and Governance (“ESG”) sustainability, as we continue to integrate these crucial
elements into our operational framework. Recognizing the profound impact our business activities have
on socio-economic and environmental aspects, we remain dedicated to generating sustainable value
for all stakeholders, enhancing our performance, and embracing our responsibility towards a sustainable
future.
As we progress on our sustainability journey, Orgabio has taken proactive steps to further embed ESG
principles into our corporate culture and strategic decision-making processes. This year, our focus has
intensified on not only maintaining but accelerating the integration of sustainable development awareness
throughout the organization. We aim to cultivate an environment where sustainable practices drive
business innovation and create positive impacts on the community, economy, and environment.
In FY2024, Orgabio has launched several new initiatives that bolster our commitment to sustainability:
• Commitment to 3Rs: We are fully committed to the principles of Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle (3Rs) in
our operations, optimizing resource use and minimizing waste. For FY2024, we successfully recycled
a total of 32,915 kg of waste and generated RM15,170.40 through our 3Rs initiatives, reinforcing our
dedication to sustainability.
• Strengthening Ethical Practices with Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) 2-Pillar Audit: We
adopted the SMETA 2-Pillar Audit framework, reinforcing our commitment to ethical business practices.
This audit focuses on labour standards and health and safety, ensuring that Orgabio maintains high
standards of compliance with social responsibility and workplace safety. By implementing the SMETA
2-Pillar Audit, we strengthen our dedication to sustainability, ethical labour practices, and the well-
being of its employees.
• Empowering Local Communities Through Flexible Employment Opportunities: We are committed to
fostering economic growth within local communities by offering flexible employment opportunities,
particularly for women such as stay-at-home mothers who have limited time for work. Both part-
time and full-time roles are available, allowing residents to contribute to the local economy while
balancing their personal commitments. The Group encourages local residents to spread the word and
join in supporting the community through these job opportunities. Walk-in interviews are welcomed at
their facility in Semenyih, making it easy for interested candidates to apply and become part of the
initiative.
Our Sustainability Statement outlines our proactive approach to managing economic, environmental,
and social dimensions, focusing on addressing ESG factors and improving transparency. We detail our key
sustainability activities, strategic risk management, and commitment to continually refining our reporting
for clearer insights. Recognizing sustainability as an ongoing journey, we remain dedicated to adopting
best practices and evolving our strategies to meet global standards and stakeholder needs. This ensures
our efforts are impactful and aligned with the changing environmental and social landscape.
REPORTING STANDARDS AND GOVERNANCE
The FY2024 Sustainability Statement adheres to the highest standards, including:
• Bursa Malaysia's Sustainability Reporting Guide issued by Bursa Malaysia
• The United Nations Sustainable Development Goals ("UN SDGs")
• Orgabio’s Sustainability Policy
Ourrobustgovernanceframeworkensuresdiligentoversightandeffectiveimplementationofthesepolicies.
This structure underpins our sustainability roadmap, outlining our strategic goals and the methodologies to
achieve them.
Scope and Boundary: This statement encompasses the period from 1 July 2023 to 30 June 2024, focusing
on our economic, environmental, and social ("EES") initiatives across all business activities of the Group.
The data and insights presented are derived from our enhanced internal reporting processes and systems.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
24
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
At Orgabio Group, governance is foundational to our sustainability agenda. We conduct our business
ethically, adhering to all relevant laws and regulations, which demonstrates our deep commitment to
accountability and social responsibility. This includes strict compliance with Malaysia’s Labour Law, the
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Act (“ABC”), the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (“MACC”) Act, the
Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”), and the Occupational Safety and Health Act
1994 (“OSHA”), ensuring that our operations are in full alignment with national legal frameworks related to
sustainability. Our governance strategy is specifically designed to address the unique cultural, operational,
and sustainability-related needs of our organization, thereby enhancing our capability to drive sustainable
development and create significant value.
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) plays a crucial role in shaping this approach, tailoring our governance
framework to align with the Group’s unique attributes, including its sustainability maturity and readiness. This
structure enables both the Board and Management to effectively oversee and manage critical material
sustainability topics, monitoring progress and evaluating associated risks and opportunities.
As part of our commitment to sustainability, we have adopted several key policies that support our
governance structure, including our Child Labor Policy, Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy, Diversity
Policy, Ethics and Compliance Whistleblowing Policy and Procedures, Human Rights and Labour Policy,
Recruitment Policy, and Abuse, Discrimination & Sexual Harassment Policy. These policies guide our ethical
approach to governance and reinforce our dedication to fostering an inclusive, fair, and transparent work
environment.
Additionally, we have established a comprehensive Sustainability Policy, which integrates sustainability
principles into every aspect of our operations. This policy is geared toward optimizing value for our
shareholders while considering the broader impacts on stakeholders, natural resources, and the
communities we operate in. It supports our efforts to achieve various sustainable development goals and
is rigorously overseen by our Senior Management, who are responsible for addressing sustainability issues
and providing regular updates to the Board. The policy is publicly accessible on our website at www.
orgabio.com.
Under the guidance of the Board, sustainable business practices are deeply integrated across all levels
of the organization. The Board has delegated authority to the Management to oversee the execution
of sustainability strategies and to take decisive actions toward accomplishing the Group’s sustainability
objectives. This management team, led by the Executive Deputy Chairman and comprising Executive
Directors and senior management members, is tasked with identifying, evaluating, monitoring, and
managing ESG risks and opportunities. They play a pivotal role in ensuring that all material sustainability
concerns are addressed through comprehensive stakeholder engagement and rigorous materiality
assessments. Moreover, the Management is responsible for preparing sustainability disclosures for Board
approval, as required by legal and regulatory frameworks, thus ensuring our reporting remains transparent
and compliant.
In conclusion, Orgabio Group’s unwavering dedication to sustainability is reflected in our ongoing efforts
to refine our practices, raise awareness, and positively impact the broader community, economy, and
environment. We are committed to maintaining a dynamic balance between sustainable development
and value creation, aiming to meet and exceed the expectations of all our stakeholders. Through these
concerted efforts, we believe we can sustain and enhance our leadership in sustainable business practices.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
The Board of Orgabio deeply values the significant contributions and support from both internal and
external stakeholders, which are crucial in achieving the Group’s goals and maintaining long-term business
sustainability and excellence. Stakeholder engagement is central to our sustainability efforts, helping us to
identify, prioritize, and address material sustainability matters.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 25
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
Throughout FY2024, both formal and informal stakeholder engagements have been pivotal in shaping
our sustainability agenda. These interactions foster mutual understanding and collaboration, serving as
essential touchpoints that guide our initiatives. These engagements are held regularly, demonstrating
Orgabio’s commitment to open communication and strong relationship-building with all stakeholders.
By doing so, we gather valuable insights, address concerns, and collaboratively pursue sustainability
objectives that benefit all involved parties.
Below is a detailed table outlining the various segments of stakeholder engagements conducted by the
Group. It includes the areas of interest that were identified and the corresponding responses developed
to address these interests and concerns. This strategic approach ensures that stakeholder feedback is
carefully considered and integrated into our sustainability strategies, driving continuous enhancement
and refinement of our efforts.
Stakeholders Engagement Channels Area of interests Forum of responses
Investors and
shareholders
• Annual General
Meeting
• Annual Report
• Quarterly interim
report
• Bursa announcement
• Corporate website
• Briefings/updates
for analysts/fund
managers
• Media engagements
• Business growth
strategy
• Group’s financial
performance
• Sustainable financial
returns
• Sustainable dividend
policy
• Corporate
governance
• Regulatory
compliance
• Quarterly reporting
and regular audits
Customers • Corporate website
• Actively engaging
and build relationships
• Participation in
industry networking
events
• Regular feedbacks
and meetings
• Product quality
• Food safety
• Resolving complaints
efficiently
• Ensuring on-time
service
• Ensuring on-time
product delivery
• Relationship building
• Health and safety
• Quality management
system
• Competitive pricing
• Customer
engagement
Suppliers • Suppliers and
products assessment
• Regular meetings with
suppliers
• Engaged contract on
a need basis
• Transparent
procurement
practices
• Transparent pricing
• Product quality
• Payment terms
• Timely delivery
• Regular/on-time
payment schedule
• Quality assessment
• Constant and regular
engagement
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
26
Stakeholders Engagement Channels Area of interests Forum of responses
Employees • Company events and
activities
• Training and
development
programme
• Safety training and
awareness
• Whistle-blowing policy
• Annual performance
appraisal
• Staff orientation/
onboarding
• Employee
engagement survey
• Career development
• Competitive
remuneration and
rewards
• Occupational safety
and health
• Induction and
orientation
• Training
• Staff welfare events
• Performance
management system
• Whistle-blowing
channel
Customers • Corporate website
• Actively engaging
and build relationships
• Participation in
industry networking
events
• Regular feedbacks
and meetings
• Product quality
• Food safety
• Resolving complaints
efficiently
• Ensuring on-time
service
• Ensuring on-time
product delivery
• Relationship building
• Health and safety
• Quality management
system
• Competitive pricing
• Customer
engagement
Governments
and Regulators
• Corporate website
• Policies in place to
comply with relevant
government laws and
regulations
• Seminars or
information sessions
held by authorities
• Formal meetings
• Emails and letters
• On-site inspection
• Compliance with law
and regulations
• Compliance
with corporate
governance
• Compliance with
labour, environmental
and safety and health
regulations
• Accuracy,
transparency and
disclosure
• Engagement with
regulatory bodies and
government agencies
Media and
analysts
• Media release/
interviews
• Financial results
briefings
• Public events
• Financial
performance
• Business strategies
• Market presence
• Quarterly reporting
and regular audits
• Financial
performance and
results
Local
community
• Corporate website
• Corporate social
responsibility program
• Volunteer
opportunities
• Charitable/
community events
• Social responsibility
• Environmental
awareness and
education
• Business opportunity
• Employment support
• Interact with local
communities
• Corporate social
responsibility events
• Job opportunity
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 27
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS
Contribution to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs)
At Orgabio, our dedication to fostering sustainable development extends both nationally and globally.
In FY2024, we have rigorously aligned our operations with the United Nations' Sustainable Development
Goals (“SDGs”), continuing our commitment to five specific goals—SDGs 3, 5, 7, 8, and 12. These goals
were carefully chosen to resonate with our comprehensive sustainability strategy, which is built upon the
four foundational pillars: Economic, Environment, Social (EES), and Governance.
By integrating these global objectives into our daily operations and strategic planning, we not only
contribute to worldwide efforts in sustainable development but also reinforce our commitment to creating
lasting value in the communities where we operate. Our initiatives are tailored to ensure that we address
both immediate and long-term sustainability challenges effectively, making a positive impact on our
planet and its people.
Sustainability activities:
1. Economic
In FY2024, Orgabio continued to champion economic sustainability, aligning our operations with the
United Nations Sustainable Development Goal (UN SDG) 8, which promotes sustained, inclusive, and
sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all. We prioritize
the employment of local talent, with approximately 67% of our workforce consisting of local hires.
We are committed to cultivating a skilled workforce through comprehensive training programs. Our
management team predominantly comprises local professionals, which not only promotes leadership
within the community but also ensures that the benefits of our business growth are shared locally.
Orgabio is committed to strengthening local economies by prioritizing partnerships with local suppliers.
This strategy not only supports the community economically but also minimizes our environmental
footprint and fosters stronger community relationships. In addition, this year we have expanded
our initiatives to include more flexible work arrangements, such as part-time opportunities tailored
specifically for stay-at-home moms. This effort is aimed at enhancing their financial independence
and encouraging broader social participation.
Our approach has set in motion a positive ripple effect, elevating income levels and contributing to
the overall economic resilience of the communities we operate in. By continuing these practices, we
aim to bolster local economies and enhance the quality of life for individuals within these communities.
2. Environment
Orgabio continues to lead in environmental stewardship, embedding the principles of "Reduce,
Reuse, and Recycle" into our core operational practices. This commitment is in alignment with the
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 7 and 12, which focus on ensuring access to
affordable, reliable, sustainable, and modern energy for all, and ensuring sustainable consumption
and production patterns, respectively in FY2024.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
28
Resource Management and Energy Efficiency: As we navigate an increase in electricity consumption,
Orgabio is actively investing in energy-saving equipment to boost energy efficiency and effectively
manage long-term emissions. In a significant stride toward sustainable energy practices, we have
invested RM1.1 million in the installation of solar panels. The installation is currently in progress and
expected to be completed by the end of October 2024. These panels are projected to generate
approximately 46,000 kWh per month. This initiative marks a pivotal step in our transition to relying
more heavily on renewable energy sources. Additionally, the construction of our new state-of-the-art
factory underscores our commitment to sustainable energy use. This facility has been designed with
energy conservation in mind, incorporating advanced technologies and materials that minimize our
environmental footprint while enhancing operational efficiency.
FY2023 FY2024
Revenue (RM ‘000) 58,835 74,139
Electricity (RM ‘000) 503 528
Electricity Consumption (KWH) 1,037,756 1,086,939
Electricity Consumption (KWH) per revenue (RM) 0.0176 0.0147
Waste Reduction and Recycling Efforts: Orgabio prioritizes waste reduction through effective waste
segregation and recycling initiatives. In FY2024, we successfully recycled a total of 32,915 kg of
waste and generated RM15,170.40 through our 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) efforts, reinforcing our
dedication to sustainability. Additionally, we promote eco-friendly consumption by utilizing sustainable
materials, including Forest Stewardship Council (FSC)-certified paper for our packaging, as well as
recycled content in the production of our boards and cartons. FSC paper refers to paper that is
certified by FSC. This certification ensures that the paper is sourced from responsibly managed forests
that provide environmental, social, and economic benefits. Using FSC-certified paper for packaging
material indicates our commitment to sustainability and ethical sourcing.
By integrating these environmental practices, Orgabio not only minimizes its ecological footprint
but also contributes to a healthier planet. We remain dedicated to continuous improvement in our
environmental initiatives, ensuring they align with global standards and our corporate sustainability
goals.
3. Social
Orgabio is steadfast in its commitment to social sustainability, guided by the principles of UN SDG
Goals 3 (Good Health and Well-being), 5 (Gender Equality), and 8 (Decent Work and Economic
Growth). We strive to create an inclusive workplace that not only promotes diversity but also
champions gender equality, actively working to eliminate all forms of discrimination and workplace
bullying.
In FY2024, we further strengthened our governance by adopting the Sedex Member Ethical Trade
Audit (SMETA) 2-Pillar Audit, which emphasizes ethical business practices and labour standards. This
ensures that we consistently uphold high standards of social responsibility, fairness, and respect for
human rights, while aligning our operations with global sustainability goals. Through these efforts, we
continue to create a safe, equitable, and thriving work environment that drives sustainable growth
for both our employees and the communities we serve.
Employee by gender Number of
employees
% of total
employee
Male 82 57
Female 61 43
Total 143 100
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 29
Management and office team by gender Number of
employees
% of total
employee
Male 16 36
Female 28 64
Total 44 100
These statistics highlight our progress in fostering a balanced representation in management roles,
with women holding a significant 64% of these positions, demonstrating our strides towards gender
parity in leadership.
In addition to promoting diversity and equality, Orgabio prioritizes the overall well-being of its
employees by providing competitive compensation packages and ensuring quality living conditions.
We regularly host team-building activities and recognition events, such as Hari Raya celebrations,
annual dinners and hiking trips, to boost morale and foster a cohesive workplace culture.
Employee Development and Safety: Investment in continuous training ensures both personal and
professional development of our employees, maintaining high standards in product and service
delivery. We uphold stringent Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) standards by implementing
rigorous safety protocols, conducting regular risk assessments, and utilizing modern safety equipment
to create a secure working environment.
Through these initiatives, Orgabio not only adheres to global sustainability goals but also sets a
benchmark for responsible and inclusive corporate practices.
4. Governance
Orgabio is at the forefront of championing sustainability through rigorous governance and unwavering
ethical standards, closely aligned with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)’s
SDG 12 (Responsible Consumption and Production). Our firm commitment to ethical conduct is
underpinned by a comprehensive Code of Conduct, robust anti-corruption protocols, and a secure
whistleblowing mechanism, all of which ensure adherence to the highest standards of integrity and
compliance.
Certifications and Quality Assurance: Our dedication to maintaining exceptional quality standards
is evidenced by our compliance with stringent international food safety protocols. Orgabio holds
several prestigious certifications that highlight our commitment to safety and quality:
• Food Safety System Certification 22000 (FSSC 22000): Ensures efficient food safety management
systems.
• Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP): Focuses on critical safety risks in food production
and handling.
• Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP): Emphasizes the essential aspects of production and quality
control.
• HALAL Certification: Assures compliance with Halal dietary laws.
• Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab Industri (MeSTI): Guarantees safe food production, reflecting
our commitment to consumer health and safety.
Total Employees by Gender
Male
57%
Female
43%
Management and office team by Gender
Male
36%
Female
64%
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
30
Conclusion
As we mark our second year as a publicly listed company, Orgabio continues to deepen its commitment to
sustainability, guided by our four foundational pillars: Economic, Environmental, Social, and Governance.
This holistic strategy not only fosters prosperity and environmental stewardship but also champions social
equity and upholds rigorous ethical standards in business practices. Aligned with the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), our approach addresses some of the world's most pressing
challenges, such as poverty alleviation and climate action. Our journey as a listed entity has been one of
significant growth and learning, emphasizing our adaptability and dedication to continuous improvement.
We are committed to continual learning, adaptability, and deepening stakeholder engagement to
enhance our positive impact on society and the environment. Orgabio’s commitment to sustainability
transcends mere promises, evolving into a dynamic and collaborative pursuit of global sustainability
objectives.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 31
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Orgabio Holdings Berhad (“Orgabio” or “the Company”) recognises
and is committed to ensuring the importance of good Corporate Governance (“CG”) is being practised
by the Company and the subsidiaries (“Group” or “Orgabio Group”) to safeguard stakeholders’ interests
as well as enhancing shareholders’ value.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement (“CGOS”) sets out the manner in which the Group has
applied and the extent of compliance with principles and recommendations as set out in the Malaysian
Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”), the relevant chapters of the ACE Market Listing Requirements
(“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) on CG and all applicable
laws and regulations throughout the financial year ended 30 June 2024 (“FY2024”).
The CGOS is supplemented with a Corporate Governance Report (“CG Report”), in accordance with Rule
15.25 of the Listing Requirements and it provides an insight on how the Company maps the application of
the Company’s CG practice during the FY2024 against MCCG.
The CGOS shall be read together with the CG Report, available on the Company’s website at www.
orgabio.com.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
PART 1 – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS
1.1 Functions, Roles and Responsibilities of the Board
The Board leads Orgabio and plays a strategic role in overseeing the Group’s objectives,
direction, goals and overall corporate governance to ensure that the strategic plans of the
Group are implemented and accountability is monitored well.
The following are the key matters of the Company reserved for the Board’s approval:
• to review and adopt strategic plans, addressing the sustainability of the Group’s business;
• to oversee the conduct of the Group’s businesses and evaluate whether or not the
businesses are being properly managed;
• to identify principal business risks faced by the Group and ensure the implementation of
appropriate systems to manage these risks;
• to consider and implement succession planning, including appointing, training, fixing the
compensation of and, where appropriate, replacing members of the Board and Senior
Management;
• to develop and implement an investor relations programme or shareholder communications
policy for the Company;
• to review the adequacy and the integrity of the Group’s internal control systems and
management information systems, including systems for compliance with applicable laws,
regulations, rules, directives and guidelines;
• to promote good corporate governance culture together with Senior Management within
the Company for reinforcing ethical, prudent and professional behaviour; and
• to review, challenge and decide on Management’s critical proposals for the Company,
and oversee its implementation by Management.
The Board reserves certain powers for itself and has delegated certain matters, such as the day-
to-day management of the Group to the Executive Directors. The Independent Non-Executive
Directors are responsible for bringing independent judgement and scrutiny to decisions taken by
the Board and providing objective challenges to Management.
The Independent Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the day-to-day management of
the Group and do not engage in any business dealings or other relationships with the Group. In
this manner, the Independent Non-Executive Directors fulfil a crucial corporate accountability
role as they provide independent and objective views, opinions and judgments on issues being
deliberated and act in the best interest of the Group, its stakeholders and shareholders, including
minority shareholders. There is a schedule of key matters reserved to the Board for its deliberation
and decision to ensure the direction and control of the Group are in its hands.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
32
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART 1 – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS (CONT’D)
1.2 Board Committees
To discharge its stewardship role effectively, the Board has delegated specific duties to 2 Board
Committees. Each Board Committee operates within its respective Terms of Reference (“TOR”)
approved by the Board. The Board Committees established during FY2024 are as follows:
• Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”); and
• Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”).
Although specific powers are delegated to the Board Committees, the Board continues to keep
itself abreast of the actions and decisions taken by each Board Committee, including key issues
via reports by the Chairman and/or Chairperson of each of the Board Committees, as well as
the tabling of minutes of all Board Committee meetings, to the Board at Board meetings. The
Board reviews the respective Board Committees’ authority and TOR from time to time to ensure
their relevance and enhance its efficiency. The ultimate responsibility for the final decision on all
matters, however, lies with the Board as a whole.
The TOR of each Board Committee as approved by the Board is available on the Company’s
corporate website at www.orgabio.com.
1.3 The Chairman of the Board
The Board is currently chaired by Mr Ean Yong Hian Wah, the Executive Chairman of the
Company, and half of the Board consists of Independent Non-Executive Directors. The Board
of the Company, notwithstanding that the Chairman is an Executive Director, is of the opinion
that the element of independence which currently exists is adequate to ensure that there is a
balance of power and authority in the Board. In addition, the presence of the 4 Independent
Directors from a total of the 8 Board members is sufficient to provide the necessary checks and
balances on the decision-making process of the Board.
The Chairman is responsible for the Board’s effectiveness and conduct, implementing the
Group’s policies and business plans with the assistance of the Executive Directors. The Chairman
also promotes an open environment for debate and ensures effective contributions from the
Independent Non-Executive Directors. He also exercises control over the quality, quantity
and timeliness of information flow between the Board and Management. Together with the
Independent Non-Executive Directors, he leads the discussion on the strategies and policies
recommended by the Management.
At a general meeting, the Chairman plays a role in fostering constructive dialogue between
shareholders, Board and Management.
In line with the recommendation of the MCCG, the Chairman is not a member of any of the Board
Committees. This is to ensure check and balance as well as objectivity will not be influenced by
the Chairman of the Board who also sits on Board Committee(s).
1.4 Separation of Roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”)
To foster a strong governance culture in the Group and to ensure a balance of power and
authority, the roles of the Chairman and CEO are strictly separated. The Company practices a
division of responsibilities between the Chairman and the CEO. This is also to maintain effective
supervision and accountability of the Board and Executive Management. The Chairman is
responsible for Board effectiveness and ensuring that the conduct and working of the Board is
in an orderly and effective manner while the Executive Directors and CEO take on the primary
responsibility of managing the Group’s businesses and resources as well as overseeing and
managing the day-to-day operations of the Group.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 33
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART 1 – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS (CONT’D)
1.5 Qualified and Competent Company Secretaries
The Company Secretaries of Orgabio have the requisite credentials and are competent and
suitably qualified to act as company secretaries under Section 235(2) of the Companies Act
2016 (“the Act”). The Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the
Company Secretaries to the Board in discharge of their functions. The Company Secretaries
play an advisory role to the Board in relation to the Company’s Constitution, the Board’s policies
and procedures and compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements, codes or guidance
and legislation.
The Company Secretaries support the Board by ensuring that all Board meetings are properly
conducted and adhered to the Board’s policies and procedures, rules, relevant laws and best
practices on CG and deliberations at the Board and Board Committee meetings as well as follow-
up on matters arising are well captured and recorded. The Company Secretaries also keep the
Board updated on changes in the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities and directives issued
by the regulatory authorities, and the resultant implications to the Company and the Directors in
relation to their duties and responsibilities.
The Company Secretaries constantly keep themselves abreast of the evolving capital market
environment, regulatory changes and developments in CG through continuous training.
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION
2. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY
2.1 Composition of the Board
The Company is led by an experienced Board consisting of individuals with appropriate
knowledge and skills to enhance the growth of the Group’s business with good corporate
governance.
The current Board comprises of 8 members, comprising of an Executive Chairman, an Executive
Deputy Chairman, 2 Executive Directors and 4 Independent Non-Executive Directors. In this
respect, the Board complies with the recommendation of the MCCG of which at least 50% of
the Board is an Independent Director. In addition, Orgabio also complies with the requirement
of the Listing Requirements for Independent Non-Executive Directors to make up at least 1/3 of
the Board membership. In the event of any vacancy in the Board resulting in non-compliance
with the Listing Requirements, the Board shall fill the vacancy within 3 months from the date of
that event.
The Board views the present number of its Independent Directors as ideal to provide the necessary
checks and balances to the Board’s decision-making process. There is a good mix of skills and
core competencies in the current Board membership. The Board is of the opinion that the existing
4 Independent Non-Executive Directors, with their extensive knowledge and experience, would
be able to represent the investment of the public and the minority shareholders. The Board is,
however, open to board changes as and when appropriate. The profile of each of the Director
is set out on pages 4 to 11 of this Annual Report.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
34
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
2.1 Composition of the Board (Cont’d)
The Board has not nominated a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to whom concerns
may be conveyed as the Board is of the opinion that given the strong independent element of
the Board, any concern regarding the Group may be conveyed by shareholders or investors to
any of the Independent Directors at the following address and such concerns will be reviewed
and addressed by the Board accordingly:
Orgabio Holdings Berhad
Lot 83, Jalan Kesuma 2/3, Phase 5D, Bandar Tasik Kesuma Techno Park, 43700 Beranang, Selangor
Email: enquiry@orgabio.com
2.2 Tenure of Independent Directors
As of FY2024, none of the Independent Directors has reached 9 years of service since their
appointment as Independent Directors.
In line with the MCCG, the Board has adopted the 9 years policy for Independent Directors.
Upon completion of the 9 years, an Independent Director may continue to serve on the Board
subject to the re-designation of the said person as a Non-Independent Director. In the event
the Board intends to retain such Director as an Independent Director after the latter has served
a cumulative term of 9 years, the Board will justify the decision and seek annual shareholders’
approval through a two-tier voting process.
2.3 Gender Diversity Policy
The Board is aware of the importance of boardroom diversity and is supportive of the
recommendation of MCCG to the establishment of boardroom and workforce gender diversity
policy. The Board has adopted the Board Diversity Policy which sets out the Company’s
approach to diversity on the Board. The Board together with the NRC will assess and evaluate
current diversity levels, identify and analyse gaps and criteria for new board appointments,
and thereafter recommend the strategies, objectives, targets and practical goals against an
indicative time frame in order to maintain an appropriate range and balance of skills, experience
and background on the Board. The Group will evaluate the suitability of candidates as a new
Board member based on the candidates’ competency, skills, character, time commitment,
knowledge, experience and other qualities in meeting the needs of the Group, regardless of
gender. Equal opportunity is given and does not practice discrimination of any form, whether
based on age, gender, race or religion, throughout the organisation.
As of FY2024, our Board comprises 2 female Directors, representing approximately 25% of the
total number of the Board. In line with the MCCG of at least 30% representation of women on
Boards, the Board will evaluate and match the criteria of the potential candidate as well as
considering the appointment of more female directors onto the Board in future to bring about a
more diverse perspective.
2.4 Diverse Board and Senior Management
The Group practices equal opportunity and no discrimination of any form, whether based on
age, gender, race or religion, throughout the organisation. The Board and Management also
believe the participation of women in decision-making positions should not be focused on
board positions alone but should be broadened to include members of Senior Management as
the same benefits apply.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 35
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
2.5 Board Appointment Process
The Group has in place a formal and transparent procedure for appointment of new directors
to the Board. The Board had entrusted NRC to identify and nominate suitable candidates
for appointments to the Board for approval, either to fill vacancies or as an addition to meet
the changing needs of the Group. The NRC may engage professional recruitment or from
recommendations by existing Board members, to search for suitable candidates subject to
approval by the Chairman or the Board, depending on the quantum of the fees involved.
Before recommending an appointment to the Board, the NRC will undertake a comprehensive
evaluation and assessment of the candidates in accordance with the criteria as set out in the
Directors’ Fit & Proper Policy adopted by the Group. The NRC also takes into accounts the
Group’s business and matches the capabilities and contribution expected for a particular
appointment. In selection of Board candidates, the NRC takes into account the mix of skills,
competencies, experience, integrity, personal attributes and time commitment required to
effectively discharge his/her role as a director. The NRC shall ensure that the Board has the right
balance of skills, experience, independence and business knowledge necessary to discharge its
responsibilities in keeping with the highest standards of governance.
During the financial year under review, the Company appointed Mr Ean Yong Hian Wah as
Executive Chairman on 1 March 2024 and Madam Tay Bee Koo as Independent Non-Executive
Director on 1 May 2024.
2.6 Re-Election of Directors
The procedure for the re-election of Directors by rotation is set out in the Company’s Constitution.
Pursuant to the Company’s Constitution, all Directors who are appointed by the Board during
the year are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first meeting after their appointment.
The Company’s Constitution also provides at least 1/3 of the remaining Directors are subject
to re-election by rotation at each Annual General Meeting, and retiring Directors can offer
themselves for re-election. All Directors shall retire from office at least once every 3 years, but
shall be eligible for re-election.
The NRC would carry out formal assessment evaluation on the performance as well as identifying
any gaps or areas of improvement of the individual Directors, Board and Board Committee
annually. The NRC also would identify the Directors to be retired (“Retiring Directors”) by rotation
in accordance with the Constitution of the Company and assess the Retiring Directors’ eligibility
for re-election by considering their competencies, time commitment, contribution and their
ability to act in the best interest of the Company. Based on the satisfactory evaluation of the
respective Retiring Director’s performance and contributions to the Board, the NRC will then
recommend to the Board the re-election of the Retiring Directors at the Annual General Meeting
of the Company.
For the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the following Directors are standing for re-election
as Directors of the Company pursuant to the following clauses of the Company’s Constitution and
are being eligible have offered themselves for re-election in accordance with the Company’s
Constitution:
i) Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin (Clause 115);
ii) Dr. Teh Chee Ghee (Clause 115);
iii) Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew (Clause 115);
iv) Mr Ean Yong Hian Wah (Clause 125); and
v) Madam Tay Bee Koo (Clause 125).
(collectively referred to as “Retiring Directors”)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
36
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
2.6 Re-Election of Directors (Cont’d)
The Board through the NRC has deliberated on the suitability of the Retiring Directors to be re-
elected as Directors. Upon deliberation, the Board (except for the Retiring Directors who had
abstained from deliberations and decisions on their own eligibility to stand for re-election at
the relevant Board and Committees meetings) collectively agreed that the Retiring Directors
meet the criteria of character, experience, integrity, competence and time commitment to
effectively discharge their respective roles as Directors of the Company and recommended the
Retiring Directors be re-elected as the Directors of the Company, subject to the shareholders’
approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
2.7 Nomination and Remuneration Committee
On 23 February 2024, the Company resolved and approved the merger of the Nomination
Committee and Remuneration Committee into a single Board Committee known as Nomination
and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”).
The NRC of the Company is currently comprises exclusively of Independent Non-Executive
Directors, with the responsibilities of assessing the balanced composition of Board members,
nominating the proposed Board member by looking into his/her skills and expertise for contribution
to the Company on an ongoing basis. At the same time, the NRC is authorised by the Board to
establish a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration
and for fixing the remuneration packages of individual Directors.
The Terms of Reference of the NRC can be viewed on the Company’s website at www.orgabio.
com.
The present members of the NRC of the Company are:
Designation Name Directorship
Chairman Dr. Teh Chee Ghee Independent Non-Executive Director
Member Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew Independent Non-Executive Director
Member Phang Sze Fui Independent Non-Executive Director
The activities undertaken by the NRC during the financial year under review are as follows:
• Reviewed the structure, size and diversity (including without limitation, gender, age, cultural
and educational background, ethnicity, professional experience, skills, knowledge and
length of service) of the Board;
• Undertook annual assessment of its Independent Directors;
• Reviewed the performance of the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and each
director;
• Reviewed and recommended the retirement and re-election of Directors in accordance
with the Company’s Constitution;
• Reviewed and recommended the payment of Directors’ fees and other benefits payable
to Directors;
• Reviewed and recommended the payment of bonuses to the Executive Directors and
Chief Executive Officers of the Company;
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 37
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
2.7 Nomination and Remuneration Committee (Cont’d)
• Reviewed and recommended the revision of the remuneration of the Chief Executive
Officers of the Company;
• Reviewed and recommended the appointment of Mr Ean Yong Hian Wah as Executive
Chairman of the Company;
• Reviewed and recommended the redesignation of the position of Dr. Teh Chee Ghee from
Independent Non-Executive Chairman to Independent Non-Executive Director;
• Reviewed and recommended the restructuring of the composition of the ARMC and NRC;
• Reviewed and recommended the appointment of Madam Tay Bee Koo as Independent
Non-Executive Director of the Company; and
• Reviewed and recommended any modification and/or amendment to the terms of
reference of the NRC and other policies.
3. BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
3.1 Annual Evaluation
The Board, through the NRC and facilitated by the Company Secretaries, will conduct an annual
assessment to evaluate the performance of the Board, its Board Committees and each director,
as well as identify any gaps or areas of improvement.
The annual assessment will be conducted internally through a questionnaire and by way of
self-assessment approach on an annual basis, focusing on maximising the effectiveness and
performance of the Board. The Board did not engage any external party to undertake an
independent assessment of the Directors. A summary of the results and all feedback received
were tabled to the NRC for deliberation before appropriate action plans were recommended
to the Board for further discussion and approval.
The criteria used by the NRC in evaluating the performance of an individual, include contribution
to interaction, integrity, competency and time commitment of the members of the Board and
Board Committees in discharging their duties.
From the annual assessment and review conducted for FY2024, the NRC was satisfied that all
the Directors possess sufficient qualifications to remain on the Board. Save for the NRC members
who are also a member of the Board and have abstained from assessing their own performance
as Director of the Company, each of the NRC members views that all the Directors have good
personal attributes and possess sufficient experience and knowledge in various fields that are
vital to the Company’s industry.
As for the Board evaluation, the NRC agreed that all the Directors have discharged their
stewardship duties and responsibilities towards the Company as a Director effectively. The NRC
further concluded that the Board and Board Committees were functioning effectively as a
whole with a high level of compliance and integrity.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
38
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
3. BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
3.2 Annual Assessment of Independence
The NRC will conduct annual assessments on an annual basis and the criteria for assessment
covers areas such as contributions to interaction, roles and responsibilities and quality of input to
enhance the Board’s effectiveness. The independence of Independent Directors was assessed
based on their relationship with the Group and their involvement in any significant transactions
with the Group including their ability to exercise independent judgment at all times and based
on the criteria set out in the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities.
From the annual assessment and review conducted for FY2024, the NRC was satisfied that all
the Independent Directors are independent of Management and free from any business or
other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of independent judgment, objectivity
or the ability to act in the best interests of the Company. Additionally, each of the Independent
Directors has provided an annual confirmation of their independence to the NRC and the Board.
3.3 Supply and Access to Information
All Directors have direct access to the Management and have unrestricted access to any
information relating to the Group to enable them to discharge their duties. The Directors also have
direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries and are regularly updated
on the new statutory and regulatory requirements relating to the duties and responsibilities of the
Directors.
Prior to the Board meetings, the agenda for each meeting together with a full set of the board
papers containing the information relevant to the business of the meetings are circulated to the
Directors at least five (5) days before the meeting. The Directors may also interact directly with
the Management, or request further explanation, information or updates on any aspect of the
Company’s operations or business concerns from them.
When necessary, the Directors may whether as a full Board or in their individual capacity, seek
independent professional advice, including the internal and external auditors, at the Company’s
expense to enable the Directors to discharge their duties with adequate knowledge on the
matters being deliberated, subject to approval by the Chairman of the Board, and depending
on the quantum of the fees involved.
3.4 Board Meetings
The Board schedules meeting on a quarterly basis and additional meetings which require the
Board’s deliberation and approval will be convened in between the scheduled meetings as
and when necessary. A pre-scheduled meetings calendar of the year will be circulated to all the
Board members at the beginning of each calendar year to facilitate the Directors in planning
and incorporating the said meetings into their respective schedules. At the end of each Board
and Board Committees meeting, the date of the next meeting is to be re-confirmed by the
Directors.
In the intervals between Board meetings, for exceptional matters requiring urgent Board
decisions, approvals will be obtained via circular resolutions which are supported with information
necessary for an informed decision.
The Chairman of the meeting is responsible for ensuring that robust and vigorous deliberations
at Board and Board Committee meetings and provides opportunities to all Directors to
participate and contribute to the decision-making process as well as to ensure that the process
of constructive and healthy dialogue is achieved.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 39
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
3. BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
3.4 Board Meetings (Cont’d)
The deliberations of the Board and Board Committees in terms of the issues discussed during the
meetings and the Board’s conclusions in discharging its duties and responsibilities are recorded
in the minutes of meetings by the Company Secretaries. Minutes of meetings are circulated and
confirmed as a correct record by the Board and Board Committees at the next meeting. The
Directors may request clarification or make comments on the minutes prior to their confirmation.
The Board and Board Committees have discharged their roles and responsibilities by attending
the Board and Board Committees meetings held in FY2024. The Board is satisfied with the level of
time commitment given by the Directors in carrying out their responsibilities which is evidenced
by the attendance record of the Directors set out in the table below:
Attendance
Name of Directors Board ARMC NC RC NRC (1)
Ean Yong Hian Wah
(Appointed on 1 March 2024)
1/1 - - - -
Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin 5/5 - - - -
Ean Yong Hien Voon 5/5 - - - -
Ean Yong Hen Loen 5/5 - - - -
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew 5/5 5/5 1/1 1/1 2/2
Dr. Teh Chee Ghee 5/5 1/1 - - 2/2
Phang Sze Fui 5/5 5/5 1/1 1/1 2/2
Tay Bee Koo
(Appointed on 1 May 2024)
1/1 - - - -
Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung
(Retired on 29 November 2023)
2/2 2/2 1/1 1/1 -
Tan Kim Siong
(Resigned on 1 March 2024)
4/4 - - - -
Note:
(1) The Company had on 23 February 2024 merger the Nomination Committee and
Remuneration Committee into a single Board Committee known as Nomination and
Remuneration Committee.
3.5 Board Commitment
Notwithstanding that no specific quantum of time has been fixed, each member of the Board
is expected to devote sufficient time and attention to the affairs of the Company. Each Board
member is expected to achieve at least 50% attendance of total Board Meetings held in any
applicable financial year with appropriate leave of absence and be notified to the Chairman
and/or Company Secretaries, where applicable.
Any Director is, while holding office, at liberty to accept other Board appointment(s) in other
companies so long as the appointment is not in conflict with the Company’s business and does
not affect the discharge of his/her duty as a Director of the Company. Before the acceptance
of new Board appointment(s) in other companies and/or Public Listed Companies (“PLCs”), the
Directors are to notify the Chairman and/or the Company Secretaries. To ensure the Directors
have the time to focus and fulfill their roles and responsibilities effectively, 1 criterion as agreed
by the Board is that they must not hold directorships at more than 5 PLCs (as prescribed in Rule
15.06 of the Listing Requirements).
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
40
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
3. BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
3.6 Directors’ Training
All Directors appointed to the Board have undergone the Mandatory Accreditation Program
(“MAP”) prescribed by Bursa Securities. Although the Board does not have a policy requiring
each Director to attend a specific number and types of training sessions each year, the Directors
are encouraged to attend continuous education programmes/seminars/conferences and
shall as such receive further training from time to time to keep themselves abreast of the latest
development in statutory laws, regulations and best practices, where appropriate, in line with
the changing business environment and enhance their business acumen and professionalism in
discharging their duties to the Group.
Details of seminars/conferences/training programmes attended by the Board members during
the financial year as listed below:
Board members Courses/Training Programmes Attended
Ean Yong Hian Wah
(Appointed on 1 March 2024)
• Mandatory Accreditation Programme
Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin • Halal Competency Training
Ean Yong Hien Voon • FSSC 22000 V6.0 Awareness Course
• Halal Competency Training
• Shanghai World of Packaging (SWOP) 2023
• Understanding and Interpretation of ETI Base Codes
Training
Ean Yong Hen Loen • FSSC 22000 V6.0 Awareness Course
• Halal Competency Training
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew • Overview of Hong Kong VASP licensing & SFC
Consultation Conclusions
• SFC Consultation on Proposed Takeovers Codes
Amendments & Share Buy-Backs
• Insider Dealing in Hong Kong – Overview & Update 2023
Phang Sze Fui • Bursa: Conflict of Interest and Governance of Conflict of
Interest
• ACCA Technical Symposium 2023
• Tax 2024 Budget Briefing
• Briefing on ESG Trends and Developments
• E-Invoicing Preliminary Briefing
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 41
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
3. BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
3.6 Directors’ Training (Cont’d)
Board members Courses/Training Programmes Attended
Dr. Teh Chee Ghee • KPMG e-Invoicing Forum
• AI Smartual Learning: 2023 Anti-Bribery & Anti-Corruption
Training
• SandFil International Training Programme – Say No to
Sexual Harassment at Workplace Training
• DoerHRM - Driving Team Success by Mastering
Performance Management and Motivational Leadership
• JBL Consultancy – ISO9001:2015 Understanding and
Interpretation Training
• Tratax 2024 Malaysian Budget Seminar
• SC’s Audit Oversight Board (AOB) Conversation with
Audit Committees
• Nikkei Forum: Cyber Initiative Tokyo 2023 – Webinar
• AIAC - Arbitration ADNDRC Annual Conference 2023
• JBL Consultancy – ISO9001:2015 Internal Audit Training
• Learnabee: Case Analysis on Federal Court’s Decision
on Apex Equity’s Appeal Case with Mr Philip TN Koh
• MIA Town Hall 2023/2024
• AI-Native SOC Summit: The Next Generation of SIEM
Here Today
• Arcadia x Michael Page Exclusive Workshop: Finding
Your Voice
• KPMG Empowerment through awareness: Shining the
light on human rights in Malaysia
• MIA Valuation Webinar - Navigating the Updates
on International Valuation Standards: Transforming
Valuation Practices
• UN Global Compact Network Malaysia & Brunei –
Sustainability Trendswatch: How Can Businesses Build
Sustainable Supply Chains?
• MIA – Understanding Financial Statements
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
42
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
3. BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
3.6 Directors’ Training (Cont’d)
Board members Courses/Training Programmes Attended
Tay Bee Koo
(Appointed on 1 May 2024)
• Celebrating and Recognising Women’s Entrepreneurial
Achievements
• Talk on “ Don’t fall for Scammer “
• ACCCIM AI Unplugged Conference 2023: Navigating
Business in the Post-Chat GPT World
• Power Chat 1.0, Malaysia Economy (YB Tuan Mohd Rafizi
bin Ramli, Minister of Economy)
• Sustainability in the digital age
• Protect Your Assets, Grow Your Wealth - Capital Gain Tax
• Power Chat 2.0, Ministry of Local Development, YB
Minister Nga Kok Ming
• Power Chat 3.0, Human Capital Development Inspires
Progress - YB Minister Steven Sim
• E-Invoicing, The Catalyst for Growth
The Board will continue to evaluate and determine the training needs of each Director,
particularly on relevant new laws and regulations and essential practices for effective corporate
governance and risk management to enable the Directors to discharge their duties effectively.
In addition to the above, the Directors will be updated on recent developments in the areas
of statutory and regulatory requirements from the briefing by the External Auditors, the Internal
Auditors and Company Secretaries during the Board and Board Committees meetings.
3.7 Conflict of Interest and Related Party Transactions
To assure accountability and prevent conflict of interest in relation to issues that come before
the Board, the Directors are reminded by the Company Secretaries of their statutory duties and
responsibilities and are provided with updates on any changes thereon. Hence, all related party
transactions and/or potential conflict of interest situations (if any) will be submitted to the ARMC
for review on a quarterly basis.
The Directors further acknowledge that they are also required to abstain from deliberation and
voting on relevant resolutions in which they have interest at the Board or any general meeting
convened. In the event a corporate proposal is required to be approved by shareholders, the
interested Directors will abstain from voting in respect of their shareholdings and will further
undertake to ensure that persons connected to them will similarly abstain from voting on the
resolutions.
During the financial year under review, the ARMC and the Board have not received any reports
from the Directors or chief executive of the Company relating to conflicts of interest or potential
conflicts of interest situations, including interests in any competing business, that they have with
the Company or its subsidiaries.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 43
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
4. ETHICAL AND PROCEDURAL STANDARDS
4.1 Board Charter
As part of the governance process, the Board has formalised and adopted the Board Charter.
This Board Charter sets out the composition and balance, roles and responsibilities, operation
and processes of the Board and is to ensure that all Board members acting on behalf of the
Company are aware of their duties and responsibilities as Board members.
The Board will review and update its Board Charter regularly to keep itself up to date with new
changes in regulations and best practices and to ensure its effectiveness and relevance to the
Board’s objectives. Any subsequent amendment to the Board Charter will be approved by the
Board. The Board Charter is available on the Company’s corporate website at www.orgabio.
com.
4.2 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy
The Company has adopted the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy, which requires all
officers and employees to observe high standards of business and personal ethics in carrying out
duties and responsibilities. As employers and representatives of Orgabio, or any of its subsidiaries,
they must practice honesty and integrity in fulfilling their duties and responsibilities, and comply
with all applicable laws and regulations. It is thus the responsibility of all officers and employees
to comply with the said policy and to report violations or suspected violations thereto.
The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy are accessible by the public through the
Company’s corporate website at www.orgabio.com.
4.3 Ethics and Compliance Whistleblowing Policy and Procedures
The Board has formalised the Ethics and Compliance Whistleblowing Policy and Procedures,
with the aim to provide an avenue for raising concerns related to a possible breach of business
conduct, non-compliance with laws and regulatory requirements as well as other malpractices.
The policy is a specific means by which an employee can exercise their responsibility to report
or disclose through established channels, their legitimate concerns regarding any unethical
conduct,illegal acts or failure to comply with the Company’s policies and regulatory requirements
responsibly and sensibly.
The Ethics and Compliance Whistleblowing Policy and Procedures is accessible by the public
through the Company’s corporate website at www.orgabio.com.
4.4 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”)
In line with the amendments to the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 to
incorporate a new Section 17A on corporate liability for corruption which took effect on 1
June 2020, the Group had adopted the ABC Policy which set out the Group’s responsibilities in
providing principles, guidelines and recommendation to the employees on the procedures to
deal with solicitation, bribery and corruption that could possibly arise on the business dealing
and operation activities.
The Company had also conducted briefings and trainings to employees of the Group to create
awareness on the ABC Policy to foster commitment of the employees in instill the spirit of integrity
and avoid all forms of corruption practices within the organisation.
The ABC Policy is accessible by the public through the Company’s corporate website at www.
orgabio.com.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
44
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
4. ETHICAL AND PROCEDURAL STANDARDS
4.5 Sustainability Policy
Orgabio Group is committed to adhering to all standards of upright business conduct through
integrity, and transparency with a constant and growing progression towards excellence in
every area of business conduct. To this end, the Board in place a Sustainability Policy, to embed
the principles of sustainability into the Group’s business operations.
The policy outlines the general principles and structures of the foundations that govern the
sustainability strategy of the Group to ensure that all its corporate activities and businesses are
carried out while enhancing the sustainable creation of value for shareholders and taking into
account the other stakeholders related to its business activities, natural resources, society and
neighbouring communities, promoting the values of sustainability, integration and dynamism,
favouring the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
The Board fulfils its responsibilities by delegating to the Senior Management. The Senior
Management is responsible for implementing, overseeing and addressing all sustainability-related
issues from stakeholders and updating the Board on the Group’s sustainability management
performance, key material issues identified by stakeholders and planned follow-up measures.
The Sustainability Policy is accessible on the Company’s corporate website at www.orgabio.
com.
4.6 Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy
The Board has established the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy, to ensure that any person to be
appointed or elected/re-elected as a Director of the Group shall possess the necessary quality
and character as well as integrity, competency and commitment to enable the discharge of the
responsibilities required of the appointed position in the most effective manner. The Directors’ Fit
and Proper Policy is accessible on the Company’s corporate website at www.orgabio.com.
4.7 Conflict of Interest Policy for Directors
The Board has established the Conflict of Interest Policy for Directors, to ensure that actual,
potential and perceived conflicts of interest are effectively identified and managed and to
provide guidance on how to deal with conflict of interest situations as they arise. The Conflict of
Interest Policy for Directors is accessible on the Company’s website at www.orgabio.com.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 45
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART III - REMUNERATION
5. LEVEL AND COMPOSITION OF REMUNERATION
5.1 Remuneration Policy
The Board has adopted a Remuneration Policy to ensure the payment of equitable, competitive
remuneration to the Directors and Senior Management of the Company which is based on
individual performance, the Company’s benchmark, industry practices and performance of the
Company as a whole.
The NRC’s principal objective is to evaluate, deliberate and recommend to the Board a
remuneration policy for Executive Directors that is fairly guided by market norms and industry
practice. The NRC also recommends the Executive Directors’ remuneration and benefits based
on their individual performances and that of the Group.
The determination of the remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is a matter of the Board as
a whole. The level of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors reflects the amount paid by
other comparable organisations, adjusted for the experience and levels of responsibilities
undertaken by the particular Non-Executive Directors concerned. The remuneration package
of Non-Executive Directors will be a matter to be deliberated by the Board, with the Director
concerned abstaining from deliberations and voting on deliberations in respect of his individual
remuneration. In addition, the Company also reimburses reasonable out-of-pocket expenses
incurred by all the Non-Executive Directors in the course of their duties as Directors of the
Company. The aggregate annual Directors’ fees and other benefits payable are to be approved
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting based on recommendations of the Board.
The Remuneration Policy is reviewed by the NRC and the Board periodically, when necessary.
The Remuneration Policy is available on the Company’s corporate website at www.orgabio.
com.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
46
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART III - REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
6. REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
6.1 Details of Directors’ Remuneration
The details of the Directors’ remuneration comprising remuneration received/receivable from
the Company and its subsidiaries during FY2024 are as follows:
		The Company
Name
Fees
RM’000
Salaries
RM’000
Bonuses
RM’000
Allowances
RM’000
Benefits in
Kind
RM’000
Other
Emoluments
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Ean Yong
Hian Wah
(Appointed on
1 March 2024)
20 - - - - - 20
Dato’ Ean Yong
Tin Sin
- - - - - - -
Ean Yong Hien
Voon
- - - - - - -
Ean Yong Hen
Loen
- - - - - - -
Dato’ Seri Chan
Kong Yew
60 - - 2 - - 62
Dr. Teh Chee
Ghee
66 - - 2 - - 68
Phang Sze Fui 60 - - 2 - - 62
Tay Bee Koo
(Appointed on
1 May 2024)
10 - - - - - 10
Dato’ Magaret
Ting Thien Hung
(Retired on 29
November 2023
25 - - - - - 25
Tan Kim Siong
(Resigned on
1 March 2024)
40 - - 1 - - 41
Total 281 - - 7 - - 288
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 47
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART III - REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
6. REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
6.1 Details of Directors’ Remuneration (Cont’d)
The details of the Directors’ remuneration comprising remuneration received/receivable from
the Company and its subsidiaries during FY2024 are as follows (Cont’d):
		The Group
Name
Fees
RM’000
Salaries
RM’000
Bonuses
RM’000
Allowances
RM’000
Benefits in
Kind
RM’000
Other
Emoluments
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Ean Yong
Hian Wah
(Appointed on
1 March 2024)
20 59 2 - 94 8 183
Dato’ Ean Yong
Tin Sin
- 432 36 - - 20 488
Ean Yong Hien
Voon
- 304 24 - 128 41 497
Ean Yong Hen
Loen
- 180 13 - 53 25 271
Dato’ Seri Chan
Kong Yew
60 - - 2 - - 62
Dr. Teh Chee
Ghee
66 - - 2 - - 68
Phang Sze Fui 60 - - 2 - - 62
Tay Bee Koo
(Appointed on
1 May 2024)
10 - - - - - 10
Dato’ Magaret
Ting Thien Hung
(Retired on 29
November 2023
25 - - - - - 25
Tan Kim Siong
(Resigned on
1 March 2024)
40 - - 1 - - 41
Total 281 975 75 7 275 94 1,707
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
48
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART III - REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
6. REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
6.2 Details of Senior Management’s Remuneration
The Company notes the need for corporate transparency in the remuneration of its senior
management executives, however, given the confidential and commercial sensitivities
associated with remuneration matters and the highly competitive human resource environment
for personnel with the requisite knowledge, expertise and experience in the Company’s business
activities, such disclosure may be detrimental to the business interests and give rise to recruitment
and talent retention issues. Thus, the Company is of the view that the interest of the shareholders
will not be prejudiced as a result of the non-disclosure of the Group’s Senior Management’s
remuneration who are not Directors of the Company.
The remuneration of the Senior Management personnel, which is a combination of annual salary,
bonus and benefits-in-kinds, etc are determined in a similar manner as other management
employees of the Group. The basis of determination has been consistently applied and is
based on individual performance and the overall performance of the Group. The aggregate
remuneration of the top 5 Senior Management received for FY2024 was RM 1,362,190 representing
16.39% of the total employees’ remuneration of the Group.
The Board is of the opinion that disclosure of remuneration of the Directors of the Board by
appropriate components and the top 5 Senior Management’s total combined remuneration
package should meet the intended objectives of the MCCG.
PRINCIPLE B : EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
PART I - AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
7. EFFECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
7.1 Audit And Risk Management Committee Composition
In line with the best practice of MCCG, the Board has set up the ARMC which comprises
exclusively of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The primary objective of the ARMC is to establish a documented, formal and transparent
procedure to assist the Board in fulfilling its fiduciary responsibilities relating to corporate
accounting, financial reporting practices, a system of risk management and internal control,
the audit process and the process of monitoring compliance with laws and regulations.
The Terms of Reference of the ARMC which laid down its duties and responsibilities are accessible
via the Company’s website at www.orgabio.com.
7.2 The Chairperson of the Audit And Risk Management Committee is Not the Chairman of the Board
The positions of Chairperson of the ARMC and the Chairman of the Board are held by 2
different individuals. Hence, the objectivity of the Board’s review of the ARMC’s findings and
recommendations will be able to be preserved. The Board is of the view that the Chairperson
of the ARMC has performed the duties as defined and her judgment was not impaired as she
is sufficiently independent from Management in leading the discussion on the matters being
deliberated and findings as well as recommendations made by the ARMC objectively in the
Board meetings.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 49
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE B : EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
PART I - AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)
7. EFFECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)
7.3 Cooling-off Period for a Former Audit Partner to be Appointed as Audit and Risk Management
Committee Member
Orgabio recognised the need to uphold the independence of its external auditors and that no
possible conflict of interest whatsoever should arise. As recommended by MCCG, the Company
will observe a cooling-off period of at least 3 years in the event any potential candidate to be
appointed as a member of the ARMC was a key audit partner of the external auditors of the
Group. Currently, none of the members of the Board nor the ARMC of the Company was former
key audit partners of the external auditors appointed by the Group.
7.4 Financial Literacy of the Audit and Risk Management Committee Members
Collectively, the members of the ARMC have the relevant experience and expertise in finance
and accounting, and have carried out their duties in accordance with the Terms of Reference
of the ARMC. The qualifications and experience of the individual ARMC members are disclosed
in the Profile of Directors on pages 4 to 11 of this Annual Report.
During the FY2024, the ARMC members had undertaken the relevant training programmes to
keep themselves abreast of the latest development in accounting and auditing standards,
statutory laws, regulations and best practices to enable them to discharge their duties effectively.
Further details on the external programs attended by the ARMC members are set out in this
Annual Report on pages 40 to 42.
7.5 Policies and Procedures for Assessment of Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of External
Auditors
The external auditors fill an essential role by enhancing the reliability of the Company’s annual
audited financial statements and giving assurance to stakeholders of the reliability of the
annual audited financial statements. The external auditors have an obligation to bring any
significant defects in the Company’s system of control and compliance to the attention of the
Management, and if necessary, to the ARMC and the Board.
The Company has established a transparent arrangement with the external auditors to meet
their professional requirements. From time to time, the external auditors highlight to the ARMC
and Board on matters that require their attention.
The ARMC is responsible for reviewing the audit, recurring audit-related and non-audit services
provided by the external auditors. The ARMC has been explicitly accorded the power to
communicate directly with both the external auditors and internal auditors. The terms of
engagement for services provided by the external auditors are reviewed by the ARMC before
submission to the Board for approval. The effectiveness and performance of the external auditors
are reviewed annually by the ARMC.
To assess or determine the suitability and independence of the external auditors, the ARMC has
taken into consideration, among others, the following:
i) The adequacy of the experience and resources of the external auditors;
ii) The external auditors’ ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to
issues in a timely manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
iii) The nature of the non-audit services provided by the external auditors and fees paid for
such services relative to the audit fee; and
iv) Whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity
and independence of the audit arising from the provision of non-audit services or tenure of
the external auditors.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
50
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE B : EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
PART I - AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)
7. EFFECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)
7.5 Policies and Procedures for Assessment of Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of External
Auditors (Cont’d)
Annual appointment or re-appointment of the external auditors is via shareholders’ resolution
at the Annual General Meeting on the recommendation of the ARMC and the Board. The
external auditors are being invited to attend the Annual General Meeting of the Company to
respond and reply to the Shareholders’ enquiries on the conduct of the statutory audit and the
preparation and contents of the audited financial statement.
Where necessary, the ARMC will meet with the external auditors without the presence of Executive
Directors and members of management to ensure that the independence and objectivity of
the external auditors are not compromised and matters of concerns expressed by the ARMC are
duly recorded by the Company Secretaries. In presenting the Audit Planning Memorandum to
the ARMC, the external auditors will highlight their internal policies and procedures with respect
to their audit independence and objectivity which include safeguards and procedures and
independent policy adopted by the external auditors.
The ARMC had assessed the independence of Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT (“Grant Thornton”)
as external auditors of the Company as well as reviewed the level of non-audit services rendered
by Grant Thornton to the Company for FY2024. The ARMC had obtained assurance from Grant
Thornton confirmed that they are, and have been independent throughout the conduct of the
audit engagement in accordance with the independence criteria set out by the International
Federation of Accountants and the Malaysian Institute of Accountants.
The ARMC was satisfied with Grant Thornton’s technical competency and audit independence
and took note that the quantum of non-audit fee charged thereto was not material as compared
to the total audit fees paid to Grant Thornton. Having satisfied itself with their performance and
technical competency as well as received the assurance from Grant Thornton as stated above,
the Board approved the ARMC’s recommendation for the shareholders’ approval to be sought
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on the re-appointment of Grant Thornton as the
External Auditors of the Company for the financial year ending 30 June 2025.
7.6 Compliance with Applicable Financial Reporting Standards
The Board strives to provide shareholders with a balanced and meaningful evaluation of the
Group’s financial performance, financial position and prospects through the annual audited
financial statements, interim financial reports, annual reports and announcements to Bursa
Securities.
The interim financial reports, annual audited financial statements and annual reports of the Group
for FY2024 are prepared in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, Listing
Requirements and the Act. The ARMC assists the Board in overseeing the financial reporting
processes and ensuring the quality of its financial reporting.
The statement by the Board pursuant to Rule 15.26(a) of the Listing Requirements on its
responsibilities in preparing the financial statements is set out on page 58 of this Annual Report.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 51
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE B : EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
PART II – RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
8. EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
8.1 Effective Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Board is entrusted with the overall responsibility of continually maintaining a sound system
of risk management and internal control, which covers not only financial controls but also
operational and compliance controls as well as risk management, and the need to review its
effectiveness regularly in order to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Company’s
assets. The internal control system is designed to access current and emerging risks, respond
appropriately to the risks of the Group.
The responsibilities of identifying and managing risks are delegated to the Senior Management
of Orgabio. The ARMC is responsible to review the effectiveness of the processes. Any material
risk identified will be discussed and appropriate actions or controls will be implemented. This is to
ensure the risk is properly monitored and managed to an acceptable level.
The ARMC will assist the Board in implementing and overseeing the risk management framework
of the Group and reviewing the risk management policies formulated by Management and to
make relevant recommendations to the Board for approval.
Main features of the Company’s risk management framework and internal controls system are
further elaborated in the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control of this Annual
Report.
8.2 Internal Audit Function
The Company recognises that an internal audit function is essential to ensure the effectiveness
of the Group’s system of internal control and is an integral part of the risk management process.
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to an independent professional firm, Talent
League Sdn. Bhd. (“Talent League”), which assists both the Board and ARMC by conducting
independent assessments on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal control
system of the Group. To ensure independence from Management, Talent League reports directly
to the ARMC through the execution of internal audit work based on a risk-based annual internal
audit plan reviewed and approved by the ARMC before the commencement of work.
Talent League is headed by its Managing Director, Mr Roy Thean Chong Yew (“Mr Roy”), who
is a Chartered Member of the Institute of Internal Auditors. Mr Roy is also a member of the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants and the Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
Talent League has assigned 4 staff to provide internal audit services during the financial year
under review.
The assessment and review were carried out in accordance with the International Standards
for the Professional Practices of Internal Auditing 2017 of the International Practices Framework
adopted and recommended by the Internal Auditors Malaysia. The internal audit function shall
highlight any key areas of weaknesses in the risks and internal control management system of the
Group to the ARMC and include in their report the recommendations on the remedial actions to
be taken to address the areas of weaknesses highlighted for the review and recommendations
of ARMC to the Board for implementation. In addition, Talent League will perform follow-up
reviews on previously reported issues and provides an update to the ARMC on the status of
implementations.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
52
PRINCIPLE B : EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
PART II – RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK (CONT’D)
8. EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK (CONT’D)
8.2 Internal Audit Function (Cont’d)
During the financial year under review, the following activities were carried out by Talent League
in discharge of their responsibilities:
i) Reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the systems of internal control and
compliance with the Group’s policies and procedures on the following business process/
area set out below:
• Human Resources Management and Management Information System of Orgabio;
• Risk management review; and
• Production and Qualify Assurance of Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
ii) Reported to the ARMC the results of the internal audit reports and its findings and the
implementation of the Management responses to the findings.
iii) Performed follow-up reviews to ensure corrective actions have been implemented in a
timely manner.
The ARMC had assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of
Talent League for the financial year under review and of the view that the internal audit function
performed by Talent League was satisfactory and adequate. Accordingly, the ARMC and the
Board agreed to continuously outsource the internal audit function in providing an independent
appraisal of the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control system.
An overview of the state of internal controls function within the Group, which includes the risk
and key internal control structures, is set out in the ARMC Report and the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control of this Annual Report.
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
9. Communication with Stakeholders
The Board recognises the importance of prompt and timely dissemination of information to
shareholders and investors, in order for these stakeholders to be able to make informed investment
decisions. Orgabio’s website incorporates an Investor Relations (“IR”) section which provides all
relevant information on the Group and is accessible by the public. This section enhances the IR
function by including all announcements made by the Company, annual reports, Board Charter and
the corporate governance structure of the Company.
The Company will continuously enhance the disclosures on its website for broader and more
effective dissemination of information to its stakeholders from time to time. The announcement of the
quarterly financial results is also made via Bursa LINK in a timely manner as required under the Listing
Requirements to ensure equal and fair access to information by the investing public.
To promote the dissemination of the financial results of the Company to investors, shareholders and
media as well as to keep the investing public and other stakeholders updated on the progress and
development of the Group’s business, the Board may conduct open briefings from time to time
in ensuring constant interactions with existing and prospective investors. Stakeholders can at any
time seek clarification or raise queries through the corporate website, by email or by phone. Primary
contact details are set out on the Company’s corporate website.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 53
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
(CONT’D)
10. Conducts of General Meetings
The Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) is the principal forum for dialogue with the shareholders. As
recommended by the MCCG, the notice of AGM will be despatched to shareholders at least 28 days
before the AGM, to allow shareholders to have additional time to go through the Annual Report and
make the necessary attendance and voting arrangements. The notice of AGM, which sets out the
business to be transacted at the AGM, is also published in a major local newspaper. The Board will
ensure that each item of special business included in the notices of the AGM or extraordinary general
meeting is accompanied by a full explanation of the effects of any proposed resolution.
At the AGM, the shareholders are encouraged to participate in the questions and answers session,
where they will be given the opportunity to raise questions or seek more information during the AGM.
In the event that an answer cannot be readily given at the meeting, the Chairman will undertake to
provide a written reply to the shareholders.
Under Rule 8.31A(1) of the Listing Requirements, a public listed company must, among others, ensure
that any resolution set out in the notice of any general meeting is voted by poll. For this purpose,
the share registrar will be appointed as the poll administrator and an independent scrutineer will be
appointed to validate the votes cast at the AGM.
At the commencement of all general meetings, the Chairman will inform the shareholders of their
rights to poll voting. Separate resolutions are proposed for substantially separate issues at the meeting.
The outcome of the AGM will be announced to Bursa Securities on the same meeting day.
The tentative dates of the AGM will be discussed and fixed by the Board in advance to ensure that
each of the Directors is able to make the necessary arrangement to attend the planned AGM. All the
Directors and chairman of the respective Board Committees shall endeavor to present in person to
engage directly with, and be accountable to the shareholders for their stewardship of the Company
at the AGM. The Fifth (5th) AGM of the Company which was held on 29 November 2023 has been
attended by all the Directors of the Company.
Together with the Directors, Management and external auditors will be in attendance to respond to
the shareholders’ queries. The Board will also share with the shareholders the Company’s responses
to questions submitted in advance of the AGM by the Minority Shareholders Watch Group, if any.
In addition to the above, the Company will look into the allocation of time during AGM for dialogue
with the shareholders, if necessary, to address the issues concerning the Group and to make
arrangements for officers of the Company to present and handle other face-to-face enquiries from
the shareholders.
In line with the recommendation of MCCG, the minutes of the general meeting will be posted on the
Company’s website for public viewing within 30 business days after the general meeting.
Apart from contacts at general meetings, currently there is no other formal program or schedule
of meetings with investors, shareholders, stakeholders and the public generally. However, the
Management has the option of calling for meetings with investors/analysts if it is deemed necessary.
Thus far, the Management is of the opinion that the existing arrangement has been satisfactory.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
54
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
(CONT’D)
11. Effective Communication and Proactive Engagements
The Group maintains its effective communication with shareholders by adopting timely,
comprehensive, and continuing disclosures of information to its shareholders as well as the general
investing public and adopts the best practices recommended by the MCCG with regard to
strengthening engagement and communication with shareholders.
Shareholders and stakeholders may raise their concerns and queries by contacting the Registered
Office of the Group, the details of which as provided under the “Corporate Information” section of
this Annual Report. The Share Registrar is also available to attend to administrative matters relating to
shareholder interests.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
Other than as disclosed and/or explained in this Annual Report and CG Report for FY2024, the Board is of
the view that the Group has complied with and shall remain committed to attaining the highest possible
standards through the continuous adoption of the principles and best practices set out in MCCG and all
other applicable laws, where applicable and appropriate.
Moving forward, the Board will continue to enhance the corporate disclosure requirements in the best
interest of the Company’s shareholders and stakeholders. The areas to be prioritised by the Board will be
principles that have yet to be adopted by the Company as disclosed in the CG Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 55
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
(“ARMC”) REPORT
COMPOSITION AND ATTENDANCE
In line with the best practice of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”), the Board has
set up the ARMC which comprises exclusively of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The present members of the ARMC are as follows:
Designation Name Directorship
Chairperson Phang Sze Fui Independent Non-Executive Director
Member Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew Independent Non-Executive Director
Member Dr. Teh Chee Ghee Independent Non-Executive Director
The members of the ARMC of the Company had complied with the Listing Requirements of which at least
1 member with requisite accounting qualifications. No alternate director is appointed as a member of the
ARMC.
The record of attendance of the members of the ARMC for meetings held during the financial year ended
30 June 2024 (“FY2024”) is disclosed in the Corporate Governance Overview Statement on page 39 of this
Annual Report.
The Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the ARMC is available for download on the Company’s website at
www.orgabio.com.
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES
During the financial year under review, the ARMC discharged its functions and duties in accordance with
its existing ToR. The activities undertaken during the financial year under review are summarised broadly
as follows:
(a) External Audit
• Reviewed external audit scope and audit plans based on the external auditors’ presentation of
audit strategy and plan;
• Reviewed external audit results, audit reports, management letter and the response from the
Management;
• Reviewed and evaluated factors relating to the independence of the external auditors and
worked closely with the external auditors in establishing procedures in assessing the suitability
and independence of the external auditors, in confirming that they were, and had been,
independent throughout the conduct of the audit engagement with the Group in accordance
with the independence criteria set out by the International Federation of Accountants and the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”);
• Considered and recommended to the Board for approval of the audit fees payable to the
external auditors; and
• Carried out an assessment of the performance and suitability of Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT
(“Grant Thornton”) based on the quality of services and relationship with Management, the
ARMC and the Board. Based on the assessment conducted by the ARMC, the ARMC was satisfied
with the independence, performance and suitability of Grant Thornton and recommended to
the Board and shareholders for approval on the re-appointment of Grant Thornton.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
56
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (“ARMC”) REPORT
(CONT’D)
(b) Internal Audit
• Reviewed internal auditors’ resource requirements, scope, adequacy and function;
• Reviewed annual Internal Audit (“IA”) plans and programs;
• Reviewed IA reports, recommendations and Management’s responses. Improvement actions in
the areas of internal control, systems and efficiency enhancements suggested by the internal
auditors were discussed together with the Management Team in a separate forum;
• Reviewed implementation of these recommendations through follow-up IA reports;
• Suggested additional improvement opportunities in the areas of internal control, systems and
efficiency improvement;
• Reviewed the risk management framework and any significant proposed changes to risk
management policies and strategies for adoption by the Board;
• Reviewed and monitored principal risks which may affect the Group directly or indirectly, and if
deemed necessary, and recommended additional course(s) of action to mitigate such risks;
• Monitored the risk assessment results and communication to the Board with mitigating measures
for consideration; and
• Assessed the actual and potential impact of any failure or weakness of the internal controls in
place.
(c) Financial Reporting
• Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results before recommending for the Board’s
approval, focusing particularly on:
- any change in accounting policies and practices;
- significant adjustments arising from the audit;
- the going concern assumption; and
- compliance with applicable financial reporting standards and other legal requirements.
• Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the Company before submission to the
Directors for their perusal and approval to ensure compliance of the financial statements with
the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 and the applicable approved accounting standards
as per the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”); and
• Reviewed the Group’s compliance with the Listing Requirements, MASB and other relevant
legal and regulatory requirements and deliberation on the emerging financial reporting issues
pursuant to the introduction of new accounting standards and additional statutory/regulatory
disclosure requirements with regard to the quarterly financial statements and annual audited
financial statements of the Company.
(d) Risk Management and Internal Control
• Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system and risk management framework
adopted within the Group and be satisfied that the methodology employed allows identification,
analysis, assessment, monitoring and communication of risks in a regular and timely manner that
will allow the Group to mitigate losses and maximise opportunities;
• Assessed the systems processes, policy and procedures to ensure compliance with all laws, rules
and regulations, directives and guidelines established by the relevant regulatory bodies;
• Reviewed the system of internal control to ensure that they are in place, effectively administered
and regularly monitored;
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 57
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (“ARMC”) REPORT
(CONT’D)
• Recommended to the Board steps to improve the system of internal control derived from the
findings of the internal and external auditors and from the consultations of the ARMC itself;
• Reviewed the risk profile and summary of risk presented by the Management; and
• Highlighted to the Board any significant new risks which had come to its attention from the IA
or risk management reports which are of sufficient importance to warrant the attention of the
Board.
(e) Related Party Transactions/Conflict of Interest Situations
• Reviewed any related party transactions and/or conflict of interest situations that may arise
within the Group including any transaction, procedure or course of conduct that raises questions
of management integrity.
(f) Other Activities:
• Reviewed and discussed with the Management on the budget of the Group;
• Reviewed its ToR and made recommendations to the Board on revision, if necessary;
• Reviewed application of corporate governance principles and the extent of the Group’s
compliance with the best practices set out under the MCCG;
• Reviewed the Management Discussion and Analysis, Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, Corporate Governance Report, ARMC Report and the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control for adoption by the Board; and
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval, the Circular to Shareholders in relation
to the proposed renewal of shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related party transactions of a
revenue or trading nature, for shareholders’ consideration and approval.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The purpose of the internal audit function is to provide the Board, through the ARMC, with reasonable
assurance of the effectiveness of the risk management, control and governance processes in the Group.
To provide an independent appraisal over the system of internal control of the Group to the ARMC,
the Company outsources the internal audit function to Talent League Sdn. Bhd. (“Talent League”), an
independent assurance provider. In this respect, Talent League has added value by improving the control
processes within the Group. The cost incurred by the Group for the internal audit function during FY2024
amounted to RM34,500.
The internal audit activities were carried out based on a risk-based audit plan presented by the internal
auditors to the ARMC for approval. The establishment of the audit plan took into consideration the
corporate risk profile and input from Senior Management and the ARMC. The internal auditors highlighted
to the ARMC the audit findings which required follow-up action by Management as well as outstanding
audit issues which required corrective actions to ensure an adequate and effective internal control system
within the Group.
An overview of the Group’s approach to maintaining a sound system of internal control is set out in the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control on pages 59 to 62 of this Annual Report.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
58
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are required under the Companies Act 2016 to prepare the financial statements for each
financial year. These financial statements are to be drawn up in accordance with applicable approved
accounting standards other than private entities as issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board
to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the Company as at the end of the
financial year and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have considered that:
• The Group and the Company have used appropriate accounting policies, and are consistently
applied;
• Reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates were made;
• The applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia have been applied; and
• The preparation of the financial statements is on a going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains proper accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group and of the Company, and which
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2016.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking steps that are reasonably available to them to safeguard
the assets of the Group and the Company, and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are satisfied that in preparing the financial statements of the Group for the financial year ended
30 June 2024, the Group has used the appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently
and supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates. The Directors also consider that
all applicable approved accounting standards have been complied with and further confirm that the
financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 59
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL
CONTROL
Introduction
In compliance with Rule 15.26(b) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements prescribed by Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”), the Board of Directors of Orgabio Holdings Berhad (“Orgabio”)
is proud to present our Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“Statement”) for the
financial year ended 30 June 2024 (“FY2024”). This document has been prepared in accordance with
the “Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers.” It also
adheres to the principles outlined in the Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance as outlined by the
Securities Commission Malaysia (“SC”).
This statement provides a comprehensive review of the risk management frameworks and internal control
mechanisms that Orgabio and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) has actively implemented during FY2024 to
safeguard shareholder value and ensure corporate compliance across all operational levels.
Responsibility and Accountability
The Board
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of Orgabio maintains primary responsibility for initiating and supervising the
Group’s risk management framework and internal control systems. These systems, encompassing financial,
operational, and risk management aspects, form the foundation supporting the Group’s strategic and
operational objectives.
The design of these systems is carefully tailored to manage risks aligned with the Group’s risk appetite,
ensuring they are maintained within limits set by the Board and Management. It is important to recognize
that while these frameworks are effective in mitigating risks, they are not designed to eliminate risk entirely.
Our strategic focus is on minimizing and managing risks to enable the Group to achieve its goals and
maximize potential returns for our shareholders.
Diving deeper into our governance structure, the Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”) plays
an important role in assisting the Board to guide our risk management and internal control oversight. The
two mandates of the ARMC include the following:
1. To oversee the development of a comprehensive Risk Management Framework (“RMF”) and to
oversee its meticulous deployment, thereby augmenting the Group’s Corporate Governance with a
concentrated lens on risk parameters. Their cardinal objective revolves around risk identification and
fortifying the Group with pre-emptive countermeasures.
2. The ARMC is a cornerstone in the Board’s endeavor to assess the effectiveness of the Group’s
internal control systems and the precision of financial reporting. Their purview encompasses
ensuring unwavering compliance with relevant statutes, regulations, and guidelines, predominantly
orchestrated through Internal Audit (“IA”) functionalities. Augmenting its portfolio, the ARMC rigorously
assesses the efficacy and impartiality of both the internal and external audit functions, ensuring an
audit framework characterized by transparency, excellence, and objectivity.
Board Accountability
The Board unequivocally recognizes its accountability for the ARMC’s activities in relation to the
management of these responsibilities, including overseeing the outcomes of reviews and the subsequent
reporting of key risks and internal control measures in the Group’s annual consolidated report. This
comprehensive approach ensures that Orgabio is well-positioned to manage potential challenges
effectively, thereby protecting and enhancing shareholder value.
The Management
At Orgabio, the management team is accountable to the Board for implementing the procedures essential
for identifying, assessing, monitoring, and communicating risks, as well as for evaluating the effectiveness
of internal control systems. They are responsible for taking timely and appropriate corrective actions as
necessary. The management has assured the Board that Orgabio’s risk management and internal control
systems are functioning effectively, underpinned by a robust framework and well-established protocols.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
60
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(CONT’D)
Key Actions by Management:
• Risk Appetite and Thresholds: Management has clearly defined the risk appetite relevant to Orgabio’s
operations, aligning it with the Group’s overarching objectives and strategic goals.
• Framework Implementation and Oversight: They have designed, deployed, and now manage a risk
management framework that integrates seamlessly with Orgabio’s strategic vision and established
risk thresholds.
• Risk Monitoring and Reporting: Management is proactive in identifying any changes in risk profiles or
the emergence of new risks, taking appropriate measures and promptly reporting these to the Board.
Risk Management Framework
The Board has instituted Risk Management Framework aimed at:
• Communicating Vision: Ensuring the Group’s vision and strategic direction are understood and
enacted across the organization.
• Risk Identification and Management: Identifying, assessing, and managing key risks that could impact
the Group’s business.
• Cultivating Risk Awareness: Promoting a culture where risk awareness is prevalent and individuals
take responsibility for managing risks effectively.
• Systematic Review and Reporting: Establishing processes for the systematic review, tracking, and
reporting of identified risks and their mitigation strategies.
Ongoing Risk Management Efforts: The Group undertakes regular risk analyses and continuously refines
its risk identification and assessment processes to gauge and manage the impacts on its operations. The
Chief Executive Officer, supported by key management personnel, leads these efforts. External experts
are engaged as needed to ensure objectivity.
ARMC Oversight and Reviews: The ARMC is tasked by the Board with reviewing risk management and
internal control procedures. These processes are regularly assessed with the assistance of an independent
consulting firm, which helps to enhance and optimize Orgabio’s existing controls.
Financial Oversight: The management also contributes to these reviews by providing detailed explanations
of quarterly financial performance and results to the ARMC and the Board. The ARMC evaluates interim
financial results alongside management’s insights and discusses the annual report and audited financial
statements before recommending their approval by the Board.
This comprehensive approach ensures that Orgabio remains vigilant and responsive in managing key risks
and adapting control measures in a dynamic and competitive business environment.
Internal Audit Functions and Effectiveness of Internal Control
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to an external professional service provider, Talent
League Sdn. Bhd. (“Internal Auditor”). The role of the internal audit function is to assess and evaluate the
major operational processes within the Group to assist the Board in fulfilling its duties effectively.
The Internal Auditor aims to provide advice to the management on areas that need improvement, highlight
any significant non-compliance issues, and then follow up to check if the recommended changes have
been made. The Internal Auditor reports independently to the ARMC and has unrestricted access to all
aspects of the Group, including records, documents, personnel, and information.
As an impartial third party, the Internal Auditor conducts the internal audit function with objectivity, skill,
and care. They use a risk-based approach to plan their audits, aligning their strategy with the Group’s
risk profile. This approach is in line with the Group’s objectives and policies in the context of its evolving
business and regulatory environment, taking into consideration input from the management and Board.
The internal audit work follows an annual plan approved by the ARMC. The findings, weaknesses, and
recommendations related to internal controls, as well as management’s responses and action plans, are
discussed during quarterly reviews with the ARMC. The key management team is responsible for addressing
and implementing necessary corrections, corrective actions, preventive measures, and recommendations
within the specified time frame.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 61
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(CONT’D)
Throughout the financial year, the Internal Auditor conducted half-yearly risk-based internal audit (RBIA)
assessments and provided recommendations to enhance the Group’s internal control system to the ARMC.
Further information on Internal Audit is provided on pages 51 and 52 of the Corporate Governance
Overview and page 57 of the Audit and Risk Management Committee Report.
Other Key Internal Controls
The Board recognizes that our internal control systems aim to manage and limit risks that might prevent the
Group from meeting its goals. These systems safeguard against significant errors in various areas, including
financial information and operations, while protecting against losses or fraud.
These systems and internal controls were put in place by the Board through ARMC. These controls are a
natural part of our daily operation. The Board regularly reviews these systems, factoring in regulations, laws,
and the business landscape changes to ensure they remain robust and effective.
The Board has established a robust internal control system that underpins good governance and effective
management across the organization. Here are the key components:
1. Ethics and Compliance Whistleblowing Policy: This policy provides employees with a secure and
confidential avenue to report any suspected breaches of laws, regulations, or the Group’s policies
and guidelines.
2. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy: The Group upholds a strict Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy
(“ABC Policy”) that prohibits all forms of bribery and corruption. All employees are mandated to be
familiar with this policy, which is accessible on the Company’s website at www.orgabio.com.
3. Audit and Risk Management Committee Composition: The ARMC is composed entirely of Independent
Non-Executive Directors who have unrestricted access to both internal and external auditors and all
Group employees. The ARMC and the Board may also seek independent professional advice as
necessary.
4. Integrated Board Charter and Ethical Standards: The Board Charter and Code of Business Conduct
and Ethics Policy are publicly available on the Company’s website, reinforcing the commitment to
integrity and ethical values within the Group.
5. Raw Material Sourcing Control: The Group uses inventory management software to meticulously track
raw materials, their sources, expiration dates, and costs to ensure quality consistency and minimize
wastage.
6. Quality Control System: Each production batch undergoes laboratory testing and sampling to
guarantee compliance with quality standards and health and safety regulations.
7. Financial Control System: Integrated accounting software with sales and procurement modules
monitors all financial transactions, identifies discrepancies, and ensures accurate financial reporting.
8. Regulatory and Compliance Control: An internal compliance tracking system is aligned with both
local and international food and beverage regulations to ensure all products meet current standards
and avoid legal issues.
9. Intellectual Property and Brand Protection: Legal oversight includes tracking trademarks and
conducting regular market surveillance to protect the Company’s intellectual property and brand
identity from infringement.
10. Risk Management Controls: The Group employs risk assessment tools and maintains a dedicated team
for periodic risk reviews, focusing on risk identification, analysis, evaluation, and response strategies.
11. Human Resources Controls: Human resource management software is utilized to monitor employee
performance, manage training schedules, and address grievances, thus ensuring high employee
productivity and satisfaction which positively impacts product quality and company reputation.
12. Insurance and Physical Safeguards: Comprehensive insurance policies and physical safeguards are
in place to protect major assets and minimize material loss from any unforeseen mishaps.
These components collectively ensure that Orgabio adheres to the highest standards of corporate
governance and internal controls, safeguarding the interests of all stakeholders and supporting the
Group’s strategic objectives.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
62
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(CONT’D)
Review of the Statement by External Auditors
The Group’s Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control has undergone a review by the external
auditors in line with the parameters defined in the Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3. This
guidance, titled “Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control,” is published by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”). This review pertains
to its incorporation in the Group’s annual report for the FY2024.
Post their thorough review, the external auditors informed the Board that, in material terms:
1. The Statement aligns with the disclosure mandates set out in paragraphs 41 and 42 of the “Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers”.
2. They did not encounter any factual discrepancies in the statement intended for the Group’s annual
report.
It is crucial to understand that the remit of AAPG 3 doesn’t extend to obligating the external auditors to
ascertain if the Directors’ Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control is exhaustive in covering
all potential risks and controls. Furthermore, they are not expected to judge the robustness or efficiency of
the Group’s internal control and risk management system. This encompasses any evaluations or opinions
forwarded by the Board or management. Additionally, the external auditors are not tasked with assessing
whether the outlined processes to address significant internal control issues highlighted in the annual report
will effectively address those concerns.
Conclusion
The Board has received reasonable assurance from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operations
Officer that the Group’s risk management system and internal controls, in all material aspects, are
operating adequately and effectively. The Board is of the opinion that there were no significant weaknesses
identified during the financial year under review in the system of risk management and internal control,
contingencies, or uncertainties that could result in material loss and adversely affect the Group save
and except for the specific shortcomings in operational related issues as highlighted by the internal audit
conducted. These identified gaps are being addressed through progressive corrective actions.
Based on the assurances from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operations Officer and inputs from
various assurance providers, the Board is of the view that the Risk Management Framework and internal
control systems are robust and effective in safeguarding shareholder investments, protecting customer
interests, and securing the Group’s assets without leading to any substantial losses, contingencies, or
uncertainties. However, the Board acknowledges the necessity for continuous enhancement of these
systems to adapt to the evolving business landscape.
Moving forward, both the Board and management are committed to further strengthening and refining
the internal control environment and processes to ensure they remain comprehensive and aligned with
best practices and the Group’s strategic objectives.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 63
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
1. Utilisation of Proceeds
The Company was listed on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 5 July 2022 in
conjunction with its Initial Public Offering (“IPO”), where the Company undertook a public issue of
96,668,000 new ordinary shares in the Company at an issue price of RM0.31 per share, raising proceeds
of RM29.97 million.
As at 30 June 2024, the proceeds raised from the IPO have been utilised in the following manner:
Detail of Utilisation
Proposed
Utilisation
RM’000
Actual
Utilisation
RM’000
Unutilised
RM’000
Estimated
Timeframe for
the Utilisation
Upon Listing
Construction of new factory 16,000 15,556 444 31 December
2024
Acquisition of machinery 2,230 2,230 - 30 April 2024
Working capital 8,137 8,137 - 12 months
Estimated listing expenses 3,600 3,600 - 1 month
Total 29,967 29,523 444
2. Material Contracts
There were no material contracts, including contracts relating to any loans, entered into by the
Company and/or its subsidiary companies involving the interests of Directors and major shareholders,
which subsisted at the end of the financial year or, if not then subsisting, entered into since the end
of the previous financial year.
3. Audit and Non-Audit Fees
During the financial year ended 30 June 2024, audit and non-audit fees incurred for services rendered
to the Company and/or its subsidiaries by the Company’s external auditors, Grant Thornton Malaysia
PLT were as follows:
The Company
RM
The Group
RM
Audit Services Rendered 21 102
Non-Audit Services Rendered *
(a) Review of Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control
(b) Tax Compliance Services
11
3
11
3
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
64
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
(CONT’D)
4. Recurrent Related Party Transactions (“RRPT”)
The Company is seeking approval from its shareholders for the proposed renewal of the existing
shareholders’ mandate for the Group to enter into RRPT(s) of a revenue or trading nature at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting to be held on 28 November 2024.
The details of RRPTs of a revenue or trading nature of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June
2024 are as follows:
Related Party
and its Principal
Activities
Orgabio Group
- Transacting
Party
Nature of
Transaction
with Orgabio
Group
Value of
Transaction
(RM’000)
Nature of relationship
between Orgabio Group and
the Related Party
Hai-O Enterprise
Berhad (“Hai-O”)
– Wholesaling
and retailing of
herbal medicines,
healthcare
products,
wellness and
beauty products,
investment
holding activities
and property
holding activities
Orgapharma
Marketing Sdn.
Bhd.
Sale of
beverage
premixes
products by
Orgapharma
Marketing Sdn.
Bhd. to Hai-O
Enterprise
Berhad.
4,761 Hai-O is a Major Shareholder
of Orgabio.
Beshom Holding Berhad
(“Beshom”) is the holding
company of Hai-O and
deemed interested in
Orgabio shares by virtue of its
direct shareholdings in Hai-O.
Mr. Tan Keng Kang is the
Group Managing Director
of Beshom and a Major
Shareholder of Beshom.
He is deemed interested in
Orgabio shares by virtue of
his and his family’s interest in
Beshom pursuant to Section 8
of the Act.
Ean Yong Hien
Voon
Orgabio
Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
Rental of a
single storey
terrace house
as worker
hostel based
on market
value and is
payable on
an equal pro-
rated monthly
basis.
5 Ean Yong Hien Voon is the
Executive Director / Chief
Executive Officer and a Major
Shareholder of Orgabio.
He is a son of Dato’ Ean Yong
Tin Sin and Datin Lai You Mooi
and the sibling of Ean Yong
Hian Wah, Ean Yong Hien
Chal, Ean Yong Han Khian,
Ean Yong Hen Leon and Ean
Yong Sik Siew.
He is also a director and major
shareholder of Ean Yong &
Sons Sdn. Bhd.
Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd.
is a Major Shareholder of
Orgabio.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS AND
STATUTORY DECLARATION
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’
REPORT
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL
POSITION
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN
EQUITY
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
66
71
72
77
79
80
81
85
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
66
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report together with the audited financial statements of the
Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding. The principal activities of its subsidiaries are
disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
There were no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Company and of its subsidiaries
during the financial year.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
								 Group Company
								 RM RM
			
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year				 4,108,891 (484,066)
			
Attributable to:-			
Owners of the Company				 4,108,891 (484,066)
			
DIVIDENDS
There were no dividends proposed, declared or paid by the Company since the end of the previous
financial year.
The Directors do not recommend any final dividend for the current financial year.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year.
ISSUES OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
There were no shares or debentures issued during the financial year.
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
The Directors who held office during the financial year and up to the date of this report are as follows:-
Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin*
Ean Yong Hien Voon*
Ean Yong Hen Loen*
Dr Teh Chee Ghee
Phang Sze Fui
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew
Ean Yong Hian Wah (Appointed on 1 March 2024)
Tay Bee Koo (Appointed in 1 May 2024)
Tan Kim Siong (Resigned on 1 March 2024)
Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung (Retired on 29 November 2023)
* Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 67
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
LIST OF DIRECTORS OF SUBSIDIARIES
The Directors of subsidiaries who held office during the financial year and up to the date of this report are
as follows:-
Ean Yong Hien Chal
Ean Yong Han Khian
Datin Lai You Mooi
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
According to the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings required to be kept under Section 59 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the interests and deemed interests in the shares of the Company or its
holding company or subsidiaries of the holding company of those who were Directors at financial year
end (including their spouses or children) are as follows:-
							 Number of ordinary shares
						 At			 At
						 1.7.2023 Bought Sold 30.6.2024
Direct interest				
Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin		 509,000 - - 509,000
Ean Yong Hien Voon		 300,000 - - 300,000
Ean Yong Hen Loen			 240,000 - - 240,000
Dr. Teh Chee Ghee			 100,000 - - 100,000
Phang Sze Fui				 100,000 - - 100,000
Ean Yong Hian Wah		 - 15,000 - 15,000
Deemed interest				
Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin#		 153,777,798 15,000 (37,700) 153,755,098
Ean Yong Hien Voon*		 153,986,798 15,000 (37,700) 153,964,098
Ean Yong Hen Loen*		 154,046,798 15,000 (37,700) 154,024,098
Ean Yong Hian Wah*		 - 154,286,798 ** (37,700) 154,249,098
# deemed interest by virtue of shares held by his direct interest, spouse and children direct interest in
the Company and Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd..
* deemed interest by virtue of shares held by his direct interest, spouse, parents and siblings direct
interest in the Company and Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd..
** deemed interest by virtue of shares held by his direct interest, spouse, parents and siblings direct
interest in the Company and Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd. from 23 January 2024.
By virtue of the direct and deemed interest of Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin, Ean Yong Hien Voon and Ean Yong
Hen Loen in the Company, they are also deemed to have interest in shares of all the subsidiaries to the
extent that the Company has an interest under Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Save for the above, none of the other Directors in office at the end of the financial year held any interest
in shares of the Company or its related corporations during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
68
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
DIRECTORS’ FEE, BENEFITS AND REMUNERATION
During the financial year, the emoluments received and receivable by the Directors are as follows:-
							 Incurred Incurred
							 by the by the
							 Company subsidiaries Total
							 RM RM RM
Salaries, wages and other emoluments			 7,200 1,315,645 1,322,845
Defined contribution plans			 - 89,453 89,453
Social security contributions			 - 5,056 5,056
Other benefits					 - 8,330 8,330
Directors’ fee					 281,000 - 281,000
							 288,200 1,418,484 1,706,684
During and at the end of the financial year, there was no subsist arrangement to which the Company is
a party, with the object or objects of enabling Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of
the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate.
Since the end of previous financial year, no Director has received or become entitled to receive any
benefit (other than as disclosed in Notes 22 and 23 to the financial statements) by reason of a contract
made by the Group and the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which
the Director is a member or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the Directors took
reasonable steps:-
(a) to ascertain that action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
provision for doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that there all known bad debts has been written
off and that adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(b) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business
including their values as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company had
been written down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.
At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:-
(a) which would render the amounts written off for bad debts or the amount of provision for doubtful
debts in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any substantial
extent; or
(b) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company misleading; or
(c) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities
of the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(d) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
which would render any amount stated in the financial statements misleading.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 69
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (CONT’D)
At the date of this report, there does not exist:-
(a) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the
financial year which secures the liability of any other person; or
(b) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the
financial year.
In the opinion of the Directors:-
(a) no contingent liability or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable
within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which will or may affect the
ability of the Group and of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due;
(b) the results of operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year were not
substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature; and
(c) there has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report
any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the results
of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year in which this report
is made.
HOLDING COMPANY
The holding company is Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd., a company incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia.
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
There is no indemnity coverage and insurance premium paid for Directors and Officers of the Company
during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
70
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
AUDITORS
The Auditors, Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
The amount of audit and other fees paid to or payable to the Auditors and its member firms by the Group
and the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 amounted to RM116,000 and RM35,000
respectively. Further details are disclosed in Note 19 to the financial statements.
The Group and the Company have agreed to indemnify the Auditors, Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT to the
extent permissible under the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. However, no payment
has been made arising from this indemnity for the financial year.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 22
October 2024.
...........................................................…… )
DATO’ EAN YONG TIN SIN )
			 )
					 )
					 )
					 )
					 )
					 )
				 ) DIRECTORS
			 )
					 )
					 )
				 )
					 )
...........................................................…… )
EAN YONG HIEN VOON )
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 71
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 77 to 123 are drawn up
in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial
position of the Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2024 and of their financial performance and
cash flows for the financial year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 22
October 2024.
…............................................................		 ..................................................................
DATO’ EAN YONG TIN SIN EAN YONG HIEN VOON
STATUTORY DECLARATION
I, Ngooi Sok Ling, being the Officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Orgabio Holdings
Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, the financial
statements set out on pages 77 to 123 are correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by )
the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur in )
the Federal Territory this day of )
22 October 2024		 ) 		 .................................................................
		 NGOOI SOK LING
		 (MIA NO: 19239)
Before me:
Commissioner for Oaths
RAMATHILAGAM A/P RAMASAMY (W671)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
72
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Orgabio Holdings Berhad, which comprise the statements
of financial position as at 30 June 2024 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or
loss and other comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of
the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements,
including material accounting policy information, as set out on pages 77 to 123.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position
of the Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2024, and of their financial performance and their cash
flows for the financial year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS
Accounting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit
evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional
Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants
(including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on
these matters.
Revenue recognition
The risk
Revenue generated is regarded as a key audit matter because the amount of revenue is significant to the
financial statements of the Group as a whole and the magnitude of the transactions.
Furthermore, International Standard on Auditing 240 presumed that we consider the risk of fraud arising in
revenue recognition. Whilst revenue recognition and measurement is not complex for the Group, revenue
targets form part of the Group’s key performance measures which could create an incentive to record
revenue incorrectly.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 73
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD (CONT’D)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Key Audit Matters (cont’d)
Revenue recognition (cont’d)
Our response
We have obtained an understanding of the Group’s control over the timing and amount of revenue
recognised, evaluated and tested the control on sampling basis.
We have performed substantive tests to verify the revenue recognised, performed analytical procedures
on the trend of revenue recognised to identify any unusual fluctuations; and performed cut-off test on
sampling basis around the financial year end to check whether revenue is recognised in the correct
accounting period.
The Group’s disclosures regarding revenue recognition are included in Notes 17 to the financial statements.
Impairment on doubtful trade receivables
The risk
The Group’s trade receivables is subject to credit risk exposures. We focus on this area as deriving the
expected credit losses of receivables involves management’s judgement and estimates in determining the
probability of default occurring by considering the ageing of trade receivables, historical loss experience
and forward-looking information.
Our response
We have obtained an understanding of the Group’s control over the trade receivables’ collection process,
how the Group identifies and assesses the loss allowance of trade receivables and how the Group makes
the accounting estimates for loss allowance.
We have reviewed and challenged the management’s assumptions in calculating the expected credit
loss, considered the ageing of the trade receivables and testing the reliability thereon. In doing so, we
have evaluated techniques and methodology applied for the expected credit loss approach and
assessed the estimated future cash inflows by examining the historical collection records, historical loss
rate of receivables, information regarding the current creditworthiness and any significant changes in
credit quality of the debtors, evidence of subsequent settlements and other relevant information.
The Group’s disclosures regarding doubtful receivables are included in Notes 8 to the financial statements.
There are no key audit matters in relation to the financial statements of the Company.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
74
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD (CONT’D)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises
the information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other
information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility
is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained
in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group
and of the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The
Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable
the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible
for assessing the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless
the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group and the Company or to cease operations, or have no
realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and
to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance,
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing
in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the
aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on
the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism
throughout the audit. We also:-
- Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations,
or the override of internal control.
- Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s and of the Company’s internal control.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 75
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD (CONT’D)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism
throughout the audit. We also (cont’d):-
- Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by the Directors.
- Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue
as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events
or conditions may cause the Group and the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
- Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
- Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain
solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicated with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of
the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we
identified during our audit.
We also provided the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determined those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current
financial year and are therefore the key audit matters. We described these matters in our auditors’
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits
of such communication.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
76
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD (CONT’D)
Other Matter
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266
of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any
other person for the content of this report.
GRANT THORNTON MALAYSIA PLT		 KISHAN NARENDRA JASANI
(201906003682 & LLP0022494-LCA)		 (NO: 03223/12/2025 (J))
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS (AF 0737)		 CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT
		
Kuala Lumpur		
22 October 2024
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 77
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2024
						 Group Company
					 Note 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
ASSETS								
Non-current assets 					
Property, plant and equipment 3 34,874,781 28,470,370 - -
Investment properties 4 3,257,748 3,337,784 - -
Investment in subsidiaries 5 - - 15,320,000 15,120,000
Intangible asset		 6 - - - -
									
Total non-current assets		 38,132,529 31,808,154 15,320,000 15,120,000
									
Current assets
Inventories			 7 14,027,991 10,071,350 - -
Trade receivables		 8 8,809,124 6,222,526 - -
Other receivables		 9 1,906,430 1,067,061 - -
Amount due from a subsidiary 5 - - 21,657,576 17,967,107
Tax recoverable			 1,468,865 1,264,771 107,160 58,626
Cash and cash equivalents 10 13,064,933 18,700,132 3,170,915 7,593,984
									
Total current assets 		 39,277,343 37,325,840 24,935,651 25,619,717
									
Total assets				 77,409,872 69,133,994 40,255,651 40,739,717
									
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES						
EQUITY
Equity attributable to owners 						
of the Company:- 						
Share capital			 11 43,647,453 43,647,453 43,647,453 43,647,453
Merger deficit			 11 (14,186,497) (14,186,497) - -
Retained earnings/
(Accumulated losses)		 26,327,128 22,218,237 (3,449,266) (2,965,200)
									
Total equity			 55,788,084 51,679,193 40,198,187 40,682,253
									
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
78
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
						 Group Company
					 Note 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities						
Borrowings			 12 7,805,441 8,464,446 - -
Lease liabilities			 13 382,539 781,040 - -
Deferred tax liabilities 14 72,000 169,000 - -
									
Total non-current liabilities		 8,259,980 9,414,486 - -
									
Current liabilities
Trade payables 		 15 7,978,775 4,978,524 - -
Other payables 		 16 3,947,839 1,676,869 57,464 57,464
Borrowings			 12 1,106,878 611,132 - -
Lease liabilities			 13 328,316 773,790 - -
									
Total current liabilities		 13,361,808 8,040,315 57,464 57,464
									
Total liabilities				 21,621,788 17,454,801 57,464 57,464
									
Total equity and liabilities		 77,409,872 69,133,994 40,255,651 40,739,717
									
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 79
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
						 Group Company
					 Note 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
Revenue				 17 74,138,969 58,835,019 - -
								
Cost of sales		 		 (60,264,012) (48,974,581) - -
								
Gross profit				 13,874,957 9,860,438 - -
								
Other income		 		 931,250 582,306 142,548 313,546
								
Selling and distribution expenses		 (20,509) (7,965) - -
								
Administration expenses		 (7,927,172) (9,439,907) (626,614) (2,801,792)
								
Net provision on impairment						
of financial assets			 (18,066) (11,425) - -
								
Other expenses			 (636,687) (238,145) - -
								
Finance costs			 18 (556,927) (594,233) - -
								
Profit/(Loss) before tax 19 5,646,846 151,069 (484,066) (2,488,246)
								
Tax expense			 20 (1,537,955) (1,033,362) - -
								
Net profit/(loss)/Total
comprehensive income/(loss)
for the financial year		 4,108,891 (882,293) (484,066) (2,488,246)
								
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year
attributable to:-							
Owners of the Company		 4,108,891 (882,293) (484,066) (2,488,246)
								
Total comprehensive income/(loss)						
for the financial year
attributable to:-							
Owners of the Company		 4,108,891 (882,293) (484,066) (2,488,246)
								
Earnings/(loss) per share attributable 						
to owners of the Company:-					
- Basic (cent)			 21 1.66 (0.36)
								
- Diluted (cent)		 21 1.66 (0.36)
								
				
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
80
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
		 <------- Attributable to owners of the Company ------>
					 <--- Non-distributable --->		 Distributable
							 Share Merger Retained
Group					 Note capital deficit earnings Total
							 RM RM RM RM
								
Balance at 1 July 2022				 15,120,002 (14,186,497) 23,100,530 24,034,035
								
Total comprehensive loss
for the financial year				 - - (882,293) (882,293)
								
Transactions with owners:-
- Share issuance pursuant to listing on
the ACE Market			 11 29,967,080 - - 29,967,080
- Transaction cost of share issuance 11 (1,439,629) - - (1,439,629)
Balance at 30 June 2023				 43,647,453 (14,186,497) 22,218,237 51,679,193
								
Total comprehensive income for the							
financial year						 - - 4,108,891 4,108,891
Balance at 30 June 2024				 43,647,453 (14,186,497) 26,327,128 55,788,084
		 <-- Attributable to owners of the Company -->
							 Non-
							 distributable Distributable
							 Share Accumulated
Company 				 Note capital losses Total
							 RM RM RM
								
Balance at 1 July 2022			 15,120,002 (476,954) 14,643,048
								
Total comprehensive loss for the financial year		 - (2,488,246) (2,488,246)
								
Transactions with owners:-					
- Share issuance pursuant to listing on
the ACE Market			 11 29,967,080 - 29,967,080
- Transaction cost of share issuance		 11 (1,439,629) - (1,439,629)
Balance at 30 June 2023			 43,647,453 (2,965,200) 40,682,253
								
Total comprehensive loss for the financial year		 - (484,066) (484,066)
Balance at 30 June 2024			 43,647,453 (3,449,266) 40,198,187
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 81
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
						 Group Company
					 Note 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit/(Loss) before tax		 5,646,846 151,069 (484,066) (2,488,246)
									
Adjustments for:-
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment			 1,597,673 1,645,887 - -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets		 616,650 889,803 - -
Depreciation of investment properties		 80,036 59,432 - -
Gain on early termination of lease
contract 				 (38,100) - - -
Interest income			 (283,941) (384,170) (142,548) (313,546)
Interest expenses			 556,927 594,233 - -
Inventories written off		 56,834 150,627 - -
Loss allowance on trade receivables		 20,287 25,822 - -
Property, plant and equipment
written off			 5,744 175 - -
Bad debts written off		 8,062 - - -
Reversal of impairment loss on
investment properties		 - (33,530) - -
Reversal of loss allowance on trade
receivables			 (2,221) (14,397) - -
Unrealised loss on foreign exchange		 31,406 84,133 - -
									
Operating profit/(loss) before working
capital changes			 8,296,203 3,169,084 (626,614) (2,801,792)
									
Changes in working capital:-						
Inventories				 (4,013,475) (2,406,080) - -
Receivables				 (3,456,144) 3,765,741 - 2,122,451
Payables			 		 5,251,456 (3,411,770) - (1,803,780)
Subsidiaries				 - - (3,690,469) (20,185,739)
									
Cash generated from/(used in)
operations				 6,078,040 1,116,975 (4,317,083) (22,668,860)
									
Tax refunded				 55 824,264 - -
Tax paid					 (1,839,104) (1,979,792) (48,534) (58,626)
									
Net cash from/(used in) operating
activities			 		 4,238,991 (38,553) (4,365,617) (22,727,486)
									
									
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
82
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
						 Group Company
					 Note 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Purchase of property, plant and
equipment			 A (8,825,005) (10,336,078) - -
Interest received			 283,941 384,170 142,548 313,546
Additional investment in subsidiaries		 - - (200,000) -
					
Net cash (used in)/from investing
activities					 (8,541,064) (9,951,908) (57,452) 313,546
					
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Interest paid				 (556,927) (594,233) - -
Drawdown of borrowings C 446,000 201,000 - -
Repayment of lease liabilities C (605,348) (821,906) - -
Repayment of borrowings C (609,259) (2,013,378) - -
Proceeds from issuance of shares		 - 29,967,080 - 29,967,080
					
Net cash (used in)/from financing 						
activities			 		 (1,325,534) 26,738,563 - 29,967,080
					
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Net changes				 (5,627,607) 16,748,102 (4,423,069) 7,553,140
Effect of foreign currency translation 						
differences				 (7,592) (108,926) - -
At beginning of financial year		 18,700,132 2,060,956 7,593,984 40,844
					
At end of financial year B 13,064,933 18,700,132 3,170,915 7,593,984
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 83
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
NOTES TO THE STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
									
A. PURCHASE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT					
					
						 Group Company
						 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
Total additions			 8,949,922 11,058,349 - -
Less: Acquisition through lease liabilities (124,917) (722,271) - -
Total cash used		 8,825,005 10,336,078 - -
		
B. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
						
Cash and cash equivalents included in the statements of cash flows comprise of the followings
amounts:-
									
						 Group Company
						 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
Cash and bank balances		 9,916,245 13,683,782 22,227 2,577,634
Income fund with a licensed financial 					
institution			 3,148,688 5,016,350 3,148,688 5,016,350
			 			 13,064,933 18,700,132 3,170,915 7,593,984
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
84
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
NOTES TO THE STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONT’D)
C. RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
						
						
At beginning 					 At end
						 of financial Lease 			 Early of financial
						 year commencement Drawdown Repayments termination year
						 RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group												
2024												
Bankers’ acceptance		 - - 446,000 - - 446,000
Term loans			 9,075,578 - - (609,259) - 8,466,319
Lease liabilities 		 1,554,830 124,917 - (605,348) (363,544) 710,855
							
						 10,630,408 124,917 446,000 (1,214,607) (363,544) 9,623,174
							
2023											
Bankers’ acceptance		 1,189,000 - 201,000 (1,390,000) - -
Term loans			 9,698,956 - - (623,378) - 9,075,578
Lease liabilities 		 1,654,465 722,271 - (821,906) - 1,554,830
							
						 12,542,421 722,271 201,000 (2,835,284) - 10,630,408
							
D. CASH OUTFLOWS FOR LEASES AS A LESSEE							
					
Group
										 2024 2023
										 RM RM
Payment relating to short-term leases						 20,429 22,201
Interest paid in relation to lease liabilities					 61,584 122,471
Payment relating to lease liabilities						 605,348 821,906
Total cash outflows for leases						 687,361 966,578
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 85
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia. It is listed
on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 5 July 2022. The registered office of the
Company is located at 22-09, Menara 1MK, No. 1, Jalan Kiara, Mont Kiara, 50480 Kuala Lumpur. The
principal place of business of the Company is located at Lot 83, Jalan Kesuma 2/3, Phase 5D, Bandar
Tasik Kesuma Techno Park, 43700 Beranang, Selangor Darul Ehsan.
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding. The principal activities of its subsidiaries
are disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
There were no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Company and of its
subsidiaries during the financial year.
The holding company is Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd., a company incorporated and domiciled in
Malaysia.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with a
resolution of the Directors on 22 October 2024.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION
2.1 Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), IFRS Accounting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
2.2 Basis of measurement
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under historical
cost convention.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for
goods and services. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement
date and its measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability
takes place either in the principal market for the asset or liability, or in the absence of a principal
market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal or the most
advantageous market must be accessible to by the Group and the Company.
Thefairvalueofanassetoraliabilityismeasuredontheassumptionsthatmarketparticipantswould
act in their economic best interest when pricing the asset or liability. A fair value measurement
of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic
benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant
that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group and the Company use valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances
and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant
observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
86
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONT’D)
2.2 Basis of measurement (cont’d)
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements
are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level
input that is significant to their fair value measurement as a whole:-
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to their fair
value measurement is directly or indirectly observable.
Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to their fair
value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the
Group and the Company determine whether transfers have occurred between levels in the
hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to
their fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting date.
The management oversees all the significant fair value measurements and regularly reviews the
significant unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group and the Company have determined classes
of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability
and the level of fair value hierarchy as explained above.
2.3 Functional and presentation currency
The financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”) which is the Company’s
functional currency and all financial information is presented in RM unless otherwise stated.
2.4 MFRSs
		 2.4.1Adoption of new standards and amendments to MFRSs
At the beginning of the current financial year, the Group and the Company adopted new
standards and amendments to MFRSs which are mandatory for the current financial year.
The initial application of the new standards and amendments to the standards did not
have a material impact on the financial statements, except for:-
Amendments to MFRS 101 - Presentation of financial statements: Disclosure of accounting
policies
The amendments change the requirements in MFRS 101 with regard to disclosure of
accounting policies. The amendments replace all instances of the term “significant” with
“material”. Accounting policy information is material if, when considered together with other
information included in an entity’s financial statements, it can reasonably be expected to
influence decisions that the primary users of general-purpose financial statements make on
the basis of those financial statements.
The supporting paragraphs in MFRS 101 are also amended to clarify that accounting policy
information that relates to immaterial transactions, other events or conditions is immaterial
and need not be disclosed. Accounting policy information may be material because of
the nature of the related transactions, other events or conditions, even if the amounts are
immaterial. However, not all accounting policy information relating to material transactions,
other events or conditions is itself material. The Malaysian Accounting Standards Board has
also developed guidance and examples to explain and demonstrate the application of
the “four-step materiality process” described in MFRS Practice Statement 2.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 87
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONT’D)
2.4 MFRSs (cont’d)
		 2.4.1Adoption of new standards and amendments to MFRSs (cont’d)
Amendments to MFRS 101 - Presentation of financial statement: Disclosure of accounting
policies (cont’d)
The amendments have had an impact on the Group’s and the Company’s disclosures of
accounting policies but not on the measurement, recognition or presentation of any items
in the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements.
2.4.2 Standards issued but not yet effective
The new and amended standards that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the date of
issuance of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial statements are disclosed below.
The Group and the Company intend to adopt these new and amended standards, if
applicable, when they become effective.
Amendments to MFRSs effective for financial period beginning on or after 1 January 2024:-
Amendments to MFRS 16 Leases: Lease liability in a sale and leaseback
Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of financial statements: Non-current liabilities
		 with covenants
Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of financial statements: Classification of
		 liabilities as current or non-current
Amendments to MFRS 107 Statement of cash flows and financial instruments -
and MFRS 7 disclosures: Supplier finance arrangements
Amendments to MFRSs effective for financial period beginning on or after 1 January 2025:-
Amendments to MFRS 121 The effects of changes in foreign exchange rates: Lack of
		 exchangeability
Amendments to MFRSs effective for financial period beginning on or after 1 January 2026:-
Amendments to MFRS 1*, First-time adoption of MFRSs, financial instruments -
MFRS 7, MFRS 9, disclosures, financial instruments, consolidated financial
MFRS 10 and MFRS 107 statements and statement of cash flows
Amendments to MFRS 9 Financial instruments and financial instruments disclosures:
and MFRS 7 Amendments to the classification and measurement of
		 financial instruments
MFRSs effective for financial period beginning on or after 1 January 2027:-
MFRS 18 Presentation and disclosure in financial statements
MFRS 19* Subsidiaries without public accountability - disclosures
Amendments to MFRSs - effective date deferred indefinitely:-
Amendments to MFRS 10 Consolidated financial statements and investments in
and MFRS 128 associates and joint ventures: Sale or contribution of assets
		 between an investor and its associate or joint venture
* Not applicable to the Group’s and the Company’s operation
The initial application of the above standards and amendments are not expected to have
material financial impact to the financial statements of the Group and of the Company upon its
first adoption.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
88
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONT’D)
2.5 Significant accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and assumptions concerning the future and judgements are made in the preparation
of the financial statements. They affect the application of the Group’s and of the Company’s
accounting policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses, and
disclosures made. Estimates and underlying assumptions are assessed on an on-going basis and
are based on experience and relevant factors, including expectations of future events that
are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The actual results may differ from the
judgements, estimates and assumptions made by the management, and will seldom equal the
estimated results.
2.5.1Estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty
at the reporting date that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Useful lives of depreciable assets
Depreciable assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Management estimates the useful lives of the depreciable assets to be within 2 to 50 years
and reviews the useful lives of depreciable assets at each reporting date. At 30 June 2024,
management assesses that the useful lives represent the expected utility of the assets to the
Group. Actual results, however, may vary due to change in the expected level of usage
and technological developments, which may result in the adjustment to the Group’s assets.
Impairment of non-financial assets
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s or cash-generating
unit’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. To determine the recoverable
amount, the management estimates expected future cash flows from each cash-
generating unit and determines a suitable interest rate in order to calculate the present
value of those cash flows. In the process of measuring expected future cash flows, the
management makes assumptions about future operating results. The actual results may
vary, and may cause significant adjustments to the Group’s and the Company’s assets
within the next financial year.
In most cases, determining the applicable discount rate involves estimating the appropriate
adjustment to market risk and the appropriate adjustment to asset-specific risk factors.
Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. In estimating net
realisable values, management takes into account the most reliable evidence available at
the times the estimates are made. The realisation of these inventories may be affected by
market driven changes that may occur in the future.
The management reviews inventories to identify damaged, obsolete and slow-moving
inventories which require judgement and changes in such estimates could result in revision
to the valuation of inventories.
The management expects that the expected net realisable value of the inventories would
not have material difference from the management’s estimation of net realisable value,
hence, it would not result in material variance in the Group’s profit for the financial year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 89
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONT’D)
2.5 Significant accounting estimates and judgements (cont’d)
2.5.1Estimation uncertainty (cont’d)
Provision for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) of trade receivables
Credit losses are the differences between all contractual cash flows that the Group are
due and the cash flows that it actually expects to receive. An expected credit loss is the
probability-weighted estimate of credit losses which requires the Group’s judgement. The
expected credit losses are discounted at the original effective interest rate (or credit-
adjusted effective interest rate for purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets).
The Group uses a provision matrix to calculate ECLs for trade receivables. The provision
rates are based on days past due for grouping of various customer segments that have
similar loss patterns such as customer type and rating.
The provision matrix is initially based on the Group’s historical observed default rates. The
Group will calibrate the matrix to adjust the historical credit loss experience with forward-
looking information. At each reporting date, the historical observed default rates are
updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
The assessment of the correlation between historical observed rates, forecast economic
conditions and ECLs are a significant estimate. The amount of ECLs is sensitive to changes
in circumstances and of forecast economic conditions. The Group’s historical credit loss
experience and forecast of economic conditions may also not be representative of
customers’ actual default rate in the future.
Leases - Estimating the incremental borrowing rate
The Group cannot readily determine the interest rate implicit in the lease, therefore, it
uses its incremental borrowing rate (“IBR”) to measure lease liabilities. The IBR is the rate of
interest that the Group would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, and with a similar
security, the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use assets
in a similar economic environment. The IBR therefore reflects what the Group ‘would have
to pay’, which requires estimation when no observable rates are available or when they
need to be adjusted to reflect the terms and conditions of the lease.
Income taxes
Significant judgement is required in determining the capital allowances and deductibility
of certain expenses during the estimation of the provision for income taxes. There are many
transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during
the ordinary course of business. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different
from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax
and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
90
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONT’D)
2.5 Significant accounting estimates and judgements (cont’d)
2.5.2 Significant management judgements
Significant management judgements in applying the accounting policies of the Group
and of the Company that have the most significant effect on the financial statements are
discussed below.
Determining the lease term of contracts with renewal options
The Group determines the lease term with any periods covered by an option to extend the
lease if it is reasonably certain not to be exercised.
The Group has several lease contracts that include extension options. The Group applies
judgement in evaluating whether it is reasonably certain whether or not to exercise the
option to renew the lease. That is, it considers all relevant factors that create an economic
incentive for it to exercise the renewal. After the commencement date, the Group
reassesses the lease term if there is a significant event or change in circumstances that is
within its control and affects its ability to exercise or not to exercise the option to renew.
The Group included the renewal period as part of the lease term for leases. The Group
typically exercise its option to renew for these leases.
Classification between investment properties and owner-occupied properties
The Group determines whether a property qualifies as an investment property, and has
developed criteria in making that judgement. Investment property is a property held to
earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both. Therefore, the Group considers whether a
property generates cash flows largely independent of the other assets held by the Group.
When the investment properties comprise a portion that is held to earn rental or for capital
appreciation and another portion that is held for use in the production or supply of goods
or services or for administrative purposes. The Group accounts for the portions separately
if the portions could be sold separately, the property is an investment property only if an
insignificant portion is held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for
administrative purposes.
Judgement is made on an individual property basis to determine whether ancillary services
are so significant that a property does not qualify as an investment property.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 91
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
								
Furniture Factory				
Computers		 Right Capital
					 Freehold Freehold Office and tools and Motor Plant and		 and Electrical -of-use work-in-
					 land buildings equipment fittings equipment vehicles machineries Renovation softwares installations assets progress Total
					 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Cost
At 1.7.2022 			 8,545,283 6,065,459 773,338 219,495 202,066 405,978 7,410,774 3,025,027 34,018 128,732 4,662,928 1,883,556 33,356,654
Additions 			 - - 521,418 36,425 - - 649,557 - - - 722,271 9,128,678 11,058,349
Written off 			 - - (6,080) - - - - - - - - - (6,080)
Reclassification 		 - - 179,998 - - 867,720 720,290 - - - (1,572,810) (195,198) -
Reclassified to investment
properties 			 - (1,869,574) - - - - - - - - - - (1,869,574)
														
													
At 30.6.2023 			 8,545,283 4,195,885 1,468,674 255,920 202,066 1,273,698 8,780,621 3,025,027 34,018 128,732 3,812,389 10,817,036 42,539,349
Additions 			 - 79,500 17,800 134,144 - - 139,300 - - - 135,560 8,443,618 8,949,922
Written off 			 - - - (4,740) - - (5,500) (202,168) - - - - (212,408)
Reclassification 		 - 458,500 43,884 - 42,000 181,200 533,639 - - - (714,839) (544,384) -
Early termination of lease contract - - - - - - - - - - (732,276) - (732,276)
														
At 30.6.2024 		 8,545,283 4,733,885 1,530,358 385,324 244,066 1,454,898 9,448,060 2,822,859 34,018 128,732 2,500,834 18,716,270 50,544,587
														
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
92
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
								
Furniture Factory				
Computers		 Right Capital
					 Freehold Freehold Office and tools and Motor Plant and		 and Electrical -of-use work-in-
					 land buildings equipment fittings equipment vehicles machineries Renovation softwares installations assets progress Total
					 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group (cont’d)
Accumulated depreciation 													
At 1.7.2022 			 - 764,504 405,563 71,552 155,902 321,979 4,165,223 2,383,562 34,018 79,858 2,919,310 - 11,301,471
Charge for the financial year - 69,137 266,136 24,054 24,974 28,000 1,057,262 164,026 - 12,298 889,803 - 2,535,690
Written off 			 - - (5,905) - - - - - - - - - (5,905)
Reclassification 		 - - - - - 867,720 705,090 - - - (1,572,810) - -
Reclassified to investment
properties 			 - (207,560) - - - - - - - - - - (207,560)
														
At 30.6.2023 			 - 626,081 665,794 95,606 180,876 1,217,699 5,927,575 2,547,588 34,018 92,156 2,236,303 - 13,623,696
Charge for the financial year - 51,303 298,086 31,997 10,936 28,000 1,001,027 164,026 - 12,298 616,650 - 2,214,323
Written off 			 - - - (1,930) - - (2,566) (202,168) - - - - (206,664)
Reclassification 		 - - - - - 181,200 533,639 - - - (714,839) - -
Early termination of lease
contract 			 - - - - - - - - - - (406,832) - (406,832)
														
At 30.6.2024 			 - 677,384 963,880 125,673 191,812 1,426,899 7,459,675 2,509,446 34,018 104,454 1,731,282 - 15,224,523
														
Accumulated impairment loss 													
At 1.7.2022 			 445,283 235,523 - - - - - - - - - - 680,806
Reclassified to investment
properties 		 - (235,523) - - - - - - - - - - (235,523)
														
At 30.6.2023/30.6.2024 445,283 - - - - - - - - - - - 445,283
														
Net carrying amount 													
At 30.6.2024 			 8,100,000 4,056,501 566,478 259,651 52,254 27,999 1,988,385 313,413 - 24,278 769,552 18,716,270 34,874,781
														
At 30.6.2023 		 8,100,000 3,569,804 802,880 160,314 21,190 55,999 2,853,046 477,439 - 36,576 1,576,086 10,817,036 28,470,370
														
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 93
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
(a) Assets pledged as securities to licensed banks
The net carrying amount of assets pledged as security to licensed banks for banking facilities of
the Group are as follows:-
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
		 Freehold land				 8,100,000 8,100,000
		 Freehold buildings				 3,154,554 3,202,480
								 11,254,554 11,302,480
(b) Right-of-use assets
		As lessee
The Group has lease contracts with lease terms of 2 to 5 years for warehouse, hostels, motor
vehicles and plant and machineries used for its operations purposes.
The Group has certain leases of premises with lease terms of 12 months. The Group applies the
‘short-term lease’ recognition exemptions for these leases.
Set out below are net carrying amount of right-of-use assets recognised and the movements
during the financial year:-
						 Motor Plant and
					 Warehouse Hostels vehicles machineries Total
					 RM RM RM RM RM
		Group					
		 At 1 July 2022 - 8,754 308,128 1,426,736 1,743,618
		 Additions		 722,271 - - - 722,271
		 Depreciation for
		 the financial year (273,965) (5,003) (121,128) (489,707) (889,803)
		 At 30 June 2023 448,306 3,751 187,000 937,029 1,576,086
		 Additions		 - - 135,560 - 135,560
		 Depreciation for
		 the financial year (124,530) (2,083) (107,056) (382,981) (616,650)
		 Early termination of
		 lease contract (323,776) (1,668) - - (325,444)
		 At 30 June 2024 - - 215,504 554,048 769,552
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
94
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
(b) Right-of-use assets (cont’d)
As lessee (cont’d)
The following are the amounts relating to right-of-use assets recognised in profit or loss:-
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
		 Depreciation of right-of-use assets			 616,650 889,803
(c) The motor vehicles and plant and machineries of the Group with net carrying amount of
RM215,504 (2023: RM187,000) and RM554,048 (2023: RM937,029) respectively are held under
finance leases.
Material accounting policy information
(a) Recognition and measurement
(i) Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and
impairment losses. Cost of property, plant and equipment includes expenditures that is
directly attributable to acquisition of the items.
(ii) Right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, less accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses.
(b) Depreciation
(i) Freehold land is not depreciated but is subject to impairment test if there is any indication of
impairment. Depreciation on other assets are calculated using the straight-line method to
allocate their costs to their residual values (the depreciable amounts) over their estimated
useful lives, as follows:-
Freehold buildings 					 2%
Office equipment					 10% to 33%
Furniture and fittings					 10%
Factory tools and equipment				 10% to 20%
Motor vehicles					 20%
Plant and machineries					 20%
Renovation 					 10%
Computers and softwares				 33%
Electrical installations					 10%
Capital work-in-progress under construction are not depreciated. Depreciation on capital
work-in-progress commences when the assets are ready for their intended use.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 95
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
Material accounting policy information (cont’d)
(b) Depreciation (cont’d)
(ii) Right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease
term and the estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:-
Warehouse 					 3 years
Hostels					 2 years
Motor vehicles 				 5 years
Plant and machineries					 5 years
4. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
								 Freehold
									 buildings
Group 							 RM
Cost			
At 1 July 2022						 2,132,180
Reclassified from property, plant and equipment				 1,869,574
At 30 June 2023/30 June 2024					 4,001,754
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 July 2022						 194,985
Charge for the financial year					 59,432
Reclassified from property, plant and equipment				 207,560
At 30 June 2023					 461,977
Charge for the financial year					 80,036
At 30 June 2024					 542,013
Accumulated impairment loss
At 1 July 2022						 -
Reclassified from property, plant and equipment				 235,523
Reversal for the financial year					 (33,530)
At 30 June 2023/30 June 2024					 201,993
Net carrying amount
At 30 June 2024					 3,257,748
At 30 June 2023					 3,337,784
Fair value based on similar properties at proximity area:-
At 30 June 2024					 3,874,035
At 30 June 2023					 3,824,049
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
96
4. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONT’D)
Investment properties of the Group comprises of freehold buildings.
The fair value of the investment properties of the Group was estimated by the Directors based on the
recent transacted prices in the market of property with similar conditions and location. If the Group’s
investment properties carried at fair value, it will classify as at Level 3 fair value item for the purpose of
fair value hierarchy disclosure.
The investment properties have been pledged to licensed banks for credit facilities granted to the
Group as disclosed in Note 12 to the financial statements.
The following are recognised in profit or loss in respect of investment properties:-
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
Rental income					 (145,200) (88,100)
Direct operating expense					
- Income generating investment properties			 94,380 52,890
Material accounting policy information
Investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation are recognised
on the straight-line method over its estimated useful life of 50 years.
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
							 Company
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
					
Unquoted shares, at cost				 15,320,000 15,120,000
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 97
5. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:-
Name of the subsidiaries Principal place
of business
Effective equity
interest
Principal activities
2024 2023
% %
Direct subsidiaries
Orgabio Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture, process, refine,
prepare of instant premix
beverages, health supplements,
health foods, drinks and
beverages.
Orgapharma Marketing
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Marketing and distribution
of health supplements and
beverages.
Orgapharma Herbal
Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Preparing, processing
and packaging of health
supplements and beverages.
Everyday F & B
Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Distributing and trading of food
and beverages.
5.1 Merger deficit
The recognised merger deficit at the acquisition date is derived as follows:-
									 Group
									 RM
		
		 Total consideration paid by issuance of shares of the Company		 15,120,000
		 Less: Nominal value of the subsidiaries’ share capital			 (933,503)
		 At 30 June 2023/30 June 2024					 14,186,497
5.2 Additional investment in subsidiaries
On 1 February 2024, the Company subscribed 200,000 newly issued ordinary shares of
Orgapharma Marketing Sdn. Bhd. for cash consideration of RM200,000 which did not result in
any charge in effective equity interest.
5.3 Amount due from/(to) subsidiaries
The amount due from/(to) subsidiaries are non-trade in nature, unsecured, non-interest bearing
and repayable on demand.
		 Material accounting policy information
Investment in subsidiaries are measured in the Company’s statement of financial position at cost
less any impairment losses.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
98
6. INTANGIBLE ASSET
									 Website
									
development
									 cost
									 RM
Group		
Cost
At 1 July 2022/30 June 2023/30 June 2024				 55,332
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 July 2022/30 June 2023/30 June 2024				 55,332
Net carrying amount
At 30 June 2023/30 June 2024					 -
7. INVENTORIES
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
			
Raw materials					 11,273,599 8,455,493
Finished goods				 2,754,392 1,615,857
								 14,027,991 10,071,350
Recognised in profit or loss:-			
Inventories recognised as cost of sales			 52,040,473 40,175,395
Inventories written off				 56,834 150,627
Material accounting policy information
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is
based on first-in-first-out basis.
8. TRADE RECEIVABLES
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
Trade receivables				 8,997,833 6,393,169
Less: Allowance for impairment loss				 (188,709) (170,643)
								 8,809,124 6,222,526
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 99
8. TRADE RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
8.1 Normal trade credit terms granted to customers range from 1 to 60 days (2023: 1 to 60 days).
Trade receivables are recognised at invoice amounts and they are non-interest bearing.
8.2 Included in trade receivables is an amount of RM1,316,363 (2023: RM986,980) due from a
substantial shareholder. The said amount is unsecured, non-interest bearing and subject to
normal trade terms.
8.3 Analysis by currencies
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
			
		 Renminbi (“RMB”)				 75,451 206,459
		 Singapore Dollar (“SGD”)				 551,043 443,120
		 United States Dollar (“USD”)				 1,515,179 3,157,366
		 RM						 6,667,451 2,415,581
								 8,809,124 6,222,526
8.4 The following table provides information about the credit risk exposure on the Group’s trade
receivables using a provision of matrix:-
							 Days past due
										 More
					 Current 1 to 30 31 to 60 61 to 90 91 to 120 than 120
					 days days days days days days Total
					 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
		2024
		Expected credit
		 loss rate		 0.00% to 0.00% to 0.00% to 0.00% to 0.00% to 0.00% to
					 0.67% 0.93% 1.37% 1.97% 2.00% 28.26%
		 Gross carrying
		 amount		 3,691,900 3,486,429 1,129,259 241,335 60,077 388,833 8,997,833
		Expected credit
		 loss			 24,909 32,486 15,473 4,754 1,202 109,885 188,709
		2023
		 Expected credit 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
		 loss rate		 to 0.71% to 0.92% to 1.43% to 2.00% to 87.65%
		 Gross carrying
		 amount		 3,314,059 1,902,866 928,821 117,309 - 130,114 6,393,169
		Expected credit
		 loss			 23,480 17,512 13,261 2,347 - 114,043 170,643
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
100
8. TRADE RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
8.5 The movements in the loss allowance in respect of trade receivables during the financial year
were as follows:-
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
		 At beginning of financial year				 170,643 170,286
		 Recognised during the financial year			 20,287 25,822
		 Reversed during the financial year			 (2,221) (14,397)
		 Written off during the financial year			 - (11,068)
		 At end of financial year				 188,709 170,643
9. OTHER RECEIVABLES
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
							
Non-trade receivables				 963,363 669,413
Deposits						 330,107 186,180
Deposits paid for purchase of property,
plant and equipment				 514,760 10,000
Prepayments					 98,200 201,468
								 1,906,430 1,067,061
In previous financial year, included in deposits were an amount of RM1,350 paid to a Director in
relation to a rental deposit. These amounts were unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on
demand.
Analysis by currencies
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
RMB							 395,879 -
SGD							 168,399 -
USD							 562,955 386,506
RM							 779,197 680,555
								 1,906,430 1,067,061
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 101
10. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
						 Group Company
						 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
							
Cash and bank balances		 9,916,245 13,683,782 22,227 2,577,634
Income fund with a licensed
financial institution (redeemable
upon 1 day notice)		 3,148,688 5,016,350 3,148,688 5,016,350
						 13,064,933 18,700,132 3,170,915 7,593,984
Analysis by currencies
						 Group Company
						 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
RM					 7,487,926 10,273,737 3,170,915 7,593,984
Euro (“EUR”)			 257 258 - -
USD					 4,928,811 6,549,613 - -
SGD					 623,292 1,466,806 - -
RMB					 24,647 409,718 - -
						 13,064,933 18,700,132 3,170,915 7,593,984
11. SHARE CAPITAL AND MERGER DEFICIT
(a) Share capital
							 Group and Company
						 Number of ordinary shares Amount
						 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 Unit Unit RM RM
		 Issued and fully paid with
		 no par value:-						
		 At beginning of financial year		 247,868,000 151,200,000 43,647,453 15,120,002
		 Issued during the financial year - 96,668,000 - 29,967,080
		 Share issuance expenses		 - - - (1,439,629)
		 At end of financial year		 247,868,000 247,868,000 43,647,453 43,647,453
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
102
11. SHARE CAPITAL AND MERGER DEFICIT (CONT’D)
(a) Share capital (cont’d)
The movement of the share capital of the Company during the previous financial year were as
follows:-
(i) On 1 July 2022, the Company issued 96,668,800 units of new ordinary shares at an issue price
of RM0.31 per ordinary share in conjunction with the initial public offering of the Company
pursuant to listing on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The new ordinary shares issued during the previous financial year rank pari passu in all respects
with the existing ordinary shares of the Company.
The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the
Company. An ordinary share carries one vote per share without restrictions and ranks equally
with regard to the Company’s residual assets.
(b) Merger deficit
The merger deficit arises as and when the combination take place, it comprises the difference
between the cost of merger and the nominal value of shares acquired in subsidiaries as disclosed
in Note 5.1 to the financial statements.
12. BORROWINGS
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
Secured			
Current			
- Term loans					 660,878 611,132
- Bankers’ acceptance				 446,000 -
								 1,106,878 611,132
Non-current			
- Term loans					 7,805,441 8,464,446
Total borrowings				 8,912,319 9,075,578
The borrowings are secured by the followings:-
(a) Legal charge over the freehold land and buildings and investment properties as disclosed in
Notes 3 and 4 to the financial statements; and
(b) Corporate guarantee by the Company.
The term loans are repayable on monthly basis and the tenure ranged from 180 to 300 months (2023:
180 to 300 months).
The tenure of the bankers’ acceptance ranged from 59 to 60 days (2023: 30 to 60 days).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 103
12. BORROWINGS (CONT’D)
Maturity of bank borrowings of the Group are as follows:-
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
			
Within 1 year					 1,106,878 611,132
Between 2 to 5 years				 3,037,502 2,815,826
More than 5 years				 4,767,939 5,648,620
								 8,912,319 9,075,578
Interest is charged at rates ranging from 4.51% to 7.65% (2023: 3.18% to 7.65%) per annum.
13. LEASE LIABILITIES
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
Current 			
- less than 1 year 				 328,316 773,790
Non-current			
- between 2 to 5 years				 382,539 781,040
								 710,855 1,554,830
The lease liabilities of the Group bear interest at rates ranging from 3.79% to 6.07% (2023: 2.60% to
6.07%) per annum.
Set out below is the movement of the lease liabilities during the financial year:-
									 Group
									 RM
At 1 July 2022						 1,654,465
Additions							 722,271
Accretion of interests					 122,471
Payment of principal and interests					 (944,377)
At 30 June 2023					 1,554,830
Additions							 124,917
Accretion of interests					 61,584
Payment of principal and interests					 (666,932)
Early termination on lease contract					 (363,544)
At 30 June 2024					 710,855
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
104
13. LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
The following is the amount relating to lease liabilities recognised in profit or loss:-
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
Interest expense on lease liabilities 				 61,584 122,471
The expenses relating to payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities is as follows:-
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
			
Short-term lease 				 20,429 22,201
Material accounting policy information
(a) Recognition exemption
The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term
leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Group
recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line
basis over the lease term.
14. DEFERRED TAX LIABILIITES
						
At beginning Recognised in
							 of financial profit or loss At end of
							 year (Note 20) financial year
							 RM RM RM
Group
2024
Non-current asset					
Property, plant and equipment			 (206,000) 92,000 (114,000)
Current asset					
Trade receivables			 37,000 5,000 42,000
							 (169,000) 97,000 (72,000)
2023
Non-current asset					
Property, plant and equipment			 (223,000) 17,000 (206,000)
Current asset 				
Trade receivables			 33,000 4,000 37,000
							 (190,000) 21,000 (169,000)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 105
15. TRADE PAYABLES
Normal credit terms granted by the suppliers for the Group ranged from cash term to 60 days (2023:
1 to 60 days).
These amounts are unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
Analysis by currencies
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
			
RM							 7,660,106 3,363,141
USD							 245,861 254,243
SGD							 72,808 1,353,210
RMB							 - 7,930
								 7,978,775 4,978,524
16. OTHER PAYABLES
						 Group Company
						 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
							
Non-trade payables		 963,345 303,982 - -
Contract liabilities		 2,113,317 689,238 - -
Accruals				 459,276 450,048 57,464 57,464
Deposits received		 136,300 121,300 - -
Sales and Service Tax payable		 262,158 112,301 - -
Sugar Tax payable		 13,443 - - -
							
						 3,947,839 1,676,869 57,464 57,464
In previous financial year, included in non-trade payables was an amount of RM7,362 due to a
substantial shareholder.
These amounts were unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
Contract liabilities
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
Brought forward				 689,238 156,634
Advance received during the financial year			 7,161,971 569,257
Recognised as revenue during the financial year			 (5,737,892) (36,653)
Carried forward				 2,113,317 689,238
Analysed as:-			
Current						 2,113,317 689,238
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
106
16. OTHER PAYABLES (CONT’D)
The contract liability represents advance deposit received from a customer for purchase of goods
and expected to be recognised as revenue within 1 year.
Analysis by currencies
						 Group Company
						 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
USD					 21,545 379,574 - -
RMB					 16,005 126,683 - -
RM					 3,910,289 1,170,612 57,464 57,464
							
						 3,947,839 1,676,869 57,464 57,464
17. REVENUE
Revenue comprises of the following:-
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
			
Revenue from contract with customers			 74,138,969 58,835,019
The revenue from contract with customers represents sale of goods which recognised at point in time
and the geographical market of the revenue generated are as follows:-
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
Geographical markets			
- Malaysia					 29,247,194 23,172,694
- Republic of Singapore				 3,138,981 3,074,686
- China						 3,657,983 12,760,123
- Papua New Guinea				 24,449,160 10,698,121
- Trinidad and Tobago				 4,003,933 3,952,755
- Others						 9,641,718 5,176,640
								 74,138,969 58,835,019
(a) Sales of goods consists of sales of instant beverages premixes and sales of aloe vera gel. Revenue
is recognised at a point in time upon the delivery of goods to the customers.
(b) The payment terms for billings arising from revenue are disclosed in Note 8 to the financial
statements.
(c) The revenue of the Group contain no elements of variable consideration, obligations for returns
or refund or warranties.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 107
18. FINANCE COSTS
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
Interest expenses			
- lease liabilities				 61,584 122,471
- bankers’ acceptances				 8,213 1,446
- term loans					 487,130 470,316
								 556,927 594,233
19. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX
Profit/(Loss) before tax is determined after charging/(crediting), amongst other, the following items:-
						 Group Company
						 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
Auditors’ remuneration
- Statutory audit		 92,000 90,000 11,000 11,000
Assurance-related services:-
Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT (“GTM”)
- Review of consolidated financial
statements			 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000
- Review of statement on risk
management and internal control 8,000 8,000 8,000 8,000
- Review of other information
contained in annual report		 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000
Non-assurance-related services:-
GTM							
- Agreed upon procedures		 - 3,500 - -
Other services:-
Tax compliance
- GTM				 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000
- Non-GTM 			 11,000 11,000 - -
Depreciation of right- of-use assets		 616,650 889,803 - -
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment		 1,597,673 1,645,887 - -
Depreciation of investment properties 80,036 59,432 - -
Directors’ fee			 281,000 276,000 281,000 276,000
Loss allowances on trade receivables 20,287 25,822 - -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
108
19. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX (CONT’D)
Profit/(Loss) before tax is determined after charging/(crediting), amongst other, the following items
(cont’d):-
						 Group Company
						 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
Reversal of loss allowance on
trade receivables		 (2,221) (14,397) - -
Foreign exchange loss:-
- Realised				 531,770 2,956 - -
- Unrealised 			 31,406 84,133 - -
Short-term leases: 					
- Hostel				 9,300 5,400 - -
- Equipment			 550 10,200 - -
- Pallets				 10,579 6,601 - -
Rental income			 (164,250) (107,050) - -
Interest income:
- Bank				 (169,363) (367,820) (27,970) (297,196)
- Income fund			 (114,578) (16,350) (114,578) (16,350)
Interest expenses		 556,927 594,233 - -
Inventories written off		 56,834 150,627 - -
Property, plant and equipment
written off			 5,744 175 - -
Bad debts written off		 8,062 - - -
Reversal of impairment loss on
investment properties		 - (33,530) - -
Gain on early termination of
lease contract		 (38,100) - - -
Listing expenses		 - 2,253,546 - 2,253,546
20. TAX EXPENSE
						 Group Company
						 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
							
Current tax expense
Current financial year		 1,883,870 1,248,906 - -
Over provision in prior financial year (248,915) (194,544) - -
							
Total current tax recognised in
profit or loss			 1,634,955 1,054,362 - -
							
Deferred tax expense
Current financial year 		 (97,000) (100,000) - -
Under recognised of deferred tax
in prior financial year		 - 79,000 - -
							
							
Total deferred tax recognised in
profit or loss (Note 14)		 (97,000) (21,000) - -
							
Total tax expense		 1,537,955 1,033,362 - -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 109
20. TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)
Reconciliation of tax expense applicable to profit/(loss) before tax at statutory tax rate to tax expense
at the effective tax rate of the Group and of the Company is as follow:-
						 Group Company
						 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
							
Profit/(Loss) before tax		 5,646,846 151,069 (484,066) (2,488,246)
Tax at Malaysian statutory tax
rate of 24% 			 1,355,243 36,256 (116,176) (597,179)
Tax effects in respect of:-
Income not subject to tax		 (141,002) (95,202) (34,212) (75,251)
Expenses not deductible for
tax purposes			 605,509 1,188,172 150,388 672,430
Movement of deferred tax
assets not recognised		 (32,880) 19,680 - -
Over provision of current tax
in prior financial year		 (248,915) (194,544) - -
Under recognised of deferred
tax in prior financial year		 - 79,000 - -
						 1,537,955 1,033,362 - -
As at 30 June 2024, the Group has unabsorbed tax losses and unutilised capital allowances amounting
to approximately RM562,000 and RM404,000 (2023: RM699,000 and RM404,000) respectively which
are available to offset against future taxable profits.
The potential deferred tax assets of the Group are not recognised in the financial statements as it is
anticipated that the tax effect of such benefits will not be recognised in the foreseeable future.
Unutilised capital allowances do not expire under current tax legislation while unabsorbed tax losses
for which no deferred tax assets were recognised expire as follows:-
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
			
Year of assessment 2028				 363,000 363,000
Year of assessment 2031				 35,000 172,000
Year of assessment 2032				 82,000 82,000
Year of assessment 2033				 82,000 82,000
								 562,000 699,000
Any amounts not utilised upon expiry period of the above year of assessment will be disregarded.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
110
21. EARNINGS/(LOSS) PER SHARE
Basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per ordinary share
The calculation of basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per ordinary share was based on the profit/(loss)
for the financial year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company and number of ordinary
shares issued calculated as follows:-
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
Profit/(Loss) attributable to owners of the Company			 4,108,891 (882,293)
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (units)			 247,868,000 246,808,625
			
Basic and diluted earnings/(loss) per share (cent)			 1.66 (0.36)
22. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSES
						 Group Company
						 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
Salaries, wages and other emoluments 7,687,364 7,481,659 7,200 6,600
Defined contribution plan		 469,394 427,117 - -
Social security contribution		 55,649 47,469 - -
Other benefits			 98,503 89,963 - -
						 8,310,910 8,046,208 7,200 6,600
Included in the employee benefits expenses is aggregate amount of remuneration received and
receivable by the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors of the Group and of the Company
during the financial year as below:-
						 Group Company
						 2024 2023 2024 2023
						 RM RM RM RM
Salaries, wages and other emoluments 1,322,845 1,114,090 7,200 6,600
Defined contribution plan		 89,453 82,200 - -
Social security contribution		 5,056 4,124 - -
Other benefits			 8,330 230 - -
						 1,425,684 1,200,644 7,200 6,600
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 111
22. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSES (CONT’D)
Included in the employee benefits expenses are aggregate amount of remuneration received and
receivable by the key management personnel (other than Directors) of the Group during the financial
year as below:-
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
Key management personnel remuneration
Salaries, wages and other emoluments			 653,339 584,505
Defined contribution plan				 66,413 54,780
Social security contribution				 3,120 2,703
Other benefits					 5,342 5,109
								 728,214 647,097
23. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
(a) The related party transactions of the Group, other than disclosed elsewhere in the financial
statements are as follows:-
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
		 Leases paid to a Director of the Group and of the Company		 5,400 5,400
			
		 Sales to a substantial shareholder			 4,761,366 6,010,697
			
(b) Outstanding related party balances arising from related party transactions as at the reporting
date are disclosed in Notes 5, 8, 9 and 16 to the financial statements.
(c) Key management personnel are defined as the person having authority and responsibility
for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group and of the Company either
directly or indirectly. Remuneration of key management personnel and Directors are disclosed
in Note 22 to the financial statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
112
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Categories of financial instruments
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows:-
(a) Financial assets measured at amortised cost (“FA”); and
(b) Other financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (“OFL”).
							 Carrying
							 amount FA OFL
							 RM RM RM
Group			 		
2024
Financial assets					
Trade receivables			 8,809,124 8,809,124 -
Other receivables			 1,808,230 1,808,230 -
Cash and cash equivalents			 13,064,933 13,064,933 -
							 23,682,287 23,682,287 -
Financial liabilities					
Trade payables			 7,978,775 - 7,978,775
Other payables			 1,558,921 - 1,558,921
Borrowings				 8,912,319 - 8,912,319
							 18,450,015 - 18,450,015
2023
Financial assets					
Trade receivables			 6,222,526 6,222,526 -
Other receivables			 865,593 865,593 -
Cash and cash equivalents			 18,700,132 18,700,132 -
							 25,788,251 25,788,251 -
Financial liabilities					
Trade payables			 4,978,524 - 4,978,524
Other payables			 875,330 - 875,330
Borrowings				 9,075,578 - 9,075,578
							 14,929,432 - 14,929,432
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 113
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Categories of financial instruments (cont’d)
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows (cont’d):-
(a) Financial assets measured at amortised cost (“FA”); and
(b) Other financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (“OFL”).
							 Carrying
							 amount FA OFL
							 RM RM RM
Company					
2024
Financial assets					
Amount due from a subsidiary			 21,657,576 21,657,576 -
Cash and cash equivalents 			 3,170,915 3,170,915 -
							 24,828,491 24,828,491 -
Financial liability
Other payables			 57,464 - 57,464
2023					
Financial assets					
Amount due from a subsidiary			 17,967,107 17,967,107 -
Cash and cash equivalents 			 7,593,984 7,593,984 -
							 25,561,091 25,561,091 -
Financial liability					
Other payables			 57,464 - 57,464
Financial risk management objectives and policies
24.1 Financial risks
The Group and the Company are exposed to various risks in relation to financial instruments. The
main types of risks are credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and equity
price risk.
Financial risk management policy is established to ensure that adequate resources are available
for the development of the Group’s and of the Company’s business whilst managing its credit
risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk, foreign currency risk and equity price risk. The Group and the
Company operate within clearly defined policies and procedures that are approved by the
Board of Directors to ensure the effectiveness of the risk management process.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
114
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
24.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows:-
24.1.1 Credit risk
		 Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group and the Company if a customer or
counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations. It is the
Group’s and the Company’s policy to enter into financial instrument with a diversity
of creditworthy counterparties. The Group and the Company do not expect to incur
material credit losses on its financial assets or the financial instruments.
		 Concentration of credit risk exists when changes in economic, industry and geographical
factors similarly affect the group of counterparties whose aggregate credit exposure
is significant in relation to the Group’s and the Company’s total credit exposure. The
Group’s and the Company’s portfolio of financial instrument is broadly diversified along
industry, product and geographical lines, and transactions are entered into with diverse
creditworthy counterparties, thereby mitigate any significant concentration of credit risk.
		 It is the Group’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms are subject
to credit verification procedures. The Group and the Company do not offer credit terms
without the approval of the management.
		 The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts of each class
of financial assets recognised in the statement of financial position.
		 The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk are as follows:-
		Receivables
		 Receivables are monitored on an ongoing basis to mitigate risk of bad debts. The
Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of
each customer. However, management also considers the factors that may influence
the credit risk of its customer base, including the default risk associated with the industry
in which customers operate.
		 The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties.
Management has a credit policy in place to control credit risk by dealing with creditworthy
counterparties and deposit with banks and financial institution with good credit rating.
The exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis and action will be taken for
long outstanding debts.
		 Information regarding the Group’s exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade receivables
is disclosed in Note 8.4 to the financial statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 115
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
24.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
24.1.1 Credit risk (cont’d)
		 The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk are as follows
(cont’d):-
		 Receivables (cont’d)
		
Concentration of credit risk
		 Concentration of credit risk exists when changes in economic, industry and geographical
factors similarly affect the group of counterparties whose aggregate credit exposure
is significant in relation to the Group’s total credit exposure. The Group’s portfolio of
financial instrument is broadly diversified along geographical lines and transactions are
entered into with diverse creditworthy counterparties, thereby mitigate any significant
concentration of credit risk.
		 In respect of the trade receivables, the Group is not subjected to significant credit
risk exposure to any single counterparty or a group of counterparties having similar
characteristics except that 43% (2023: 41%) of the Group’s trade receivables were due
from three (2023: three) major customers.
		 In respect of other receivables, the Group and the Company are not subjected to any
significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or a group of counterparties
having similar risk characteristics.
		 The net carrying amount of receivables is considered a reasonable approximate of its
fair value. The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying value of each class of
receivables as disclosed in Notes 8 and 9 to the financial statements.
		 With a credit policy in place to ensure the credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis, the
management has taken reasonable steps to ensure that receivables are stated at their
realisable values. A significant portion of the receivables are regular customers that have
been transacting with the Group. The Group uses ageing analysis to monitor the credit
quality of the receivables. Any receivables having significant balances past due more
than credit terms granted are deemed to have higher credit risk, and are monitored
individually.
		 Intercompany loans and advances
		 The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by its carrying amounts in the
statements of financial position.
		 The Company provides unsecured advances to a subsidiary and monitors its repayment
regularly.
		 As at the reporting date, there was no indication that advances to a subsidiary is not
recoverable.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
116
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
24.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
24.1.1 Credit risk (cont’d)
		 The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk are as follows
(cont’d):-
		 Cash and cash equivalents
		 The credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is considered negligible, since the
counterparties are reputable banks with high quality external credit ratings.
		 Financial guarantees
		 The Company provides unsecured financial guarantees to financial institutions in respect
of banking facilities granted to subsidiaries. The Company monitors on an on-going basis
the results of the borrowers and their repayments to the financial institution. As at the
end of the reporting date, there was no indication that any subsidiaries will default in
repayments.
		 The maximum exposure to credit risk to the Company is RM7,483,258 (2023: RM7,612,474),
represented by the outstanding banking facilities utilised by the subsidiaries as at the
reporting date.
24.1.2 Liquidity risk
		 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet its
financial obligations as and when they fall due, due to shortage of funds.
		 In managing its exposures to liquidity risk arises principally from its various payables,
borrowings and lease liabilities. The Group and the Company maintain a level of cash
and cash equivalents and bank facilities deemed adequate by the management to
ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as and
when they fall due.
		 The Group and the Company aim at maintaining a balance of sufficient cash and deposits
and flexibility in funding by keeping diverse sources of committed and uncommitted
credit facilities from various banks.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 117
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
24.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
24.1.2 Liquidity risk (cont’d)
		 The summary of the maturity profile based on contractual undiscounted repayment
obligations is as follow:-
						 Current Non-current
									 Total
						 Within 2 to 5 More than contractual
						 1 year years 5 years cash flows
						 RM RM RM RM
Group
		2024
		 Borrowings		 1,553,336 4,429,344 6,118,458 12,101,138
		 Lease liabilities		 357,251 400,666 - 757,917
		 Trade payables		 7,978,775 - - 7,978,775
		 Other payables		 1,558,921 - - 1,558,921
		 Total undiscounted
		 financial liabilities		 11,448,283 4,830,010 6,118,458 22,396,751
		
2023
		 Borrowings		 1,094,916 4,379,664 6,942,567 12,417,147
		 Lease liabilities		 846,021 818,235 - 1,664,256
		 Trade payables		 4,978,524 - - 4,978,524
		 Other payables		 875,330 - - 875,330
		 Total undiscounted
		 financial liabilities		 7,794,791 5,197,899 6,942,567 19,935,257
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
118
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
24.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
24.1.2 Liquidity risk (cont’d)
		 The summary of the maturity profile based on contractual undiscounted repayment
obligations is as follow (cont’d):-
						 Current Non-current
									 Total
						 Within 2 to 5 More than contractual
						 1 year years 5 years cash flows
						 RM RM RM RM
		Company
		2024
		 Other payables		 57,464 - - 57,464
		 Total undiscounted
		 financial liability		 57,464 - - 57,464
		 Financial guarantees*		 7,483,258 - - 7,483,258
		
2023					
		 Other payables		 57,464 - - 57,464
		 Total undiscounted
		 financial liability		 57,464 - - 57,464
		 Financial guarantees*		 7,612,474 - - 7,612,474
* This exposure is included in liquidity risk for illustration only. No financial guarantee was
called upon by the holders as at the end of reporting year.
24.1.3 Interest rate risk
		 Interest rate risk is caused by changes in market interest rate resulting in fluctuation in
fair value or future cash flow of financial instruments of the Group. The Group’s interest
rate management objective is to manage the interest expenses to be consistent with
maintaining an acceptable level of exposure to interest rate fluctuation.
		 The Group’s borrowings at variable interest rates exposed to the risk of change in cash flow
due to changes in interest rate. Short term receivables and payables are not significantly
exposed to any interest rate risk.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 119
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
24.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
24.1.3 Interest rate risk (cont’d)
		 Interest rate sensitivity analysis
		 The Group is exposed to changes in market interest rates through bank borrowings at
variable interest rates. Other borrowings are at fixed interest rates. The following is interest
rate profile of the significant interest-bearing financial instrument, based on carrying
amounts as at the reporting date:-
							 Group
							 2024 2023
							RM RM
		 Fixed rate instruments				
		
Financial liabilities				
		 Lease liabilities				 710,855 1,554,830
		 Bankers’ acceptances				 446,000 -
							 1,156,855 1,554,830
		
Floating rate instrument				
		
Financial liability				
		 Term loans				 8,466,319 9,075,578
		 The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and financial liabilities at
fair value through profit or loss, and the Group does not designate derivatives as hedging
instruments under a fair value hedge accounting model. Therefore, a change in interest
rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
		 The following illustrates the sensitivity of profit to a reasonably possible change in interest
rates of +/- 25 (2023: +/- 25) basis points (“bp”). These changes are considered to be
reasonably possible based on observation of current market conditions. The calculations
are based on a change in the average market interest rate for each period, and the
financial instruments held at each reporting date that are sensitive to changes in interest
rates. All other variables are held constant.
						 Effect on profit/(loss)/equity
							 for the financial year
								 25bp 25bp
								 increase decrease
							RM RM
		
Group			
		 2024				 21,166 (21,166)
		 2023				 (22,689) 22,689
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
120
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
24.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
24.1.4 Foreign currency risk
		 Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial
instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
		 The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated
in a currency other than the functional currency of Group. The currencies giving rise to
these risks are primarily SGD, RMB, USD and EUR.
		 The Group’s exposures to foreign currency risk, based on carrying amounts as at the
reporting date was disclosed in the respective financial assets and financial liabilities note
to the financial statements.
		 Carrying amounts of the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk are as follows:-
					 SGD RMB USD EUR
					 RM RM RM RM
Group
		2024
		 Financial assets
		 Trade receivables		 551,043 75,451 1,515,179 -
		 Other receivables		 168,399 395,879 562,955 -
		 Cash and cash equivalents 623,292 24,647 4,928,811 257
		
Financial liabilities
		 Trade payables		 (72,808) - (245,861) -
		 Other payables		 - (16,005) (21,545) -
		 Net exposure		 1,269,926 479,972 6,739,539 257
		
2023
		
Financial assets					
		 Trade receivables		 443,120 206,459 3,157,366 -
		 Other receivables		 - - 386,506 -
		 Cash and cash equivalents 1,466,806 409,718 6,549,613 258
		 Financial liabilities
		 Trade payables		 (1,353,210) (7,930) (254,243) -
		 Other payables		 - (126,683) (379,574) -
		 Net exposure		 556,716 481,564 9,459,668 258
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 121
24. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
24.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
24.1.4 Foreign currency risk (cont’d)
		 Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
		 Exposures to foreign exchange rates vary during the financial year depending on the
volume of overseas transactions.
		 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to profit or loss/equity with regards to the
Group’s financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in the SGD, RMB, USD and
EUR exchange rates against the functional currency of the Group, with all other variables
held constant.
							 Effect on profit
							 or loss /equity
							 Group
							 2024 2023
							RM RM
			
		 SGD/RM - strengthened 2% 			 (134,791) 11,134
			 - weakened 2%			 134,791 (11,134)
		 RMB/RM - strengthened 2%			 (9,599) 9,631
			 - weakened 2% 			 9,599 (9,631)
		 USD/RM - strengthened 2%			 (25,399) 189,193
			 - weakened 2% 			 25,399 (189,193)
		 EUR/RM - strengthened 2%			 (5) 5
			 - weakened 2% 			 5 (5)
The assumed movement in the above foreign currency rate for the foreign currency exchange
rate sensitivity analysis is based on the prudent estimate of the current market environment.
The exposure to foreign exchange risk varies during the financial year depending on the volume
of overseas transactions. Nonetheless, the analysis above is considered to be representative of
the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
122
25. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT
The carrying amounts of financial assets of the Group and of the Company at the reporting date
approximate their fair value due to their short-term nature or that they are floating rate instruments that
are re-priced to market interest rate on or near reporting date or insignificant impact of discounting.
25.1 Fair value hierarchy
As at the reporting date, the Group and the Company have no financial instruments that are
measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value and hence fair value hierarchy is not
presented.
26. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
Authorised and contracted for:
- Plant and machinery				 946,326 34,160
- Software					 - 3,212,985
- Construction of new factory				 7,114,328 6,457,469
								 8,060,654 9,704,614
27. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group is principally involved in a single segment, i.e. manufacturing and sales of health
supplements and beverages. Hence, there was no disclosure of segment results, assets and liabilities.
For management purposes, the management has analysed its business activities into types of business
activities and geographical market of its revenue in making decisions about resource allocation and
performance assessment.
Segment reporting
							 Group
								 2024 2023
								 RM RM
Revenue by business activities:
- Provision of instant beverage premixes manufacturing services
		 for third party brand owners				 73,454,495 58,163,528
- Others *					 684,474 671,491
								 74,138,969 58,835,019
* Comprise of sale of house brands instant beverage premixes and aloe vera gel.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 123
27. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)
Geographical information
Revenue information based on the geographical location of customers are disclosed in Note 17 to
the financial statements.
The Group’s non-current assets are all located in Malaysia.
Major customers
Revenue from four (2023: four) major customers amount to RM39,107,005 (2023: RM36,042,309) of the
Group.
28. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The primary objective of the Group’s and the Company’s capital management is to ensure that they
maintain a strong credit rating and financially prudent capital ratios in order to support their current
business as well as future expansion so as to maximise shareholders’ value.
The Group and the Company manage their capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light
of changes in economic conditions. To maintain and adjust the capital structure, the Group and
the Company may adjust dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue
new shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the financial year
ended 30 June 2024 and 30 June 2023.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
124
GROUP PROPERTIES
AS AT 30 JUNE 2024
Location of Properties Tenure
Land Area
/ Built Up
Area
Description
Approximate
Age of
Building
Date of
Acquisition
Carrying
Amount
as at
30.06.2024
RM’000
Orgapharma Herbal
Manufacturing Sdn.
Bhd.
Geran 236022, Lot
11288, Mukim of
Beranang, District of
Ulu Langat, State of
Selangor / No. 11,
Jalan Kesuma 2/3,
Bandar Tasik Kesuma,
43700 Beranang,
Selangor
Freehold 57,619 sq ft
/ 31,894.27
sq ft
Industrial
land with a
single storey
detached
factory
annexed
with 2-storey
offices with
a guard
house
20 years 15/10/2010 2,825
Orgabio Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
HS(M) 8079, PT No.
29951, Tempat Bangi,
Mukim of Semenyih,
District of Hulu Langat,
State of Selangor /
Lot 29951, HSM 8079,
Jalan Bangi, Mukim
Semenyih, 43500
Semenyih, Selangor
Freehold 87,123 sq ft Construction
of our new
factory in
Semenyih
N/A 4/7/2017 8,100
Geran 23546, Lot
10730, Mukim of
Beranang, District of
Hulu Langat, State
of Selangor / No. 29,
Jalan Kesuma 1/12,
Bandar Tasik Kesuma,
43700 Beranang,
Selangor
Freehold 1,076 sq ft /
1,911 sq ft
Double
storey
terrace
house
22 years 22/06/2017 329
Geran 127767 PT8998
Mukim of Beranang,
District of Hulu Langat,
State of Selangor / No.
16, Jalan Kesuma 1/14,
Bandar Tasik Kesuma,
43700 Beranang,
Selangor
Freehold 1,076 sq ft /
1,500 sq ft
Double
storey
terrace
house
22 years 5/03/2020 340
HSM 6390 PT32955
Tempat Setul, Mukim
of Setul, State of
Negeri Sembilan / Lot
6, Project Kawasan
Perindustrian Ringan
Mantin, No. 24, Jalan
KPRM 1, Kawasan
Perindustrian Ringan
Mantin, 71700 Negeri
Sembilan
Freehold 2,700 sq ft /
2,700 sq ft
Single storey
terrace
factory
7 years 25/11/2016 564
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 125
GROUP PROPERTIES
AS AT 30 JUNE 2024 (CONT’D)
Location of Properties Tenure
Land Area
/ Built Up
Area
Description
Approximate
Age of
Building
Date of
Acquisition
Carrying
Amount
as at
30.06.2024
RM’000
HSM 6389 PT32954
Tempat Setul, Mukim
of Setul, State of
Negeri Sembilan / Lot
7, Project Kawasan
Perindustrian Ringan
Mantin, No. 25, Jalan
KPRM 1, Kawasan
Perindustrian Ringan
Mantin, 71700 Negeri
Sembilan
Freehold 4,033 sq ft /
4,033 sq ft
Single storey
terrace
factory
7 years 25/11/2016 841
Orgapharma
Marketing Sdn. Bhd.
Geran 235147 Lot
10632, Mukim of
Beranang, District of
Hulu Langat, State
of Selangor / No. 14,
Jalan Kesuma 1/14,
Bandar Tasik Kesuma,
43700 Beranang,
Selangor
Freehold 1,076 sq ft /
1,320 sq ft
Double
storey
terrace
house
22 years 27/07/2016 260
Geran 235322 Lot
10706, Mukim of
Beranang, District of
Hulu Langat, State
of Selangor / No. 20,
Jalan Kesuma 1/13,
Bandar Tasik Kesuma,
43700 Beranang,
Selangor
Freehold 1,345 sq ft /
1,847 sq ft
Double
storey
terrace
house
22 years 30/06/2016 260
HS(D) 173129, PT15738,
Mukim of Beranang,
District of Hulu Langat,
State of Selangor / 16-
2, Jalan Eco Majestic
9/1B, Eco Majestic,
43500 Semenyih,
Selangor
Freehold 1,916 sq ft /
3,833 sq ft
2-storey
shoplots
7 years 24/03/2015 1,332
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
126
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2024
SHARE CAPITAL
Total Number of Issued Shares : 247,868,000
Issued Share Capital : RM43,647,453
Class of Shares 		 : Ordinary Shares
Voting Rights 			 : One vote for each ordinary share held
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2024
						 No. of % of No. of % of
						 holders shareholders holdings shares
					
1 – 99					 10 0.61 61 0.00
100 - 1,000				 237 14.33 93,840 0.04
1,001 - 10,000				 701 42.38 4,281,700 1.73
10,001 - 100,000			 596 36.03 20,846,601 8.41
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 107 6.47 51,659,000 20.84
5% and above of issued shares 		 3 0.18 170,986,798 68.98
						 1,654 100.00 247,868,000 100.00
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2024
(as per the Register of Substantial Shareholders)
						 Direct % Indirect %
						
1. Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd. 		 151,199,998 61.00 -		 -
2. Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin 		 509,000 0.21 153,665,098 (a) 61.99
3. Datin Lai You Mooi		 - - 154,174,098 (a) 62.20
4. Ean Yong Hian Wah		 25,000 0.01 154,149,098 (a) 62.19
5. Ean Yong Hien Voon 		 400,000 0.16 153,774,098 (a) 62.04
6. Ean Yong Hien Chal 		 450,000 0.18 153,724,098 (a) 62.02
7. Ean Yong Han Khian 		 410,300 0.17 153,763,798 (a) 62.03
8. Ean Yong Hen Loen 		 240,000 0.10 153,934,098 (a) 62.10
9. Ean Yong Sik Siew 		 - - 154,174,098 (a) 62.20
10. Hai-O Enterprise Berhad (b) 		 24,786,800 10.00 -		 -
11. Beshom Holdings Berhad 		 - - 24,786,800 (c) 10.00
12. Tan Keng Kang		 - - 24,786,800 (d) 10.00
Notes:
(a) Deemed interested by virtue of their shareholdings in Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section
8 of the Companies Act 2016 and family members’ shareholdings in Orgabio.
(b) Hai-O Enterprise Berhad is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Beshom Holdings Berhad.
(c) Deemed interested by virtue of its interest in Hai-O Enterprise Berhad pursuant to Section 8 of the
Companies Act 2016.
(d) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016, by virtue of his and his family
interest in Beshom Holdings Berhad, the holding company of Hai-O Enterprise Berhad, which in turn
hold not less than 20% voting shares in Beshom Holdings Berhad.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 127
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2024 (CONT’D)
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2024
(as per the Register of Directors’ Shareholding)
						 Direct % Indirect %
						
1. Ean Yong Hian Wah 		 25,000 0.01 154,149,098 (a) 62.19
2. Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin 		 509,000 0.21 153,665,098 (a) 61.99
3. Ean Yong Hien Voon 		 400,000 0.16 153,774,098 (a) 62.04
4. Ean Yong Hen Loen 		 240,000 0.10 153,934,098 (a) 62.10
5. Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew		 - - -		 -
6. Dr. Teh Chee Ghee 		 - - -		 -
7. Phang Sze Fui 			 100,000 0.04 -		 -
8. Tay Bee Koo 			 - - -		 -
Notes:
(a) Deemed interested by virtue of their shareholdings in Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section
8 of the Companies Act 2016 and family members’ shareholdings in Orgabio.
LIST OF TOP 30 LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNTS HOLDERS
(ACCORDING TO THE REGISTER OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2024)
					 No. of shares % of shares
			
1. EAN YONG @ SONS SDN. BHD. 75,000,000 30.26
2. EAN YONG @ SONS SDN. BHD. 71,199,998 28.72
3. HAI-O ENTERPRISE BERHAD 24,786,800 10.00
4. CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 9,600,000 3.87
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN BOON CHAI (MY1175)
5. RHB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 5,000,000 2.02
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR EAN YONG & SONS SDN. BHD.
6. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 2,769,900 1.12
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHEN TAM CHAI
7. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 2,500,000 1.01
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR YOUNG CHUAN KIM (E-KTU)
8. LIEW FOOK MENG 1,608,000 0.65
9. NG MING KAI 		 1,300,000 0.52
10. CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN. BHD. 1,091,700 0.44
EXEMPT AN FOR BARCLAYS CAPITAL SECURITIES LTD (SBL/PB)
11. HO HUEY CHUIN 1,044,800 0.42
12. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 887,100 0.36
CHAN YIN KHUAN
13. HONG FOO KOON 800,000 0.32
14. TAN BOON CHAI 800,000 0.32
15. WONG YEE PING 786,500 0.32
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
128
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2024 (CONT’D)
LIST OF TOP 30 LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNTS HOLDERS (CONT’D)
(ACCORDING TO THE REGISTER OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 30 SEPTEMBER 2024)
					 No. of shares % of shares
			
16. YAP HOCK LEE 724,900 0.29
17. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 700,000 0.28
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TOO KOK THAI (E-BPJ)
18. GOH LEE HIAN 650,000 0.26
19. TOH SENG KONG 602,000 0.24
20. SIEW LIP SUNG 		 600,700 0.24
21. RHB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 589,000 0.24
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TOH ENG KEAT
22. TAN SAY YONG 517,500 0.21
23. DATO’ EAN YONG TIN SIN 509,000 0.21
24. SONG CHOON MENG 471,100 0.19
25. YEO TIEW BOON @ YEO CHEE WEE 465,000 0.19
26. RHB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD. 463,000 0.19
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR GOH CHUNG KIAT
27. EAN YONG HIEN CHAL 450,000 0.18
28. EAU YONG CHIN KHOON 432,000 0.17
29. EAN YONG HAN KHIAN 410,300 0.17
30. WAN CHIN FOO 400,000 0.16
TOTAL 						
207,159,298 83.57
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 129
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Please refer to
Explanatory Note 1
Ordinary Resolution 1
Ordinary Resolution 2
Ordinary Resolution 3
Ordinary Resolution 4
Ordinary Resolution 5
Ordinary Resolution 6
Ordinary Resolution 7
Ordinary Resolution 8
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Sixth (6th) Annual General Meeting of Orgabio Holdings Berhad
(“Orgabio” or “the Company”) will be held at Lot 27600, Jalan Helium, Kawasan Perindustrian Sungai
Purun, Jalan Bangi Lama, 43500 Semenyih, Selangor Darul Ehsan on Thursday, 28 November 2024 at 10.00
a.m., or any adjournment thereof, for the purpose of transacting the following businesses:
AGENDA
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30
June 2024 together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.
2. To approve the payment of directors’ fees and other benefits payable of
up to RM324,000 to be divided amongst the Directors in such manner as the
Directors may determine for the period commencing from 28 November 2024
until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
3. To re-elect the following directors who retire pursuant to Clause 115 of the
Company’s Constitution:
(a) Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin
(b) Dr. Teh Chee Ghee
(c) Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew
		
4. To re-elect the following directors who retire pursuant to Clause 125 of the
Company’s Constitution:
		
(a) Mr Ean Yong Hian Wah
(b) Madam Tay Bee Koo
5. To re-appoint Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT as External Auditors of the
Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
SPECIAL BUSINESSES :
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolution:
		
6. Authority to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the
Companies Act 2016
“THAT pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the
Act”) and subject to the approvals of the relevant governmental/regulatory
authorities, the Directors be and are hereby empowered to issue shares in
the capital of the Company from time to time and upon such terms and
conditions and for such purposes as the Directors, may in their absolute
discretion deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares issued
pursuant to this resolution does not exceed 10% of the issued share capital of
the Company for the time being and that the Directors be and are hereby
also empowered to obtain approval from the Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad for the listing and quotation of the additional shares so issued and
that such authority shall continue to be in force until the conclusion of the
next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
AND THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act to be read together with Clause
70 of the Constitution of the Company, approval be and is hereby given for
the Company to waive the statutory pre-emptive rights of the shareholders
and empower the Directors of the Company to issue and allot new ordinary
shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act without offering them to the
existing members to maintain their relative voting and distribution right and
such new shares shall rank pari passu in all respects with the existing class of
ordinary shares.”
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
130
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
Ordinary Resolution 9
7. Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related
Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature (“Proposed Shareholders’
Mandate”)
		
“THAT, subject to compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and
guidelines, approval be and is hereby given to the Company and/or its
subsidiaries to enter into Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a revenue
or trading nature with related parties as set out in Section 2.4 of the Circular
to Shareholders dated 30 October 2024 for the purposes of Rule 10.09 of
the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Listing Requirements”), subject to the following:
(i) the transactions are necessary for the day-to-day operations of the
Company’s subsidiary in the ordinary course of business, at arm’s length,
on normal commercial terms and are on terms not more favourable to
the related party than those generally available to the public and not
detrimental to minority shareholders of the Company;
(ii) the mandate is subject to annual renewal. In this respect, any authority
conferred by a mandate shall only continue to be in force until:
(a) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of
the Company, at which time it will lapse, unless by a resolution
passed at the meeting, the authority is renewed;
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM after the
date it is required to be held pursuant to Section 340 (2) of the
Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”) (but shall not extend to such
extension as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340 (4) of the
Act); or
(c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in a
general meeting,
		 whichever is the earlier.
(iii) disclosure is made in the annual report of the Company of the
breakdown of the aggregate value of the Recurrent Related Party
Transactions conducted pursuant to the mandate during the current
financial year, and in the annual reports for the subsequent financial
years during which a shareholder’s mandate is in force, where:
(a) the consideration, value of the assets, capital outlay or costs of
the aggregated transactions is equal to or exceeds RM1.0 million;
or
(b) any one of the percentage ratios of such aggregated transactions
is equal to or exceeds 1%,
		 whichever is the lower;
		 and amongst others, based on the following information:
(a) the type of the Recurrent Related Party Transactions made; and
(b) the names of the related parties involved in each type of the
Recurrent Related Party Transactions made and their relationships
with Orgabio Group.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 131
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to
complete and do all such acts and things to give effect to the transactions
contemplated and/or authorised by this Ordinary Resolution.”
		
8. To transact any other business of the Company for which due notice shall
have been given.
By order of the Board,
CHONG VOON WAH (SSM PC No. 202008001343) (MAICSA 7055003)
THAI KIAN YAU (SSM PC No. 202008001515) (MIA 36921)
Company Secretaries
Kuala Lumpur
30 October 2024
Notes:
1. Only depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 21 November 2024 shall be
regarded as members and be entitled to attend, participate, speak and vote at the 6th AGM.
2. A member shall be entitled to appoint another person as his/her proxy to exercise all or any of his/
her rights to attend, participate, speak and vote in his/her stead pursuant to Section 334 of the
Companies Act 2016. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy.
3. Where a member of the Company is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary shares in
the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“Omnibus Account”), there
is no limit to the number of proxies which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect of
each Omnibus Account it holds.
4. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she
specifies the proportion of his/her shareholding to be represented by each proxy.
5. Any alterations in the Proxy Form must be initialed by the member.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his/her
attorney duly authorised in writing. If the appointer is a corporation, the instrument must be executed
under its Common Seal or under the hand of an attorney so authorised.
7. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which
it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power of attorney, must be deposited at the Share
Registrar’s office, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Sdn. Bhd. at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical
Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or
its Customer Service at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8,
Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
appointed for holding this meeting or any adjournment thereof as Rule 8.31A(1) of the ACE Market
Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities requires all resolutions set out in the Notice of 6th AGM to vote
by poll. You may also submit the proxy form electronically via TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online
no later than Tuesday, 26 November 2024 at 10.00 a.m. Kindly refer to the Administrative Details on
the procedures for electronic lodgement of proxy form via TIIH Online.
8. Pursuant to Rule 8.31A of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all
resolutions set out in the Notice will be put to vote by way of poll.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
132
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
EXPLANATORY NOTES
1. Audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year Ended 30 June 2024
Agenda No. 1 is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1) (a) of the Companies Act 2016 provides
that the audited financial statements are to be laid in the general meeting and do not require the
formal approval of the shareholders. Hence, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.
2. Ordinary Resolution 1: To Approve the Payment of Directors’ Fees and Other Benefits Payable
Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016, the fees of the Directors and any benefits
payable to the Directors of a listed company and its subsidiaries shall be approved at a general
meeting.
The Directors’ fees and other benefits payable are calculated based on the number of scheduled
Board and Committee Meetings to be held for the period commencing from 28 November 2024
until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and assuming that all the
Directors will hold office until the end of the subject financial year.
This resolution is to facilitate payment of Directors’ fees and allowances on a monthly basis and/or as
and when required. In the event the Directors’ fees and allowances proposed is insufficient (e.g. due
to more meetings), approval will be sought at the next Annual General Meeting for additional fees to
meet the shortfall.
3. Ordinary Resolutions 2 and 6: Re-election of Directors
The following Directors are standing for re-election as Directors of the Company pursuant to the
following clauses of the Company’s Constitution at the 6th Annual General Meeting of the Company
and are being eligible have offered themselves for re-election in accordance with the Company’s
Constitution:
(a) Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin (Clause 115);
(b) Dr. Teh Chee Ghee (Clause 115);
(c) Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew (Clause 115);
(d) Mr Ean Yong Hian Wah (Clause 125); and
(e) Madam Tay Bee Koo (Clause 125).
(collectively referred to as “Retiring Directors”)
For the purpose of determining the eligibility of the Retiring Directors to stand for re-election at the 6th
Annual General Meeting, the Board through its Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”)
had assessed the Retiring Directors, and considered the following:
(a) The Directors’ performance and contribution;
(b) The Directors’ skills, experience and strength in qualities; and
(c) The Directors’ ability to act in the best interest of the Company in decision-making.
The Board of Directors through the NRC has deliberated on the suitability of the Retiring Directors
to be re-elected as Directors. Upon deliberation, the Board (except for the Retiring Directors who
had abstained from deliberations and decisions on their own eligibility to stand for re-election at
the relevant Board and Committees meetings) collectively agreed that the Retiring Directors meet
the criteria of character, experience, integrity, competence and time commitment to effectively
discharge their respective roles as Directors of the Company and recommended the Retiring Directors
be re-elected as the Directors of the Company.
Further, the NRC has considered and affirmed, and the Board has endorsed that Dr. Teh Chee Ghee,
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew and Madam Tay Bee Koo, who are seeking re-election at the forthcoming
6th Annual General Meeting of the Company comply with the independence criteria as prescribed in
the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and remained independent
in exercising their judgment and in carrying out their duties as Independent Non-Executive Directors.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 133
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
4. Ordinary Resolution 7: Re-appointment of External Auditors
The Board, through the Audit and Risk Management Committee, had conducted an assessment
on the suitability, objectivity and independence of Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT in respect of the
financial year ended 30 June 2024. The Audit and Risk Management Committee and the Board
were satisfied with the performance of Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT and recommended the re-
appointment of Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT as External Auditors of the Company to hold office until
the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in accordance with Section 271
of the Companies Act 2016.
5. Ordinary Resolution 8: Authority to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the
Companies Act 2016
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 8, if passed, is the renewal of the general mandate to empower
the Directors to issue and allot shares up to an amount not exceeding 10% of the issued share capital
of the Company for the time being for such purposes as the Directors consider would be in the
best interest of the Company (“General Mandate”). This authority, unless revoked or varied by the
Company at a General Meeting, will expire at the next Annual General Meeting.
The General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities,
including but not limited to further placing of shares, to fund the future investment project(s), workings
capital and/or acquisitions.
Pursuant to Section 85(1) of the Companies Act 2016 read together with Clause 70 of the Company’s
Constitution, shareholders have pre-emptive rights to be offered any new shares in the Company
which rank equally to the existing issued shares in the Company:
Section 85(1) of the Companies Act 2016 states:
Subject to the constitution, where a company issues shares which rank equally to existing shares as
to voting or distribution rights, those shares shall first be offered to the holders of existing shares in a
manner which would, if the offer were accepted, maintain the relative voting and distribution rights
of those shareholders.
Clause 70 of the Company’s Constitution provides as follows:
Subject to any direction to the contrary that may be given by the Company in general meeting, all
new shares or other convertible Securities shall, before they are issued, be offered to such persons
as at the date of the offer are entitled to receive notices from the Company of general meetings in
proportion, as nearly as the circumstances admit, to the amount of the existing shares or Securities
to which they are entitled. The offer shall be made by notice specifying the number of shares or
Securities offered, and limiting a time within which the offer, if not accepted, will be deemed to be
declined, and, after the expiration of that time, or on the receipt of an intimation from the person to
whom the offer is made that he declines to accept the shares or Securities offered, the Directors may
dispose of those shares or Securities in such manner as they think most beneficial to the Company.
The Directors may, likewise, also dispose of any new shares or Securities which (by reason of the ratio
which the new shares or Securities bear to shares or Securities held by persons entitled to an offer of
new shares or Securities) cannot, in the opinion of the Directors, be conveniently offered under this
Clause.
In order for the Board to issue any new shares free of pre-emptive rights, such pre-emptive rights must
be waived. The proposed Ordinary Resolution 8, if passed, will exclude your pre-emptive rights over
all new shares in the Company to be issued under the General Mandate.
As at the date of this Notice, the Company has not issued any new shares pursuant to the General
Mandate granted to the Directors at the Fifth (5th) Annual General Meeting held on 29 November
2023 and which the said General Mandate will lapse at the conclusion of the 6th Annual General
Meeting.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
134
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
6. Ordinary Resolution 9: Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related
Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 9, if passed, will enable the Company and/or its subsidiaries to
enter into recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature which are necessary for
the day-to-day operations of the Company and/or its subsidiaries, subject to the transactions being
carried out in the ordinary course of business of the Company and/or its subsidiaries and on normal
commercial terms which are generally available to the public and not detrimental to the minority
shareholders of the Company. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general
meeting, will expire at the next annual general meeting of the Company. For more information,
please refer to the Company’s Circular to Shareholders dated 30 October 2024.
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Pursuant to Rule 8.29 (2) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad)
As at date of this notice, there are no individuals who are standing for election as Directors (excluding the
above Directors who are standing for re-election) at the Sixth (6th) Annual General Meeting.
The Company will seek shareholders’ approval on the general mandate for the issue of securities in
accordance with Rule 6.04 (3) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
Please refer to the proposed Ordinary Resolution 8 as stated in the Notice of the Sixth (6th) Annual General
Meeting of the Company for the details.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024 135
PROCEDURES TO SUBMIT PROXY FORM
APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
Shareholders who appoint proxy(ies) to participate in the Sixth (6th) Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) must
ensure that the duly executed Form of Proxy is deposited in a hard copy form or by electronic means to
Tricor no later than Tuesday, 26 November 2024 at 10.00 a.m.
The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following
manner:
(i) In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the proxy form must be deposited with
the Share Registrar of the Company at Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd, Unit 32-01,
Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical
Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(ii) By electronic form
The proxy form can be electronically lodged with the Share Registrar of the Company via TIIH Online
at https://tiih.online. Kindly refer to the procedures below for the electronic lodgement of the proxy
form.
Procedure Action
i. Steps for Individual Members
(a) Register as a User with Tricor’s TIIH
Online website
• Using your computer, please access the website at
https://tiih.online Register as a user under the “e-Services”.
Please refer to the tutorial guide posted on the homepage
for assistance.
• If you are already a user of TIIH Online, you are not required
to register again.
(b) Proceed with submission of Form
of Proxy
• After the release of the Notice of Meeting by the
Company, login with your username (i.e. email address)
and password.
Select the corporate event: “ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD
AGM 2024 – Submission of Proxy Form”.
• Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions and confirm
the Declaration.
• Insert your CDS account number and indicate the number
of shares for your proxy(ies) to vote on your behalf.
• Indicate your voting instructions – FOR or AGAINST,
otherwise your proxy will decide your vote.
• Review and confirm your proxy(ies) appointment.
• Print the Form of Proxy for your record.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2024
136
PROCEDURES TO SUBMIT PROXY FORM
(CONT’D)
Procedure Action
ii. Steps for Corporation or Institutional Members
(a) Register as an User with Tricor’s
TIIH Online website
• Access TIIH online at https://tiih.online
• Under e-Services, the authorised or nominated
representative of the corporation or institutional member
selects “Create Account by Representative of Corporate
Holder”.
• Complete the registration form and upload the required
documents.
• Registration will be verified, and you will be notified by
email within one (1) to two (2) working days.
• Proceed to activate your account with the temporary
password given in the email and re-set your own password.
(Note: The representative of a corporation or institutional
member must register as a user in accordance with the above
steps before he/she can subscribe to this corporate member
electronic proxy submission. Please contact our Share Registrar
if you need clarifications on the user registration.)
(b) Proceed with submission of Form
of Proxy
• Login to Tricor’s TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online
• Select the corporate event: “ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD
AGM 2024 – Submission of Proxy Form”.
• Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions and confirm
the Declaration.
• Proceed to download the file format for “Submission of
Proxy Form” in accordance with the Guidance Note set
therein.
• Prepare the file for the appointment of proxies by inserting
the required data.
• Proceedtouploadthedulycompletedproxyappointment
file.
• Select “Submit” to complete your submission.
• Print the confirmation report of your submission for your
record.
ENQUIRY
If you have any enquiries on the above, please contact the following persons during office hours on
Mondays to Fridays from 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. (except on public holidays): -
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd.
General Line : +603-2783 9299
Fax Number : +603-2783 9222
Email : is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com
Contact persons : Mohammad Khairudin
: +603-2783 7973
Email : Mohamad.Khairudin@my.tricorglobal.com
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD
Company Registration No. 201801016797 (1278813-M)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
PROXY FORM
I/We Tel:
[Full name in block and as per NRIC/passport, NRIC/Passport/Company No.]
of
[Full address]
being member(s) of ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD, hereby appoint:
Full Name (in Block and as per NRIC/Passport) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
and / or* (*delete as appropriate)
Full Name (in Block and as per NRIC/Passport) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
or failing him, the Chairman of the meeting, as my/our proxy to attend and to vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the Sixth
(6th) Annual General Meeting of the Company, will be held at Lot 27600, Jalan Helium, Kawasan Perindustrian Sungai Purun,
Jalan Bangi Lama, 43500, Semenyih, Selangor Darul Ehsan on Thursday, 28 November 2024 at 10.00 a.m. or any adjournment
thereof, and to vote as indicated below:
No. Agenda Resolution For Against
1. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and other benefits payable
to the Directors for the period commencing from 28 November 2024
until the next annual general meeting of the Company.
Ordinary Resolution 1
2. To re-elect Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin as Director. Ordinary Resolution 2
3. To re-elect Dr. Teh Chee Ghee as Director. Ordinary Resolution 3
4. To re-elect Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew as Director. Ordinary Resolution 4
5. To re-elect Mr Ean Yong Hian Wah as Director. Ordinary Resolution 5
6. To re-elect Madam Tay Bee Koo as Director. Ordinary Resolution 6
7. To re-appoint Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT as External Auditors of the
Company for the ensuing year and to authorise the Directors to fix
their remuneration.
Ordinary Resolution 7
8. To approve the authority to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections
75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016.
Ordinary Resolution 8
9. To approve the proposed renewal of existing shareholders’ mandate
for recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature.
Ordinary Resolution 9
Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions. In the
absence of a specific direction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he/she thinks fit.
Signed this __________day of __________2024
								 Signature*
								 Member
^ Delete whichever is inapplicable
* Manner of execution:
(a) If you are an individual member, please sign where indicated.
(b) If you are a corporate member which has a common seal, this proxy form should be executed under seal in accordance
with the constitution of your corporation.
(c) If you are a corporate member which does not have a common seal, this proxy form should be affixed with the rubber
stamp of your company (if any) and executed by:
(i) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which your corporation
is incorporated.
CDS Account No.
No. of shares held
Notes:
1. Only depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 21 November 2024 shall be regarded as members and be entitled
to attend, participate, speak and vote at the 6th AGM.
2. A member shall be entitled to appoint another person as his/her proxy to exercise all or any of his/her rights to attend, participate, speak
and vote in his/her stead pursuant to Section 334 of the Companies Act 2016. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the
proxy.
3. Where a member of the Company is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial
owners in one securities account (“Omnibus Account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the Exempt Authorised Nominee
may appoint in respect of each Omnibus Account it holds.
4. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her
shareholding to be represented by each proxy.
5. Any alterations in the Proxy Form must be initialed by the member.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his/her attorney duly authorised in writing. If the
appointer is a corporation, the instrument must be executed under its Common Seal or under the hand of an attorney so authorised.
7. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially certified
copy of that power of attorney, must be deposited at the Share Registrar’s office, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Sdn. Bhd. at Unit 32-01,
Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or its Customer
Service at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia not less
than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding this meeting or any adjournment thereof as Rule 8.31A(1) of the ACE
Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities requires all resolutions set out in the Notice of 6th AGM to vote by poll. You may also submit
the proxy form electronically via TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online no later than Tuesday, 26 November 2024 at 10.00 a.m. Kindly
refer to the Administrative Details on the procedures for electronic lodgement of proxy form via TIIH Online.
8. Pursuant to Rule 8.31A of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all resolutions set out in the Notice will
be put to vote by way of poll.
THE SHARE REGISTRAR OF
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD
COMPANY REGISTRATION NO. 201801016797 (1278813-M)
TRICOR INVESTOR & ISSUING HOUSE SERVICES SDN. BHD.
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
1st Fold Here
Then Fold Here
Affix
Stamp
Lot 83, Jalan Kesuma 2/3, Phase 5D,
Bandar Tasik Kesuma Techno Park,
43700 Beranang,
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
Tel: +603-8723 1439 / 2439
