CORPORATE INFORMATION
CORPORATE STRUCTURE
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
PROFILE OF KEY SENIOR
MANAGEMENT
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE REPORT
2
3
4
12
15
20
26
47
TABLE OF CONTENTS
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’
RESPONSIBILITIES
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
INFORMATION
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
GROUP PROPERTIES
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL
MEETING
PROCEDURES TO SUBMIT PROXY FORM
FORM OF PROXY
50
51
55
57
129
131
134
140
-
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
02
CORPORATE INFORMATION
AUDIT AND RISK
MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Chairperson
Phang Sze Fui
Members
Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien
Hung
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Chairman
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew
Members
Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien
Hung
Phang Sze Fui
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
Chairperson
Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien
Hung
Committee Members
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew
Phang Sze Fui
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Chong Voon Wah
SSM Practicing Certificate
No.: 202008001343
MAICSA 7055003
Thai Kian Yau
SSM Practicing Certificate
No.: 202008001515
MIA 36921
HEAD OFFICE
Lot 83, Jalan Kesuma 2/3
Phase 5D, Bandar Tasik
Kesuma Techno Park
43700 Beranang, Selangor
Tel: +603-8723 1439/8723 2439
Fax: +603-8723 2827
Email: enquiry@orgabio.com
Website: www.orgabio.com
Dr Teh Chee Ghee
Independent Non-Executive
Chairman
Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin
Executive Deputy Chairman
Ean Yong Hien Voon
Executive Director / Chief
Executive Officer
Ean Yong Hen Loen
Executive Director
Phang Sze Fui
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Tan Kim Siong
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
REGISTERED OFFICE
22-09, Menara 1MK
No. 1 Jalan Kiara, Mont Kiara
50480 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: +603-2856 7333
Email: vw.chong@silverocean.com.my
AUDITORS
Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT
(Member firm of Grant Thornton
International Ltd.)
Registration No. 201906003682 &
LLP0022494-LCA (AF 0737)
Chartered Accountants
Level 11, Sheraton Imperial Court
Jalan Sultan Ismail
50250 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: +603-2692 4022
Fax: +603-2691 5229
SHARE REGISTRAR
Tricor Investor & Issuing House
Services Sdn. Bhd.
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: +603-2783 9299
Fax: +603-2783 9222
Email: is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com
SPONSOR
M & A Securities Sdn. Bhd.
Level 11, 45 & 47, The Boulevard
Mid Valley City
Lingkaran Syed Putra
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: +603- 2284 2911
Fax: +603-2284 2718
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia)
Berhad
Malayan Banking Berhad
RHB Bank Berhad
Alliance Bank Malaysia Berhad
Public Bank Berhad
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
ACE Market of the Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
Stock Name: ORGABIO
Stock Code: 0252
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 03
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Registration No.201801016797 (1278813-M))
100% 100%
100% 100%
Orgabio
Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
Orgapharma
Herbal
Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
Orgapharma
Marketing
Sdn. Bhd.
Everyday F&B
Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
CORPORATE STRUCTURE
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
04
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
Dr Teh Chee Ghee (“Dr Teh”), was appointed to
our Board on 15 March 2021. He holds a Doctor
of Philosophy degree in Credit Management, a
Master of Business Administration degree and an
Honours Degree in Accounting, all from University
of Malaya. He is a member of the Malaysian
Institute of Certified Public Accountants (MICPA)
and served as a Council Member of MICPA from
2015-2022, a fellow member of the Association of
Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and
the Chartered Tax Institute of Malaysia (CTIM).
He is also a member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants (MIA).
Dr Teh commenced his career in 1990 at Arthur
Andersen-HRM (Management Services) Sdn. Bhd.
as an Associate Consultant. He then served in
the audit and business advisory division of Arthur
Andersen & Co. from 1990 to 1994. He then joined
CWS Hygiene Sdn. Bhd. (“CWS”) as the Finance
& Administration Manager in 1994 and when
the Zuellig Group acquired CWS in 1995, he was
appointed as the Regional Financial Controller
of Gold Coin Feedmills (M) Sdn. Bhd. In 1996, he
joined Engtex Sdn. Berhad (“Engtex”) as the Group
Financial Controller. He was also appointed as the
Personal Assistant (“PA”) to the Group Managing
Director from January 2000 and the Company
Secretary of Engtex Group Berhad from 2002,
respectively, until he left Engtex in May 2006.
After leaving Engtex in May 2006, he served TH
Group Berhad from June 2006 to October 2010 as
the PA to the Group Managing Director. He was
also the Acting Chief Operating Officer of Nilai
Medical Centre (formerly known as NCI Hospital,
owned by a wholly-owned subsidiary of TH Group
Berhad) from February 2010 to October 2010. He
was the General Manager - Strategic Planning and
Operations of TSH Resources Berhad from October
2010 to October 2012.
DR TEH CHEE GHEE
57 years, Male, Malaysian
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Subsequently, he joined Monash University Malaysia
in October 2012 as a Senior Lecturer in Accounting
and Finance in the School of Business. He was also
the Deputy Director of Research at the School of
Business at Monash University Malaysia from January
2013 to January 2014, the Deputy Director of MBA
Programme from 2017 to 2018, and the Deputy
Director - Development & External Engagement of
the Entrepreneurship and Innovation Hub (eiHub)
of the School of Business since 2018 to July 2019. Dr
Teh was also appointed as the Head of Research
of the Socio-Economic Research Centre (SERC), an
independent think tank initiated by the Associated
Chinese Chambers of Commerce and Industry of
Malaysia (ACCCIM) under a paid outside work
retainer arrangement with Monash University
Malaysia from January 2014 to February 2016.
He retired from academia in January 2022 after
reaching the age of 55.
In February 2022, Dr Teh re-joined Engtex as its
Chief Operating Officer after retiring from Monash
University Malaysia.
He currently also sits on the board of ACO Group
Berhad and LGMS Berhad.
Dr Teh does not have any family relationships with
any director or major shareholders of the Company,
nor does he have any conflict of interest with the
Company. He has no conviction of any offences
within the past 5 years (other than traffic offences,
if any), and there was no public sanction or penalty
imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during
the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 05
Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin (“Dato’ Ean Yong”) was
appointed to our Board on 15 March 2021. He is
responsible for determining the strategic direction
and growth of our Group, as well as overseeing the
overall business development of our Group.
Upon completing his Form 1 studies in 1966, Dato’
Ean Yong left Sekolah Menengah Kebangsaan
Batu Kikir, Negeri Sembilan, and worked as a rubber
tapper. In 1969, he moved to Singapore and was
involved in construction works and signboard
making. In 1974, he moved to Kuala Lumpur and
was involved in the manufacturing of signboards.
With the experience he gained in signboard
making, he established Syarikat Salon Advertising,
a sole proprietorship involved in manufacturing of
signboards.
He dissolved Syarikat Salon Advertising in February
1978 and in July 1978, he became a Political
SecretarytothethenStateAssemblyRepresentative
for Kajang. His responsibilities included assisting
the then State Assembly Representative in various
political duties and as well as building relationships
with authorities, officers and to assist people in his
constituency with appropriate political advice.
He completed his political term in March 1982
when The House of Representative was dissolved
and in June 1982, he established Perkhidmatan
Ean Yong Tin Sin to provide general insurance
agency services and typewriting services. In 1989,
he ceased to operate Perkhidmatan Ean Yong Tin
Sin (and was subsequently dissolved in March 1991)
when he ventured into the food and beverage
business with the setting up of a restaurant.
In 1993, he ceased to operate the restaurant
business when he joined Hai-O Marketing Sdn. Bhd.
as a fulltime sales agent where he was involved
in the sales and marketing of food products and
supplements such as coffee, fibre products,
slimming products and nutritional supplements. He
also undertook the role of a trainer to train new
sales agent. In 1997, he ceased to be a sales agent
with Hai-O Marketing Sdn. Bhd.
DATO’ EAN YONG TIN SIN
72 years, Male, Malaysian
Executive Deputy Chairman
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
In 1998, he was appointed as Executive Director
of Orgacare Pharmaceutical Sdn. Bhd., where
his responsibility was to oversee and manage the
overall operations including production activities,
and sales and marketing of traditional herbs and
food supplements (e.g. tongkat ali, kacip Fatimah
and alfafa). He left Orgacare Pharmaceutical Sdn.
Bhd. in 2001.
In May 2002, he incorporated Orgapharma Herbal
to undertake the processing and packing of local
traditional herbs and Chinese herbs. He led the
development of our Group’s business direction
into the provision of instant beverage premix
manufacturing services through the incorporation
of Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. in May 2006.
Over the years, Dato’ Ean Yong has played a
pivotal role in contributing to the growth of our
Group.
From March 2008 to April 2013, he was elected as
the State Assembly Representative for Lukut, Negeri
Sembilan and was re-elected for the second term
from May 2013 to April 2018.
Dato’ Ean Yong is the spouse of Datin Lai You Mooi
and father of Ean Yong Hien Voon (Executive
Director / Chief Executive Officer of Orgabio), Ean
Yong Hen Loen (Executive Director of Orgabio), Ean
Yong Hien Chal, Ean Yong Han Khian and Ean Yong
Sik Siew (Chief Operating Officer of Orgabio), all of
which are the major shareholders of the Company.
He has no conflict of interest with the Company
other than those disclosed in the Company’s
circular to shareholders dated 31 October 2023.
Dato’ Ean Yong does not hold any directorships
in any other public listed companies. He has no
conviction of any offences within the past 5 years
(other than traffic offences, if any), and there was
no public sanction or penalty imposed by the
relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
06
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
Mr Ean Yong Hien Voon (“Mr Hien Voon”) was
appointed to our Board on 15 March 2021. He
holds a Diploma in Business Studies (Major in
Accounting and Finance) from New Era University
College, Malaysia. He is responsible for the
overall business operations and execution of
business strategies, and leading the planning and
development of our business growth primarily
within the area of digital transformation, identifying
new suppliers for product development activities,
and enhancing operational efficiencies through
the implementation of machinery upgrade and
automation.
Mr Hien Voon began his career in May 2002
when he was appointed as Marketing Director
of Orgapharma Herbal Manufacturing Sdn.
Bhd., where his responsibility was to assist Dato’
Ean Yong in the development of business plans
to grow the business as well as managing daily
business operations such as executing customers’
orders, sourcing for supplies of raw materials
and spearheading quality control initiatives on
manufactured products to meet international
quality standards.
In May 2006 when the Group ventured into the
provision of instant beverage premix manufacturing
services, he was appointed as Marketing Director of
Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. His responsibility
was to assist Dato’ Ean Yong in the development of
business plans to grow the instant beverage premix
manufacturing business, managing and executing
daily business operations, and spearheading the
implementation of quality control initiatives to meet
EAN YONG HIEN VOON
43 years, Male, Malaysian
Executive Director / Chief Executive Officer
international quality standards. He was also involved
in overseeing the development and formulation
of instant beverage premixes and initiated the
development of our in-house brand. Further, he
also headed our Group’s digital transformation
through the introduction of online sales channel
and leveraging on digital marketing tools such as
search engine optimisation, to enhance our brand
presence. On January 2018, he was appointed as
Chief Executive Officer of Orgabio Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd. and assumed his current responsibilities.
On 15 March 2021, he was appointed as Executive
Director / Chief Executive Officer of our Group.
Mr Hien Voon is the son of Dato’ Ean Yong
(Executive Deputy Chairman of Orgabio) and
Datin Lai You Mooi, and the sibling of Ean Yong Hen
Loen (Executive Director of Orgabio), Ean Yong
Hien Chal, Ean Yong Han Khian and Ean Yong Sik
Siew (Chief Operating Officer of Orgabio), all of
which are the major shareholders of the Company.
He has no conflict of interest with the Company
other than those disclosed in the Company’s
circular to shareholders dated 31 October 2023.
Mr Hien Voon does not hold any directorships
in any other public listed companies. He has no
conviction of any offences within the past 5 years
(other than traffic offences, if any), and there was
no public sanction or penalty imposed by the
relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 07
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
Mr Ean Yong Hen Loen (“Mr Hen Loen”) was
appointed to our Board on 15 March 2021. He
holds a Bachelor of Business Administration in
Banking and Cooperative Management from
National Taipei University, Taiwan. He is responsible
for overseeing and managing our Group’s overall
marketing activities and product development
activities including the formulation of new instant
beverage premixes.
In February 2012, Mr Hen Loen began his career as a
Purchasing Administrator of Orgapharma Marketing
Sdn. Bhd., where he is involved in purchasing raw
materials and managing inventory levels as well
as identifying new suppliers and building business
relationships with suppliers.
In December 2013, he was promoted to Marketing
Executive where he was involved in developing
and executing sales and marketing strategies to
expand our local presence and export markets,
building relationships with customers, executing
product development activities including the
formulation of new instant beverage premixes. In
November 2017, he was promoted to Marketing
Manager and assumed his current responsibilities.
On 15 March 2021, he was appointed as Executive
Director of our Group.
EAN YONG HEN LOEN
36 years, Male, Malaysian
Executive Director
Mr Hen Loen is the son of Dato’ Ean Yong (Executive
Deputy Chairman of Orgabio) and Datin Lai You
Mooi, and the sibling of Ean Yong Hien Voon
(Executive Director / Chief Executive Officer of
Orgabio), Ean Yong Hien Chal, Ean Yong Han Khian
and Ean Yong Sik Siew (Chief Operating Officer of
Orgabio), all of which are the major shareholders of
the Company.
He has no conflict of interest with the Company
other than those disclosed in the Company’s
circular to shareholders dated 31 October 2023.
Mr Hen Loen does not hold any directorships in any
other public listed companies. He has no conviction
of any offences within the past 5 years (other than
traffic offences, if any), and there was no public
sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
08
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung (“Dato’ Magaret”)
was appointed to our Board on 15 March 2021.
She is also the chairperson of our Remuneration
Committee and member of our Audit and Risk
Management Committee and Nomination
Committee.
Dato’ Magaret obtained her Bachelor of Law
degree from the University of West England, Bristol,
United Kingdom in 2001 and in 2002, she obtained
her Certificate in Legal Practice.
In October 2002, she joined SC Lim & Partners as a
pupil. Upon completion of her pupillage in October
2003, she was admitted as an Advocate and
Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya. After leaving
SC Lim & Partners in November 2004, she joined
Bong & Co Advocates as a pupil in November
2004 as a prerequisite of being admitted as an
Advocate and Solicitor of the High Court of Sabah
and Sarawak. Upon completion of her pupillage
in December of 2005, she was admitted as an
Advocate and Solicitor of the High Court of Sabah
and Sarawak and commenced legal practice in
the State of Sarawak.
DATO’ MAGARET TING THIEN HUNG
42 years, Female, Malaysian
Independent Non-Executive Director
In October 2006, she left Bong & Co Advocates
and established a legal firm known as Messrs Ting
& Ting in October 2006 and she has since been
its Managing Partner. She is primarily involved
in conveyancing, litigation and corporate legal
work, where she leads her team of associates in
conveyancing works as well as managing the
firm’s business including branding marketing, client
relationship management, securing mandates and
matters relating to general administration of the
firm.
Dato’ Magaret currently also sits on the board of
Sycal Ventures Berhad and Pappajack Berhad.
She does not have any family relationships with any
director or major shareholders of the Company,
nor does she have any conflict of interest with the
Company. She has no conviction of any offences
within the past 5 years (other than traffic offences,
if any), and there was no public sanction or penalty
imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during
the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 09
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
Ms Phang Sze Fui (“Ms Phang”), was appointed
to our Board on 15 March 2021. She is also the
chairperson of our Audit and Risk Management
Committee and member of our Remuneration
Committee and Nomination Committee.
Ms Phang obtained her Diploma in Commerce
(Financial Accounting) from Tunku Abdul Rahman
College in May 1997. She has been a member of
The Association of Chartered Certified Accountants
since November 2000, a fellow member of The
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants
since November 2005 and a member of the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants since July 2009.
Further, since September 2019, she has been an
Audit Committee Member of the Institute of Internal
Auditors Malaysia. She has been a member of the
Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia since
November 2021.
She began her career as Accounts Executive in
Seawood Trading Company in November 1992.
She subsequently started working with the said
company on a part-time basis from 1993 when
she enrolled for her tertiary studies at Tunku Abdul
Rahman College. She left in January 1995 to focus
on her studies. During her tenure with the said
company, she was involved in the handling of
accounting records and related administrative
matters.
Upon obtaining her diploma, she returned to work
in July 1997 when she joined Monteiro & Heng (now
known as Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng) as Graduate
Assistant, where she was primarily involved in
various statutory audit assignments. She was
subsequently promoted to Senior Audit Manager,
Associate Director of Transaction Reporting Division
and Executive Director of Transaction Reporting
Division in 2005, 2008 and 2011 respectively. During
her tenure, she undertook various responsibilities,
including leading the audit team to conduct
the audit and special assignments, liaising with
PHANG SZE FUI
51 years, Female, Malaysian
Independent Non-Executive Director
stakeholders, conducting training, ensuring
compliance with auditing and accounting
standards as well as regulatory requirements and
expanding the growth of the Transaction Reporting
Division. She left the firm in October 2015 and took
a career break.
In May 2016, she joined Dolphin Applications Sdn.
Bhd. (a subsidiary of Dolphin International Berhad,
a company listed on the Main Market of Bursa
Securities) as Corporate Affairs Director, responsible
for supervising corporate exercises, handling special
projects, overseeing investor relations and public
relations matters, improving internal control systems
and reporting structure, overseeing compliance
matters and liaising with stakeholders.
She left Dolphin Applications Sdn. Bhd. in July 2017
to pursue her own business venture, Avia Alliance
Sdn. Bhd. which specialises in the provision of
business and accounting consultancy, a business
that she is presently involved. In December 2019,
she established Dynamic Aqua Evolution Sdn. Bhd.
which specialises in aquaponic farming, a business
that she is presently involved. In June 2020, she
established 1Advisory Sdn. Bhd. which specialises
in the provision of business consultancy, a business
that she is presently involved.
Ms Phang currently also sits on the boards of
Flexidynamic Holdings Berhad, Kim Teck Cheong
Consolidated Berhad, SDS Group Berhad and
Skyworld Development Berhad.
She does not have any family relationships with any
director or major shareholders of the Company,
nor does she have any conflict of interest with the
Company. She has no conviction of any offences
within the past 5 years (other than traffic offences,
if any), and there was no public sanction or penalty
imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during
the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
10
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
Mr Tan Kim Siong (“Mr Tan”) was appointed to our
Board on 3 January 2023 as Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director of the Company. His
appointment was nominated by Hai-O Enterprise
Berhad, a major shareholder of the Company.
Mr Tan graduated with Bachelor of Business
Administration (BBA) and Master of Business
Administration (MBA) from University of New
Brunswick of Canada.
Mr Tan acquired working experience in planning
and marketing investment portfolios to clients when
he was attached to one of the leading financial
institutions in Malaysia.
Prior to setting up his own logistic firm in 2006, he
was involved in housing development in Negeri
Sembilan and has also gained business experience
in China in the tile manufacturing industry. He has
since grown his logistic firm into one of the leading
haulage companies in the industry. Throughout
the years, he has acquired several companies to
expand his business as a fully-integrated logistics
provider.
TAN KIM SIONG
47 years, Male, Malaysian
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr Tan was an Independent Non-Executive Director
of Beshom Holdings Berhad, a major shareholder of
the Company, until 9 January 2023.
He has no conflict of interest with the Company
other than those disclosed in the Company’s
circular to shareholders dated 31 October 2023.
Mr Tan does not hold any directorships in any
other public listed companies. He does not have
any family relationships with any director or major
shareholders of the Company. He has no conviction
of any offences within the past 5 years (other than
traffic offences, if any), and there was no public
sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 11
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew (“Dato’ Seri Chan”),
was appointed to our Board on 8 June 2021. He is
also the chairman of our Nomination Committee
and member of our Audit and Risk Management
Committee and Remuneration Committee.
Dato’ Seri Chan graduated with a Bachelor of
Social Science with Honours from Universiti Sains
Malaysia. He has been a Chartered Member of The
Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport since
December 2006.
He began his career when he joined Union-Transport
Logistics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. in March 1996 as a
Management Trainee where he was involved in the
day-to-day air freight and sea freight operations.
He left Union-Transport Logistics (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
in November 1996 to join Target Warehouse (M)
Sdn Bhd as a Warehouse Manager, where he was
responsible for managing sea freight and bonded
warehouse operations. He left Target Warehouse
(M) Sdn. Bhd. in February 1997 to join TS Warehouse
& Distribution Sdn. Bhd. as a Project Executive. He
was subsequently promoted to Project Manager
and Business Development Director in January
1998 and January 2000 respectively, where he was
responsible for overseeing the rail transport business
of the company.
DATO’ SERI CHAN KONG YEW
51 years, Male, Malaysian
Independent Non-Executive Director
In February 2003, he left TS Warehouse & Distribution
Sdn. Bhd. and established Infinity Logistics &
Transport Sdn. Bhd., a company principally involved
in Integrated Freight Forwarding, Land Logistics,
Freight Villages, Forth Party Logistics and Bulk
Liquid Solutions. He is the Managing Director of the
company and is responsible for business planning,
operational development and execution of the
strategic direction of the company. In January 2020,
Infinity Logistics and Transport Ventures Limited, the
holding company of Infinity Logistics & Transport
Sdn Bhd, was listed on the Main Board of the Stock
Exchange of Hong Kong Limited.
In July 2019, he was appointed as an Independent
Non-Executive Director of Boustead Plantations
Berhad, a company listed on the Main Market of
Bursa Securities, until June 2020.
Dato’ Seri Chan does not hold any directorships
in any other public listed companies. He does not
have any family relationships with any director or
major shareholders of the Company, nor does he
have any conflict of interest with the Company. He
has no conviction of any offences within the past 5
years (other than traffic offences, if any), and there
was no public sanction or penalty imposed by the
relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
12
PROFILE OF KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
EAN YONG HIEN CHAL
Aged 41, Male, Malaysian
Head of Production
Mr Ean Yong Hien Chal (“Mr Hien Chal”) is our Head of Production and responsible for overseeing our
Group’s overall production operations for instant beverage premixes including production schedule
planning, workforce management, and upkeep of our machinery and equipment to ensure the smooth
operation of our production operations.
In December 2004, he graduated with a Diploma in Electrical Technology from Feng Chia University,
Taiwan.
He was appointed as Director of Orgapharma Herbal Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. in May 2002, a position
which he presently assumes. In March 2005, he began his career in Orgapharma Herbal Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd. as Production Supervisor, where he was responsible for supervising the processing and packing
activities of local traditional herbs and Chinese herbs.
In May 2006, when the Group ventured into the provision of instant beverage premix manufacturing
services, his responsibilities extended to include supervising the production operations of instant beverage
premixes.
In April 2011, he was appointed as Production Manager of Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. In January
2021, he was appointed as Head of Production of our group where he assumed his current responsibilities.
Mr Hien Chal is the son of Dato’ Ean Yong (Executive Deputy Chairman of Orgabio) and Datin Lai You
Mooi, and the sibling of Ean Yong Hien Voon (Executive Director / Chief Executive Officer of Orgabio),
Ean Yong Hen Loen (Executive Director of Orgabio), Ean Yong Han Khian and Ean Yong Sik Siew (Chief
Operating Officer of Orgabio), all of which are the major shareholders of the Company.
He has no conflict of interest with the Company other than those disclosed in the Company’s circular to
shareholders dated 31 October 2023.
Mr Hien Chal does not hold any directorships in any other public listed companies. He has no conviction of
any offences within the past 5 years (other than traffic offences, if any), and there was no public sanction
or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 13
PROFILE OF KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
(CONT’D)
NGOOI SOK LING
Aged 55, Female, Malaysian
Chief Financial Officer
Ms Ngooi Sok Ling (“Ms Ngooi”) is our Chief Financial Officer and responsible for overseeing and managing
the overall financial and accounting functions of our Group, preparing financial budgets and providing
financial advice to the management for decision making as well as developing and implementing
financial policies to improve the profitability of our Group.
In July 1992, she graduated with a Diploma in Commerce (Management Accounting) from Tunku
Abdul Rahman College, Malaysia. She has been a member of the Chartered Institute of Management
Accountants since November 1999 and the Malaysian Institute of Accountants since March 2002.
In September 1993, she began her career in Kempar Empat Sdn. Bhd. as an Accounts Assistant where she
assisted in the accounting functions of the company such as preparation of account receivables and
account payables reports, financial reporting, and bank reconciliation and cash receipt reports.
In April 1995, she left Kempar Empat Sdn. Bhd. and joined Soon Hun Technologies (M) Sdn. Bhd. as an
Assistant Accountant where she was responsible for the management of daily accounting functions of
the company.
In September 1999, she left Soon Hun Technologies (M) Sdn. Bhd. and in October 1999, she joined
Mardec Berhad, as an Accountant where she was involved in the finance and accounting functions of
the company and its subsidiaries. In October 2010, she was promoted to Senior Accountant, where she
led an accounting team in carrying out the finance and accounting functions of the company and its
subsidiaries. She is also involved in the preparation of financial analysis reports for potential investments
and acquisitions. In January 2014, she was promoted to Assistant General Manager (Finance/Accounts),
where her responsibilities extended to include managing corporate affairs in relation to the finance division
of the company and its subsidiaries. In December 2016, she left Mardec Berhad and took a career break.
In September 2017, she joined GA Hotel Management Sdn. Bhd. as a Financial Controller where she
oversaw the overall finance and accounting functions of the company. In March 2018, she left GA Hotel
Management Sdn. Bhd. and joined Goodway Rubber Industries Sdn. Bhd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Goodway Integrated Industries Berhad (a company listed on Main Market of Bursa Securities) as Group
Finance Manager where she oversaw the overall finance and accounting functions of the company.
In April 2019, she left Goodway Rubber Industries Sdn. Bhd. and joined Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
as Group Accountant where she assumed her current responsibilities. In April 2020, she was appointed as
Chief Financial Officer of our Group.
Ms Ngooi does not hold any directorships in any other public listed companies. She does not have any
family relationships with any director or major shareholders of the Company, nor does she have any conflict
of interest with the Company. She has no conviction of any offences within the past 5 years (other than
traffic offences, if any), and there was no public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
14
PROFILE OF KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
(CONT’D)
EAN YONG SIK SIEW
Aged 32, Female, Malaysian
Chief Operating Officer
Ms Ean Yong Sik Siew (“Ms Sik Siew”) is our Chief Operating Officer and responsible for guiding, implementing,
and monitoring the Group’s operations, workflow strategy, regulatory and compliance, enterprise risk
management, total quality management (TQM), quality assurance (QA/QC), Environmental Social and
Governance (ESG), and overseeing the Group’s daily operation functions working along with the head of
operations at each entity.
She graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in International Relations with Japanese (Honours) from University of
Nottingham, United Kingdom and holds the Master of Science in Corporate Governance and Compliance
from Hong Kong Baptist University, Hong Kong. She is a member of The Hong Kong Chartered Governance
Institute and associate member of The Asian Institute of Chartered Bankers.
In July 2014, she joined Hays Specialist Recruitment (M) Sdn Bhd as a Talent Associate where she was
involved in the provision of outsourced recruitment services. She left Hays Specialist Recruitment (M) Sdn
Bhd in April 2015 and joined HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad in May 2015 as a Global Standards Manager
where she undertook risk management and compliance work. In November 2017, she left HSBC Bank
Malaysia Berhad and joined Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. as a Compliance Manager where she
was involved in overseeing compliance to food safety standards. She left Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn.
Bhd. in August 2019 to pursue her Master’s degree. In July 2020, she joined Hong Leong Bank Berhad as
an Assistant Manager, Compliance where she undertakes regulatory compliance work. In October 2022,
she left Hong Leong Bank Berhad and joined Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. as Chief Operating Officer
where she assumed her current responsibilities.
Ms Sik Siew is the daughter of Dato’ Ean Yong (Executive Deputy Chairman of Orgabio) and Datin Lai You
Mooi, and the sibling of Ean Yong Hien Voon (Executive Director / Chief Executive Officer of Orgabio), Ean
Yong Hien Chal, Ean Yong Han Khian and Ean Yong Hen Loen (Executive Director of Orgabio), all of which
are the major shareholders of the Company.
She has no conflict of interest with the Company other than those disclosed in the Company’s circular to
shareholders dated 31 October 2023.
Ms Sik Siew does not hold any directorships in any other public listed companies. She has no conviction of
any offences within the past 5 years (other than traffic offences, if any), and there was no public sanction
or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 15
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
In financial year ended 30 June 2023 (“FY2023”), Orgabio Holdings Berhad
(“Orgabio” or “the Company”) celebrated a landmark moment as we
commenced our inaugural year as a publicly listed entity. This journey, although
momentous, was not without its challenges, largely influenced by the volatility
in a tempered demand in the local market. Adding to these headwinds were
the sustained inflationary pressures and a weakening Malaysian Ringgit. Yet,
we view this year as a transitional phase, utilising it to solidify our foundation by
broadening our customer base and completing our state-of-the-art production
facility. By augmenting our capacity, we aim to be optimally positioned to meet
the expected upswing in demand in the forthcoming period.”
“Dear Valued Shareholders,
OVERVIEW OF GROUP’S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
2002
Establishment of Orgapharma Herbal Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
Kickstarted the journey in the processing and packaging of local traditional and Chinese
herbs.
2005
Ventured into Instant Beverage Premixes
Expanded into instant beverage premix manufacturing services with existing expertise
in the processing, packaging and trading of traditional herbs, Chinese herbs and body
care products.
2006
Incorporation of Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
Marked a significant milestone by securing the first direct selling customer.
2018
Birth of Orgabio Holdings Sdn. Bhd.
A major step towards consolidating and expanding the brand.
2020
Convertion into Orgabio Holdings Berhad
An investment holding arm to unify our diverse subsidiaries.
2022
Listed on ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
With over two decades of steadfast presence in the industry, Orgabio has thrived under
the proficient leadership of the Ean Yong family. We’ve not only expanded our business
footprint across Malaysia but have also made significant inroads into several overseas
markets.
The chart presented above highlights Orgabio’s strategic evolution and our pivotal milestones over the
years. Orgabio’s journey, originating in traditional herbs processing, has evolved significantly, reaching a
milestone with the Initial Public Offering (IPO) on ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa
Securities”). The Group’s strategic expansion into instant beverage premix manufacturing has established
it as a prominent player in the industry. Orgabio proudly offers our manufacturing services to various third-
party brands, besides nurturing its in-house brands, EveryDay and BrogaHill, securing a diverse clientele
ranging from supermarket chains to pharmaceutical companies.
With the IPO proceeds, the Group aims to broaden production capacities with our new manufacturing
plant and explore new business avenues, leveraging Malaysia’s standing in global instant beverage premix
production. Orgabio intends to venture into bulk packaging, plant-based beverage premixes Original
Design Manufacturer (“ODM”) and Original Equipment Manufacturer (“OEM”) sectors.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
16
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
REVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Revenue
Despite the challenging global and domestic macro environment, Orgabio has showcased resilience and
adaptability in its revenue performance.
For the financial period under review, our revenue by business segment and geographical regions for
FY2023 and financial year ended 30 June 2022 (“FY2022”) are as tabulated below:
Our Group reported a decline of 8.56% in its revenue to RM58.84 million in FY2023 from RM64.35 million in the
previous year. The decrease was primarily influenced by the dampened demand from the local market
for instant beverage premix manufacturing services. Aside from that, the Group also faced challenges
posed by escalating raw material prices, heightened by the Ringgit’s depreciation against the US dollar
and the persistent global inflationary pressure.
Revenue analysis by business segments
The provision of instant beverage premix manufacturing services
Our core business, the manufacturing of instant beverage premixes for third-party brand owners, continues
to play a vital role, with a contribution of about 98.84% to our total revenue. For FY2023, the segment
experienced a reduction of 8.62% to RM58.16 million compared to RM63.65 million in FY2022. This setback
was primarily due to a decline in the sales volume, market volatility and shifts in consumer preferences,
coupled with supply chain disruptions that affected our coffee premix production and distribution, leading
to a dip in revenue. The lower revenue was also due to the dynamic market conditions and logistical
impasses that hindered access to several of our key consumer bases.
Others*
Provision of instant beverage premixes manufacturing services for third party brand owners
Revenue By Business Segments
65,000
55,000
56,000
57,000
58,000
59,000
60,000
61,000
62,000
63,000
64,000
58,164
671
RM‘000
FY2023
704
63,650
FY2022
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 17
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
Others
This segment encompasses the trading of our Group’s house-brands instant beverage premixes and the
sale of aloe vera gel. There was a slight decrease of 4.29% in revenue, registering RM0.67 million for FY2023
compared to RM0.70 million in the previous financial year. This marginal decline was in line with the slower
demand and the rising competition in the market.
Despite the temporary setback, we view these challenges as catalysts for innovation, optimisation, and
transformation. This pivotal year of transitioning into a publicly listed entity has empowered the Group to
foster more proactive relationships with our customers, suppliers, and various stakeholders. A key initiative
has been our vigorous pursuit of new clientele, reflecting our continuous commitment to expansion. As our
new cutting-edge Semenyih manufacturing plant nears its completion, Orgabio stands poised to manage
and deliver a significantly higher production capacity to cater for volume demand. Our state-of-the-art
facility not only symbolises our ambition but also serves as an emblem of assurance for potential partners
and stakeholders.
We also understand that market fluctuations are part and parcel of the business cycle. These revenue
declines are viewed as opportunities for reassessment and realignment of strategies. We are proactively
diversifying our supply chain mechanisms, exploring untapped markets, and investing in research and
development (“R&D”) to innovate our product range. By leveraging these strategies, we aim to rebound
and create sustainable growth paths for the future.
The domestic market saw a decline in revenue of 48.55% to RM23.17 million in FY2023 from RM45.03 million
in FY2022. The decline in revenue is in line with the slowdown in Malaysia’s economic growth during the first
half of 2023. However, on a positive note, Orgabio’s export revenue grew by 84.57% to RM35.66 million in
FY2023 compared to RM19.32 million in FY2022, signifying the rising demand from overseas market. This was
mainly contributed by the increase in our sales orders in the overseas market amid our aggressive efforts
to expand our customer base over the last year.
FY2023 is also a pivotal year for the Group as the overseas market becomes our primary contributor,
accounting for 60.62% of our total revenue. In comparison, the overseas market only consists of 30.02%
of our total revenue in FY2022. We are optimistic about our expansion overseas and will continue to
aggressively expand our overseas market in the near future.
FY2023
23,172
35,662
Domestic Overseas
Revenue By Geographical Markets (RM’000)
FY2022
19,321
45,033
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
18
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
Profit before taxation
The Group reported a lower profit before taxation (“PBT”) for FY2023, which saw a sharp reduction of
98.13% to RM0.15 million in FY2023, as compared to RM8.00 million in FY2022.
The decline in earnings was in line with the slower sales and slowdown in Malaysia’s economic growth
during the first half of 2023. Higher expense amid the persistent global inflationary pressure has also affected
our margin. To put it into perspective, the gross profit margin for FY2023 deteriorated to 16.76% compared
to 21.54% in FY2022. Raw materials cost, accounting for the major cost of goods sold, remains a pivotal
factor for us. The tight margin for coffee, coupled with the Ringgit’s depreciation—given our reliance on
the USD for purchases—posed certain challenges.
Aside from that, the one-off IPO expenses charged out in the current financial year amounting to RM2.25
million also affected our earnings.
Financial position
Meanwhile, Orgabio has maintained a resilient balance sheet with a cash and cash equivalent of
RM18.70 million. Notably, our commitment to financial prudence was further illustrated by the reduction of
borrowings to RM9.07 million, down from RM10.89 million in the previous year.
Post-IPO, the Group’s gearing ratio settled at a comfortable 0.21 times as of 30 June 2023, a substantial
improvement from the 0.52 times recorded as of 30 June 2022. By maintaining a resilient financial position
and a lower gearing ratio, Orgabio is well-poised to navigate these macroeconomic challenges. Our solid
financial footing cushions our Group from further erosions of profits due to high borrowing interest rates and
positions us advantageously in the near term for sustainable growth and potential strategic investments or
opportunities that arise, even in these uncertain times.
Profit before tax
8000
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
7000
151
RM‘000
FY2023 FY2022
7,998
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 19
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
OUTLOOK AND PROSPECTS
As the global business landscape continues to evolve, Orgabio Holdings remains strategically poised to
seize the myriad opportunities on the horizon. Our future direction is anchored in a deep understanding of
industry dynamics and the foresight to adapt to global events.
Evolving Global Demand: Despite a local demand slump, the global instant premixes market is expanding,
driven by their convenience and a pandemic-induced shift in consumer preferences, perfectly catering
to a high-speed lifestyle.
Strategic Expansion: Aligning with our vision of harnessing emerging opportunities, Orgabio is in the
advanced stages of completing a state-of-the-art manufacturing plant in Semenyih. Set to be completed
by the end of 2023 and operate by first half of 2024, this new facility will amplify our manufacturing prowess,
laying the groundwork for expansion into new businesses such as bulk-packaging services,ODM/OEM
markets and plant-based instant beverage premixes, etc.
Navigating Global Challenges: Recent geopolitical tensions, notably the Russia-Ukraine conflict, have
necessitated nimble strategies to mitigate supply chain disruptions, cost escalations, and changing
consumer behaviour. In response, Orgabio has implemented rigorous cost control strategies, embarked
on client acquisition drives, and judiciously adjusted its pricing mechanisms in light of changing market
dynamics.
Sustainability: Our sustainability drive aligns with the aspirations of the contemporary consumer, offering us
avenues to tap into emergent market niches. Our latest initiative includes the installation of solar panels in
our new factory as we shift towards renewable energy to power our operations.
ANTICIPATED OR KNOWN RISKS
Orgabio recognises the multifaceted risks inherent in the business landscape and emphasises proactive
strategies for effective mitigation. Below is a concise overview of the risks and our strategic responses:
Market Demand Fluctuations: Global demand for our products is volatile and influenced by consumer
trends, economic conditions, and unforeseen events. Our strategy focuses on cost optimisation, ensuring
stable profitability.
Geopolitical Instabilities: Global events like the Russia-Ukraine conflict highlight the risks to our supply chain
and market stability. We mitigate these risks through a diversified supply chain, maintaining operation
continuity, and securing cost benefits.
Currency Exchange Volatility: Orgabio’s international trade exposes us to currency fluctuations. While
currently using foreign currencies for transactions, we maintain multi-foreign currency accounts to hedge
against adverse currency market movements going forward.
Regulatory Changes: Navigating diverse regulatory environments is crucial due to sudden changes
impacting operations and market access. Our strategy involves continuous regulatory reviews, ensuring
compliance and operational alignment with global standards.
Raw Material Price Variations: Dependence on the import of the main raw materials makes us susceptible
to price variations. A diversified supply chain strategy enables negotiation leverage and cost efficiency.
Product Quality and Safety: Maintaining uncompromised product standards is critical. We enforce rigorous
quality control and assurance measures at every production stage to prevent potential reputational or
financial harm.
In conclusion, while Orgabio is aware of these risks, it is our continual endeavour to stay proactive, vigilant,
and adaptive. Through rigorous risk management strategies, we aim to minimise the potential adverse
impacts of these challenges and ensure our sustained growth and stakeholder value. For more details
on our internal controls to measure risks, kindly refer to our Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Controls on pages 51-54.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
20
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
THE STATEMENT
Orgabio Holdings Berhad ("Orgabio" or "the Group") is pleased to present its Sustainability Statement
(“Statement”) for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 (“FY2023”), which details the Group's efforts
to integrate Environmental, Social, and Governance ("ESG") Sustainability initiatives into our business
operations.Werecognisethesignificanceofthesocio-economicandenvironmentalimpactonourbusiness
activities, which motivates us to create long-term value for our stakeholders. This Statement showcases
Orgabio's dedication to reinforcing our sustainability performance, highlighting key achievements and
milestones reached in FY2023.
As we embark on this journey towards sustainable value creation, the Group is committed to creating
long-term sustainable value for all stakeholders. We strive to embed sustainability development awareness
among our employees and incorporate such philosophies into our corporate culture, business processes,
and strategy-making. We aim to develop sustainable businesses that positively impact the community,
economy, and environment.
During FY2023, the Group has proactively identified and implemented various initiatives supporting our
sustainability aspirations. We ensure that adequate considerations are placed on addressing economic,
environmental, and social risks and opportunities that arise. Our Statement encompasses information on
material sustainable development activities and the management of risks and opportunities impacting
the economic, environmental, and social aspects of the Group’s businesses.
Sustainability is an ongoing journey, and we recognise the importance of evolving and enhancing our
strategies to make consistent progress. We believe that continually improving our reporting quality can offer
greater clarity and transparency regarding our sustainability initiatives and approaches. This Statement not
only serves as a summary of our current sustainability approach and the significant outcomes achieved
during the financial year but also outlines our commitment to further advancements. We are dedicated
to learning, adapting, and implementing best practices to ensure our journey in sustainability remains
dynamic, impactful, and aligned with the evolving needs of our stakeholders and the environment.
REPORTING STANDARDS
The Statement has been prepared in adherence to the following:
• Bursa Malaysia's Sustainability Reporting Guide issued by Bursa Malaysia
• United Nations Sustainable Development Goals ("UN SDGs")
• Orgabio’s Sustainable Policy
Our sustainability framework is underpinned by robust governance, which provides oversight for these
policies and processes. This framework and governance structure serve as a comprehensive roadmap
that delineates our goals and the methods to attain them.
REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY
This Sustainability Statement encompasses the reporting period from 1 July 2022 to 30 June 2023. Our
focus spans economic, environmental, and social ("EES") dimensions, spotlighting initiatives and areas we
have identified. The Statement predominantly covers the business activities conducted by the Group. The
information and data disclosed in this Statement have been sourced from internal reporting processes,
systems, and records.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 21
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
Governance is at the core of our sustainability agenda. Orgabio Group conducts its business activities
ethically, complying with prevailing laws and regulations showcasing our commitment to accountability
and social responsibility. Our approach to governance reflects our commitment to identifying, evaluating,
monitoring, and managing risks and opportunities across Environmental, Social, and Governance ("ESG")
areas, thereby driving sustainable development and value creation.
The Board of Directors ("the Board") of Orgabio adopts a sustainable governance approach that is
tailored to the Group’s unique culture, needs, sustainability-related risks and opportunities, and the level of
maturity of its sustainability intellect and readiness. This governance structure empowers the Board and the
Management to monitor critical material sustainability topics, progress, associated risks, and opportunities.
The Board of Directors has implemented a Sustainability Policy, which integrates sustainability principles
into the Group’s operations, aiming to enhance value creation for shareholders and consider the impact
on stakeholders, natural resources, society, and surrounding communities. This policy aligns with achieving
sustainable development goals and is overseen by the Senior Management, responsible for addressing
sustainability issues and updating the Board on performance and stakeholder concerns. The Sustainability
Policy is available on the company’s website at www.orgabio.com.
Under the purview of the Board, sustainable business practices are integrated throughout all levels of
the organisation. The Board has empowered the Management to monitor the implementation of
sustainability-related strategies and undertake actions towards achieving the Group’s sustainability goals.
The Management, led by the Executive Deputy Chairman and comprised of the Executive Directors and
senior management members, is responsible for identifying, evaluating, monitoring, and managing ESG
risks and opportunities. They ensure that all material sustainability matters are considered and managed
by the Group through various activities, including stakeholder engagement and materiality assessment.
Furthermore, the Management is tasked with preparing sustainability disclosures for the Board’s approval as
mandated by laws and regulations, ensuring transparency and compliance in our sustainability reporting.
Overall, Orgabio Group remains steadfast in its commitment to sustainability, continuously striving to
enhance our practices, foster awareness, and contribute positively to the wider community, economy,
and environment. We believe that our concerted efforts can achieve a harmonious balance between
sustainable development and value creation for all our stakeholders.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
The Board of Orgabio Holdings Berhad recognises and values the vital contributions and support that both
internal and external stakeholders bring in realising the Group’s missions and ensuring long-term business
sustainability and excellence. Stakeholder engagement is at the heart of our sustainability journey, aiding
in identifying, prioritising, and addressing material sustainability matters. Stakeholder engagements carried
out both formally and informally in FY2023, serve as invaluable touchpoints that help shape our sustainability
agenda and foster mutual understanding and collaboration.
These engagements are conducted at regular intervals, reflecting the Group’s proactive approach to
maintaining open lines of communication and fostering relationships with stakeholders. By doing so, we
aim to gain insights, address concerns, and collaboratively work towards sustainability goals that are
beneficial for all parties involved.
The table below outlines the various segments of stakeholder engagements undertaken by the Group,
detailing the areas of interest identified and the appropriate responses formulated to address the arising
interests and concerns. This comprehensive approach ensures that stakeholder input is thoroughly
considered and integrated into our sustainability strategies, thus contributing to the continuous
improvement and refinement of our initiatives.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
22
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (CONT’D)
Stakeholders Engagement Channels Area of interests Forum of responses
Investors and
shareholders
• Annual General
Meeting
• Annual Report
• Quarterly interim
report
• Bursa announcement
• Corporate website
• Briefings/updates
for analysts/fund
managers
• Business growth
strategy
• Group’s financial
performance
• Sustainable financial
returns
• Sustainable dividend
policy
• Corporate
governance
• Regulatory
compliance
• Quarterly reporting
and regular audits
• Financial
performance and
results
Customers • Corporate website
• Actively engaging
and building
relationships
• Participation in
industry networking
events
• Regular feedback
and meetings
• Product quality
• Food safety
• Resolving complaints
efficiently
• Ensuring on-time
service
• Ensuring on-time
product delivery
• Relationship building
• Health and safety
• Quality management
system
• Competitive pricing
• Customer
engagement
Suppliers • Suppliers and
products assessment
• Regular meetings with
suppliers
• Engaged contract on
a need basis
• Transparent
procurement
practices
• Transparent pricing
• Product quality
• Payment terms
• Timely delivery
• Regular/on-time
payment schedule
• Quality assessment
• Constant and regular
engagement
Employees • Company events and
activities
• Training and
development
programme
• Safety training and
awareness
• Whistle-blowing policy
• Annual performance
appraisal
• Staff orientation/
onboarding
• Employee
engagement survey
• Career development
• Competitive
remuneration and
rewards
• Occupational safety
and health
• Induction and
orientation
• Training
• Staff welfare events
• Performance
management system
• Whistle-blowing
channel
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 23
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (CONT’D)
Stakeholders Engagement Channels Area of interests Forum of responses
Governments
and Regulators
• Corporate website
• Policies in place to
comply with relevant
government laws and
regulations
• Seminars or
information sessions
held by authorities
• Formal meetings
• Emails and letters
• On-site inspection
• Compliance with law
and regulations
• Compliance
with corporate
governance
• Compliance
with labour,
environmental,
safety and health
regulations
• Accuracy,
transparency and
disclosure
• Engagement with
regulatory bodies and
government agencies
Media and
analysts
• Media release/
interviews
• Financial results
briefings
• Public events
• Financial
performance
• Business strategies
• Market presence
• Quarterly reporting
and regular audits
• Financial
performance and
results
Local
community
• Corporate website
• Corporate social
responsibility program
• Volunteer
opportunities
• Charitable/
community events
• Social responsibility
• Environmental
awareness and
education
• Business opportunity
• Employment support
• Interact with local
communities
• Corporate social
responsibility events
• Job opportunity
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS
Contribution to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“UN SDGs”)
At Orgabio, we are committed to contributing to sustainable development both nationally and globally.
To achieve this, we have aligned our operations with the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals
(“SDGs”). In FY2023, we adopted five SDGs 3,5,7,8 and 12 based on our sustainability initiatives. This is
supported by the four pillars of our sustainability initiatives: Economic, Environment, Social and Governance.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
24
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS (CONT’D)
Sustainability activities:
1. Economic
Orgabio actively supports economic sustainability, aligning with UN SDG 8 by creating jobs, enhancing
skills, and engaging with the community. The Group focuses on employing locals and investing in their
skills through training, with a management team mostly consisting of local professionals. This approach
fosters growth and leadership within the community. Aside from that, Orgabio prioritises local
suppliers, supports the local economy, reduces environmental impact, and strengthens community
ties. In FY2023, the Group offered part-time opportunities for stay-at-home housewives, promoting
their financial independence and social participation. This initiates a ripple effect, improving income
levels and supporting the overall economic stability of the local community
2. Environment
Orgabio is a vanguard of environmental conservation, embedding "Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle" in
its operational ethos, which is aligned with UN SDG Goals 7 and 12 on clean energy and responsible
consumption. Some of the key highlights include its efficient resource management. The Group
focuses on sustainable use of resources. Despite increased electricity use, we are investing in Research
& Development (“R&D”) for better efficiency and managing emissions in the long term. Below is the
tracking of the electricity consumption in FY2023:
FY2022 FY2023
Revenue (RM ‘000) 64,354 58,835
Electricity (RM ‘000) 429 503
Electricity Consumption (KWH) 951,387 1,037,756
Electricity Consumption (KWH) per revenue (RM) 0.0148 0.0176
Breaking new ground in renewable energy adoption, Orgabio will invest RM1.1 million in the installation
of solar panels at their new plant in Semenyih. Comprising 720 panels, this initiative is projected to
generate 40,000 kWh of electricity per month. The installation of the solar panel system at Orgabio’s
new plant is a testament to the Group’s dedication to environmental sustainability and innovation.
By harnessing the power of the sun, Orgabio is actively contributing to the reduction of greenhouse
gas emissions. The transition to solar energy signifies a decrease in the carbon footprint of the Group’s
operations, reinforcing its commitment to combat climate change and promote ecological balance.
Aside from that, the Group also prioritises the reduction of waste through waste segregation, recycling
and energy-saving tactics. Orgabio also uses sustainable materials such as recycled carton boxes to
support eco-friendly consumption habits.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 25
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITMENTS (CONT’D)
Sustainability activities: (Cont’d)
3. Social
Orgabio is dedicated to social sustainability, aligning with UN SDG Goals 3, 5 and 8. Orgabio believes
in workforce diversity, promotes gender equality and upholds a strict stance against any form of
discrimination and bullying. While 74% of our employees are men, women hold a strong 54.8%
presence in management roles.
Employee
by gender
Number of
employees
% of total
employee
Male 108 74.0
Female 38 26.0
Total 146 100.0
Management
team by
gender
Number of
employees
% of total
employee
Male 19 45.2
Female 23 54.8
Total 42 100.0
Aside from that, the Group also prioritises the well-being of its employees by offering competitive
salaries and quality living conditions. Team-building events and recognition ceremonies are also
organised to enhance workplace morale. Orgabio also invests in employee training for personal
and professional growth, ensuring high product and service standards. The Group also strongly
emphasises Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) by enforcing strict safety protocols, with regular
risk assessments and modern equipment to ensure a secure workplace. Beyond business, Orgabio is
deeply engaged in social programs such as OrgaCare, which extends health awareness to senior
citizens. Another pivotal social commitment is our comprehensive educational support initiative, “New
Era University College”, in which we provide scholarships and financial aid. These will help to eliminate
financial hindrances, granting aspiring students access to necessary resources, opportunities, and
supportive community—essentials for academic success and constructive societal involvement.
This is an investment in our collective future, facilitating educational attainment, fostering a diverse
and inclusive campus atmosphere, and mirroring the multifaceted reality of our global society.
Furthermore, the scope of this initiative reaches beyond the academic confines, reaffirming our
unwavering commitment to equalising opportunities for students from every sector of society, thereby
nurturing not just educated individuals but future leaders and innovators.
4. Governance
Orgabio champions sustainability through strong governance and ethical practices, aligning with UN
SDGs, especially SDG 12. They maintain a strict Code of Conduct, anti-corruption measures, and a
secure whistleblowing mechanism, ensuring integrity and compliance. Their commitment to quality
is evident in their adherence to international food safety standards and certifications. Among some
of the certifications include Food Safety System Certification 22000 (“FSSC 22000”), Hazard Analysis
Critical Control Point (“HACCP”), Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”), HALAL Certification and
Makanan Selamat Tanggungjawab Industri (“MeSTI”).
CONCLUSION
Orgabio's sustainability journey is anchored in four pillars: Economic, Environmental, Social, and
Governance. These form a balanced strategy, fostering prosperity, environmental care, social equality,
and ethical conduct. Aligned with UN SDGs, our approach addresses global challenges like poverty
and climate change. We emphasise continuous learning, adaptability, and stakeholder engagement,
seeking to amplify our positive impact on society and the environment. We are committed to an evolving,
collaborative effort toward global sustainability goals.
Total employees by gender
Male
74%
Female
26%
Management team by gender
Male
45.2%
Female
54.8%
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
26
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Orgabio Holdings Berhad (“Orgabio” or “the Company”) recognises
and is committed to ensure the importance of good Corporate Governance (“CG”) is being practiced
by the Company and the subsidiaries (“Group” or “Orgabio Group”) in order to safeguard stakeholders’
interests as well as enhancing shareholders’ value.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement (“CGOS”) sets out the manner in which the Group has
applied and the extent of compliance with principles and recommendations as set out in the Malaysian
Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”), the relevant chapters of the ACE Market Listing Requirements
(“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) on CG and all applicable
laws and regulations throughout the financial year ended 30 June 2023 (“FY2023”).
The CGOS is supplemented with a Corporate Governance Report (“CG Report”), in accordance with Rule
15.25 of the Listing Requirements and it provides an insight on how the Company maps the application of
the Company’s CG practice during the FY2023 against MCCG.
The CGOS shall be read together with the CG Report, available on the Company’s website at www.
orgabio.com.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
PART 1 – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS
1.1 Functions, Roles and Responsibilities of the Board
The Board leads Orgabio and plays a strategic role in overseeing the Group’s objectives,
direction, goals and overall corporate governance to ensure that the strategic plans of the
Group are implemented and accountability is monitored well.
The following are the key matters of the Company reserved for the Board’s approval:
• to review and adopt strategic plans, addressing the sustainability of the Group’s business;
• to oversee the conduct of the Group’s businesses and evaluate whether or not the
businesses are being properly managed;
• to identify principal business risks faced by the Group and ensure the implementation of
appropriate systems to manage these risks;
• to consider and implement succession planning, including appointing, training, fixing the
compensation of and, where appropriate, replacing members of the Board and Senior
Management;
• to develop and implement an investor relations programme or shareholder communications
policy for the Company;
• to review the adequacy and the integrity of the Group’s internal control systems and
management information systems, including systems for compliance with applicable laws,
regulations, rules, directives and guidelines;
• to promote good corporate governance culture together with Senior Management within
the Company for reinforcing ethical, prudent and professional behaviour; and
• to review, challenge and decide on Management’s critical proposals for the Company,
and oversee its implementation by Management.
The Board reserves certain powers for itself and has delegated certain matters, such as the day-
to-day management of the Group to the Executive Directors. The Independent Non-Executive
Directors including the Chairman are responsible for bringing independent judgement and
scrutiny to decisions taken by the Board and providing objective challenges to Management.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 27
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART 1 – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS (CONT’D)
1.1 Functions, Roles and Responsibilities of the Board (Cont’d)
The Independent Non-Executive Directors do not participate in the day-to-day management of
the Group and do not engage in any business dealings or other relationship with the Group. In
this manner, the Independent Non-Executive Directors fulfill a crucial corporate accountability
role as they provide independent and objective views, opinions and judgement on issues being
deliberated and act in the best interest of the Group, its stakeholders and shareholders, including
minority shareholders. There is a schedule of key matters reserved to the Board for its deliberation
and decision to ensure the direction and control of the Group are in its hands.
1.2 Board Committees
In order to discharge its stewardship role effectively, the Board has delegated specific duties
to 3 Board Committees. Each of the Board Committees operates within its respective Terms
of Reference (“TOR”) approved by the Board. The Board Committees established during the
FY2023 are as follows:
• Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”);
• Nomination Committee (“NC”); and
• Remuneration Committee (“RC”).
Although specific powers are delegated to the Board Committees, the Board continues to keep
itself abreast of the actions and decisions taken by each Board Committee, including key issues
via reports by the Chairman and/or Chairperson of each of the Board Committees, as well as
the tabling of minutes of all Board Committee meetings, to the Board at Board meetings. The
Board reviews the respective Board Committees’ authority and TOR from time to time to ensure
their relevance and enhance its efficiency. The ultimate responsibility for the final decision on all
matters, however, lies with the Board as a whole.
The TOR of each of the Board Committees as approved by the Board is available on the
Company’s corporate website at www.orgabio.com.
1.3 The Chairman of the Board
The Board is chaired by the Chairman who is not related to the Executive Directors. The Chairman
is responsible for the Board’s effectiveness and conduct, implementing the Group’s policies,
executive decision making and is assisted by the Executive Directors.
The Chairman also promotes an open environment for debate and ensures effective
contributions from Non-Executive Directors. He also exercises control over the quality, quantity
and timeliness of information flow between the Board and Management. Together with the
other Non-Executive and Independent Directors, he leads the discussion on the strategies and
policies recommended by the Management.
At a general meeting, the Chairman plays a role in fostering constructive dialogue between
shareholders, Board and Management.
In line with the recommendation of the MCCG, the Chairman is not a member of any of the
Board Committees. This is to ensure check and balance as well as the objectivity will not be
influenced by the Chairman of the Board who also sits on Board Committee(s).
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
28
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART 1 – BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1. BOARD’S LEADERSHIP ON OBJECTIVES AND GOALS (CONT’D)
1.4 Separation of Roles of Independent Non-Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
(“CEO”)
In order to foster a strong governance culture in the Group and to ensure a balance of power
and authority, the roles of Independent Non-Executive Chairman and CEO are strictly separated.
The Company practices a division of responsibilities between the Independent Non-Executive
Chairman and the CEO. This is also to maintain effective supervision and accountability of the
Board and Executive Management. The Independent Non-Executive Chairman is responsible
for Board effectiveness and to ensure that the conduct and working of the Board is in an orderly
and effective manner while the Executive Directors and CEO take on the primary responsibility
of managing the Group’s businesses and resources as well as overseeing and managing the
day-to-day operations of the Group.
1.5 Qualified and Competent Company Secretaries
The Company Secretaries of Orgabio have the requisite credentials and are competent and
suitably qualified to act as company secretary under Section 235(2) of the Companies Act 2016
(“the Act”). The Board is satisfied with the performance and support rendered by the Company
Secretaries to the Board in discharge of their functions. The Company Secretaries play an advisory
role to the Board in relation to the Company’s Constitution, Board’s policies and procedures and
compliance with the relevant regulatory requirements, codes or guidance and legislations.
The Company Secretaries support the Board by ensuring that all Board meetings are properly
conducted and adhered to Board’s policies and procedures, rules, relevant laws and best
practices on CG and deliberations at the Board and Board Committee meetings as well as follow-
up on matters arising are well captured and recorded. The Company Secretaries also keep the
Board updated on changes in the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities and directives issued
by the regulatory authorities, and the resultant implications to the Company and the Directors in
relation to their duties and responsibilities.
The Company Secretaries constantly keep themselves abreast of the evolving capital market
environment, regulatory changes and developments in CG through continuous training.
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION
2. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY
2.1 Composition of the Board
The Company is led by an experienced Board consisting of individuals with appropriate
knowledge and skills to enhance the growth of the Group’s business with good corporate
governance.
The current Board comprises of 8 members, comprising of 1 Independent Non-Executive
Chairman, 1 Executive Deputy Chairman, 2 Executive Directors, 3 Independent Non-Executive
Directors and 1 Non-Independent Non-Executive Director. In this respect, the Board complies
with the recommendation of the MCCG of which at least 50% of the Board is Independent
Director. In addition, Orgabio also complies with the requirement of the Listing Requirements for
Independent Non-Executive Directors to make up at least 1/3 of the Board membership. In the
event of any vacancy in the Board resulting in non-compliance with the Listing Requirements,
the Board shall fill the vacancy within 3 months from the date of that event.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 29
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
2.1 Composition of the Board (Cont’d)
The Board views the present number of its Independent Directors as ideal to provide the necessary
check and balance to the Board‘s decision-making process. There is a good mix of skills and core
competencies in the current Board membership. The Board is of the opinion that the existing 4
Independent Non-Executive Directors, with their extensive knowledge and experience would
be able to represent the investment of the public and the minority shareholders. The Board is,
however, open to board changes as and when appropriate. The profile of each of the Director
is set out on pages 4 to 11 of this Annual Report.
The Board has not nominated a Senior Independent Non-Executive Director to whom concerns
may be conveyed as the Board is of the opinion that given the strong independent element of
the Board, any concern regarding the Group may be conveyed by shareholders or investors to
any of the Independent Directors at the following address and such concerns will be reviewed
and addressed by the Board accordingly:
Orgabio Holdings Berhad
Lot 83, Jalan Kesuma 2/3, Phase 5D, Bandar Tasik Kesuma Techno Park, 43700 Beranang, Selangor
Email: enquiry@orgabio.com
2.2 Tenure of Independent Directors
As of FY2023, none of the Independent Directors has reached 9 years of service since their
appointment as Independent Directors.
In line with the MCCG, the Board has adopted the 9 years policy for Independent Directors.
Upon completion of the 9 years, an Independent Director may continue to serve on the Board
subject to the re-designation of the said person as a Non-Independent Director. In the event
the Board intends to retain such Director as Independent Director after the latter has served
a cumulative term of 9 years, the Board will justify the decision and seek annual shareholders’
approval through a two-tier voting process.
2.3 Gender Diversity Policy
The Board is aware of the importance of boardroom diversity and is supportive of the
recommendation of MCCG to the establishment of boardroom and workforce gender diversity
policy. The Board has adopted the Board Diversity Policy which sets out the Company’s approach
to diversity on the Board of Orgabio. The Board together with the NC will assess and evaluate
current diversity levels, identify and analyse gaps and criteria for new board appointments,
and thereafter recommend the strategies, objectives, targets and practical goals against an
indicative time frame in order to maintain an appropriate range and balance of skills, experience
and background on the Board. The Group will evaluate the suitability of candidates as a new
Board member based on the candidates’ competency, skills, character, time commitment,
knowledge, experience and other qualities in meeting the needs of the Group, regardless of
gender. Equal opportunity is given and does not practice discrimination of any form, whether
based on age, gender, race and religion, throughout the organisation.
As of FY2023, our Board comprises 2 female Directors, representing approximately 25% of total
numbers of the Board. In line with the MCCG of at least 30% representation of women on Boards,
the Board will evaluate and match the criteria of the potential candidate as well as considering
the appointment of female director onto the Board in future to bring about a more diverse
perspective.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
30
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
2.4 Diverse Board and Senior Management
The Group practicing equal opportunity and no discrimination of any form, whether based
on age, gender, race and religion, throughout the organisation. The Board and Management
also believe the participation of women in decision-making positions should not be focused on
board positions alone but should be broadened to include members of Senior Management as
the same benefits apply.
2.5 Board Appointment Process
The Group has in place a formal and transparent procedure for appointment of new directors
to the Board. The Board had entrusted NC to identify and nominate suitable candidates for
appointmentstotheBoardforapproval,eithertofillvacanciesorasadditiontomeetthechanging
needs of the Group. The NC may engage professional recruitment or from recommendations by
existing Board members, to search for suitable candidates subject to approval by the Chairman
or the Board, depending on the quantum of the fees involved.
Before recommending an appointment to the Board, the NC will undertake a comprehensive
evaluation and assessment of the candidates in accordance with the criteria as set out in the
Directors’ Fit & Proper Policy adopted by the Group. The NC also takes into accounts the Group’s
business and matches the capabilities and contribution expected for a particular appointment.
In selection of Board candidates, the NC takes into account the mix of skills, competencies,
experience, integrity, personal attributes and time commitment required to effectively discharge
his/her role as a director. The NC shall ensure that the Board has the right balance of skills,
experience, independence and business knowledge necessary to discharge its responsibilities
in keeping with the highest standards of governance.
During the financial year under review, the Company had appointed Mr Tan Kim Siong as Non-
Independent Non-Executive Director on 3 January 2023.
2.6 Re-Election of Directors
The procedure on the re-election of Directors by rotation is set out in the Company’s Constitution.
Pursuant to the Company’s Constitution, all Directors who are appointed by the Board during
the year are subject to re-election by shareholders at the first meeting after their appointment.
The Company’s Constitution also provides at least 1/3 of the remaining Directors are subject
to re-election by rotation at each Annual General Meeting, and retiring Directors can offer
themselves for re-election. All Directors shall retire from office at least once in every 3 years, but
shall be eligible for re-election.
The NC would carry out formal assessment evaluation on the performance as well as identifying
any gaps or areas of improvement of the individual Directors, Board and Board Committee
annually. The NC also would identify the Directors to be retired (“Retiring Directors”) by rotation
in accordance with the Constitution of the Company and assess the Retiring Directors’ eligibility
for re-election by considering their competencies, time commitment, contribution and their
ability to act in the best interest of the Company. Based on the satisfactory evaluation of the
respective Retiring Director’s performance and contributions to the Board, the NC will then
recommend to the Board the re-election of the Retiring Directors at the Annual General Meeting
of the Company.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 31
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2. BOARD’S OBJECTIVITY (CONT’D)
2.6 Re-Election of Directors (Cont’d)
For the forthcoming Annual General Meeting, the following Directors are standing for re-election
as Directors of the Company pursuant to the following clauses of the Company’s Constitution and
are being eligible have offered themselves for re-election in accordance with the Company’s
Constitution:
i) Mr Ean Yong Hien Voon (Clause 115);
ii) Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung (Clause 115); and
iii) Mr Tan Kim Siong (Clause 125).
		 (collectively referred to as “Retiring Directors”)
The Board through the NC has deliberated on the suitability of the Retiring Directors to be re-
elected as Directors. Upon deliberation, the Board (except for the Retiring Directors who had
abstained from deliberations and decisions on their own eligibility to stand for re-election at
the relevant Board and Committees meetings) collectively agreed that the Retiring Directors
meet the criteria of character, experience, integrity, competence and time commitment to
effectively discharge their respective roles as Directors of the Company and recommended the
Retiring Directors be re-elected as the Directors of the Company, subject to the shareholders’
approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
2.7 Nomination Committee
The Board has established the NC which comprises exclusively of Independent Non-Executive
Directors, with the responsibilities of identify and recommend the right candidate with necessary
skills, experience and competencies to be filled in the Board and Board Committees on an
ongoing basis.
The Terms of Reference of the NC can be viewed on the Company’s website at www.orgabio.
com.
		 The present members of the NC of the Company are:
Designation Name Directorship
Chairman Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew Independent Non-Executive Director
Member Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung Independent Non-Executive Director
Member Phang Sze Fui Independent Non-Executive Director
The activities undertaken by the NC during the financial year under review are as follows:
• Reviewed the structure, size and diversity (including without limitation, gender, age, cultural
and educational background, ethnicity, professional experience, skills, knowledge and
length of service) of the Board;
• Undertook annual assessment of its Independent Directors;
• Reviewed the performance of the Board as a whole, the Board Committees and each
individual directors;
• Reviewed and recommended the retirement and re-election of Directors in accordance
with the Company’s Constitution;
• Reviewed and recommended the appointment of Ms Ean Yong Sik Siew as Chief Operating
Officer of the Company; and
• Reviewed and recommended the appointment of Mr Tan Kim Siong as Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director of the Company.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
32
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
3. BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
3.1 Annual Evaluation
The Board, through the NC and facilitated by the Company Secretaries, will conduct an annual
assessment to evaluate the performance of the Board, its Board Committees and each individual
directors, as well as identifying any gaps or areas of improvement.
The annual assessment will be conducted internally through a questionnaire and by way of
self-assessment approach on an annual basis, focusing on maximising the effectiveness and
performance of the Board. The Board did not engage any external party to undertake an
independent assessment of the Directors. A summary of the results and all feedback received
were tabled to the NC for deliberation before appropriate action plans were recommended to
the Board for further discussion and approval.
The criteria used by the NC in evaluating the performance of an individual, including contribution
to interaction, integrity, competency and time commitment of the members of the Board and
Board Committees in discharging their duties.
From the annual assessment and review conducted for FY2023, the NC was satisfied that all
the Directors possess sufficient qualification to remain on the Board. Save for the NC members
who are also a member of the Board and have abstained from assessing their own individual
performance as Director of the Company, each of the NC members view that all the Directors
have good personal attributes and possess sufficient experience and knowledge in various fields
that are vital to the Company’s industry.
As for the Board evaluation, the NC agreed that all the Directors have discharged their
stewardship duties and responsibilities towards the Company as a Director effectively. The NC
further concluded that the Board and Board Committees were functioning effectively as a
whole with a high level of compliance and integrity.
3.2 Annual Assessment of Independence
The NC will conduct annual assessments on an annual basis and the criteria for assessment
covers areas such as contributions to interaction, roles and responsibilities and quality of input to
enhance the Board’s effectiveness. The independence of Independent Directors was assessed
based on their relationship with the Group and their involvement in any significant transactions
with the Group including their ability to exercise independent judgment at all times and based
on the criteria set out in the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities.
From the annual assessment and review conducted for FY2023, the NC was satisfied that all
the Independent Directors are independent of Management and free from any business or
other relationship which could interfere with the exercise of independent judgment, objectivity
or the ability to act in the best interests of the Company. Additionally, each of the Independent
Directors has provided an annual confirmation of their independence to the NC and the Board.
3.3 Supply and Access to Information
All Directors have direct access to the Management and have unrestricted access to any
information relating to the Group to enable them to discharge their duties. The Directors also have
direct access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries and are regularly updated
on the new statutory and regulatory requirements relating to the duties and responsibilities of the
Directors.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 33
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
3. BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
3.3 Supply and Access to Information (Cont’d)
Prior to the Board meetings, the agenda for each meeting together with a full set of the board
papers containing the information relevant to the business of the meetings are circulated to the
Directors at least five (5) days before the meeting. The Directors may also interact directly with
the Management, or request further explanation, information or updates on any aspect of the
Company’s operations or business concerns from them.
When necessary, the Directors may whether as a full Board or in their individual capacity, seek
independent professional advice, including the internal and external auditors, at the Company’s
expense to enable the Directors to discharge their duties with adequate knowledge on the
matters being deliberated, subject to approval by the Chairman of the Board, and depending
on the quantum of the fees involved.
3.4 Board Meetings
The Board schedules meeting on a quarterly basis and additional meetings which require the
Board’s deliberation and approval will be convened in between the scheduled meetings as
and when necessary. A pre-scheduled meetings of the year will be circulated to all the Board
members at the beginning of each calendar year to facilitate the Directors in planning ahead
and incorporating the said meetings into their respective schedules. At the end of each Board
and Board Committees meeting, the date of the next meeting is to be re-confirmed by the
Directors.
In the intervals between Board meetings, for exceptional matters requiring urgent Board’s
decisions, approvals will be obtained via circular resolutions which are supported with information
necessary for an informed decision.
The Chairman of the meeting is responsible to assure that robust and vigorous deliberations at
Board and Board Committee meetings and provide opportunities to all Directors to participate
and contribute to the decision-making process as well as to ensure that the process of
constructive and healthy dialogue is achieved.
The deliberations of the Board and Board Committees in terms of the issues discussed during the
meetings and the Board’s conclusions in discharging its duties and responsibilities are recorded
in the minutes of meetings by the Company Secretaries. Minutes of meetings are circulated and
confirmed as a correct record by the Board and Board Committees at the next meeting. The
Directors may request clarification or make comments on the minutes prior to their confirmation.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
34
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
3. BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
3.4 Board Meetings (Cont’d)
The Board and Board Committees have discharged their roles and responsibilities by attending
the Board and Board Committees meetings held in FY2023. The Board satisfied with the level of
time commitment given by the Directors in carrying out their responsibilities which is evidenced
by the attendance record of the Directors set out in table below:
Attendance
Name of Directors Board ARMC NC RC
Dr Teh Chee Ghee 5/5 - - -
Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin 5/5 - - -
Ean Yong Hien Voon 5/5 - - -
Ean Yong Hen Loen 5/5 - - -
Phang Sze Fui 5/5 5/5 1/1 1/1
Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung 5/5 5/5 1/1 1/1
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew 5/5 5/5 1/1 1/1
Tan Kim Siong
(Appointed on 3 January 2023)
2/2 - - -
3.5 Board Commitment
Notwithstanding that no specific quantum of time has been fixed, each member of the Board
is expected to devote sufficient time and attention to the affairs of the Company. Each Board
member is expected to achieve at least 50% attendance of total Board Meetings held in any
applicable financial year with appropriate leave of absence be notified to the Chairman and/
or Company Secretaries, where applicable.
Any Director is, while holding office, at liberty to accept other Board appointment(s) in other
companies so long as the appointment is not in conflict with the Company’s business and does
not affect the discharge of his/her duty as a Director of the Company. Prior to the acceptance
of new Board appointment(s) in other companies and/or Public Listed Companies (“PLCs”), the
Directors are to notify the Chairman and/or the Company Secretaries in writing. To ensure the
Directors have the time to focus and fulfill their roles and responsibilities effectively, 1 criterion as
agreed by the Board is that they must not hold directorships at more than 5 PLCs (as prescribed
in Rule 15.06 of the Listing Requirements).
3.6 Directors’ Training
All Directors appointed to the Board have undergone the Mandatory Accreditation Program
(“MAP”) prescribed by Bursa Securities. Although the Board does not have a policy requiring
each Director to attend a specific number and types of training sessions each year, the Directors
are encouraged to attend continuous education programmes/seminars/conferences and
shall as such receive further training from time to time to keep themselves abreast of the latest
development in statutory laws, regulations and best practices, where appropriate, in line with
the changing business environment and enhance their business acumen and professionalism in
discharging their duties to the Group.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 35
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
3. BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
3.6 Directors’ Training (Cont’d)
Details of seminars/conferences/training programmes attended by the Board members during
the financial year as listed below:
Board members Courses/Training Programmes Attended
Dr Teh Chee Ghee • BDO Transfer Pricing on Intercompany Financing
• KPMG Tax Investigation Webinar TIW22
• MIA-Royal Institution of Surveyors Malaysia (RISM)
Seminar on Valuation
• Bursa Malaysia - Climate Governance: A Standing Item
on Board Agenda
• AI Smartual Learning: Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption
• UNGCMYB - SDG Investment Forum ASEAN 2022
• AI Smartual Learning: Embedding Sustainability Practices
and Compliance with the Listing Requirements and
Report Writing for Sustainability Report
• Gamuda ESG Supply Chain Training
• ICDM Power Talk – Navigating ESG Data into Decisions
• ACCA 16th Asia Pacific Thought Leadership Forum (APTL)
• NTW2023 - Design Thinking for HR-Enabled Digital
Transformation
• Sunway University - Campus with a Conscience: Tackling
Climate Change Requires Climate Actions – Our Role as
a Change Agent
Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin • Get It Done! Through Effective Time and Stress
Management
• Problem Solving and Decision Making
Ean Yong Hien Voon • FMM Webinar on Sugar Tax: Expansion of Excise Duty on
Premixed Beverages
• Get It Done! Through Effective Time and Stress
Management
• Problem Solving and Decision Making
Ean Yong Hen Loen • FMM Webinar on Sugar Tax: Expansion of Excise Duty on
Premixed Beverages
• Get It Done! Through Effective Time and Stress
Management
• Problem Solving and Decision Making
Phang Sze Fui • Directors’ continuing obligations and responsibilities as a
director of a public listed company
• Bursa Immersive Session: The Board “Agender”
• Sustainability and Environment, Social and Governance
• Post Budget 2023
• Board of Director Leadership: ESG Essential
• Financial Reporting on impact of Climate Change
Effects
• Tax Budget Briefing
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
36
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
3. BOARD EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
3.6 Directors’ Training (Cont’d)
Board members Courses/Training Programmes Attended
Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung • Online Training on Sustainability Management and
Reporting
• Advocacy Session for Directors and Senior Management
of Main Market Listed Issuers
• Human Rights Risk Management for Malaysian
Companies, organised by KPMG
• Conversation with Audit Committees by Securities
Commission Malaysia
• Bursa Malaysia Immersive Session the Board “Agender”
• NACRA2023 Virtual Launch
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew • 2022 HKEX and SFC Disciplinary and Enforcement Actions
(Jan-April 2022) - Part 1
• 2022 HKEX and SFC Disciplinary and Enforcement Actions
(May-August 2022) - Part 2
• SFC Consults on Proposed Regulatory Requirements for
VA Trading Platform Operators
• Overview of the legal systems of Abu Dhabi, Dubai and
Hong Kong
Tan Kim Siong
(Appointed on 3 January 2023)
• Nil
The Board will continuingly evaluate and determine the training needs of each Director,
particularly on relevant new law and regulations and essential practices for effective corporate
governance and risk management to enable the Directors to discharge their duties effectively.
In addition to the above, Directors would be updated on recent developments in the areas
of statutory and regulatory requirements from the briefing by the External Auditors, the Internal
Auditors and Company Secretaries during the Board and Board Committees meetings.
3.7 Conflict of Interest and Related Party Transactions
To assure accountability and prevent conflict of interest in relation to issues that come before
the Board, Directors are reminded by the Company Secretaries of their statutory duties and
responsibilities and are provided with updates on any changes thereon. Hence, all related party
transactions and/or potential conflict of interest situations (if any) will be submitted to the ARMC
for review on a quarterly basis.
The Directors further acknowledge that they are also required to abstain from deliberation and
voting on relevant resolutions in which they have an interest at the Board or any general meeting
convened. In the event a corporate proposal is required to be approved by shareholders, the
interested Directors will abstain from voting in respect of their shareholdings and will further
undertake to ensure that persons connected to them will similarly abstain from voting on the
resolutions.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 37
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
4. ETHICAL AND PROCEDURAL STANDARDS
4.1 Board Charter
As part of the governance process, the Board has formalised and adopted the Board Charter.
This Board Charter sets out the composition and balance, roles and responsibilities, operation
and processes of the Board and is to ensure that all Board members acting on behalf of the
Company are aware of their duties and responsibilities as Board members.
The Board will review and update its Board Charter regularly to keep itself up to date with new
changes in regulations and best practices and to ensure its effectiveness and relevance to the
Board’s objectives. Any subsequent amendment to the Board Charter will be approved by the
Board. The Board Charter is available on the Company’s corporate website at www.orgabio.
com.
4.2 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy
The Company has adopted the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy, requires all officers
and employees to observe high standards of business and personal ethics in carrying out duties
and responsibilities. As employers and representatives of Orgabio, or any of its subsidiaries, they
must practice honesty and integrity in fulfilling their duties and responsibilities, and comply with
all applicable laws and regulations. It is thus the responsibility of all officers and employees to
comply with the said policy and to report violations or suspected violations thereto.
The Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy are accessible by the public through the
Company’s corporate website at www.orgabio.com.
4.3 Ethics and Compliance Whistleblowing Policy and Procedures
The Board has formalised the Ethics and Compliance Whistleblowing Policy and Procedures,
with the aim to provide an avenue for raising concerns related to a possible breach of business
conduct, non-compliance with laws and regulatory requirements as well as other malpractices.
The policy is a specific means by which an employee can exercise their responsibility to report
or disclose through established channels, their legitimate concerns regarding any unethical
conduct, illegal acts or failure to comply with the Company’s policies and regulatory requirements
responsibly and sensibly.
The Ethics and Compliance Whistleblowing Policy and Procedures is accessible by the public
through the Company’s corporate website at www.orgabio.com.
4.4 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”)
In line with the amendments to the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 to
incorporate a new Section 17A on corporate liability for corruption which took effect on 1
June 2020, the Group had adopted the ABC Policy which set out the Group’s responsibilities in
providing principles, guidelines and recommendation to the employees on the procedures to
deal with solicitation, bribery and corruption that could possibly arise on the business dealing
and operation activities.
The Company had also conducted briefings and trainings to employees of the Group to create
awareness on the ABC Policy to foster commitment of the employees in instil the spirit of integrity
and avoid all forms of corruption practices within the organisation.
The ABC Policy is accessible by the public through the Company’s corporate website at www.
orgabio.com.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
38
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II – BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
4. ETHICAL AND PROCEDURAL STANDARDS (CONT’D)
4.5 Sustainability Policy (Cont’d)
Orgabio Group is committed to adhere to all standards of upright business conduct through
integrity, transparency with a constant and growing progression towards excellence in every
area of business conduct. To this end, the Board in place a Sustainability Policy, to embed the
principles of sustainability into the Group’s business operations.
The policy outlines the general principles and structures the foundations that govern the
sustainability strategy of the Group to ensure that all its corporate activities and businesses are
carried out while enhance the sustainable creation of value for shareholders and taking into
account the other stakeholders related to its business activities, natural resources, society and
neighbouring communities, promoting the values of sustainability, integration and dynamism,
favouring the achievement of the sustainable development goals.
The Board fulfils its responsibilities by delegating to the Senior Management. The Senior
Management is responsible for implementing, overseeing and addressing all sustainability-
related issues from stakeholders and update the Board on the Group’s sustainability management
performance, key material issues identified by stakeholders and planned follow-up measures.
The Sustainability Policy is accessible on the Company’s corporate website at www.orgabio.
com.
4.6 Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy
The Board has established the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy, to ensure that any person to be
appointed or elected/re-elected as a Director of the Group shall possess the necessary quality
and character as well as integrity, competency and commitment to enable the discharge of the
responsibilities required of the appointed position in the most effective manner. The Directors’ Fit
and Proper Policy is accessible on the Company’s corporate website at www.orgabio.com.
PART III - REMUNERATION
5. LEVEL AND COMPOSITION OF REMUNERATION
5.1 Remuneration Committee
The Board has established the RC which comprises exclusively of Independent Non-Executive
Directors and is responsible of recommending to the Board on the remuneration framework as
well as the remuneration package of Executive Director and Senior Management to ensure that
rewards commensurate with their contributions to the Group’s growth and profitability in order
to align the interest of the Director with those of the shareholders. The RC also ensures the level
of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors are linked to their level of responsibilities undertaken
and contributions to the effective functioning of the Board.
The Terms of Reference of the RC can be viewed on the Company’s website at www.orgabio.
com.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 39
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART III - REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
5. LEVEL AND COMPOSITION OF REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
5.1 Remuneration Committee (Cont’d)
The present members of the RC of the Company are:
Designation Name Directorship
Chairperson Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung Independent Non-Executive Director
Member Phang Sze Fui Independent Non-Executive Director
Member Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew Independent Non-Executive Director
The activities undertaken by the RC during the financial year under review were as follows:
• Reviewed and recommended the ratification of the payment of Directors’ fees and
other benefits payable to the Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2022 for the
shareholders’ approval;
• Reviewed and recommended the payment of Directors’ fees and other benefits payable
to the Directors for the shareholders’ approval; and
• Reviewed and recommended the proposed remuneration of the Chief Operating Officer
for the Board’s approval.
5.2 Remuneration Policy
The Board has adopted a Remuneration Policy to ensure the payment of equitable, competitive
remuneration to the Directors and Senior Management of the Company which is based on
individual performance, Company’s benchmark, industry practices and performance of the
Company as a whole.
The RC’s principal objective is to evaluate, deliberate and recommend to the Board a
remuneration policy for Executive Directors that is fairly guided by market norms and industry
practice. The RC also recommends the Executive Directors’ remuneration and benefits based
on their individual performances and that of the Group.
The determination of the remuneration for Non-Executive Directors is a matter of the Board as
a whole. The level of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors reflects the amount paid by
other comparable organisations, adjusted for the experience and levels of responsibilities
undertaken by the particular Non-Executive Directors concerned. The remuneration package
of Non-Executive Directors will be a matter to be deliberated by the Board, with the Director
concerned abstaining from deliberations and voting on deliberations in respect of his individual
remuneration. In addition, the Company also reimburses reasonable out-of-pocket expenses
incurred by all the Non-Executive Directors in the course of their duties as Directors of the
Company. The aggregate annual Directors’ fees and other benefits payable are to be approved
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting based on recommendations of the Board.
The Remuneration Policy is reviewed by the RC and the Board periodically, when necessary. The
Remuneration Policy is available on the Company’s corporate website at www.orgabio.com.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
40
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART III - REMUNERATION
6. REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT
6.1 Details of Directors’ Remuneration
The details of the Directors’ remuneration comprising remuneration received/receivable from
the Company and its subsidiaries during the FY2023 are as follows:
		The Company
Name
Fees
RM’000
Salaries
RM’000
Bonus
RM’000
Allowance
RM’000
Benefits in
Kind
RM’000
Other
Emoluments
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Dr Teh Chee
Ghee
66 - - - - 1 67
Dato’ Ean Yong
Tin Sin
- - - - - - -
Ean Yong Hien
Voon
- - - - - - -
Ean Yong Hen
Loen
- - - - - - -
Phang Sze Fui 60 - - - - 1 61
Dato’ Magaret
Ting Thien Hung
60 - - - - 1 61
Dato’ Seri Chan
Kong Yew
60 - - - - 1 61
Tan Kim Siong
(Appointed on
3 January 2023)
30 - - - - 1 31
Total 276 - - - - 5 281
		The Group
Name
Fees
RM’000
Salaries
RM’000
Bonus
RM’000
Allowance
RM’000
Benefits in
Kind
RM’000
Other
Emoluments
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Dr Teh Chee
Ghee
66 - - - - 1 67
Dato’ Ean Yong
Tin Sin
- 432 36 - - 21 489
Ean Yong Hien
Voon
- 304 24 - 118 41 487
Ean Yong Hen
Loen
- 180 13 - - 25 218
Phang Sze Fui 60 - - - - 1 61
Dato’ Magaret
Ting Thien Hung
60 - - - - 1 61
Dato’ Seri Chan
Kong Yew
60 - - - - 1 61
Tan Kim Siong
(Appointed on
3 January 2023)
30 - - - - 1 31
Total 276 916 73 - 118 92 1,475
		
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 41
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART III - REMUNERATION
6. REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND SENIOR MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
6.2 Details of Senior Management’s Remuneration
The Company notes the need for corporate transparency in the remuneration of its senior
management executives, however, given the confidential and commercial sensitivities
associated with remuneration matters and the highly competitive human resource environment
for personnel with the requisite knowledge, expertise and experience in the Company’s business
activities, such disclosure may be detrimental to the business interests and give rise to recruitment
and talent retention issues. Thus, the Company is of the view that the interest of the shareholders
will not be prejudiced as a result of the non-disclosure of the Group’s Senior Management’s
remuneration who are not Directors of the Company.
The remuneration of the Senior Management personnel, which is a combination of annual salary,
bonus and benefits-in-kinds, etc are determined in a similar manner as other management
employees ofthe Group.Thebasis ofdeterminationhas been consistently applied and is basedon
individual performance and the overall performance of the Group. The aggregate remuneration
of the top 5 Senior Management received for FY2023 was RM1,260,729 representing 15.67% of
the total employees’ remuneration of the Group.
The Board is of the opinion that disclosure of remuneration of the Directors of the Board by
appropriate components and the top 5 Senior Management’s total combined remuneration
package should meet the intended objectives of the MCCG.
PRINCIPLE B : EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
PART I - AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
7. EFFECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
7.1 Audit and Risk Management Committee Composition
In line with the best practice of MCCG, the Board has set up the ARMC which comprises
exclusively of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The primary objective of the ARMC is to establish a documented, formal and transparent
procedure to assist the Board in fulfilling its fiduciary responsibilities relating to corporate
accounting, financial reporting practices, a system of risk management and internal control,
the audit process and the process of monitoring compliance with laws and regulations.
The Terms of Reference of the ARMC which laid down its duties and responsibilities are accessible
via the Company’s website at www.orgabio.com.
7.2 The Chairperson of the Audit and Risk Management Committee Composition is Not the Chairman
of the Board
The positions of Chairperson of the ARMC and the Chairman of the Board are held by 2
different individuals. Hence, the objectivity of the Board’s review of the ARMC’s findings and
recommendations will be able to be preserved. The Board is of the view that the Chairperson
of the ARMC has performed the duties as defined and her judgment was not impaired as she
is sufficiently independent from Management in leading the discussion on the matters being
deliberated and findings as well as recommendations made by the ARMC objectively in the
Board meetings.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
42
PRINCIPLE B : EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
PART I - AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)
7. EFFECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)
7.3 Cooling-off Period for a Former Audit Partner to be Appointed as Audit and Risk Management
Committee Member
Orgabio recognised the need to uphold the independence of its external auditors and that no
possible conflict of interest whatsoever should arise. As recommended by MCCG, the Company
will observe a cooling-off period of at least 3 years in the event any potential candidate to be
appointed as a member of the ARMC was a key audit partner of the external auditors of the
Group. Currently, none of the members of the Board nor the ARMC of the Company was former
key audit partners of the external auditors appointed by the Group.
7.4 Financial Literacy of the Audit and Risk Management Committee Members
Collectively, the members of the ARMC have the relevant experience and expertise in finance
and accounting, and have carried out their duties in accordance with the Terms of Reference
of the ARMC. The qualification and experience of the individual ARMC members are disclosed
in the Profile of Directors on pages 4 to 11 of this Annual Report.
During the FY2023, the ARMC members had undertaken the relevant training programmes to
keep themselves abreast of the latest development in accounting and auditing standards,
statutory laws, regulations and best practices to enable them to discharge their duties effectively.
Further details on the external programs attended by the ARMC members are set out in this
Annual Report on pages 35 to 36.
7.5 Policies and Procedures for Assessment of Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of External
Auditors
The external auditors fill an essential role by enhancing the reliability of the Company’s annual
audited financial statements and giving assurance to stakeholders of the reliability of the
annual audited financial statements. The external auditors have an obligation to bring any
significant defects in the Company’s system of control and compliance to the attention of the
Management, and if necessary, to the ARMC and the Board.
The Company has established a transparent arrangement with the external auditors to meet
their professional requirements. From time to time, the external auditors highlight to the ARMC
and Board on matters that require their attention.
The ARMC is responsible for reviewing the audit, recurring audit-related and non-audit services
provided by the external auditors. The ARMC has been explicitly accorded the power to
communicate directly with both the external auditors and internal auditors. The terms of
engagement for services provided by the external auditors are reviewed by the ARMC prior
to submission to the Board for approval. The effectiveness and performance of the external
auditors are reviewed annually by the ARMC.
To assess or determine the suitability and independence of the external auditors, the ARMC has
taken into consideration, among others, the following:
i) The adequacy of the experience and resources of the external auditors;
ii) The external auditors’ ability to meet deadlines in providing services and responding to
issues in a timely manner as contemplated in the external audit plan;
iii) The nature of the non-audit services provided by the external auditors and fees paid for
such services relative to the audit fee; and
iv) Whether there are safeguards in place to ensure that there is no threat to the objectivity
and independence of the audit arising from the provision of non-audit services or tenure of
the external auditors.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 43
PRINCIPLE B : EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
PART I - AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)
7. EFFECTIVE AND INDEPENDENT AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (CONT’D)
7.5 Policies and Procedures for Assessment of Suitability, Objectivity and Independence of External
Auditors (Cont’d)
Annual appointment or re-appointment of the external auditors is via shareholders’ resolution
at the Annual General Meeting on the recommendation of the ARMC and the Board. The
external auditors are being invited to attend the Annual General Meeting of the Company to
respond and reply to the Shareholders’ enquiries on the conduct of the statutory audit and the
preparation and contents of the audited financial statements.
Where necessary, the ARMC will meet with the external auditors without the presence of Executive
Directors and members of management to ensure that the independence and objectivity of
the external auditors are not compromised and matters of concerns expressed by the ARMC are
duly recorded by the Company Secretaries. In presenting the Audit Planning Memorandum to
the ARMC, the external auditors will highlight their internal policies and procedures with respect
to their audit independence and objectivity which include safeguards and procedures and
independent policy adopted by the external auditors.
The ARMC had assessed the independence of Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT (“Grant Thornton”)
as external auditors of the Company as well as reviewed the level of non-audit services rendered
by Grant Thornton to the Company for FY2023. The ARMC had obtained assurance from Grant
Thornton confirmed that they are, and have been independent throughout the conduct of the
audit engagement in accordance with the independence criteria set out by the International
Federation of Accountants and the Malaysian Institute of Accountants.
The ARMC was satisfied with Grant Thornton’s technical competency and audit independence
and took note that the quantum of non-audit fee charged thereto was not material as compared
to the total audit fees paid to Grant Thornton. Having satisfied itself with their performance and
technical competency as well as received the assurance from Grant Thornton as stated above,
the Board approved the ARMC’s recommendation for the shareholders’ approval to be sought
at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting on the re-appointment of Grant Thornton as the
External Auditors of the Company for the financial year ending 30 June 2024.
7.6 Compliance with Applicable Financial Reporting Standards
The Board strives to provide shareholders with a balanced and meaningful evaluation of the
Group’s financial performance, financial position and prospects through the annual audited
financial statements, interim financial reports, annual report and announcements to Bursa
Securities.
The interim financial reports, annual audited financial statements and annual report of the Group
for the FY2023 are prepared in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards,
Listing Requirements and the Act. The ARMC assists the Board in overseeing the financial reporting
processes and ensuring the quality of its financial reporting.
The statement by the Board pursuant to Rule 15.26(a) of the Listing Requirements on its
responsibilities in preparing the financial statements is set out on page 50 of this Annual Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
44
PRINCIPLE B : EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
PART II – RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
8. EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
8.1 Effective Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Board is entrusted with the overall responsibility of continually maintaining a sound system
of risk management and internal control, which covers not only financial controls but also
operational and compliance controls as well as risk management, and the need to review its
effectiveness regularly in order to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Company’s
assets. The internal control system is designed to access current and emerging risks, respond
appropriately to the risks of the Group.
The responsibilities of identifying and managing risks are delegated to the Senior Management
of Orgabio. The ARMC is responsible to review the effectiveness of the processes. Any material
risk identified will be discussed and appropriate actions or controls will be implemented. This is to
ensure the risk is properly monitored and managed to an acceptable level.
The ARMC will assist the Board in implementing and overseeing the risk management framework
of the Group and reviewing the risk management policies formulated by Management and to
make relevant recommendations to the Board for approval.
Main features of the Company’s risk management framework and internal controls system are
further elaborated in the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control of this Annual
Report.
8.2 Internal audit function
The Company recognises that an internal audit function is essential to ensure the effectiveness
of the Group’s system of internal control and is an integral part of the risk management process.
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to an independent professional firm, Talent
League Sdn. Bhd. (“Talent League”), which assists both the Board and ARMC by conducting
independent assessment on the adequacy and operating effectiveness of the internal control
system of the Group. To ensure independence from Management, Talent League report directly
to the ARMC through the execution of internal audit work based on a risk-based annual internal
audit plan reviewed and approved by the ARMC before the commencement of work.
Talent League uses the Committee of Sponsoring Organisation of the Treadway Commission -
Internal Control (COSO - IC) Integrated Framework as a basis for evaluating the effectiveness of
the internal control system. Talent League also makes reference to the International Professional
Practices Framework during the course of the assignments. The internal audit function shall
highlight any key areas of weaknesses in the risks and internal control management system of
the Group to the ARMC and to include in their report the recommendations on the remedial
actions to be taken to address the areas of weaknesses highlighted for the reviews and
recommendations of ARMC to the Board for implementation. In addition, Talent League will
perform follow-up reviews on previously reported issues and provides an update to the ARMC
on the status of implementations.
During the financial year under review, the following activities were carried out by Talent League
in discharge of their responsibilities:
i) Proposed and presented the internal audit plan for the ARMC’s approval and ensured that
appropriate actions were taken to carry out the audits based on the approved plan.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 45
PRINCIPLE B : EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
PART II – RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK (CONT’D)
8. EFFECTIVE RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK (CONT’D)
8.2 Internal audit function (Cont’d)
ii) Reviewedtheadequacyandeffectivenessofthesystemsofinternalcontrolandcompliance
with the Group’s policies and procedures on the following the business process/area set
out below:
• Procurement processes of Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.;
• Risk management review; and
• Stores and warehouse management of Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
iii) Reported to the ARMC the results of the internal audit reports and its findings and the
implementation of the Management responses to the findings.
The ARMC had assessed the adequacy of the scope, functions, competency and resources of
Talent League for the financial year under review and of the view that the internal audit function
performed by Talent League was satisfactory and adequate. Accordingly, the ARMC and the
Board agreed to continuously outsource the internal audit function in providing an independent
appraisal on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control system.
An overview of the state of internal controls function within the Group, which includes the risk
and key internal control structures, are set out in the ARMC Report and the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control of this Annual Report.
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
9. Communication with Stakeholders
The Board recognises the importance of prompt and timely dissemination of information to
shareholders and investors, in order for these stakeholders to be able to make informed investment
decisions. Orgabio’s website incorporates an Investor Relations (“IR”) section which provides all
relevant information on the Group and is accessible by the public. This section enhances the IR
function by including all announcements made by the Company, annual reports, Board Charter and
the corporate governance structure of the Company.
The Company will continuously enhance the disclosures on its website for broader and effective
dissemination of information to its stakeholders from time to time. The announcement of the
quarterly financial results is also made via Bursa LINK in a timely manner as required under the Listing
Requirements in ensuring equal and fair access to information by the investing public.
To promote the dissemination of the financial results of the Company to investors, shareholders and
media as well as to keep the investing public and other stakeholders updated on the progress and
development of the Group’s business, the Board may conduct the open briefings from time to time in
ensuring constant interactions with existing and prospective investors. Stakeholders can at any time
seek clarification or raise queries through the corporate website, by email or phone. Primary contact
details are set out at the Company’s corporate website.
10. Conducts of General Meetings
The Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) is the principal forum for dialogue with the shareholders. As
recommended by the MCCG, the notice of AGM will be despatched to shareholders at least 28 days
before the AGM, to allow shareholders to have additional time to go through the Annual Report and
make the necessary attendance and voting arrangements. The Notice of AGM, which sets out the
business to be transacted at the AGM, is also published in a major local newspaper. The Board will
ensure that each item of special business included in the notices of the AGM or extraordinary general
meeting is accompanied by a full explanation of the effects of any proposed resolution.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
46
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
(CONT’D)
10. Conducts of General Meetings (Cont’d)
At the AGM, the shareholders are encouraged to participate in the questions and answers session,
where they will be given the opportunity to raise questions or seek more information during the AGM.
In the event that an answer cannot be readily given at the meeting, the Chairman will undertake to
provide a written reply to the shareholders.
Under Rule 8.31A(1) of the Listing Requirements, a public listed company must, among others, ensure
that any resolution set out in the notice of any general meeting is voted by poll. For this purpose,
the share registrar will be appointed as the poll administrator and an independent scrutineer will be
appointed to validate the votes cast at the AGM.
At the commencement of all general meetings, the Chairman will inform the shareholders of their
rights to a poll voting. Separate resolutions are proposed for substantially separate issues at the
meeting. The outcome of the AGM will be announced to Bursa Securities on the same meeting day.
The tentative dates of the AGM will be discussed and fixed by the Board in advance to ensure that
each of the Directors is able to make the necessary arrangement to attend the planned AGM. All the
Directors and chairman of the respective Board Committees shall endeavor to present in person to
engage directly with, and be accountable to the shareholders for their stewardship of the Company
at the AGM. The Fourth (4th) AGM of the Company which was held on 28 November 2022 has been
attended by all the Directors of the Company.
Together with the Directors, Management and external auditors will be in attendance to respond to
the shareholders’ queries. The Board will also share with the shareholders the Company’s responses
to questions submitted in advance of the AGM by the Minority Shareholders Watch Group, if any.
In addition to the above, the Company will look into allocation of time during AGM for dialogue with
the shareholders, if necessary, to address the issues concerning the Group and to make arrangement
for officers of the Company to present and handle other face-to-face enquiries from the shareholders.
In line with the recommendation of MCCG, the minutes of the general meeting will be posted on the
Company’s website for public viewing within 30 business days after the general meeting.
Apart from contacts at general meetings, currently there is no other formal program or schedule
of meetings with investors, shareholders, stakeholders and the public generally. However, the
Management has the option of calling for meetings with investors/analysts if it is deemed necessary.
Thus far, the Management is of the opinion that the existing arrangement has been satisfactory.
11. Effective Communication and Proactive Engagements
TheGroupmaintainsitseffectivecommunicationwithshareholdersbyadoptingtimely,comprehensive,
and continuing disclosures of information to its shareholders as well as the general investing public and
adopts the best practices recommended by the MCCG with regards to strengthening engagement
and communication with shareholders.
Shareholders and stakeholders may raise their concerns and queries by contacting the Registered
Office of the Group, the details of which as provided under the “Corporate Information” section of
this Annual Report. The Share Registrar is also available to attend to administrative matters relating to
shareholder interests.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT
Other than as disclosed and/or explained in this Annual Report and CG Report for FY2023, the Board is of
the view that the Group has complied with and shall remain committed to attaining the highest possible
standards through the continuous adoption of the principles and best practices set out in MCCG and all
other applicable laws, where applicable and appropriate.
Moving forward, the Board will continue to enhance the corporate disclosure requirements in the best
interest of the Company’s shareholders and stakeholders. The areas to be prioritised by the Board will be
principles that have yet to be adopted by the Company as disclosed in the CG Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 47
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
(“ARMC”) REPORT
COMPOSITION AND ATTENDANCE
In line with the best practice of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”), the Board has
set up the ARMC which comprises exclusively of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The present members of the ARMC are as follows:
Designation Name Directorship
Chairperson Phang Sze Fui Independent Non-Executive Director
Member Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung Independent Non-Executive Director
Member Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew Independent Non-Executive Director
The members of the ARMC of the Company had complied with the Listing Requirements of which at least
1 member with requisite accounting qualifications. No alternate director is appointed as a member of the
ARMC.
The record of attendance of the members of the ARMC for meeting held during the financial year ended
30 June 2023 (“FY2023”) is disclosed in the Corporate Governance Overview Statement on page 34 of this
Annual Report.
The Terms of Reference (“TOR”) of the ARMC is available for download on the Company’s website at
www.orgabio.com.
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES
During the financial year under review, the ARMC discharged its functions and duties in accordance with
its existing TOR. The activities undertaken during the financial year under review are summarised broadly
as follows:
(a) External Audit
• Reviewed external audit scope and audit plans based on the external auditors’ presentation of
audit strategy and plan;
• Reviewed external audit results, audit reports, management letter and the response from the
Management;
• Reviewed and evaluated factors relating to the independence of the external auditors and
worked closely with the external auditors in establishing procedures in assessing the suitability
and independence of the external auditors, in confirming that they were, and had been,
independent throughout the conduct of the audit engagement with the Group in accordance
with the independence criteria set out by the International Federation of Accountants and the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”);
• Considered and recommended to the Board for approval of the audit fees payable to the
external auditors; and
• Carried out assessment of the performance and suitability of Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT
(“Grant Thornton”) based on the quality of services and relationship with Management, the
ARMC and Board. Based on the assessment conducted by the ARMC, the ARMC satisfied with
the independence, performance and suitability of Grant Thornton and recommended to the
Board and shareholders for approval on the re-appointment of Grant Thornton.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
48
(b) Internal Audit
• Reviewed internal auditors’ resource requirements, scope, adequacy and function;
• Reviewed of annual Internal Audit (“IA”) plans and programs;
• Reviewed IA reports, recommendations and Management’s responses. Improvement actions in
the areas of internal control, systems and efficiency enhancements suggested by the internal
auditors were discussed together with the Management Team in a separate forum;
• Reviewed implementation of these recommendations through follow-up IA reports;
• Suggested on additional improvement opportunities in the areas of internal control, systems and
efficiency improvement;
• Reviewed the risk management framework and any significant proposed changes to risk
management policies and strategies for adoption by the Board;
• Reviewed and monitored principal risks which may affect the Group directly or indirectly, and if
deemed necessary, and recommended additional course(s) of action to mitigate such risks;
• Monitored the risk assessment results and communication to the Board with mitigating measures
for consideration; and
• Assessed to the actual and potential impact of any failure or weakness of the internal controls in
place.
(c) Financial Reporting
• Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results before recommending for Board’s approval,
focusing particularly on:
- any change in accounting policies and practices;
- significant adjustments arising from the audit;
- the going concern assumption; and
- compliance with applicable financial reporting standards and other legal requirements.
• Reviewed annual report and the annual audited financial statements of the Company prior to
submission to the Directors for their perusal and approval to ensure compliance of the financial
statements with the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 and the applicable approved
accounting standards as per the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”); and
• Reviewed the Group’s compliance with the Listing Requirements, MASB and other relevant
legal and regulatory requirements and deliberation on the emerging financial reporting issues
pursuant to the introduction of new accounting standards and additional statutory/regulatory
disclosure requirements with regards to the quarterly financial statements and annual audited
financial statements of the Company.
(d) Risk Management and Internal Control
• Reviewed the effectiveness of the internal control system and risk management framework
adopted within the Group and to be satisfied that the methodology employed allows
identification, analysis, assessment, monitoring and communication of risks in a regular and
timely manner that will allow the Group to mitigate losses and maximise opportunities;
• Assessed the systems processes, policy and procedures to ensure compliance with all laws, rules
and regulations, directives and guidelines established by the relevant regulatory bodies;
• Reviewed the system of internal control to ensure that they are in place, effectively administered
and regularly monitored;
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (“ARMC”) REPORT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 49
• Recommended to the Board steps to improve the system of internal control derived from the
findings of the internal and external auditors and from the consultations of the ARMC itself;
• Reviewed the risk profile and summary of risk presented by the Management; and
• Highlighted to the Board any significant new risks which had come to its attention from the IA
or risk management reports which are of sufficient importance to warrant the attention of the
Board.
(e) Related Party Transactions/Conflict of Interest Situations
• Reviewed any related party transactions and/or conflict of interest situations that may arise
within the Group including any transaction, procedure or course of conduct that raises questions
of management integrity.
(f) Other activities:
• Reviewed and discussed with the Management on the budget of the Group;
• Reviewed its TOR and made recommendation to the Board on revision, if necessary;
• Reviewed application of corporate governance principles and the extent of the Group’s
compliance with the best practices set out under with the MCCG;
• Reviewed the Management Discussion and Analysis, Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, Corporate Governance Report, ARMC Report and the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control for adoption by the Board;
• Reviewed and recommended to the Board for approval, the Circular to Shareholders in relation to
the proposed shareholders’ ratification and proposed new shareholders’ mandate for recurrent
related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature, for shareholders’ consideration and
approval; and
• Reviewed and recommended the Investment Policy for the Board’s consideration and approval.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The purpose of the internal audit function is to provide the Board, through the ARMC, with reasonable
assurance of the effectiveness of the risk management, control and governance processes in the Group.
To provide an independent appraisal over the system of internal control of the Group to the ARMC,
the Company outsources the internal audit function to Talent League Sdn. Bhd. (“Talent League”), an
independent assurance provider. In this respect, Talent League has added value by improving the control
processes within the Group. The cost incurred by the Group for the internal audit function during the
FY2023 was amounted to RM23,000.00.
The internal audit activities were carried out based on a risk-based audit plan presented by the internal
auditors to the ARMC for approval. The establishment of the audit plan took into consideration the
corporate risk profile and input from Senior Management and the ARMC. The internal auditors highlighted
to the ARMC the audit findings which required follow-up action by Management as well as outstanding
audit issues which required corrective actions to ensure an adequate and effective internal control system
within the Group.
An overview of the Group’s approach in maintaining a sound system of internal control is set out in the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control on pages 51 to 54 of this Annual Report.
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE (“ARMC”) REPORT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
50
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES
The Directors are required under the Companies Act 2016 to prepare the financial statements for each
financial year. These financial statements are to be drawn up in accordance with applicable approved
accounting standards other than private entities as issued by Malaysian Accounting Standards Board so
as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the Company as at the end of the
financial year and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended.
In preparing these financial statements, the Directors have considered that:
• The Group and the Company have used appropriate accounting policies, and are consistently
applied;
• Reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates were made;
• The applicable approved accounting standards in Malaysia have been applied; and
• The preparation of the financial statements is on a going concern basis.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Company maintains proper accounting records which
disclose with reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group and of the Company, and which
enable them to ensure that the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2016.
The Directors have general responsibility for taking steps that are reasonably available to them to safeguard
the assets of the Group and the Company, and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
The Directors are satisfied that in preparing the financial statements of the Group for the financial year ended
30 June 2023, the Group has used the appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently
and supported by reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates. The Directors also consider that
all applicable approved accounting standards have been complied with and further confirm that the
financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 51
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL
CONTROL
Introduction
Pursuant to Rule 15.26(b) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements set forth by Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Bursa Securities”), the Board of Directors of Orgabio Holdings Berhad (“Orgabio or the
Company”) is pleased to present our Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control (“Statement”).
This document is meticulously prepared in accordance with the “Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers” and aligns with the principles of the Malaysian
Code of Corporate Governance as stipulated by the Securities Commission Malaysia (“SC”). It provides an
exhaustive overview of the risk management and internal control measures implemented by the Group for
the financial year ended on 30 June 2023 (“FY2023”).
Responsibility and Accountability
The Board
The Board holds the primary responsibility for the inception and oversight of the Group’s risk management
framework and its intrinsic internal control systems. These controls, encapsulating the financial, operational,
and risk management realms, serve as the bedrock supporting the Group’s strategic and operational
pursuits.
The architecture of these systems is intricately devised to navigate risks congruent with the Group’s risk
appetite, ensuring they remain confined within the boundaries delineated by the Board and Management.
It is pivotal to note that while these frameworks are proficient in risk mitigation, they do not guarantee
absolute risk elimination. Our strategic inclination is to minimise and manage risk rather than its complete
annihilation. This approach enables the Group to effectively pursue its set goals and objectives, ensuring
the optimal potential returns for our shareholders.
Diving deeper into our governance structure, the Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”) plays
an important role in assisting the Board to guide our risk management and internal control oversight. The
two mandates of the ARMC include the following:
1. To oversee the development of a comprehensive Risk Management Framework (“RMF”) and to
oversee its meticulous deployment, thereby augmenting the Group’s Corporate Governance with a
concentrated lens on risk parameters. Their cardinal objective revolves around risk identification and
fortifying the Group with pre-emptive countermeasures.
2. The ARMC is a cornerstone in the Board’s endeavour to assess the effectiveness of the Group’s
internal control systems and the precision of financial reporting. Their purview encompasses
ensuring unwavering compliance with relevant statutes, regulations, and guidelines, predominantly
orchestrated through the Internal Audit (“IA”) functionalities. Augmenting its portfolio, the ARMC
rigorously assesses the efficacy and impartiality of both the internal and external audit functions,
ensuring an audit framework characterised by transparency, excellence, and objectivity.
In conclusion, the Board unequivocally acknowledges its accountability for the committees’ undertakings
concerning the discharge of their vested roles, including the outcomes of reviews and the consequent
disclosure of salient risks and internal control mechanisms in the Group’s consolidated annual report.
The Management
Orgabio’s Management remains accountable to the Board and shoulders the critical responsibility of
setting into motion the procedures for pinpointing, assessing, overseeing, and communicating risks and
evaluating the efficiency of the internal control systems. Whenever necessary, they undertake timely
and appropriate corrective measures. The Management has given the Board assurances that, within
Orgabio, the risk management and internal control systems are functioning appropriately and effectively.
This assurance stands firmly on the foundation of the risk management framework and internal control
protocols embraced by the Group. In terms of risk management, Orgabio’s Management has taken steps
to:
• Recognise and evaluate the risk appetite pertinent to Orgabio’s operations and define the threshold
of risk acceptance, keeping in view the Group’s overarching objectives and strategies.
• Architect, roll out, and supervise the risk management framework, ensuring it aligns seamlessly with
Orgabio’s strategic vision and established risk appetite.
• Detect any alterations in risks or the emergence of new risks, enact suitable measures, and promptly
relay this information to the Board for their attention.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
52
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(CONT’D)
Risk Management Framework
The Board has established an Enterprise Risk Management framework with the following objectives:
• Communicate the Group’s vision and direction throughout the organisation.
• Identify, assess, and manage various key risks affecting the Group’s business.
• Create a culture of risk awareness and ensure that individuals take responsibility for managing risks
effectively.
• Establish a systematic process to review, track, and report on identified risks and their mitigation
measures.
The Group regularly conducts risk analysis, continuously reviews its risk identification and assessment
processes, and takes necessary actions to assess and monitor the impacts of these risks on its operations
and business. Management is responsible for comprehensively identifying and assessing various types of
risks in terms of their likelihood and potential impact. Significant risks are reported to the Board via the
ARMC during scheduled meetings.
The Group’s risk management efforts are led by the Chief Executive Officer and supported by key
management personnel. External professionals may be consulted when needed to ensure objectivity. The
ARMC is tasked by the Board to review the risk management and internal control procedures.
The Board, through the ARMC, regularly reviews these processes with the assistance of an independent
consulting firm to further enhance and optimise the Group’s existing internal control procedures. The
Group remains dedicated in effectively managing key risks and the corresponding control measures in
response to the dynamic and competitive business environment.
The Management also supplements the review by providing explanations on quarterly financial
performance and results to the ARMC and the Board. The ARMC reviews interim financial results in
conjunction with Management’s insights and discusses the annual report and audited financial statements
before recommending them for approval by the Board.
Internal Audit Functions and Effectiveness of Internal Control
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to an external professional service provider, Talent
League Sdn. Bhd. (“Internal Auditor”). The role of the internal audit function is to assess and evaluate the
major operational processes within the Group to assist the Board in fulfilling its duties effectively.
The Internal Auditor aims to provide advice to Management on areas that need improvement, highlight
any significant non-compliance issues, and then follow up to check if the recommended changes have
been made. The Internal Auditor reports independently to the ARMC and has unrestricted access to all
aspects of the Group, including records, documents, personnel, and information.
As an impartial third party, the Internal Auditor conducts the internal audit function with objectivity, skill,
and care. They use a risk-based approach to plan their audits, aligning their strategy with the Group’s
risk profile. This approach is in line with the Group’s objectives and policies in the context of its evolving
business and regulatory environment, taking into consideration input from Senior Management and the
Board. The internal audit work follows an annual plan approved by the ARMC. The findings, weaknesses,
and recommendations related to internal controls, as well as Management’s responses and action
plans, are discussed during quarterly reviews with the ARMC. The key management team is responsible
for addressing and implementing necessary corrections, corrective actions, preventive measures, and
recommendations within the specified time frame.
Throughout the financial year, the Internal Auditor conducted half-yearly risk-based internal audit (RBIA)
assessments and provided recommendations to enhance the Group’s internal control system to the ARMC.
Further information on Internal Audit is provided on pages 44 and 45 of the Corporate Governance
Overview and page 49 of the Audit and Risk Management Committee Report.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 53
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(CONT’D)
Other Key Internal Controls
The Board recognises that our internal control systems aim to manage and limit risks that might prevent the
Group from meeting its goals. These systems safeguard against significant errors in various areas, including
financial information and operations, while protecting against losses or fraud.
These systems and internal controls were put in place by the Board through ARMC. These controls are a
natural part of our daily operation. The Board regularly reviews these systems, factoring in regulations, laws,
and the business landscape changes to ensure they remain robust and effective.
The key components of the internal control systems established by the Board that provide good governance
and effective internal control systems include:
1. Ethics and Compliance Whistleblowing Policy and Procedures
The Group has in place the Ethics and Compliance Whistleblowing Policy and Procedures to provide
an avenue for employees to report any breach or suspected breach of any law or regulation, including
business principles and the Group’s policies and guidelines in a safe and confidential environment.
2. Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy
The Group also established the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”), prohibiting all forms
of bribery and corruption practices. All employees are required to understand the ABC Policy laid
out. A copy of the Group’s ABC policy and procedures is made available on the Company’s website
at www.orgabio.com.
3. The Audit and Risk Management Committee is comprised exclusively of Independent Non-Executive
Directors
The ARMC, comprising exclusively of Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Board, are not
restricted in any way in the conduct of their duties and have unrestricted access to the internal and
external auditors of the Company and to all employees of the Group. The ARMC and the Board are
also entitled to seek such other third-party independent professional advice deemed necessary to
the discharge of its responsibilities.
4. Integrated Board Charter to uphold integrity and ethical values
An integrated Board Charter and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy are in place and
available on the Company’s website to set the pace of upholding integrity and ethical values within
the Group.
5. Raw Material Sourcing Control
Inventory management software to track raw materials, their sources, expiration dates, and costs.
This will ensure a consistent quality of raw materials and timely availability while avoiding wastage
and overstocking.
6. Quality Control System
Laboratory testing and sampling for each production. This will ensure every product adheres to set
quality standards and complies with health and safety regulations.
7. Financial Control System
Accountingsoftwareintegratedwithsalesandprocurementmodulestomonitorfinancialtransactions,
detect discrepancies and provide timely financial reporting.
8. Regulatory and Compliance Control
Create an internal compliance tracking system to align with current local and international food &
beverage (“F&B”) regulations. This will ensure all products comply with evolving regulations, avoiding
potential legal repercussions.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
54
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(CONT’D)
9. Intellectual Property and Brand Protection
Legal oversight to track trademarks and regular market surveillance. This protects the Company’s
intellectual property and brand identity from infringements.
10. Risk Management Controls
Risk assessment tools and a dedicated team for periodic risk reviews. This will be vital for reviewing the
risk assessment process, including risk identification, analysis, evaluation and response.
11. Human Resource (“HR”) Controls
HR Management software for employee performance tracking, training schedules, and grievance
redressal. This will ensure employee productivity, continuous development, and satisfaction, which
indirectly affects product quality and company reputation.
12. Insurance and physical safeguards
Adequate insurance and physical safeguards on major assets are in place to ensure Group assets are
sufficiently covered to minimise material loss against any mishap.
Review of the Statement by External Auditors
The Group’s Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control has undergone a review by the external
auditors in line with the parameters defined in the Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3. This
guidance, titled “Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control,” is published by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”). This review pertains
to its incorporation in the Group’s annual report for the FY2023.
Post their thorough review, the external auditors informed the Board that, in material terms:
(a) The Statement aligns with the disclosure mandates set out in paragraphs 41 and 42 of the “Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers”.
(b) They did not encounter any factual discrepancies in the statement intended for the Group’s annual
report.
It is crucial to understand that the remit of AAPG 3 doesn’t extend to obligating the external auditors to
ascertain if the Directors’ Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control is exhaustive in covering all
potential risks and controls. Furthermore, they are not expected to judge the robustness or efficiency of
the Group’s internal control and risk management system. This encompasses any evaluations or opinions
forwarded by the Board or Management. Additionally, the external auditors are not tasked with assessing
whether the outlined processes to address significant internal control issues highlighted in the annual report
will effectively address those concerns.
Conclusion
The Board has received reasonable assurance from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Operations
Officer that the Group’s risk management system and internal controls, in all material aspects, are
operating adequately and effectively. The Board is of the opinion that there were no significant weaknesses
identified during the financial year under review in the system of risk management and internal control,
contingencies or uncertainties that could result in material loss and adversely affect the Group save and
except for the specific shortcomings in operational related issues as highlighted by the internal audit
conducted. These gaps will be gradually closed through ongoing corrective measures.
Taking into consideration the assurance from the Management Team and input from the relevant
assurance providers, the Board is of the view that the Risk Management Framework and internal control
systems are satisfactory and adequate to safeguard shareholders’ investments, customers’ interests and
the Group’s assets and have not resulted in any material loss, contingency or uncertainty. Nevertheless, the
Board recognises that the systems must continuously improve to meet the changing business environment.
The Board and the Management will continue to take necessary measures to strengthen and improve its
internal control environment and processes.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 55
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
1. UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS
The Company was listed on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 5 July 2022 in
conjunction with its Initial Public Offering (“IPO”), where the Company undertook a public issue of
96,668,000 new ordinary shares in the Company at an issue price of RM0.31 per share, raising proceeds
of RM29.97 million.
As at 30 June 2023, the proceed raised from the IPO have been utilised in the following manner:
Detail of Utilisation
Proposed
Utilisation
RM’000
Actual
Utilisation
RM’000
Unutilised
RM’000
Estimated
Timeframe for
the Utilisation
Upon Listing
Construction of new factory 16,000 9,780 6,220 31 December
2023
Acquisition of machinery 2,230 65 2,165 30 April 2024
Working capital 8,137 8,137 - 12 months
Estimated listing expenses 3,600 3,600 - 1 month
Total 29,967 21,582 8,385
Note:
1. On 21 March 2023, the Company had announced that the Board has resolved to extend the timeframe for the
utilisation of the proceeds raised from its IPO exercise in conjunction with the listing of the Company on the ACE
Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 5 July 2022. The Board has resolved to extend the timeframe for the
utilisation of IPO proceeds earmarked for the construction of a new factory and acquisition of machinery to 31
December 2023 and 30 April 2024, respectively.
2. Material contracts
There were no material contracts, including contracts relating to any loans, entered into by the
Company and/or its subsidiary companies involving the interests of Directors and major shareholders,
which subsisted at the end of the financial year or, if not then subsisting, entered into since the end of
the previous financial year.
3. Audit and Non-Audit Fees
During the financial year ended 30 June 2023, audit and non-audit fees incurred for services rendered
to the Company and/or its subsidiaries by the Company’s external auditors, Grant Thornton Malaysia
PLT were as follows:
The Company
RM
The Group
RM
Audit Services Rendered 24,000 103,000
Non-Audit Services Rendered *
* The non-audit fees were mainly relation to
review of Statement of Risk Management
and Internal Control, agreed-upon
procedures and tax compliance fee.
11,000 14,500
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
56
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
(CONT’D)
4. Recurrent Related Party Transactions (“RRPT”)
The Company is seeking approval from its shareholders for the proposed renewal of the existing
shareholders’ mandate for the Group to enter into RRPT(s) of a revenue or trading nature pursuant at
the forthcoming Annual General meeting to be held on 29 November 2023.
The details of RRPTs of a revenue or trading nature of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June
2023 are follows:
Related Party
and its Principal
Activities
Orgabio Group
- Transacting
Party
Nature of
Transaction
with Orgabio
Group
Value of
Transaction
(RM’000)
Nature of relationship
between Orgabio Group and
the Related Party
Hai-O Enterprise
Berhad (“Hai-O”)
– Wholesaling
and retailing of
herbal medicines,
healthcare
products,
wellness and
beauty products,
investment
holding activities
and property
holding activities
Orgapharma
Marketing Sdn.
Bhd.
Sale of
beverage
premixes
products by
Orgapharma
Marketing Sdn.
Bhd. to Hai-O
Enterprise
Berhad.
6,010 Hai-O is a Major Shareholder
of Orgabio.
Beshom Holding Berhad
(“Beshom”) is the holding
company of Hai-O and
deemed interested in
Orgabio shares by virtue of its
direct shareholdings in Hai-O.
Mr. Tan Keng Kang is the
Group Managing Director
of Beshom and a Major
Shareholder of Beshom.
He is deemed interested in
Orgabio shares by virtue of
his and his family interest in
Beshom pursuant to Section 8
of the Act.
Mr. Tan Kim Siong is the Non-
Independent Non-Executive
Director of Orgabio. He is
also the board representative
appointed by Hai-O in
Orgabio.
Ean Yong Hien
Voon
Orgabio
Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
Rental of a
single storey
terrace house
as worker
hostel based
on market
value and is
payable on
an equal pro-
rated monthly
basis.
5 Ean Yong Hien Voon is the
Executive Director / Chief
Executive Officer and a Major
Shareholder of Orgabio.
He is son of Dato’ Ean Yong
Tin Sin and Datin Lai You Mooi
and the sibling of Ean Yong
Hien Chal, Ean Yong Han
Khian, Ean Yong Hen Leon
and Ean Yong Sik Siew.
He is also a director and major
shareholder of Ean Yong &
Sons Sdn. Bhd.
Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd.
is a Major Shareholder of
Orgabio.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS AND
STATUTORY DECLARATION
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’
REPORT
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL
POSITION
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE
INCOME
58
63
64
69
71
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN
EQUITY
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
72
73
77
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
58
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors hereby submit their report together with the audited financial statements of the Group and
of the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding. The principal activities of its subsidiaries are
disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements.
There were no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Company and of its subsidiaries
during the financial year.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
		
								 Group Company
								 RM RM
Loss for the financial year				 882,293 2,488,246
			
Attributable to:-			
Owners of the Company				 882,293 2,488,246
			
DIVIDENDS
There were no dividends proposed, declared or paid by the Company since the end of the previous
financial year.
The Directors do not recommend any final dividend for the current financial year.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year.
ISSUES OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
During the financial year, the following new ordinary shares were issued:-
Date of issue Issue price Number of shares Term of issue Purpose of issue
1 July 2022 RM0.31 96,668,000 Cash Initial public
				 offering exercise
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari-passu in all respects with the existing
ordinary shares of the Company.
There were no debentures issued during the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 59
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
The Directors who held office during the financial year and up to the date of this report are as follows:-
Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin*
Ean Yong Hien Voon*
Ean Yong Hen Loen*
Dr. Teh Chee Ghee
Phang Sze Fui
Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew
Tan Kim Siong (Appointed on 3 January 2023)
* Directors of the Company and its subsidiaries
LIST OF DIRECTORS OF SUBSIDIARIES
The Directors of subsidiaries who held office during the financial year and up to the date of this report are
as follows:-
Ean Yong Hien Chal
Ean Yong Han Khian
Datin Lai You Mooi
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
According to the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings required to be kept under Section 59 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the interests and deemed interests in the shares of the Company or its
holding company or subsidiaries of the holding company of those who were Directors at financial year
end (including their spouses or children) are as follows:-
							 Number of ordinary shares
						 At			 At
						 1.7.2022 Bought Sold 30.6.2023
				
Direct interest			
Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin		 - 509,000 - 509,000
Ean Yong Hien Voon		 - 300,000 - 300,000
Ean Yong Hen Loen			 - 300,000 (60,000) 240,000
Dr. Teh Chee Ghee			 - 100,000 - 100,000
Phang Sze Fui				 - 100,000 - 100,000
Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung		 - 100,000 (100,000) -
Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew		 - 100,000 (100,000) -
Deemed interest				
Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin#		 151,199,998 3,037,800 (460,000) 153,777,798
Ean Yong Hien Voon*		 151,199,998 3,246,800 (460,000) 153,986,798
Ean Yong Hen Loen*		 151,199,998 3,246,800 (400,000) 154,046,798
# deemed interest by virtue of shares held by his direct interest, spouse and children direct interest in
the Company and Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd..
* deemed interest by virtue of shares held by his direct interest, spouse, parents and siblings direct
interest in the Company and Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd..
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
60
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS (CONT’D)
By virtue of the direct and deemed interest of Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin, Ean Yong Hien Voon and Ean Yong
Hen Loen in the Company, they are also deemed to have interest in shares of all the subsidiaries to the
extent that the Company has an interest under Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Save for the above, none of the other Directors in office at the end of the financial year held any interest
in shares of the Company or its related corporations during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ FEE, BENEFITS AND REMUNERATION
During the financial year, the emoluments received and receivable by the Directors are as follows:-
							 Incurred Incurred
							 by the by the
							 Company subsidiaries Total
							 RM RM RM
					
Salaries, wages and other emoluments 		 6,600 1,107,490 1,114,090
Defined contribution plans			 - 82,200 82,200
Social security contributions			 - 4,124 4,124
Other benefits					 - 230 230
Directors’ fee					 276,000 - 276,000
							 282,600 1,194,044 1,476,644
During and at the end of the financial year, there was no subsist arrangement to which the Company is
a party, with the object or objects of enabling Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of
the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the Directors took
reasonable steps:-
(a) to ascertain that action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
provision for doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that there were no bad debts to be written off
and adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(b) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business
including their values as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company had
been written down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 61
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (CONT’D)
At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:-
(a) which would render it necessary to write off any bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful
debts in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any substantial
extent; or
(b) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company misleading; or
(c) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities
of the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(d) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
which would render any amount stated in the financial statements misleading.
At the date of this report, there does not exist:-
(a) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the
financial year which secures the liability of any other person; or
(b) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the
financial year.
In the opinion of the Directors:-
(a) no contingent liability or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable
within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which will or may affect the
ability of the Group and of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due;
(b) the results of operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year were not
substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature; and
(c) there has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report
any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the results
of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year in which this report
is made.
HOLDING COMPANY
The holding company is Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd., a company incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia.
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
There is no indemnity coverage and insurance premium paid for Directors and Officers of the Company
during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
62
AUDITORS
The amount of audit and other fees paid to or payable to the Auditors and its member firms by the Group
and the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 amounted to RM117,500 and RM35,000
respectively. Further details are disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements.
The Group and the Company have agreed to indemnify the Auditors, Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT to the
extent permissible under the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. However, no payment
has been made arising from this indemnify for the financial year.
The Auditors, Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated
24 October 2023.
...........................................................…… )
DATO’ EAN YONG TIN SIN )
			 )
					 )
					 )
					 )
					 )
					 )
				 ) DIRECTORS
			 )
					 )
					 )
				 )
					 )
...........................................................…… )
EAN YONG HIEN VOON )
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 63
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 69 to 128 are drawn up in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards
and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the
financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2023 and of their financial performance
and cash flows for the financial year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated
24 October 2023.
…............................................................ 		 ..................................................................
DATO’ EAN YONG TIN SIN EAN YONG HIEN VOON
STATUTORY DECLARATION
I, Ngooi Sok Ling, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Orgabio Holdings
Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, the financial
statements set out on pages 69 to 128 are correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously
believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by )
the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur in )
the Federal Territory this day of )
24 October 2023		 ) ..................................................................
NGOOI SOK LING
		 (MIA NO: 19239)
Before me:
Commissioner for Oaths
RAMATHILAGAM A/P T RAMASAMY (W671)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
64
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Orgabio Holdings Berhad, which comprise the statements
of financial position as at 30 June 2023 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or
loss and other comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of
the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements,
including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 69 to 128.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position
of the Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2023, and of their financial performance and their
cash flows for the financial year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards
(“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and the requirements of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards on Auditing (“ISAs”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that
the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional
Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants
(including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These
matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on
these matters.
Revenue recognition
The risk
Revenue generated is regarded as a key audit matter because the amount of revenue is significant to the
financial statements of the Group as a whole and the magnitude of the transactions.
Furthermore, ISA 240 presumed that we consider the risk of fraud arising in revenue recognition. Whilst
revenue recognition and measurement is not complex for the Group, revenue targets form part of the
Group’s key performance measures which could create an incentive to record revenue incorrectly.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 65
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Key Audit Matters (cont’d)
Revenue recognition (cont’d)
Our response
We have obtained an understanding of the Group’s control over the timing and amount of revenue
recognised, evaluated and tested the control on sampling basis.
We have performed substantive tests to verify the revenue recognised, performed analytical procedures
on the trend of revenue recognised to identify any unusual fluctuations; and performed cut-off test on
sampling basis around the financial year end to check whether revenue is recognised in the correct
accounting period.
The Group’s disclosures regarding revenue recognition are included in Notes 3.14 and 18 to the financial
statements.
Impairment on doubtful receivables
The risk
The Group’s trade receivables is subject to credit risk exposures. We focus on this area as deriving the
expected credit losses of receivables involves management’s judgement and estimates in determining
the probability of default occurring by considering the ageing of receivables, historical loss experience
and forward-looking information.
Our response
We have obtained an understanding of the Group’s control over the trade receivables’ collection process,
how the Group identifies and assesses the loss allowance of trade receivables and how the Group makes
the accounting estimates for loss allowance.
We have reviewed and challenged the management’s assumptions in calculating the expected credit
loss, considered the ageing of the trade receivables and testing the reliability thereon. In doing so, we
have evaluated techniques and methodology applied for the expected credit loss approach and
assessed the estimated future cash inflows by examining the historical collection records, historical loss
rate of receivables, information regarding the current creditworthiness and any significant changes in
credit quality of the debtors, evidence of subsequent settlements and other relevant information.
The Group’s disclosures regarding doubtful receivables are included in Notes 3.7.3 and 9 to the financial
statements.
There are no key audit matters in relation to the financial statements of the Company.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
66
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises
the information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company do not cover the other
information and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility
is to read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially
inconsistent with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained
in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other
information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group
and of the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with MFRSs, IFRSs and the requirements
of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the
Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of
the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible
for assessing the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless
the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group and the Company or to cease operations, or have no
realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and
to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance,
but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in
Malaysia and ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and ISAs, we exercise
professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:-
- Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive
to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one
resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations,
or the override of internal control.
- Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures
that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the
effectiveness of the Group’s and of the Company’s internal control.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 67
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and ISAs, we exercise
professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also (cont’d):-
- Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting
estimates and related disclosures made by the Directors.
- Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting
and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events
or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue
as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are
based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events
or conditions may cause the Group and the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
- Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
- Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain
solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicated with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of
the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we
identified during our audit.
We also provided the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determined those matters that were of most
significance in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current
financial year and are therefore the key audit matters. We described these matters in our auditors’
report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the
adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits
of such communication.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
68
Other Matter
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266
of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any
other person for the content of this report.
GRANT THORNTON MALAYSIA PLT		 LEE YIK LOONG
(201906003682 & LLP0022494-LCA)		 (NO: 03630/12/2023 J)
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS (AF 0737)			 CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT
		
Kuala Lumpur		
24 October 2023
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 69
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2023
						 Group Company
					 Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 4 28,470,370 21,374,377 - -
Investment properties 5 3,337,784 1,937,195 - -
Investment in subsidiaries 6 - - 15,120,000 15,120,000
Intangible asset		 7 - - - -
					
Total non-current assets		 31,808,154 23,311,572 15,120,000 15,120,000
					
Current assets
Inventories			 8 10,071,350 7,815,897 - -
Trade receivables		 9 6,222,526 7,657,992 - -
Other receivables		 10 1,067,061 4,775,059 - 3,562,080
Amount due from a subsidiary 6.4 - - 17,967,107 -
Tax recoverable			 1,264,771 1,163,605 58,626 -
Cash and cash equivalents 11 18,700,132 2,060,956 7,593,984 40,844
					
Total current assets 		 37,325,840 23,473,509 25,619,717 3,602,924
					
Total assets				 69,133,994 46,785,081 40,739,717 18,722,924
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
EQUITY
Equity attributable to owners
of the Company:- 						
Share capital			 12 43,647,453 15,120,002 43,647,453 15,120,002
Invested equities		 12 - - - -
Merger deficit			 12 (14,186,497) (14,186,497) - -
Retained earnings/
(Accumulated losses)		 22,218,237 23,100,530 (2,965,200) (476,954)
					
Total equity				 51,679,193 24,034,035 40,682,253 14,643,048
					
					
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
70
						 Group Company
					 Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings			 13 8,464,446 9,030,496 - -
Lease liabilities			 14 781,040 1,082,326 - -
Deferred tax liabilities 15 169,000 190,000 - -
					
Total non-current liabilities		 9,414,486 10,302,822 - -
					
Current liabilities
Trade payables 		 16 4,978,524 5,283,783 - -
Other payables 		 17 1,676,869 4,734,842 57,464 1,861,244
Amount due to subsidiaries 6.4 - - - 2,218,632
Borrowings			 13 611,132 1,857,460 - -
Lease liabilities			 14 773,790 572,139 - -
					
Total current liabilities		 8,040,315 12,448,224 57,464 4,079,876
					
Total liabilities				 17,454,801 22,751,046 57,464 4,079,876
					
Total equity and liabilities		 69,133,994 46,785,081 40,739,717 18,722,924
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 71
						 Group Company
					 Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
Revenue				 18 58,835,019 64,353,716 - -
								
Cost of sales				 (48,974,581) (50,495,096) - -
					
Gross profit				 9,860,438 13,858,620 - -
								
Other income				 582,306 633,370 313,546 -
								
Selling and distribution expenses		 (7,965) (6,280) - -
								
Administration expenses		 (9,439,907) (5,796,829) (2,801,792) (379,680)
								
Net (provision)/reversal on
impairment of financial assets		 (11,425) 2,454 - -
								
Other expenses			 (238,145) (121,078) - -
								
Finance costs			 19 (594,233) (572,430) - -
					
Profit/(Loss) before tax 20 151,069 7,997,827 (2,488,246) (379,680)
								
Tax expense			 21 (1,033,362) (2,236,730) - -
					
Net (loss)/profit/
Total comprehensive
(loss)/income for the
financial year				 (882,293) 5,761,097 (2,488,246) (379,680)
(Loss)/Profit for the financial
year attributable to:-						
Owners of the Company		 (882,293) 5,761,097 (2,488,246) (379,680)
Total comprehensive (loss)
/income for the financial
year attributable to:-						
Owners of the Company		 (882,293) 5,761,097 (2,488,246) (379,680)
Earnings per share attributable
to owners of the Company:-
- Basic (cent)			 22 (0.36) 4.54
		
- Diluted (cent)		 22 (0.36) 4.54
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
72
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023
		 <------------- Attributable to owners of the Company ------------>
					 <-------- Non-distributable --------->		 Distributable
						 Share Invested Merger Retained
Group				 Note capital equities deficit earnings Total
						 RM RM RM RM RM
						
Balance at 1 July 2021		 2 933,503 - 19,839,433 20,772,938
									
Total comprehensive
income for the financial year		 - - - 5,761,097 5,761,097
										
Transactions with owners:-
- Issuance of share capital 12 15,120,000 - - - 15,120,000
- Effect of merger of
subsidiaries			 12 - (933,503) (14,186,497) - (15,120,000)
- Dividend			 23 - - - (2,500,000) (2,500,000)
Balance at 30 June 2022		 15,120,002 - (14,186,497) 23,100,530 24,034,035
										
Total comprehensive
loss for the financial year		 - - - (882,293) (882,293)
										
Transactions with owners:-
- Share issuance pursuant to
listing on the ACE Market 12 29,967,080 - - - 29,967,080
- Transaction cost of share
issuance			 12 (1,439,629) - - - (1,439,629)
Balance at 30 June 2023		 43,647,453 - (14,186,497) 22,218,237 51,679,193
		 <-- Attributable to owners of the Company -->
							 Non-
							 distributable Distributable
							 Share Accumulated
Company 				 Note capital losses Total
							 RM RM RM
						
Balance at 1 July 2021			 2 (97,274) (97,272)
Total comprehensive loss for the financial year		 - (379,680) (379,680)
Transactions with owners:-
- Issuance of share capital		 12 15,120,000 - 15,120,000
Balance at 30 June 2022			 15,120,002 (476,954) 14,643,048
Total comprehensive loss for the financial year		 - (2,488,246) (2,488,246)
Transactions with owners:-
- Share issuance pursuant to listing on the
ACE Market				 12 29,967,080 - 29,967,080
- Transaction cost of share issuance		 12 (1,439,629) - (1,439,629)
Balance at 30 June 2023			 43,647,453 (2,965,200) 40,682,253
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 73
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023
						 Group Company
					 Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit/(Loss) before tax		 151,069 7,997,827 (2,488,246) (379,680)
Adjustments for:-
Amortisation of intangible asset		 - 552 - -
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment			 1,645,887 1,476,103 - -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets		 889,803 715,139 - -
Depreciation of investment properties		 59,432 42,641 - -
Dividend income from financial
assets at fair value through
profit or loss				 - (83,654) - -
Fair value loss on financial assets
at fair value through profit or loss		 - 65,912 - -
Gain on disposal of property, plant
and equipment			 - (6,237) - -
Gain on early termination of lease
contract 			 - (1,301) - -
Interest income			 (384,170) (37,270) (313,546) -
Interest expenses			 594,233 572,430 - -
Inventories written off		 150,627 - - -
Loss allowance on trade receivables		 25,822 67,162 - -
Property, plant and equipment
written off				 175 1,169 - -
Reversal of impairment loss on
property, plant and equipment		 - (364,486) - -
Reversal of impairment loss on
investment properties		 (33,530) - - -
Reversal of loss allowance on
trade receivables			 (14,397) (69,616) - -
Unrealised loss on foreign exchange		 84,133 53,485 - -
					
Operating profit/(loss) before
working capital changes		 3,169,084 10,429,856 (2,801,792) (379,680)
Changes in working capital:-
Inventories				 (2,406,080) (2,649,725) - -
Receivables			 3,765,741 (4,300,313) 2,122,451 (2,427,314)
Payables					 (3,411,770) 104,078 (1,803,780) 1,837,411
Subsidiaries			 - - (20,185,739) 1,008,454
					
Cash generated from/(used in)
operations			 1,116,975 3,583,896 (22,668,860) 38,871
Tax refunded				 824,264 - - -
Tax paid					 (1,979,792) (3,222,001) (58,626) -
					
Net cash (used in)/from operating
activities					 (38,553) 361,895 (22,727,486) 38,871
					
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
74
						 Group Company
					 Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
INVESTING ACTIVITIES						
Purchase of property, plant and
equipment			 A (10,336,078) (5,245,722) - -
Interest received			 384,170 37,270 313,546 -
Withdraw of investment in financial
assets at fair value through profit
or loss					 - 4,049,353 - -
Proceeds from disposal of property,
plant and equipment 		 - 8,800 - -
					
Net cash (used in)/from investing
activities					 (9,951,908) (1,150,299) 313,546 -
					
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Interest paid				 (594,233) (572,430) - -
Dividend paid				 - (2,500,000) - -
Repayment to holding company		 - (3,990) - -
Drawdown of borrowings C 201,000 1,189,000 - -
Repayment of lease liabilities C (821,906) (704,419) - -
Repayment of borrowings C (2,013,378) (628,873) - -
Proceeds from issuance of shares		 29,967,080 - 29,967,080 -
Net cash from/(used in) financing
activities					 26,738,563 (3,220,712) 29,967,080 -
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Net changes				 16,748,102 (4,009,116) 7,553,140 38,871
Effect of foreign currency translation
differences				 (108,926) (58,261) - -
At beginning of financial year		 2,060,956 6,128,333 40,844 1,973
At end of financial year B 18,700,132 2,060,956 7,593,984 40,844
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 75
NOTES TO THE STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
A. PURCHASE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
						 Group Company
						 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
Total additions			 11,058,349 6,440,972 - -
Less: Acquisition through lease liabilities (722,271) (1,195,250) - -
Total cash used		 10,336,078 5,245,722 - -
B. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents included in the statements of cash flows comprise of the followings
amounts:-						
						 Group Company
						 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
Cash and bank balances		 13,683,782 2,060,956 2,577,634 40,844
Income fund with a licensed financial
institution			 5,016,350 - 5,016,350 -
						 18,700,132 2,060,956 7,593,984 40,844
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
76
NOTES TO THE STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (CONT’D)
C. RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
						
At beginning 					 At end
						 of financial Lease 			 Early of financial
						 year commencement Drawdown Repayments termination year
						 RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2023
Bankers’ acceptance		 1,189,000 - 201,000 (1,390,000) - -
Term loans		 9,698,956 - - (623,378) - 9,075,578
Lease liabilities 		 1,654,465 722,271 - (821,906) - 1,554,830
							
						 12,542,421 722,271 201,000 (2,835,284) - 10,630,408
							
2022
Bankers’ acceptance		 - - 1,189,000 - - 1,189,000
Term loans			 10,327,829 - - (628,873) - 9,698,956
Lease liabilities 		 1,215,859 1,195,250 - (704,419) (52,225) 1,654,465
							
						 11,543,688 1,195,250 1,189,000 (1,333,292) (52,225) 12,542,421
							
D. CASH OUTFLOWS FOR LEASES AS A LESSEE
Group
										 2023 2022
										 RM RM
Included in net cash from operating activities:-
Payment relating to short-term leases						 22,201 15,993
Interest paid in relation to lease liabilities					 122,471 95,233
Included in net cash from financing activities:-
Payment relating to lease liabilities						 821,906 704,419
Total cash outflows for leases						 966,578 815,645
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 77
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia. It is listed
on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 5 July 2022. The registered office of the
Company is located at 22-09, Menara 1MK, No. 1, Jalan Kiara, Mont Kiara, 50480 Kuala Lumpur. The
principal place of business of the Company is located at Lot 83, Jalan Kesuma 2/3, Phase 5D, Bandar
Tasik Kesuma Techno Park, 43700 Beranang, Selangor Darul Ehsan.
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding. The principal activities of its subsidiaries
are disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements.
There were no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Company and of its
subsidiaries during the financial year.
The holding company is Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd., a company incorporated and domiciled in
Malaysia.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with a
resolution of the Directors on 24 October 2023.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION
2.1 Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting
Standards (“IFRSs”) and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
2.2 Basis of measurement
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under historical
cost convention, unless otherwise indicated in the summary of significant accounting policies.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for
goods and services. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement
date and its measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability
takes place either in the principal market for the asset or liability, or in the absence of a principal
market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability. The principal or the most
advantageous market must be accessible to the Group and the Company.
Thefairvalueofanassetoraliabilityismeasuredontheassumptionsthatmarketparticipantswould
act in their economic best interest when pricing the asset or liability. A fair value measurement
of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to generate economic
benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant
that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group and the Company use valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances
and for which sufficient data is available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant
observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
78
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONT’D)
2.2 Basis of measurement (cont’d)
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements
are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level
input that is significant to their fair value measurement as a whole:-
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to their fair
value measurement is directly or indirectly observable.
Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to their fair
value measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the
Group and the Company determine whether transfers have occurred between levels in the
hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to
their fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting date.
The management oversees all the significant fair value measurements and regularly reviews the
significant unobservable inputs and valuation adjustments.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group and the Company have determined classes
of assets and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability
and the level of fair value hierarchy as explained above.
2.3 Functional and presentation currency
The financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”) which is the Group’s and the
Company’s functional currency and all financial information is presented in RM unless otherwise
stated.
2.4 MFRSs
		2.4.1 Adoption of new or revised MFRSs
The accounting policies adopted by the Group and the Company are consistent with those
of the prior financial year except for the new and revised MFRSs and IC Interpretations that
are approved by Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) and applicable for
current financial year.
Application of the new and revised MFRSs and interpretations have no material impact on
financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
Several other amendments are effective for the first time in financial year ended 30 June
2023. However, they do not have any significant impact to the financial statements of the
Group and of the Company.
		2.4.2 Standards issued but not yet effective
At the date of authorisation of these financial statements, MASB has approved certain
new standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards which are not yet
effective and has not been early adopted by the Group and the Company.
The management anticipates that all of the relevant pronouncements will be adopted in
the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies for the first period beginning after the
effective date of the pronouncements.
New standards, amendments and interpretations to existing standards are not expected to
have a material impact on the Group’s and the Company’s financial statements.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 79
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONT’D)
2.5 Significant accounting estimates and judgements
Estimates and assumptions concerning the future and judgements are made in the preparation
of the financial statements. They affect the application of the Group’s and of the Company’s
accounting policies and reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses, and
disclosures made. Estimates and underlying assumptions are assessed on an on-going basis and
are based on experience and relevant factors, including expectations of future events that
are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The actual results may differ from the
judgements, estimates and assumptions made by the management, and will seldom equal the
estimated results.
		2.5.1 Estimation uncertainty
The key assumptions concerning the future and other key sources of estimation uncertainty
at the reporting date that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the
carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed below.
Useful lives of depreciable assets
Depreciable assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives.
Management estimates the useful lives of the depreciable assets to be within 2 to 50 years
and reviews the useful lives of depreciable assets at each reporting date. At 30 June 2023,
management assesses that the useful lives represent the expected utility of the assets to the
Group. Actual results, however, may vary due to change in the expected level of usage
and technological developments, which may result in the adjustment to the Group’s assets.
Impairment of non-financial assets
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s or cash-generating
unit’s carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. To determine the recoverable
amount, the management estimates expected future cash flows from each cash-
generating unit and determines a suitable interest rate in order to calculate the present
value of those cash flows. In the process of measuring expected future cash flows, the
management makes assumptions about future operating results. The actual results may
vary, and may cause significant adjustments to the Group’s and the Company’s assets
within the next financial year.
In most cases, determining the applicable discount rate involves estimating the appropriate
adjustment to market risk and the appropriate adjustment to asset-specific risk factors.
Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. In estimating net
realisable values, management takes into account the most reliable evidence available at
the times the estimates are made. The realisation of these inventories may be affected by
market driven changes that may occur in the future.
The management reviews inventories to identify damaged, obsolete and slow-moving
inventories which require judgement and changes in such estimates could result in revision
to the valuation of inventories.
The management expects that the expected net realisable value of the inventories would
not have material difference from the management’s estimation of net realisable value,
hence, it would not result in material variance in the Group’s profit for the financial year.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
80
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONT’D)
2.5 Significant accounting estimates and judgements (cont’d)
		2.5.1 Estimation uncertainty (cont’d)
Provision for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) of trade receivables
Credit losses are the differences between all contractual cash flows that the Group are
due and the cash flows that it actually expects to receive. An expected credit loss is the
probability-weighted estimate of credit losses which requires the Group’s judgement. The
expected credit losses are discounted at the original effective interest rate (or credit-
adjusted effective interest rate for purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets).
The Group uses a provision matrix to calculate ECLs for trade receivables. The provision
rates are based on days past due for grouping of various customer segments that have
similar loss patterns such as customer type and rating.
The provision matrix is initially based on the Group’s historical observed default rates. The
Group will calibrate the matrix to adjust the historical credit loss experience with forward-
looking information. At each reporting date, the historical observed default rates are
updated and changes in the forward-looking estimates are analysed.
The assessment of the correlation between historical observed rates, forecast economic
conditions and ECLs are a significant estimate. The amount of ECLs is sensitive to changes
in circumstances and of forecast economic conditions. The Group’s historical credit loss
experience and forecast of economic conditions may also not be representative of
customers’ actual default rate in the future.
Leases - Estimating the incremental borrowing rate
The Group cannot readily determine the interest rate implicit in the lease, therefore, it
uses its incremental borrowing rate (“IBR”) to measure lease liabilities. The IBR is the rate of
interest that the Group would have to pay to borrow over a similar term, and with a similar
security, the funds necessary to obtain an asset of a similar value to the right-of-use assets
in a similar economic environment. The IBR therefore reflects what the Group ‘would have
to pay’, which requires estimation when no observable rates are available or when they
need to be adjusted to reflect the terms and conditions of the lease.
Income taxes
Significant judgement is required in determining the capital allowances and deductibility
of certain expenses during the estimation of the provision for income taxes. There are many
transactions and calculations for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain during
the ordinary course of business. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different
from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences will impact the income tax
and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 81
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONT’D)
2.5 Significant accounting estimates and judgements (cont’d)
		2.5.2 Significant management judgements
Significant management judgements in applying the accounting policies of the Group
and of the Company that have the most significant effect on the financial statements are
discussed below.
Determining the lease term of contracts with renewal options
The Group determines the lease term with any periods covered by an option to extend the
lease if it is reasonably certain not to be exercised.
The Group has several lease contracts that include extension options. The Group applies
judgement in evaluating whether it is reasonably certain whether or not to exercise the
option to renew the lease. That is, it considers all relevant factors that create an economic
incentive for it to exercise the renewal. After the commencement date, the Group
reassesses the lease term if there is a significant event or change in circumstances that is
within its control and affects its ability to exercise or not to exercise the option to renew.
The Group included the renewal period as part of the lease term for leases. The Group
typically exercise its option to renew for these leases.
Classification between investment properties and owner-occupied properties
The Group determines whether a property qualifies as an investment property, and has
developed criteria in making that judgement. Investment property is a property held to
earn rentals or for capital appreciation or both. Therefore, the Group considers whether a
property generates cash flows largely independent of the other assets held by the Group.
When the investment properties comprise a portion that is held to earn rental or for capital
appreciation and another portion that is held for use in the production or supply of goods
or services or for administrative purposes. The Group accounts for the portions separately
if the portions could be sold separately, the property is an investment property only if an
insignificant portion is held for use in the production or supply of goods or services or for
administrative purposes.
Judgement is made on an individual property basis to determine whether ancillary services
are so significant that a property does not qualify as an investment property.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
82
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The Group and the Company have consistently applied the significant accounting policies, as
summarised below, consistently throughout all financial years presented in these financial statements,
unless otherwise stated.
3.1 Basis of consolidation
		3.1.1 Consolidation
The Group’s financial statements include the audited financial statements of the Company
and its subsidiaries made up to the end of the financial year.
All inter-company balances and all inter-company transactions and resulting unrealised
profits or losses are eliminated on consolidation and the financial statements reflect external
transactions and balances only. The results of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during
the financial year are included in or excluded from the profit or loss from the effective date
in which control is transferred to the Company or in which control ceases respectively.
The financial statements of the Company for the financial years were prepared in manner
similar to the “pooling of interest” method or merger method. Such manner of presentation
reflects the economic substance of the Company, which were under common control
throughout the relevant year, as a single economic enterprise, although the legal parent-
subsidiary relationships were not established.
		3.1.2 Common control business combination outside the scope of MFRS 3
A business combination involving entities under common control is a business combination
in which all the Group or businesses are ultimately controlled by the same party or parties
both before and after the business combination, and that control is not transitory. A
business combination involving common control entities, and accordingly the accounting
principles are used to include the assets, liabilities, results, equity changes and cash flows of
the Group in the financial statements.
In applying merger accounting, financial statements items of the Group or businesses
for the reporting years in which the common control combination occurs, and for any
comparative financial years disclosed, are included in the financial statements of the entity
as if the combination had occurred from the date when the Group first came under the
control of the controlling party or parties prior to the common control combination.
A single uniform set of accounting policies is adopted by the entity. Therefore, the entity
recognised the assets, liabilities and equity of the Group or business at the carrying amounts
in the financial statements of the controlling party or parties to the common control
combination.
The carrying amounts are included as if such financial statements had been prepared
by the controlling party, including adjustments required for conforming the entity’s
accounting policies and applying those policies to all financial years presented. There is
no recognition of any goodwill or excess of the acquirer’s interest in the net fair value of
the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over cost at the time
of the common control combination. The effects of all transactions between the Group or
businesses, whether occurring before or after the combination, are eliminated in preparing
the financial statements of the entity.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 83
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.1 Basis of consolidation (cont’d)
		3.1.2 Common control business combination outside the scope of MFRS 3 (cont’d)
Under the merger method of accounting, the results of subsidiaries are presented as if the
merger had been effected throughout the current and previous financial years. The assets
and liabilities are accounted for based on the carrying amounts from the perspective
of the common control shareholders at the date of transfer. On combination, the cost
of the merger is cancelled with the values of the shares received. Any resulting credit
difference is classified as equity and regarded as a non-distributable reserve. Any resulting
debit difference is adjusted against any suitable reserve. Any share premium, capital
redemption reserve and any other reserves which are attributable to share capital of the
merged entities, to the extent that they have not been capitalised by a debit difference,
are reclassified and presented as movement in merger reserve.
		3.1.3 Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. Control exists when the Company is
exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entities and has the
ability to affect those returns through its power over the entities. In circumstances when the
voting rights are not more than half or when voting rights are not the dominant determinant
of control, the Company uses judgements to assess whether it has de facto control, control
by other arrangements, or by holding substantive potential voting rights.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary
and ceases when control over the subsidiary is lost. Where an indication of impairment
exists, the carrying amount of the subsidiaries is assessed and written down immediately
to their recoverable amount. Upon disposal of investment in subsidiaries, the difference
between the net disposal proceeds and its carrying amount is included in profit or loss.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of the subsidiaries to
bring their accounting policies into line with the Company’s accounting policies.
		3.1.4 Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests at the reporting date, being the equity in a subsidiary not
attributable directly or indirectly to the equity holders of the Company, are presented in
the consolidated statement of financial position and consolidated statement of changes
in equity within equity, separately from equity attributable to the owners of the Company.
Non-controlling interests in the results of the Group are presented in the consolidated
statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income as an allocation of the profit
or loss and the comprehensive income for the financial years between non-controlling
interests and the owners of the Company.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-
controlling interests even if that results in a deficit balance.
		3.1.5 Changes in ownership interest in subsidiaries without change of control
All changes in the parent’s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of
control are accounted for as equity transactions. Any difference between the amount by
which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair value of consideration paid or
received is recognised directly in equity of the Company.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
84
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.2 Property, plant and equipment
All property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and
accumulated impairment losses. The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment is
recognised as an asset if, and only if, it is probable that future economic benefits associated
with the item will flow to the Group and the cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets and
any other costs directly attributable to bring the asset to working condition for its intended use,
cost of replacing component parts of the assets, and the present value of the expected cost
for the decommissioning of the assets after their use. All other repair and maintenance costs are
recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated but is subject to impairment test if there is any indication of
impairment. Depreciation is recognised from the date that the property, plant and equipment
are installed and are ready for use, or in respect of internally constructed assets, from the date
the asset is completed and ready for use.
Depreciation is recognised on the straight-line method in order to write off the cost of each asset
over its estimated useful lives. Property, plant and equipment are depreciated based on the
estimated useful lives of the assets as follows:-
Freehold buildings 2%
Office equipment 10%
Furniture and fittings 10%
Factory tools and equipment 10% to 20%
Motor vehicles 20%
Plant and machineries 20%
Renovation 10% to 20%
Computers and softwares 33%
Electrical installations 10%
Capital work-in-progress consists of assets under construction/installation for intended use. It is
reclassified to property, plant and equipment once it is available for use. The amount is stated
at cost and borrowing cost for qualifying assets is capitalised in accordance with accounting
policy on borrowing cost. Capital work-in-progress is not depreciated until the assets are ready
for the intended use.
The residual values, useful lives and depreciation method are reviewed for impairment when
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable,
or at least once annually to ensure that the amount, method and period of depreciation are
consistent with previous estimates and the expected pattern of consumption of the future
economic benefits embodied in the items of property, plant and equipment.
Property, plant and equipment are derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic
benefits are expected from its use or disposal. Gains or losses arising from the disposal of property,
plant and equipment are determined as the difference between the disposal proceeds and the
carrying amount of the assets and are recognised in profit or loss in the financial year in which
the asset is derecognised.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 85
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.3 Investment properties
Investment properties consist of buildings held for capital appreciation or rental purpose and not
occupied or only an insignificant portion is occupied for use or in the operations of the Group.
Investment properties are treated as long term investments and are measured initially at cost,
including transaction costs. The carrying amount includes the cost of replacing part of an
existing investment properties at the time that cost is incurred if the recognition criteria are met
and excludes the costs of day-to-day servicing of an investment property.
Investment properties are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation are
recognised on the straight-line method in order to write off the cost of each investment properties
over its estimated useful life of 50 years.
Investment property is derecognised when either it disposed off or when it permanently
withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected from the disposal.
Any gain or loss on the retirement or disposal of an investment property is recognised in the profit
or loss in the financial year of retirement or disposal.
Reclassification to/from investment properties
When an item of property, plant and equipment is transferred to investment properties following
a change in its use, any difference arising at the date of transfer between the carrying amount
of the item immediately prior to transfer and its fair value is recognised directly in equity as a
revaluation of property, plant and equipment. However, if a fair value gain reverses a previous
impairment loss, the gain is recognised in profit or loss. Upon disposal of an investment property,
any surplus previously recorded in equity is transferred to retained earnings; the transfer is not
made through profit or loss.
When the use of a property changes such that it is reclassified as property, plant and equipment,
the fair value at the date of reclassification becomes its cost for subsequent accounting.
3.4 Intangible asset
Intangible asset acquired separately are measured on initial recognition at cost. Following
initial recognition, intangible asset are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and any
accumulated impairment losses. Internally generated intangible asset, excluding capitalised
development costs, are not capitalised and expenditure is reflected in the profit or loss in the
period in which it incurred.
The useful life of intangible asset is assessed to be either finite or indefinite. Intangible asset with
finite life is amortised on straight-line basis over the estimated economic useful life and assessed
for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired.
The Group’s intangible asset consists of website development cost, which were initially recognised
at cost. Intangible asset was amortised at the straight-line method over its useful life of 3 years
and assessed for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may
be impaired. Changes in the expected useful life or the expected pattern of consumption of
future economic benefits embodied in the asset is accounted for by charging the amortisation
period or method, as appropriate, and are treated as changes in accounting estimates. The
amortisation expense on intangible assets with finite useful life is recognised in the profit or loss in
the expense category consistent with the function of the intangible asset.
Gain or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset is measured as the difference
between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised
in the profit or loss when the asset is derecognised.
		
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
86
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.5 Leases
The Group assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if
the contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in
exchange for consideration.
The Group applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases, except for
short-term leases and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognised lease liabilities to make
lease payments and right-of-use assets representing the right to use the underlying assets.
Right-of-use assets
The Group recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the
date the underlying asset is available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less
any accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement of
lease liabilities. The cost of right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities recognised,
initial direct costs incurred, and lease payments made at or before the commencement date
less any lease incentives received.
Right-of-use assets are presented as one of the categories under property, plant and equipment
and depreciated on a straight-line basis over the shorter of the lease term and the estimated
useful lives of the assets as follows:-
Motor vehicles 5 years
Plant and machineries 5 years
Hostels 2 to 3 years
Warehouse 3 years
The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment as detailed in Note 3.6 to the financial
statements.
Lease liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognises lease liabilities measured at
the present value of lease payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments
included fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments) less any incentives receivable,
variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate and amounts expected to be
paid under residual value guarantees. The lease payments also include the exercise price of a
purchase option reasonably certain to be exercised by the Group and payments of penalties
for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Group exercising the option to terminate.
Variable lease payments that do not depend on a index or a rate are recognised as expenses
(unless they are incurred to produce inventories) in the period in which the event or condition
that triggers the payment occurs.
In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Group uses its incremental borrowing
rate at the lease commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not
readily determinable. After the commencement date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased
to reflect the accretion of interest and reduced for the lease payments made. In addition, the
carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if there is a modification, a change in the
lease term, a change in the lease payments (e.g., changes to future payments resulting from
a change in an index or rate used to determine such lease payments) or a change in the
assessment of an option to purchase the underlying asset.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 87
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.5 Leases (cont’d)
Short-term lease and lease of low-value assets
The Group applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term lease. It also
applies the lease of low-value assets recognition exemption to lease of that are considered to
be low-value. Lease payments on short-term leases and lease of low-value assets are recognised
as expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
3.6 Impairment of non-financial assets
The Group and the Company assess at each reporting date whether there is an indication that
an asset may be impaired.
For the purpose of impairment testing, recoverable amount (i.e. the higher of the fair value less
cost to sell and value-in-use) is determined on an individual asset basis unless the asset does not
generate cash flows that are largely independent of those from other assets. If this is the case,
the recoverable amount is determined for the cash-generating units (“CGU”) to which the asset
belongs.
If the recoverable amount of the asset (or CGU) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount,
the carrying amount of the asset (or CGU) is reduced to its recoverable amount. The difference
between the carrying amount and recoverable amount is recognised as an impairment loss in
profit or loss.
An impairment loss for an asset is reversed if, and only if, there has been a change in the estimates
used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
The carrying amount of this asset is increased to its revised recoverable amount, provided that
this amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of
any accumulated amortisation or depreciation) had no impairment loss been recognised for
the asset in prior financial years. A reversal of impairment loss for an asset is recognised in profit
or loss.
3.7 Financial instruments
A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to a financial asset of one entity and a
financial liability or equity instruments of another entity.
		3.7.1 Initial recognition and categorisation
At initial recognition, financial assets are classified and subsequently measured at amortised
cost, fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVTOCI”) and fair value through
profit or loss (“FVTPL”).
The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the financial asset’s
contractual cash flow characteristics and the Group’s and the Company’s business model
for managing them.
In order for a financial asset to be classified and measured at amortised cost or FVTOCI, it
needs to give rise to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest (“SPPI”)
on the principal amount outstanding. This assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is
performed at an instrument level.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
88
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.7 Financial instruments (cont’d)
		3.7.1 Initial recognition and categorisation (cont’d)
The Group’s and the Company’s business model for managing financial assets refers to
how they manage their financial assets in order to generate cash flows. The business model
determines whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows, selling the
financial assets, or both.
At the reporting date, the Group and the Company have not designated any financial
assets at FVTOCI and FVTPL. The Group and the Company carry only financial assets
measured at amortised cost on their statements of financial position.
Financial assets at amortised cost
Financial assets measure at amortised cost if both of the conditions are met:-
• The financial asset is held within a business model with the objective to hold financial
assets in order to collect contractual cash flow; and
• The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows
that are SPPI on the principal amount outstanding.
		3.7.2 Subsequent measurement
Financial assets at amortised cost
Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using effective interest
method and are subject to impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss
when the asset is derecognised, modified or impaired.
The Group’s and the Company’s financial assets at amortised cost include trade and most
of the other receivables, amount due from a subsidiary and cash and cash equivalents.
		3.7.3 Impairment of financial assets
The Group and the Company assess on a forward-looking basis the expected credit loss
(“ECLs”) for all debt instrument not held at FVTPL. ECLs are based on the difference between
the contractual cash flows due in accordance with the contract and all cash flows that
the Group and the Company expect to receive, discounted at an approximation of the
original effective interest rate. The expected cash flows will include cash flows from the sale
of collateral held or other credit enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms.
The maximum period considered when estimating ECLs is the maximum contractual period
(including extension grant) over which the Group and the Company are exposed to credit
risk.
ECLs are measured on either of the following bases:-
• 12-month ECLs: these are losses that are expected to result from possible default
events within 12 months after the reporting date; and
• Lifetime ECLs: these are losses that are expected to result from all possible default
events over the expected lives of the terms, irrespective of the timing of the default to
which ECLs model applies.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 89
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.7 Financial instruments (cont’d)
		3.7.3 Impairment of financial assets (cont’d)
For trade receivables, the Group applies a simplified approach in calculating ECLs.
Therefore, the Group does not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognise a loss
allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date. The Group has established a
provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted for forward
looking factors specific to the debtors and economic environment.
For all other financial instruments, the Group and the Company recognise a loss allowance
equal to 12-month ECLs unless there has been a significant increase in credit risk of the
financial instrument since initial recognition, in which case the loss allowance is measured
at an amount equal to lifetime ECLs.
ECLs are re-measured at each reporting date to reflect changes in the financial instrument’s
credit risk since initial recognition. Any change in the ECLs amount is recognised as an
impairmentgainorlossinprofitorloss.TheGroupandtheCompanyrecogniseanimpairment
gain or loss for all financial instruments with a corresponding adjustment to their carrying
amount through a loss allowance account, except for investments in debt securities that
are measured at FVTOCI (recycling), for which the loss allowance is recognised in other
comprehensive income and accumulated in the fair value reserve (recycling).
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or in full) to the
extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the
Group and the Company determine that the debtor does not have any assets or sources
of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amount subject to the
write-off.
		3.7.4 Financial liabilities
Financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value, and, where applicable, adjusted for
transaction costs unless the Group and the Company designed a financial liability at FVTPL.
At the reporting date, the Group and the Company have not designed any financial
liabilities at FVTPL. The Group and the Company carry only other financial liabilities measured
at amortised cost on their statements of financial position.
Other financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
The Group’s and the Company’s other financial liabilities include trade and most of the
other payables, amount due to subsidiaries and borrowings.
Other financial liabilities are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective
interest method.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
90
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.7 Financial instruments (cont’d)
		3.7.5 Derecognition
A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when the contractual rights to
the cash flows from the financial asset have expired or control of the asset is not retained
or substantially all of the risk and rewards of ownership of the financial asset are transferred
to another party. If the Group and the Company neither transfers nor retain substantially all
the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group
and the Company recognise their retained interest in the asset and associated liability
for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group and the Company retain substantially all
the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred asset, the Group and the Company
continue to recognise the financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for
the proceeds received.
On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference between the carrying amount and
the sum of the consideration received (including any new asset obtained less any new
liability assumed) and any cumulative gain or loss that had been recognised in equity is
recognised in the profit or loss.
The Group and the Company derecognise a financial liability when their contractual
obligations are discharged, cancelled or expired. The difference between the carrying
amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid and payable,
including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
		3.7.6 Offsetting of financial instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the
statements of financial position if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right to
offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise
the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously.
3.8 Inventories
Inventories are stated at lower of cost and net realisable value.
Cost of raw materials comprise cost of purchase and other costs incurred in bringing it to their
present location and condition are determined on a first-in-first-out basis. Cost of finished goods
consists of direct materials, labour and an appropriate proportion of manufacturing overheads
(based on normal operating capacity).
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less selling
and distribution costs and all other estimated costs to completion.
Write-down to net realisable value and inventory losses are recognised as an expense when
it occurred and any reversal is recognised in the profit or loss in the period when the related
inventory was subsequently used or was sold above its carrying amount.
3.9 Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash in hand, bank balances and income fund with a
licensed financial institution which are readily convertible to known amount of cash and which
are subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 91
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.10 Foreign currency transactions
The functional currency of the Group is RM and transactions in other currencies are recorded in
RM using exchange rates prevailing at the date of transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated to the
functional currency at exchange rate at the reporting date.
Foreign currency differences arising from retranslation are recognised in profit or loss.
3.11 Equity
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the
Company after deducting all of its liabilities. Ordinary shares are equity instruments.
Interim dividends are simultaneously proposed and declared, because the articles of association
of the Group and the Company grants the Directors the authority to declare interim dividends.
Consequently, interim dividends are recognised directly as a liability when they are proposed
and declared.
Final dividends proposed by the Directors are not accounted for in shareholder’s equity as
an appropriation of retained earnings, until they have been approved by the shareholders
in a general meeting. When these dividends have been approved by the shareholders and
declared, they are recognised as a liability.
Retained earnings/(Accumulated losses) include all current’s and prior financial years’
accumulated (losses)/profits.
All transactions with owners of the Company are recorded separately within equity.
3.12 Contingencies
Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will occur, or the amount cannot
be estimated reliably, the obligation is not recognised in the statements of financial position
and is disclosed as a contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is
remote. Possible obligations, whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more future events, are also disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the
probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote.
3.13 Provisions
Provisions are recognised if, as a result of past event, the Group and the Company have a
present legal or constructive obligation that can be estimated reliably, and it is probable that an
outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation. Provisions are determined
by discounting the expected future cash flows at a pre-tax rate that reflects current market
assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the liability.
Provisions are reviewed at each reporting date and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate.
If it is no longer probable that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the
obligation, the provision is reversed.
Provisions are not recognised for future operating losses. If the Group and the Company have
a contract that is onerous, the present obligation under the contract shall be recognised and
measured as a provision.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
92
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.14 Revenue recognition
The Group recognises revenue from contracts with customers for goods or services based on the
five-step model as set out below:-
i. Identify contracts with a customer. A contract is defined as an agreement between two or
more parties that creates enforceable rights and obligations and sets out the criteria that
must be met.
ii. Identify performance obligations in the contract. A performance obligation is a promise in
a contract with a customer to transfer goods or services to the customers, that is distinct or
a series of distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and that have the same
pattern of transfer to the customer.
iii. Determine the transaction price. The transaction price is the amount of consideration to
which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or
services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties.
iv. Allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract. For a contract
that has more than one performance obligation, the Group allocates the transaction price
to each performance obligation in an amount that depicts the amount of consideration
to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for satisfying each performance
obligation.
v. Recognise revenue when (or as) the Group satisfies a performance obligation. An asset is
transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of the asset.
The Group satisfies a performance obligation and recognises revenue over time if the Group’s
performance:-
i. Does not create an asset with an alternative use to the Group has enforceable right to
payment for performance completed to-date; or
ii. Create or enhance an asset that the customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced;
or
iii. Provide benefits that the customer simultaneously receives and consumes as the Group
performs.
For performance obligations where any one of the above conditions are not met, revenue is
recognised at a point in time at which the performance obligation is satisfied.
When the Group satisfies a performance obligation by delivering the promised goods or service,
it creates a contract based on the amount of consideration earned by the performance.
Where the amount of consideration received from a customer exceeds the amount of revenue
recognised, this gives rise to a contract liability.
Revenue is measured at fair value of consideration received of receivable. The followings
describe the performance obligation in contracts with customers.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 93
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.14 Revenue recognition (cont’d)
3.14.1 Sale of goods
All revenue are recognised at a point in time, which is typically on delivery. An asset is
transferred when (or as) the customer obtains control of the asset. All the contracts are
completed at the adoption date. The revenue is recognised net of any related rebates,
discounts and tax. The Group shall disaggregate revenue recognised from contracts with
customers into categories that depict how the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of
revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors as disclosed in Note 18 to the
financial statements.
3.14.2 Interest income
Interest income is recognised on accrual basis using effective interest method.
3.14.3 Rental income
Rental income is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the term of the
lease.
3.15 Employee benefits
3.15.1 Short-term employee benefits
Wages, salaries, bonuses and social security contributions are recognised as expenses in the
financial year, in which associated services are rendered by employees of the Group. Short-
term accumulating compensated absences such as paid annual leave are recognised
when employees’ entitlement to future compensated absences increases. Other short-
term non-accumulating compensated absences such as sick leave are recognised as and
when it occurred.
3.15.2 Defined contribution plans
Defined contribution plans are post-employment benefit plans under which the Group
pays fixed contributions into separate entities of funds and will have no legal or constructive
obligation to pay further contribution if any of the funds do not hold sufficient assets to pay
all employee benefits relating to employee services in the current and preceding financial
years.
Such contributions are recognised as an expense in the profit or loss as incurred. As required
by law, the Group makes such contributions to the Employees Provident Fund (“EPF”).
3.16 Borrowing costs
Borrowing costs are interest and other costs incurred by the Group in connection with the
borrowing of funds. Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the acquisition,
construction or production of a qualifying assets are recognised in profit or loss using the effective
interest method. However, borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction
or production of qualifying asset, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period
of time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of those
assets and it ceases or is suspended when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the
qualifying asset for its intended use are completed or interrupted.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
94
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.17 Tax expense
Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current and deferred tax are recognised in
profit or loss except that it relates to items recognised directly in equity or other comprehensive
income.
3.17.1 Current tax
Current tax expense is the expected amount of income taxes payable in respect of the
taxable profit for the financial year and is measured using the tax rates that have been
enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date. Current tax for current and prior
year is recognised in the statements of financial position as liability (or asset) to the extent
that it is unpaid (or refundable).
3.17.2 Deferred tax
Deferred tax is recognised using liability method for temporary difference between carrying
amount of an asset or liability in the statements of financial position and its tax base at
reporting date. However, deferred tax on temporary differences arising from the initial
recognition of goodwill and initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction that
is not a business combination is not recognised because they affect neither accounting or
taxable profit or loss.
The measurement of deferred tax reflects the tax consequences that would follow the
manner in which the Group and the Company expect, at the end of reporting date, to
recover or settle the carrying amount of its assets and liabilities. Deferred tax is measured
at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to temporary differences when they are
reversed, based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the
reporting date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset
current tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax
authority on the same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle
current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis or their tax assets or liabilities will be realised
simultaneously.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will
be available against which deductible temporary can be utilised. Deferred tax assets
are reviewed at each reporting date and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Unabsorbed tax allowances, being tax incentives that is not a tax base of an asset, is
recognised as deferred tax asset to the extent that it is probable that the future taxable
profits will be available to offset against the unutilised tax incentive credit.
3.17.3 Sales tax
Expenses and assets are recognised net of the amount of sales tax, except:-
- When the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or services is not recoverable from
the taxation authority, in which case, the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of
acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item, as applicable; or
- When receivables and payables are stated with the amount of sales tax included.
The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, the taxation authorities are
included as part of receivables or payables in the statements of financial position.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 95
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.18 Related parties
A related party is a person or entity that is related to the Group or the Company. A related party
transaction is a transfer of resources, services or obligations between the Group or the Company
and its related party, regardless of whether a price is charged.
(a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related to the Group if that person:-
(i) Has control or joint control over the Group;
(ii) Has significant influence over the Group; or
(iii) Is a member of the key management personnel of the holding company or the Group.
(b) An entity is related to the Group or the Company if any of the following conditions applies:-
(i) The entity and the Group are members of the same group.
(ii) The entity is an associate or joint venture of the other entity.
(iii) Both the Group and the entity are joint ventures of the same third party.
(iv) The entity is a joint venture of a third entity and the other entity is an associate of the
same third entity.
(v) The entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefits of employees of either
the Group or an entity related to the Group.
(vi) The entity is controlled or jointly-controlled by a person identified in (a) above.
(vii) A person identified in (a)(i) above has significant influence over the entity or is a
member of the key management personnel of holding company or the Group.
(viii) The entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, provides key management
personnel services to the Group.
3.19 Segment reporting
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from
which it may earn revenues and incurs expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate
to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. All operating segments’ operating
results are reviewed regularly by the chief operating decisions maker to make decisions about
resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for which discrete
financial information is available.
3.20 (Loss)/Earnings per share
The Group presents basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per share (“EPS”) data for its ordinary
shares. Basic and diluted (loss)/earning per share is calculated by dividing the net (loss)/profit
attributable to the Company by the weighted average number of shares in issue.
Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the net (loss)/profit for the financial year attributable to the
Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue, adjusted for the dilutive
effects of all potential ordinary shares to be issued. Diluted EPS is not applicable as the Group
does not have potential dilutive equity instruments that would give a diluted effect to the basic
EPS.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
96
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
								
Furniture Factory				
Computers		 Right Capital
					 Freehold Freehold Office and tools and Motor Plant and		 and Electrical -of-use work-in-
					 land buildings equipment fittings equipment vehicles machineries Renovation softwares installations assets progress Total
					 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Cost
At 1.7.2021 		 8,545,283 6,065,459 694,322 115,831 168,786 405,978 4,312,768 3,025,027 34,018 128,732 3,291,355 308,526 27,096,085
Additions 			 - - 87,116 103,664 33,280 - 3,113,278 - - - 1,468,876 1,634,758 6,440,972
Disposal 			 - - (5,800) - - - (75,000) - - - - - (80,800)
Written off 			 - - (2,300) - - - - - - - - - (2,300)
Reclassification 		 - - - - - - 59,728 - - - - (59,728) -
Expiration of lease contract - - - - - - - - - - (20,228) - (20,228)
Early termination of
lease contract 		 - - - - - - - - - - (77,075) - (77,075)
														
At 30.6.2022 		 8,545,283 6,065,459 773,338 219,495 202,066 405,978 7,410,774 3,025,027 34,018 128,732 4,662,928 1,883,556 33,356,654
Additions 			 - - 521,418 36,425 - - 649,557 - - - 722,271 9,128,678 11,058,349
Written off 			 - - (6,080) - - - - - - - - - (6,080)
Reclassification 		 - - 179,998 - - 867,720 720,290 - - - (1,572,810) (195,198) -
Reclassified to investment
properties 			 - (1,869,574) - - - - - - - - - - (1,869,574)
														
At 30.6.2023 		 8,545,283 4,195,885 1,468,674 255,920 202,066 1,273,698 8,780,621 3,025,027 34,018 128,732 3,812,389 10,817,036 42,539,349
														
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 97
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
								
Furniture Factory				
Computers		 Right Capital
					 Freehold Freehold Office and tools and Motor Plant and		 and Electrical -of-use work-in-
					 land buildings equipment fittings equipment vehicles machineries Renovation softwares installations assets progress Total
					 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group (cont’d)
Accumulated depreciation 													
At 1.7.2021 			 - 678,578 302,104 50,451 132,947 293,979 3,244,528 2,181,261 34,018 67,560 2,250,550 - 9,235,976
Charge for the financial year - 85,926 107,827 21,101 22,955 28,000 995,695 202,301 - 12,298 715,139 - 2,191,242
Disposal 			 - - (3,237) - - - (75,000) - - - - - (78,237)
Written off 			 - - (1,131) - - - - - - - - - (1,131)
Expiration of lease contract - - - - - - - - - - (20,228) - (20,228)
Early termination of
lease contract 		 - - - - - - - - - - (26,151) - (26,151)
														
At 30.6.2022 			 - 764,504 405,563 71,552 155,902 321,979 4,165,223 2,383,562 34,018 79,858 2,919,310 - 11,301,471
Charge for the financial year - 69,137 266,136 24,054 24,974 28,000 1,057,262 164,026 - 12,298 889,803 - 2,535,690
Written off 			 - - (5,905) - - - - - - - - - (5,905)
Reclassification 		 - - - - - 867,720 705,090 - - - (1,572,810) - -
Reclassified to investment
properties 			 - (207,560) - - - - - - - - - - (207,560)
														
At 30.6.2023 			 - 626,081 665,794 95,606 180,876 1,217,699 5,927,575 2,547,588 34,018 92,156 2,236,303 - 13,623,696
														
														
Accumulated impairment loss 													
At 1.7.2021 			 705,283 340,009 - - - - - - - - - - 1,045,292
Reversal of impairment loss (260,000) (104,486) - - - - - - - - - - (364,486)
														
At 30.6.2022 			 445,283 235,523 - - - - - - - - - - 680,806
Reclassified to investment
properties 			 - (235,523) - - - - - - - - - - (235,523)
														
At 30.6.2023 			 445,283 - - - - - - - - - - - 445,283
														
Net carrying amount 													
At 30.6.2023 			 8,100,000 3,569,804 802,880 160,314 21,190 55,999 2,853,046 477,439 - 36,576 1,576,086 10,817,036 28,470,370
														
At 30.6.2022 		 8,100,000 5,065,432 367,775 147,943 46,164 83,999 3,245,551 641,465 - 48,874 1,743,618 1,883,556 21,374,377
														
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
98
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
(a) Assets pledged as securities to licensed banks
The net carrying amount of assets pledged as security to licensed banks for banking facilities of
the Group are as follows:-
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
		 Freehold land				 8,100,000 8,100,000
		 Freehold buildings				 3,202,480 4,725,432
								 11,302,480 12,825,432
(b) Right-of-use assets
		As lessee
The Group has lease contracts with lease terms of 2 to 5 years for warehouse, hostels, motor
vehicles and plant and machineries used for its operations purposes.
The Group has certain leases of premises with lease terms of 12 months. The Group applies the
‘short-term lease’ recognition exemptions for these leases.
Set out below are net carrying amount of right-of-use assets recognised and the movements
during the financial year:-
						 Motor Plant and
					 Warehouse Hostels vehicles machineries Total
					 RM RM RM RM RM
		Group					
		 At 1 July 2021 - 5,448 500,708 534,649 1,040,805
		 Additions		 - 87,080 - 1,381,796 1,468,876
		 Depreciation for
		 the financial year - (32,850) (192,580) (489,709) (715,139)
		 Early termination
		 of lease contract - (50,924) - - (50,924)
		 At 30 June 2022 - 8,754 308,128 1,426,736 1,743,618
		 Additions		 722,271 - - - 722,271
		 Depreciation for
		 the financial year (273,965) (5,003) (121,128) (489,707) (889,803)
		 At 30 June 2023 448,306 3,751 187,000 937,029 1,576,086
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 99
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
(b) Right-of-use assets (cont’d)
		As lessee (cont’d)
		 The following are the amounts relating to right-of-use assets recognised in profit or loss:-
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
		 Depreciation of right-of-use assets			 889,803 715,139
		 Expenses relating to short-term leases			 22,201 15,993
(c) The motor vehicles and plant and machineries of the Group with net carrying amount of
RM187,000 (2022: RM308,128) and RM937,029 (2022: RM1,426,736) respectively are held under
finance leases.
(d) Impairment loss
Impairment loss on freehold land and buildings were recognised/reversed during the previous
financial year to represent its current states based on an assessment by the Board of Directors.
The Board of Directors were guided by inputs from a firm of independent professional valuers
who has appropriate professional qualification and recent experience in the relevant location
and asset being valued.
		 The following are the amounts relating to impairment loss recognised in profit or loss:-
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
		 Other income:-			
		 Reversal of impairment loss on property, plant and equipment		 - (364,486)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
100
5. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES
									 Freehold
									 buildings
Group 							 RM
Cost			
At 1 July 2021/30 June 2022					 2,132,180
Reclassified from property, plant and equipment				 1,869,574
			
At 30 June 2023					 4,001,754
Accumulated depreciation					
At 1 July 2021						 152,344
Charge for the financial year					 42,641
At 30 June 2022					 194,985
Charge for the financial year					 59,432
Reclassified from property, plant and equipment				 207,560
					
At 30 June 2023					 461,977
Accumulated impairment loss					
At 1 July 2021/30 June 2022					 -
Reclassified from property, plant and equipment				 235,523
Reversal for the financial year					 (33,530)
					
At 30 June 2023					 201,993
					
Net carrying amount					
At 30 June 2023					 3,337,784
					
At 30 June 2022					 1,937,195
Fair value based on similar properties at proximity area:-			
At 30 June 2023					 3,824,049
									
At 30 June 2022					 2,332,500
Investment properties of the Group comprises of freehold buildings.
The fair value of the investment properties of the Group was estimated by the Directors based on the
recent transacted prices in the market of property with similar conditions and location. If the Group’s
investment properties carried at fair value, it will classify as at Level 3 fair value item for the purpose of
fair value hierarchy disclosure.
The investment properties have been pledged to licensed banks for credit facilities granted to the
Group as disclosed in Note 13 to the financial statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 101
5. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (CONT’D)
The following are recognised in profit or loss in respect of investment properties:-
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Rental income					 (88,100) (46,300)
Direct operating expense					
- Income generating investment properties			 52,890 70,711
6. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
							 Company
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Unquoted shares, at cost				 15,120,000 15,120,000
The details of the subsidiaries are as follows:-
Name of the subsidiaries Principal place
of business
Effective equity
interest
Principal activities
2023 2022
% %
Direct subsidiaries
Orgabio Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Instant beverage premix
manufacturing activities for third
party brands and house brands
comprising instant coffee, tea,
chocolate and food supplement
premixes, as well as undertaking
local and export sale of instant
beverage premixes.
Orgapharma Marketing
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Local sale of instant beverage
premixes as well as sale of body
care products.
Orgapharma Herbal
Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Property investment holding.
Everyday F & B
Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Local and export sale of coffee
premixes and house brands
instant beverage premixes,
namely EveryDay and BrogaHill.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
102
6. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
6.1 Acquisition of subsidiaries
On 12 March 2021, the Company entered into four separate share sales agreements (“the
Acquisition”) to acquire the entire equity interest in Everyday F & B Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.
(“Everyday F & B Manufacturing”), Orgapharma Herbal Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. (“Orgapharma
Herbal Manufacturing”), Orgabio Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. (“Orgabio Manufacturing”) and
Orgapharma Marketing Sdn. Bhd. (“Orgapharma Marketing”). The purchase consideration for
the Acquisition was satisfied by the issuance of new ordinary shares in the Company (“OHB
Shares”).
The detail of the Acquisition are as follows:-
(a) Acquisition of 83,500 units of ordinary shares in Everyday F & B Manufacturing, representing
the entire issued and paid-up share capital of Everyday F & B Manufacturing for total
purchase consideration of RM52,315, satisfied via the issuance of new 523,150 units of OHB
Shares at an issue price of RM0.10 for each OHB Shares;
(b) Acquisition of 350,000 units of ordinary shares in Orgapharma Herbal Manufacturing,
representing the entire issued and paid-up share capital of Orgapharma Herbal
Manufacturing for total purchase consideration of RM1.00, satisfied via the issuance of new
10 units of OHB Shares at an issue price of RM0.10 for each OHB Shares;
(c) Acquisition of 200,000 units of ordinary shares in Orgabio Manufacturing, representing
the entire issued and paid-up share capital of Orgabio Manufacturing for total purchase
consideration of RM11,893,119, satisfied via the issuance of new 118,931,190 units of OHB
Shares at an issue price of RM0.10 for each OHB Shares;
(d) Acquisition of 300,003 units of ordinary shares in Orgapharma Marketing, representing
the entire issued and paid-up share capital of Orgapharma Marketing for total purchase
consideration of RM3,174,565, satisfied via the issuance of new 31,745,648 units of OHB
Shares at an issue price of RM0.10 for each OHB Shares.
The Acquisition was completed on 28 August 2021. Consequently, Everyday F & B Manufacturing,
Orgapharma Herbal Manufacturing, Orgabio Manufacturing and Orgapharma Marketing
become the wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the merger method to account
for the acquisition of Everyday F & B Manufacturing, Orgapharma Herbal Manufacturing,
Orgabio Manufacturing and Orgapharma Marketing. Merger reserve or deficit are determined
as the difference between the cost of merger and nominal value of the share capital of the
subsidiaries acquired and recognised in statements of financial position.
6.2 Merger deficit
The recognised merger deficit at the acquisition date is derived as follows:-
									 Group
									 2022
									 RM
					
		 Total consideration paid by issuance of shares of the Company		 15,120,000
		 Less: Nominal value of the subsidiaries’ share capital			 (933,503)
		 Merger deficit					 14,186,497
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 103
6. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
6.3 Impact of the acquisition on the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive
income
In the financial year when the merger took place, the subsidiaries’ profits are included in the
Group’s profits for the full financial year, regardless of the effective date of merger.
The subsidiaries have contributed the following results to the Group in financial year ended 30
June 2023 and 30 June 2022:-
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
		 Revenue					 58,835,019 64,353,716
		 Total comprehensive income for the financial year		 1,605,953 6,140,777
6.4 Amount due from/(to) subsidiaries
The amount due from/(to) subsidiaries are non-trade in nature, unsecured, non-interest bearing
and repayable on demand.
7. INTANGIBLE ASSET
									 Website
									
development
									 cost
									 RM
Group					
Cost				
At 1 July 2021/30 June 2022/30 June 2023				 55,332
Accumulated amortisation				
At 1 July 2021						 54,780
Charge for the financial year					 552
At 30 June 2022/30 June 2023					 55,332
Net carrying amount				
At 30 June 2022/30 June 2023					 -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
104
8. INVENTORIES
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Raw materials					 8,455,493 6,812,264
Finished goods				 1,615,857 1,003,633
								 10,071,350 7,815,897
Recognised in profit or loss:-			
Inventories recognised as cost of sales			 40,175,395 42,725,005
Inventories written off				 150,627 -
9. TRADE RECEIVABLES
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Trade receivables				 6,393,169 7,828,278
Less: Allowance for impairment loss				 (170,643) (170,286)
								 6,222,526 7,657,992
9.1 Normal trade credit terms granted to customers range from 1 to 60 days (2022: 1 to 60 days).
Trade receivables are recognised at invoice amounts and they are non-interest bearing.
9.2 Included in trade receivables is an amount of RM986,980 (2022: Nil) due from a substantial
shareholder. The said amount is unsecured, bear no interest and subject to normal trade terms.
9.3 Analysis by currencies
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
		 Renminbi (“RMB”)				 206,459 168,520
		 Singapore Dollar (“SGD”)				 443,120 367,180
		 United States Dollar (“USD”)				 3,157,366 2,916,722
		 RM						 2,415,581 4,205,570
								 6,222,526 7,657,992
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 105
9. TRADE RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
9.4 The following table provides information about the credit risk exposure on the Group’s trade
receivables using a provision of matrix:-
							 Days past due
										 More
					 Current 1 to 30 31 to 60 61 to 90 91 to 120 than 120
					 days days days days days days Total
					 RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
		2023
		 Expected credit 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
		 loss rate		 to 0.71% to 0.92% to 1.43% to 2.00% to 87.65%
		 Gross carrying
		 amount		 3,314,059 1,902,866 928,821 117,309 - 130,114 6,393,169
		 Expected credit
		 loss			 23,480 17,512 13,261 2,347 - 114,043 170,643
		2022
		 Expected credit 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00%
		 loss rate		 to 0.65% to 0.86% to 1.35% to 1.45%		 to 40.54%
		 Gross carrying
		 amount		 4,771,469 1,663,734 962,344 160,656 - 270,075 7,828,278
		 Expected credit
		 loss			 31,153 14,310 13,001 2,332 - 109,490 170,286
9.5 The movements in the loss allowance in respect of trade receivables during the financial year
were as follows:-
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
		 At beginning of financial year				 170,286 172,740
		 Recognised during the financial year			 25,822 67,162
		 Reversed during the financial year			 (14,397) (69,616)
		 Written off during the financial year			 (11,068) -
				
		 At end of financial year				 170,643 170,286
10. OTHER RECEIVABLES
						 Group Company
						 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
Non-trade receivables		 669,413 736,299 - -
Deposits				 186,180 125,225 - -
Deposits paid for purchase of property,
plant and equipment		 10,000 195,047 - -
Prepayments			 201,468 156,408 - -
Prepayment of initial public offering costs - 3,562,080 - 3,562,080
						 1,067,061 4,775,059 - 3,562,080
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
106
10. OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
Included in deposits are an amount of RM1,350 (2022: RM1,350) paid to a Director in relation to a
rental deposit.
These amounts are unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
Analysis by currencies
						 Group Company
						 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
USD					 386,506 68,797 - -
RM					 680,555 4,706,262 - 3,562,080
						 1,067,061 4,775,059 - 3,562,080
11. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
						 Group Company
						 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
Cash and bank balances		 13,683,782 2,060,956 2,577,634 40,844
Income fund with a licensed
financial institution
(redeemable upon 1 day notice)		 5,016,350 - 5,016,350 -
						 18,700,132 2,060,956 7,593,984 40,844
Analysis by currencies
						 Group Company
						 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
RM					 10,273,737 1,707,452 7,593,984 40,844
Euro (“EUR”)			 258 - - -
USD					 6,549,613 235,680 - -
SGD					 1,466,806 116,982 - -
RMB					 409,718 842 - -
						 18,700,132 2,060,956 7,593,984 40,844
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 107
12. SHARE CAPITAL, INVESTED EQUITIES AND MERGER DEFICIT
(a) Share capital
							 Group and Company
						 Number of ordinary shares Amount
						 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 Unit Unit RM RM
		Issued and fully paid
		 with no par value:-				
		 Balance at beginning of
		 the financial year		 151,200,000 2 15,120,002 2
		 Issued during the financial year 96,668,000 151,199,998 29,967,080 15,120,000
		 Share issuance expenses		 - - (1,439,629) -
		 Balance at end of
		 the financial year		 247,868,000 151,200,000 43,647,453 15,120,002
The movement of the share capital of the Company during the current and previous financial
year are as follows:-
(i) On 28 August 2021, the Company issued 151,199,998 units of new ordinary shares at an
issue price of RM0.10 per ordinary share as purchase consideration of acquired the entire
issued and paid-up share capital of its subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 6 to the financial
statements.
(ii) On 1 July 2022, the Company issued 96,668,800 units of new ordinary shares at an issue price
of RM0.31 per ordinary share in conjunction with the initial public offering of the Company
pursuant to listing on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The new ordinary shares issued during the financial year rank pari passu in all respects with the
existing ordinary shares of the Group and of the Company.
The holders of the ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the
Company. An ordinary share carries one vote per share without restrictions and ranks equally
with regard to the Company’s residual assets.
(b) Invested equities
									 Total
									 RM
					
		 At 1 July 2021					 933,503
		 Effect of acquisition					 (933,503)
		 At 30 June 2022/30 June 2023					 -
(c) Merger deficit
The merger deficit arises as and when the combination take place, it comprises the difference
between the cost of merger and the nominal value of shares acquired in subsidiaries as disclosed
in Note 6.2 to the financial statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
108
13. BORROWINGS
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Secured			
Current			
- Term loans					 611,132 668,460
- Bankers’ acceptance				 - 1,189,000
								 611,132 1,857,460
Non-current			
- Term loans					 8,464,446 9,030,496
Total borrowings				 9,075,578 10,887,956
The borrowings are secured by the followings:-
(a) Legal charge over the investment properties, freehold land and building as disclosed in Notes 4
and 5 to the financial statements; and
(b) Corporate guarantee by the Company.
In prior financial year, the borrowings are secured by the followings:-
(a) Legal charge over the investment properties, freehold land and buildings as disclosed in Notes
4 and 5 to the financial statements;
(b) Joint and several guarantee by the Directors of the Group and of the Company; and
(c) Life insurance policy of any of Directors and shareholders assigned to the bank.
The term loans are repayable on monthly basis and the tenure ranged from 180 to 300 months (2022:
180 to 300 months).
The tenure of the bankers’ acceptance ranged from 30 to 60 days (2022: 30 to 60 days).
Maturity of bank borrowings of the Group are as follows:-
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Within 1 year					 611,132 1,857,460
Between 2 to 5 years				 2,815,826 3,000,609
More than 5 years				 5,648,620 6,029,887
								 9,075,578 10,887,956
Interest is charged at rates ranging from 3.18% to 7.65% (2022: 3.13% to 6.40%) per annum.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 109
14. LEASE LIABILITIES
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Current 			
- less than 1 year 				 773,790 572,139
Non-current			
- between 2 to 5 years				 781,040 1,082,326
								 1,554,830 1,654,465
The lease liabilities of the Group bear interest at rates ranging from 2.60% to 6.07% (2022: 2.48% to
6.18%) per annum.
Set out below is the movement of the lease liabilities during the financial year:-
									 Group
									 RM
At 1 July 2021						 1,215,859
Additions							 1,195,250
Accretion of interests					 95,233
Payment of principal and interests					 (799,652)
Early termination of lease contract					 (52,225)
At 30 June 2022					 1,654,465
Additions							 722,271
Accretion of interests					 122,471
Payment of principal and interests					 (944,377)
At 30 June 2023					 1,554,830
The following is the amount relating to lease liabilities recognised in profit or loss:-
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Interest expense on lease liabilities 				 122,471 95,233
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
110
15. DEFERRED TAX LIABILIITES
							
At beginning Recognised in
							 of financial profit or loss At end of
							 year (Note 21) financial year
							 RM RM RM
Group
2023
Non-current asset					
Property, plant and equipment			 (230,000) 24,000 (206,000)
Current asset					
Trade receivables			 40,000 (3,000) 37,000
							 (190,000) 21,000 (169,000)
2022
Non-current asset					
Property, plant and equipment			 (180,000) (50,000) (230,000)
Current asset 				
Trade receivables			 41,000 (1,000) 40,000
							 (139,000) (51,000) (190,000)
16. TRADE PAYABLES
Normal credit terms granted by the suppliers for the Group ranged from 1 to 60 days (2022: 1 to 60
days).
These amounts are unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
Analysis by currencies
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
RM							 3,363,141 4,558,999
USD							 254,243 143,666
SGD							 1,353,210 572,131
RMB							 7,930 8,987
								 4,978,524 5,283,783
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 111
17. OTHER PAYABLES
						 Group Company
						 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
Non-trade payables		 303,982 3,861,586 - 1,794,244
Contract liabilities		 689,238 156,634 - -
Accruals				 450,048 380,447 57,464 67,000
Deposits received		 121,300 113,100 - -
Sales and Services Tax payable		 112,301 223,075 - -
						 1,676,869 4,734,842 57,464 1,861,244
Included in non-trade payables is an amount of RM7,362 (2022: Nil) due to a substantial shareholder.
These amounts are unsecured, non-interest bearing and repayable on demand.
Contract liabilities
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Brought forward				 156,634 3,949,593
Advance received during the financial year			 569,257 62,305
Recognised as revenue during the financial year			 (36,653) (3,855,264)
Carried forward				 689,238 156,634
Analysed as:-			
Current						 689,238 156,634
The contract liability represents advance deposit received from a customer for purchase of goods
and expected to be recognised as revenue within 1 year.
Analysis by currencies
						 Group Company
						 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
USD					 379,574 - - -
RMB					 126,683 - - -
RM					 1,170,612 4,734,842 57,464 1,861,244
							
						 1,676,869 4,734,842 57,464 1,861,244
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
112
18. REVENUE
Revenue comprises of the following:-
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Revenue from contract with customers			 58,835,019 64,353,716
The revenue from contract with customers represents sale of goods which recognised at point in time
and the geographical market of the revenue generated are as follows:-
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Geographical markets			
- Malaysia					 23,172,694 45,032,841
- Republic of Singapore				 3,074,686 1,517,091
- China						 12,760,123 5,205,898
- Papua New Guinea				 10,698,121 9,210,696
- Trinidad and Tobago				 3,952,755 1,851,652
- Others						 5,176,640 1,535,538
								 58,835,019 64,353,716
19. FINANCE COSTS
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Interest expenses			
- lease liabilities				 122,471 95,233
- bankers’ acceptances				 1,446 22,851
- term loans					 470,316 454,346
								 594,233 572,430
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 113
20. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX
Profit/(Loss) before tax is determined after charging/(crediting), amongst other, the following items:-
						 Group Company
						 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
Auditors’ remuneration
- Statutory audit		 90,000 79,000 11,000 6,000
Assurance-related services:-
Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT (“GTM”)
- Review of consolidated
financial statements		 10,000 10,000 10,000 10,000
- Review of statement on risk
management and internal control 8,000 8,000 8,000 8,000
- Review of other information
contained in annual report		 3,000 3,000 3,000 3,000
Non-assurance-related services:-
GTM							
- Agreed upon procedures		 3,500 3,000 - -
Other services:-
Tax compliance
- GTM				 3,000 1,000 3,000 1,000
- Non-GTM 			 11,000 11,000 - -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets		 889,803 715,139 - -
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment		 1,645,887 1,476,103 - -
Amortisation of intangible asset		 - 552 - -
Gain on disposal of property,
plant and equipment		 - (6,237) - -
Depreciation of investment properties 59,432 42,641 - -
Directors’ fee			 276,000 246,000 276,000 246,000
Loss allowances on trade receivables 25,822 67,162 - -
Reversal of loss allowance on
trade receivables		 (14,397) (69,616) - -
Foreign exchange loss/(gain):-
- Realised				 2,956 (49,384) - -
- Unrealised 			 84,133 53,485 - -
Short-term leases:- 					
- Hostel				 5,400 15,993 - -
- Equipment			 10,200 - - -
- Pallets				 6,601 - - -
Rental income			 (107,050) (69,100) - -
Fair value loss on financial assets
at fair value through profit or loss		 - 65,912 - -
Interest income		 (384,170) (37,270) (313,546) -
Interest expenses		 594,233 572,430 - -
Inventories written off		 150,627 - - -
Property, plant and equipment written off 175 1,169 - -
Dividend income from financial assets
at fair value through profit or loss		 - (83,654) - -
Reversal of impairment loss
on investment properties		 (33,530) - - -
Reversal of impairment loss on
property, plant and equipment		 - (364,486) - -
Gain on early termination of
lease contract		 - (1,301) - -
Listing expenses		 2,253,546 - 2,253,546 -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
114
21. TAX EXPENSE
						 Group Company
						 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
Current tax expense
Current financial year		 1,248,906 2,103,241 - -
(Over)/Under provision in
prior financial year		 (194,544) 82,489 - -
Total current tax recognised in profit or loss 1,054,362 2,185,730 - -
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of
temporary differences 		 (100,000) 72,000 - -
Under/(Over) provision of deferred
tax in prior financial year		 79,000 (21,000) - -
Total deferred tax recognised in
profit or loss (Note 15)		 (21,000) 51,000 - -
							
Total tax expense		 1,033,362 2,236,730 - -
Reconciliation of tax expense applicable to profit/(loss) before tax at statutory tax rate to tax expense
at the effective tax rate of the Group and of the Company is as follow:-
						 Group Company
						 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
Profit/(Loss) before tax		 151,069 7,997,827 (2,488,246) (379,680)
							
Tax at Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24% 36,256 1,919,478 (597,179) (91,123)
Tax effects in respect of:-
Income not subject to tax		 (95,202) (132,911) (75,251) -
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1,188,172 370,194 672,430 91,123
Movement of deferred tax assets
not recognised		 19,680 18,480 - -
(Over)/Under provision of current
tax in prior financial year		 (194,544) 82,489 - -
Under/(Over) provision of deferred tax
in prior financial year (Note 15)		 79,000 (21,000) - -
						 1,033,362 2,236,730 - -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 115
21. TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)
As at 30 June 2023, the Group has unabsorbed tax losses and unutilised capital allowances amounting
to approximately RM699,000 and RM404,000 (2022: RM617,000 and RM404,000) respectively which
are available to offset against future taxable profits.
The potential deferred tax assets of the Group are not recognised in the financial statements as it is
anticipated that the tax effect of such benefits will not be recognised in the foreseeable future.
Effective Year of Assessment 2019 as announced in the Annual Budget 2022, the unused tax losses of
the Group as of 30 June 2023 and thereafter will only be available for carry forward for a period of 10
consecutive years. Upon expiry of the 10 years, the unabsorbed tax losses will be disregarded.
The expiry of the unabsorbed tax losses is as follows:-
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Year of assessment 2028				 363,000 363,000
Year of assessment 2031				 172,000 172,000
Year of assessment 2032				 82,000 82,000
Year of assessment 2033				 82,000 -
					
								 699,000 617,000
22. (LOSS)/EARNINGS PER SHARE
Basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share was based on the (loss)/profit
for the financial year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the Company and number of ordinary
shares issued calculated as follows:-
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
(Loss)/Profit attributable to owners of the Company			 (882,293) 5,761,097
Weighted average number of ordinary shares (units)			 247,868,000 126,759,450
			
Basic and diluted (loss)/earnings per share (cent)			 (0.36) 4.54
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
116
23. DIVIDEND
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
In respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2022
Second interim single tier dividend of 1,250% declared on
23 August 2021 and paid on 23 September 2021			 - 2,500,000
24. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSES
						 Group Company
						 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
Salaries, wages and other emoluments 7,481,659 5,635,161 6,600 -
Defined contribution plans		 427,117 331,025 - -
Social security contributions		 47,469 36,950 - -
Other benefits			 89,963 102,894 - -
							
						 8,046,208 6,106,030 6,600 -
Included in the employee benefits expenses is aggregate amount of remuneration received and
receivable by the Executive Directors and Non-Executive Directors of the Group and of the Company
during the financial year as below:-
						 Group Company
						 2023 2022 2023 2022
						 RM RM RM RM
Salaries, wages and other emoluments 1,114,090 974,376 6,600 -
Defined contribution plans		 82,200 69,124 - -
Social security contributions		 4,124 3,405 - -
Other benefits			 230 190 - -
							
						 1,200,644 1,047,095 6,600 -
Included in the employee benefits expenses are aggregate amount of remuneration received and
receivable by the key management personnel (other than Directors) of the Group during the financial
year as below:-
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Key management personnel remuneration				
Salary, wages and other emoluments			 487,415 531,855
Defined contribution plans				 54,780 56,280
Social security contributions				 2,703 286
Other benefits					 102,199 2,486
				
								 647,097 590,907
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 117
25. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
(a) The related party transactions of the Group during the financial year were as follows:-
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
		 Leases paid to a Director of the Group and of the Company		 5,400 5,400
			
		 Sales to a substantial shareholder			 6,010,697 -
			
		 Dividend declared and paid 				 - 2,500,000
(b) Outstanding balances arising from related party transactions as at the reporting date are
disclosed in Notes 6, 9, 10 and 17 to the financial statements.
(c) Key management personnel are defined as the person having authority and responsibility
for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group and of the Company either
directly or indirectly. Remuneration of key management personnel and Directors are disclosed
in Note 24 to the financial statements.
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Categories of financial instruments
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows:-
(a) Financial assets measured at amortised cost (“FA”); and
(b) Other financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (“OFL”).
							 Carrying
							 amount FA OFL
							 RM RM RM
Group			 		
2023
Financial assets					
Trade receivables			 6,222,526 6,222,526 -
Other receivables			 865,593 865,593 -
Cash and cash equivalents			 18,700,132 18,700,132 -
							 25,788,251 25,788,251 -
Financial liabilities					
Trade payables			 4,978,524 - 4,978,524
Other payables			 875,330 - 875,330
Borrowings				 9,075,578 - 9,075,578
							 14,929,432 - 14,929,432
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
118
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Categories of financial instruments (cont’d)
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows (cont’d):-
(a) Financial assets measured at amortised cost (“FA”); and
(b) Other financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (“OFL”).
							 Carrying
							 amount FA OFL
							 RM RM RM
Group (cont’d)			
2022
Financial assets					
Trade receivables			 7,657,992 7,657,992 -
Other receivables			 1,056,571 1,056,571 -
Cash and cash equivalents			 2,060,956 2,060,956 -
							 10,775,519 10,775,519 -
Financial liabilities					
Trade payables			 5,283,783 - 5,283,783
Other payables			 4,355,133 - 4,355,133
Borrowings				 10,887,956 - 10,887,956
							 20,526,872 - 20,526,872
Company					
2023					
Financial assets					
Cash and cash equivalents			 7,593,984 7,593,984 -
Amount due from a subsidiary			 17,967,107 17,967,107 -
							 25,561,091 25,561,091 -
Financial liability
Other payables			 57,464 - 57,464
2022
Financial asset				
Cash and cash equivalents			 40,844 40,844 -
Financial liabilities					
Other payables			 1,861,244 - 1,861,244
Amount due to subsidiaries			 2,218,632 - 2,218,632
							 4,079,876 - 4,079,876
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 119
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies
26.1 Financial risks
The Group and the Company are exposed to financial risks arising from its operations and the
use of financial instruments. Financial risk management policy is established to ensure that
adequate resources are available for the development of the Group’s and of the Company’s
business whilst managing its risks. The Group and the Company operate within clearly defined
policies and procedures that are approved by the Board of Directors to ensure the effectiveness
of the risk management process.
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows:-
26.1.1 Credit risk
		 Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group and the Company if a customer or
counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
		 The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing
basis. The credit risk is controlled by monitoring procedures. An internal credit review
is conducted if the credit risk is material. The Group and the Company do not require
collateral in respect of financial assets.
		 The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk are as follows:-
		
Receivables
		 Receivables are monitored on an ongoing basis to mitigate risk of bad debts. The
Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of
each customer. However, management also considers the factors that may influence
the credit risk of its customer base, including the default risk associated with the industry
in which customers operate.
		 The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties.
Management has a credit policy in place to control credit risk by dealing with creditworthy
counterparties and deposit with banks and financial institution with good credit rating.
The exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis and action will be taken for
long outstanding debts.
		 Information regarding the Group’s exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade receivables
is disclosed in Note 9.4 to the financial statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
120
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
26.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
26.1.1 Credit risk (cont’d)
		 The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk are as follows
(cont’d):-
		
Receivables (cont’d)
		
Concentration of credit risk
		 Concentration of credit risk exists when changes in economic, industry and geographical
factors similarly affect the group of counterparties whose aggregate credit exposure
is significant in relation to the Group’s total credit exposure. The Group’s portfolio of
financial instrument is broadly diversified along geographical lines and transactions are
entered into with diverse creditworthy counterparties, thereby mitigate any significant
concentration of credit risk.
		 In respect of the trade receivables, the Group is not subjected to significant credit
risk exposure to any single counterparty or a group of counterparties having similar
characteristics except that 41% (2022: 54%) of the Group’s trade receivables were due
from three (2022: two) major customers.
		 In respect of other receivables, the Group and the Company are not subjected to any
significant credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or a group of counterparties
having similar risk characteristics.
		 The net carrying amount of receivables is considered a reasonable approximate of its
fair value. The maximum exposure to credit risk is the carrying value of each class of
receivables as disclosed in Notes 9 and 10 to the financial statements.
		 With a credit policy in place to ensure the credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis, the
management has taken reasonable steps to ensure that receivables are stated at their
realisable values. A significant portion of the receivables are regular customers that have
been transacting with the Group. The Group uses ageing analysis to monitor the credit
quality of the receivables. Any receivables having significant balances past due more
than credit terms granted are deemed to have higher credit risk, and are monitored
individually.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 121
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
26.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
26.1.1 Credit risk (cont’d)
		 The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk are as follows
(cont’d):-
		
Intercompany loans and advances
		 The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by its carrying amounts in the
statements of financial position.
		 The Company provides unsecured advances to a subsidiary and monitors its repayment
regularly.
		 As at the reporting date, there was no indication that advances to a subsidiary is not
recoverable.
		 Cash and cash equivalents
		 The credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is considered negligible, since the
counterparties are reputable banks with high quality external credit ratings.
		 Financial guarantees
		 The Company provides unsecured financial guarantees to financial institutions in respect
of banking facilities granted to subsidiaries. The Company monitors on an on-going basis
the results of the borrowers and their repayments to the financial institution. As at the
end of the reporting date, there was no indication that any subsidiaries will default in
repayments.
		 The maximum exposure to credit risk to the Company is RM7,612,474 (2022: RMNil),
represented by the outstanding banking facilities utilised by the subsidiaries as at the
reporting date.
26.1.2 Liquidity risk
		 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet its
financial obligations as and when they fall due, due to shortage of funds.
		 In managing its exposures to liquidity risk arises principally from its various payables,
borrowings and lease liabilities. The Group and the Company maintain a level of cash
and cash equivalents and bank facilities deemed adequate by the management to
ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as and
when they fall due.
		 The Group and the Company aim at maintaining a balance of sufficient cash and deposits
and flexibility in funding by keeping diverse sources of committed and uncommitted
credit facilities from various banks.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
122
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
26.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
26.1.2 Liquidity risk (cont’d)
		 The summary of the maturity profile based on contractual undiscounted repayment
obligations is as follow:-
						 Current Non-current
									 Total
						 Within 2 to 5 More than contractual
						 1 year years 5 years cash flows
						 RM RM RM RM
Group
		2023
		 Borrowings		 1,094,916 4,379,664 6,942,567 12,417,147
		 Lease liabilities		 846,021 818,235 - 1,664,256
		 Trade payables		 4,978,524 - - 4,978,524
		 Other payables		 875,330 - - 875,330
		 Total undiscounted
		 financial liabilities		 7,794,791 5,197,899 6,942,567 19,935,257
		
2022
		 Borrowings		 2,277,844 4,355,376 6,915,307 13,548,527
		 Lease liabilities		 646,223 1,160,412 - 1,806,635
		 Trade payables		 5,283,783 - - 5,283,783
		 Other payables		 4,355,133 - - 4,355,133
		 Total undiscounted
		 financial liabilities		 12,562,983 5,515,788 6,915,307 24,994,078
		
Company
		2023
		 Other payables		 57,464 - - 57,464
		 Total undiscounted
		 financial liability		 57,464 - - 57,464
		 Financial guarantees*		 7,612,474 - - 7,612,474
		
2022
		 Other payables		 1,861,244 - - 1,861,244
		 Amount due
		 to subsidiaries		 2,218,632 - - 2,218,632
		 Total undiscounted
		 financial liabilities		 4,079,876 - - 4,079,876
* This exposure is included in liquidity risk for illustration only. No financial guarantee was
called upon by the holders as at the end of reporting year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 123
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
26.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
26.1.3 Interest rate risk
		 Interest rate risk is caused by changes in market interest rate resulting in fluctuation in
fair value or future cash flow of financial instruments of the Group. The Group’s interest
rate management objective is to manage the interest expenses to be consistent with
maintaining an acceptable level of exposure to interest rate fluctuation.
		 The Group’s borrowings at variable interest rates exposed to the risk of change in cash flow
due to changes in interest rate. Short term receivables and payables are not significantly
exposed to any interest rate risk.
		
Interest rate sensitivity analysis
		 The Group is exposed to changes in market interest rates through bank borrowings at
variable interest rates. Other borrowings are at fixed interest rates. The following is interest
rate profile of the significant interest-bearing financial instrument, based on carrying
amounts as at the reporting date:-
							 Group
							 2023 2022
							RM RM
		
Fixed rate instruments				
		
Financial liabilities				
		 Lease liabilities				 1,554,830 1,654,465
		 Bankers’ acceptances				 - 1,189,000
							 1,554,830 2,843,465
		
Floating rate instrument				
		
Financial liability				
		 Term loans				 9,075,578 9,698,956
		 The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair
value through profit or loss, and the Group does not designate derivatives as hedging
instruments under a fair value hedge accounting model. Therefore, a change in interest
rates at the reporting date would not affect profit or loss.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
124
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
26.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
26.1.3 Interest rate risk (cont’d)
		 Interest rate sensitivity analysis (cont’d)
		 The following illustrates the sensitivity of profit to a reasonably possible change in interest
rates of +/- 25 (2022: +/- 25) basis points (“bp”). These changes are considered to be
reasonably possible based on observation of current market conditions. The calculations
are based on a change in the average market interest rate for each period, and the
financial instruments held at each reporting date that are sensitive to changes in interest
rates. All other variables are held constant.
						 Effect on (loss)/profit/ equity
							 for the financial year
								 25bp 25bp
								 increase decrease
							RM RM
		
Group			
		 2023				 (22,689) 22,689
		 2022				 24,247 (24,247)
26.1.4 Foreign currency risk
		 Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial
instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates.
		 TheGroupisexposedtoforeigncurrencyriskonsalesandpurchasesthataredenominated
in a currency other than the functional currency of Group. The currencies giving rise to
these risks are primarily USD, RMB, SGD and EUR.
		 The Group’s exposures to foreign currency risk, based on carrying amounts as at the
reporting date was disclosed in the respective financial assets and financial liabilities
note to the financial statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 125
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
26.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
26.1.4 Foreign currency risk (cont’d)
		 Carrying amounts of the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk are as follows:-
					 SGD RMB USD EUR
					 RM RM RM RM
Group
		2023
		 Financial assets
		 Trade receivables		 443,120 206,459 3,157,366 -
		 Other receivables		 - - 386,506 -
		 Cash and cash
		 equivalents		 1,466,806 409,718 6,549,613 258
		 Financial liabilities
		 Trade payables		 (1,353,210) (7,930) (254,243) -
		 Other payables		 - (126,683) (379,574) -
		 Net exposure		 556,716 481,564 9,459,668 258
2022
		 Financial assets					
		 Trade receivables		 367,180 168,520 2,916,722 -
		 Other receivables		 - - 68,797 -
		 Cash and cash
		 equivalents		 116,982 842 235,680 -
		 Financial liability
		 Trade payables		 (572,131) (8,987) (143,666) -
		 Net exposure		 (87,969) 160,375 3,077,533 -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
126
26. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
Financial risk management objectives and policies (cont’d)
26.1 Financial risks (cont’d)
The main areas of financial risks faced by the Group and the Company and the policy in respect
of the major areas of treasury activity are set out as follows (cont’d):-
26.1.4 Foreign currency risk (cont’d)
		
Foreign currency sensitivity analysis
		 Exposures to foreign exchange rates vary during the financial year depending on the
volume of overseas transactions.
		 The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to profit or loss with regards to the Group’s
financial instruments to a reasonably possible change in the SGD, RMB, USD and EUR
exchange rates against the functional currency of the Group, with all other variables held
constant.
							 Effect on profit or loss
							 Group
							 2023 2022
							RM RM
			
		 SGD/RM - strengthened 2%			 11,134 (1,759)
			 - weakened 2%			 (11,134) 1,759
		 RMB/RM - strengthened 2%			 9,631 3,208
			 - weakened 2% 			 (9,631) (3,208)
			
		 USD/RM - strengthened 2%			 189,193 61,551
			 - weakened 2% 			 (189,193) (61,551)
			
		 EUR/RM - strengthened 2%			 5 -
			 - weakened 2% 			 (5) -
		 The assumed movement in the above foreign currency rate for the foreign currency
exchange rate sensitivity analysis is based on the prudent estimate of the current market
environment.
		 The exposure to foreign exchange risk varies during the financial year depending on the
volume of overseas transactions. Nonetheless, the analysis above is considered to be
representative of the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk.
27. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT
The carrying amounts of financial assets of the Group and of the Company at the reporting date
approximate their fair value due to their short-term nature and insignificant impact of discounting.
27.1 Fair value hierarchy
As at the reporting date, the Group and the Company have no financial instruments that are
measured subsequent to initial recognition at fair value and hence fair value hierarchy is not
presented.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 127
28. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Authorised and contracted for:-				
- Plant and machinery				 34,160 22,800
- Software					 3,212,985 2,587,167
- Construction of new factory				 6,457,469 11,225,610
								 9,704,614 13,835,577
29. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group is principally involved in a single segment, i.e. manufacturing and sales of health
supplements and beverages. Hence, there was no disclosure of segment results, assets and liabilities.
For management purposes, the management has analysed its business activities into types of business
activities and geographical market of its revenue in making decisions about resource allocation and
performance assessment.
Segment reporting
							 Group
								 2023 2022
								 RM RM
Revenue by business activities:-				
- Provision of instant beverage premixes manufacturing
services for third party brand owners			 58,163,528 63,649,442
- Others *						 671,491 704,274
								 58,835,019 64,353,716
* Comprise of sale of house brands instant beverage premixes and aloe vera gel.
Geographical information
Revenue information based on the geographical location of customers are disclosed in Note 18 to
the financial statements.
The Group’s non-current assets are all located in Malaysia.
Major customers
Revenue from four (2022: two) major customers amount to RM36,042,309 (2022: RM35,362,536) of the
Group.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
128
30. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The primary objective of the Group’s and the Company’s capital management is to ensure that it
maintains a strong credit rating and financially prudent capital ratios in order to support its current
business as well as future expansion so as to maximise shareholder value.
The Group and the Company manage its capital structure and makes adjustments to it, in light of
changes in economic conditions. To maintain and adjust the capital structure, the Group and the
Company may adjust dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new
shares. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the financial year
ended 30 June 2023 and 30 June 2022.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 129
GROUP PROPERTIES
AS AT 30 JUNE 2023
Location of Properties Tenure
Land Area
/ Built Up
Area
Description
Approximate
Age of
Building
Date of
Acquisition
Carrying
Amount
as at
30.06.2023
RM’000
Orgapharma Herbal
Manufacturing Sdn.
Bhd.
Geran 236022, Lot
11288, Mukim of
Beranang, District of
Ulu Langat, State of
Selangor / No. 11,
Jalan Kesuma 2/3,
Bandar Tasik Kesuma,
43700 Beranang,
Selangor
Freehold 57,619 sq ft
/ 31,894.27
sq ft
Industrial
land with a
single storey
detached
factory
annexed
with 2-storey
offices with
a guard
house
19 years 15/10/2010 2,873
Orgabio Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
HS(M) 8079, PT No.
29951, Tempat Bangi,
Mukim of Semenyih,
District of Hulu Langat,
State of Selangor /
Lot 29951, HSM 8079,
Jalan Bangi, Mukim
Semenyih, 43500
Semenyih, Selangor
Freehold 87,123 sq ft Construction
of our new
factory in
Semenyih.
N/A 4/7/2017 8,100
Geran 23546, Lot
10730, Mukim of
Beranang, District of
Hulu Langat, State
of Selangor / No. 29,
Jalan Kesuma 1/12,
Bandar Tasik Kesuma,
43700 Beranang,
Selangor
Freehold 1,076 sq ft /
1,911 sq ft
Double
storey
terrace
house
21 years 22/06/2017 329
Geran 127767 PT8998
Mukim of Beranang,
District of Hulu Langat,
State of Selangor / No.
16, Jalan Kesuma 1/14,
Bandar Tasik Kesuma,
43700 Beranang,
Selangor
Freehold 1,076 sq ft /
1,500 sq ft
Double
storey
terrace
house
21 years 5/03/2020 340
HSM 6390 PT32955
Tempat Setul, Mukim
of Setul, State of
Negeri Sembilan / Lot
6, Project Kawasan
Perindustrian Ringan
Mantin, No. 24, Jalan
KPRM 1, Kawasan
Perindustrian Ringan
Mantin, 71700 Negeri
Sembilan
Freehold 2,700 sq ft /
2,700 sq ft
Single storey
terrace
factory
6 years 25/11/2016 579
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
130
GROUP PROPERTIES
AS AT 30 JUNE 2023 (CONT’D)
Location of Properties Tenure
Land Area
/ Built Up
Area
Description
Approximate
Age of
Building
Date of
Acquisition
Carrying
Amount
as at
30.06.2023
RM’000
HSM 6389 PT32954
Tempat Setul, Mukim
of Setul, State of
Negeri Sembilan / Lot
7, Project Kawasan
Perindustrian Ringan
Mantin, No. 25, Jalan
KPRM 1, Kawasan
Perindustrian Ringan
Mantin, 71700 Negeri
Sembilan
Freehold 4,033 sq ft /
4,033 sq ft
Single storey
terrace
factory
6 years 25/11/2016 864
Orgapharma
Marketing Sdn. Bhd.
Geran 235147 Lot
10632, Mukim of
Beranang, District of
Hulu Langat, State
of Selangor / No. 14,
Jalan Kesuma 1/14,
Bandar Tasik Kesuma,
43700 Beranang,
Selangor
Freehold 1,076 sq ft /
1,320 sq ft
Double
storey
terrace
house
21 years 27/07/2016 266
Geran 235322 Lot
10706, Mukim of
Beranang, District of
Hulu Langat, State
of Selangor / No. 20,
Jalan Kesuma 1/13,
Bandar Tasik Kesuma,
43700 Beranang,
Selangor
Freehold 1,345 sq ft /
1,847 sq ft
Double
storey
terrace
house
21 years 30/06/2016 266
HS(D) 173129, PT15738,
Mukim of Beranang,
District of Hulu Langat,
State of Selangor / 16-
2, Jalan Eco Majestic
9/1B, Eco Majestic,
43500 Semenyih,
Selangor
Freehold 1,916 sq ft /
3,833 sq ft
2-storey
shoplots
6 years 24/03/2015 1,362
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 131
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 29 SEPTEMBER 2023
SHARE CAPITAL
Total Number of Issued Shares : 247,868,000
Issued Share Capital : RM43,647,453
Class of Shares 		 : Ordinary Shares
Voting Rights 			 : One vote for each ordinary share held
DISTRIBUTION OF SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 29 SEPTEMBER 2023
						 No. of % of No. of % of
						 holders shareholders holdings shares
					
1 – 99					 7 0.48 67 0.00
100 - 1,000				 201 13.85 77,014 0.03
1,001 - 10,000				 588 40.52 3,528,900 1.42
10,001 - 100,000			 541 37.29 20,468,521 8.26
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 		 112 7.72 47,806,700 19.29
5% and above of issued shares 		 2 0.14 175,986,798 71.00
						 1,451 100.00 247,868,000 100.00
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS AS AT 29 SEPTEMBER 2023
(as per the Register of Substantial Shareholders)
						 Direct % Indirect %
						
1 Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd. 		 151,199,998 61.00 -		 -
2 Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin 		 509,000 0.21 153,777,798 (a) 62.04
3 Datin Lai You Mooi		 - - 154,286,798 (a) 62.25
4 Ean Yong Hien Voon 		 300,000 0.12 153,986,798 (a) 62.12
5 Ean Yong Hien Chal 		 650,000 0.26 153,636,798 (a) 61.98
6 Ean Yong Han Khian 		 448,000 0.18 153,838,798 (a) 62.06
7 Ean Yong Hen Loen 		 240,000 0.10 154,046,798 (a) 62.15
8 Ean Yong Sik Siew 		 - - 154,286,798 (a) 62.25
9 Hai-O Enterprise Berhad (b) 		 24,786,800 10.00 -		 -
10 Beshom Holdings Berhad 		 - - 24,786,800 (c) 10.00
11 Tan Keng Kang		 - - 24,786,800 (d) 10.00
Notes:
(a) Deemed interested by virtue of their shareholdings in Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section
8 of the Companies Act 2016 and family members’ shareholdings in Orgabio.
(b) Hai-O Enterprise Berhad is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Beshom Holdings Berhad.
(c) Deemed interested by virtue of its interest in Hai-O Enterprise Berhad pursuant to Section 8 of the
Companies Act 2016.
(d) Deemed interested pursuant to Section 8 of the Companies Act 2016, by virtue of his and his family
interest in Beshom Holdings Berhad, the holding company of Hai-O Enterprise Berhad, which in turn
hold not less than 20% voting shares in Beshom Holdings Berhad.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
132
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 29 SEPTEMBER 2023 (CONT’D)
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES AS AT 29 SEPTEMBER 2023
(as per the Register of Directors’ Shareholding)
						 Direct % Indirect %
						
1 Dr Teh Chee Ghee 		 100,000 0.04 -		 -
2 Dato’ Ean Yong Tin Sin 		 509,000 0.21 153,777,798 (a) 62.04
3 Ean Yong Hien Voon 		 300,000 0.12 153,986,798 (a) 62.12
4 Ean Yong Hen Loen 		 240,000 0.10 154,046,798 (a) 62.15
5 Phang Sze Fui 			 100,000 0.04 -		 -
6 Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung 		 - - -		 -
7 Dato’ Seri Chan Kong Yew 		 - - -		 -
8 Tan Kim Siong			 - - -		 -
Notes:
(a) Deemed interested by virtue of their shareholdings in Ean Yong & Sons Sdn. Bhd. pursuant to Section
8 of the Companies Act 2016 and family members’ shareholdings in Orgabio.
LIST OF TOP 30 LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNTS HOLDERS
(ACCORDING TO THE REGISTER OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 29 SEPTEMBER 2023)
					 No. of shares % of shares
			
1. EAN YONG & SONS SDN. BHD.				 151,199,998 61.00
2. HAI-O ENTERPRISE BERHAD 				 24,786,800 10.00
3. UOB KAY HIAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.			 3,514,400 1.42
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TEO KWEE HOCK
4. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.			 2,769,600 1.12
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHEN TAM CHAI
5. HO HUEY CHUIN 				 2,504,300 1.01
6. TAN BOON CHAI 				 2,185,500 0.88
7. ANG BOON GUAN 				 1,650,000 0.67
8. MOHAMAD RIDZHUAN FIRDAUS MAULA RAJA AZNIN			 1,647,700 0.66
9. LIEW FOOK MENG 				 1,608,000 0.65
10. NG MING KAI 					 1,550,000 0.63
11. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.			 1,163,000 0.47
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TEH BOON CHIEW
12. UOB KAY HIAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.			 1,000,000 0.40
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TEO SIEW LAI
13. WONG YEE PING 				 806,500 0.33
14. YAP HOCK LEE					 715,000 0.29
15. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.			 700,000 0.28
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TOO KOK THAI (E-BPJ)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 133
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 29 SEPTEMBER 2023 (CONT’D)
LIST OF TOP 30 LARGEST SECURITIES ACCOUNTS HOLDERS (CONT’D)
(ACCORDING TO THE REGISTER OF DEPOSITORS AS AT 29 SEPTEMBER 2023)
					 No. of shares % of shares
			
16. ALLIANCEGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.			 671,400 0.27
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TING SIEW PIN (8118995)
17. EAN YONG HIEN CHAL 				 650,000 0.26
18. HONG FOO KOON 				 600,000 0.24
19. YONG AH ONG 				 600,000 0.24
20. KUAN PO LEON 				 550,000 0.22
21. LIM JIAN YOU 					 550,000 0.22
22. DATO’ EAN YONG TIN SIN 				 509,000 0.21
23. MAYBANK SECURITIES NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.		 500,000 0.20
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR FONG KOK SANG (STF)
24. PUBLIC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.			 500,000 0.20
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LEE KIM KOK (E-SKN)
25. WONG YIN KOON 				 500,000 0.20
26. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.			 467,000 0.19
TEW TIAN LOON
27. TAN SAY YONG 				 450,000 0.18
28. EAN YONG HAN KHIAN 				 448,000 0.18
29. LEE POH CHUAN 				 443,000 0.18
30. RHB CAPITAL NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.			 404,000 0.16
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TING SIEW PIN (CEB)
TOTAL 						 205,643,198 82.96
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
134
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Please refer to
Explanatory Note 1
Ordinary Resolution 1
Ordinary Resolution 2
Ordinary Resolution 3
Ordinary Resolution 4
Ordinary Resolution 5
Ordinary Resolution 6
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Fifth (5th) Annual General Meeting of Orgabio Holdings Berhad (“Orgabio”
or “the Company”) will be held at Sapphire Hall 1, Level 3, Setia Ecohill Club 360, No.1, Persiaran Ecohill
Barat, Setia Ecohill, 43500 Semenyih, Selangor on Wednesday, 29 November 2023 at 10.00 a.m., or any
adjournment thereof, for the purpose of transacting the following businesses:
AGENDA
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30
June 2023 together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.
2. To approve the payment of directors’ fees and other benefits payable of
up to RM324,000 to be divided amongst the Directors in such manner as the
Directors may determine for the period commencing from 29 November
2023 until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the
Company.
3. To re-elect the following directors who retires pursuant to Clause 115 of the
Company’s Constitution:
(a) Mr Ean Yong Hien Voon
(b) Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung
		
4. To re-elect Mr Tan Kim Siong who retires pursuant to Clause 125 of the
Company’s Constitution.
		
5. To re-appoint Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT as External Auditors of the
Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
		
SPECIAL BUSINESSES :
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following Resolution:
		
6. Authority to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the
Companies Act 2016
“THAT pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”)
and subject to the approvals of the relevant governmental/regulatory
authorities, the Directors be and are hereby empowered to issue shares in
the capital of the Company from time to time and upon such terms and
conditions and for such purposes as the Directors, may in their absolute
discretion deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares issued
pursuant to this resolution does not exceed 10% of the issued share capital of
the Company for the time being and that the Directors be and are hereby
also empowered to obtain approval from the Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad for the listing and quotation of the additional shares so issued and
that such authority shall continue to be in force until the conclusion of the
next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
AND THAT notwithstanding the provisions provided in the Company’s
Constitution and Section 85 of the Act, approval be and is hereby
given for the Company to waive the statutory pre-emptive rights of the
shareholders and empowered the Directors of the Company to issue and
allot new ordinary shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act without
offering them to the existing members to maintain their relative voting and
distribution right and such new shares shall rank pari passu in all respects
with the existing class of ordinary shares.”
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 135
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
Ordinary Resolution 7
7. Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related
Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature (“Proposed Shareholders’
Mandate”)
		
“THAT, subject to compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and
guidelines, approval be and is hereby given to the Company and/or its
subsidiaries to enter into Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a revenue
or trading nature with related parties as set out in Section 2.4 of the Circular
to Shareholders dated 31 October 2023 for the purposes of Rule 10.09 of
the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Listing Requirements”), subject to the following:
(i) the transactions are necessary for the day to day operations of the
Company’s subsidiary in the ordinary course of business, at arm’s length,
on normal commercial terms and are on terms not more favourable to
the related party than those generally available to the public and not
detrimental to minority shareholders of the Company;
(ii) the mandate is subject to annual renewal. In this respect, any authority
conferred by a mandate shall only continue to be in force until:
(a) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of
the Company, at which time it will lapse, unless by a resolution
passed at the meeting, the authority is renewed;
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM after the
date it is required to be held pursuant to Section 340 (2) of the
Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”) (but shall not extend to such
extension as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340 (4) of the
Act); or
(c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in a
general meeting,
		 whichever is the earlier.
(iii) disclosure is made in the annual report of the Company of the
breakdown of the aggregate value of the Recurrent Related Party
Transactions conducted pursuant to the mandate during the current
financial year, and in the annual reports for the subsequent financial
years during which a shareholder’s mandate is in force, where:
(a) the consideration, value of the assets, capital outlay or costs of
the aggregated transactions is equal to or exceeds RM1.0 million;
or
(b) any one of the percentage ratios of such aggregated transactions
is equal to or exceeds 1%,
		 whichever is the lower;
		 and amongst other, based on the following information:
(a) the type of the Recurrent Related Party Transactions made; and
(b) the names of the related parties involved in each type of the
Recurrent Related Party Transactions made and their relationships
with Orgabio Group.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
136
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to
complete and do all such acts and things to give effect to the transactions
contemplated and/or authorised by this Ordinary Resolution.”
		
8. To transact any other business of the Company for which due notice shall
have been given.
By order of the Board,
CHONG VOON WAH (SSM PC No. 202008001343) (MAICSA 7055003)
THAI KIAN YAU (SSM PC No. 202008001515) (MIA 36921)
Company Secretaries
Kuala Lumpur
31 October 2023
Notes:
1. Only depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 22 November 2023 shall be
regarded as members and be entitled to attend, participate, speak and vote at the 5th AGM.
2. A member shall be entitled to appoint another person as his/her proxy to exercise all or any of his/
her rights to attend, participate, speak and vote in his/her stead pursuant to Section 334 of the
Companies Act 2016. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the proxy.
3. Where a member of the Company is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary shares in
the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account ("Omnibus Account"), there is
no limit to the number of proxies which the Exempt Authorised Nominee may appoint in respect of
each Omnibus Account it holds.
4. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she
specifies the proportion of his/her shareholding to be represented by each proxy.
5. Any alterations in the Proxy Form must be initialed by the member.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his/her
attorney duly authorised in writing. If the appointer is a corporation, the instrument must be executed
under its Common Seal or under the hand of an attorney so authorised.
7. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which
it is signed or a notarially certified copy of that power of attorney, must be deposited at the Share
Registrar’s office, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Sdn. Bhd. at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical
Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or
its Customer Service at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8,
Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
appointed for holding this meeting or any adjournment thereof as Rule 8.31A(1) of the ACE Market
Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities requires all resolutions set out in the Notice of 5th AGM to vote
by poll. You may also submit the proxy form electronically via TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online
no later than Monday, 27 November 2023 at 10.00 a.m. Kindly refer to the Administrative Details on
the procedures for electronic lodgement of proxy form via TIIH Online.
8. Pursuant to Rule 8.31A of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all
resolutions set out in the Notice will be put to vote by way of poll.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 137
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
EXPLANATORY NOTES
1. Audited Financial Statements for the Financial Year Ended 30 June 2023
The Agenda No. 1 is meant for discussion only as Section 340(1) (a) of the Companies Act 2016
provide that the audited financial statements are to be laid in the general meeting and do not
require a formal approval of the shareholders. Hence, this Agenda item is not put forward for voting.
2. Ordinary Resolution 1: To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and others benefits payable
Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016, the fees of the Directors and any benefits
payable to the Directors of a listed company and its subsidiaries shall be approved at a general
meeting.
The Directors’ fees and other benefits payable are calculated based on the number of scheduled
Board and Committee Meetings to be held for the period commencing from 29 November 2023
until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company and assuming that all the
Directors will hold office until the end of the subject financial year.
This resolution is to facilitate payment of Directors’ fees and allowances on monthly basis and/or as
and when required. In the event the Directors’ fees and allowances proposed is insufficient (e.g. due
to more meetings), approval will be sought at the next Annual General Meeting for additional fees to
meet the shortfall.
3. Ordinary Resolutions 2, 3 and 4: Re-election of Directors
The following Directors are standing for re-election as Directors of the Company pursuant to the
following clauses of the Company’s Constitution at the 5th Annual General Meeting of the Company
and are being eligible have offered themselves for re-election in accordance with the Company’s
Constitution:
(a) Mr Ean Yong Hien Voon (Clause 115);
(b) Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung (Clause 115); and
(c) Mr Tan Kim Siong (Clause 125).
(collectively referred to as “Retiring Directors”)
The Board of Directors through the Nomination Committee (“NC”) has deliberated on the suitability
of the Retiring Directors to be re-elected as Directors. Upon deliberation, the Board (except for the
Retiring Directors who had abstained from deliberations and decisions on their own eligibility to stand
for re-election at the relevant Board and Committees meetings) collectively agreed that the Retiring
Directors meet the criteria of character, experience, integrity, competence and time commitment
to effectively discharge their respective roles as Directors of the Company and recommended the
Retiring Directors be re-elected as the Directors of the Company.
Further, the NC has considered and affirmed, and the Board has endorsed that Dato’ Magaret
Ting Thien Hung, who is seeking re-election at the forthcoming 5th Annual General Meeting of the
Company comply with the independence criteria as prescribed in the Listing Requirements of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad and remained independent in exercising her judgment and in carrying
out her duties as Independent Non-Executive Director.
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
138
4. Ordinary Resolution 5: Re-appointment of External Auditors
The Board, through the Audit and Risk Management Committee, had conducted an assessment on
the suitability, objectivity and independence of Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT in respect of the financial
year ended 30 June 2023. The Audit and Risk Management Committee and the Board was satisfied
with the performance of Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT and recommended the re-appointment of
Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT as External Auditors of the Company to hold office until the conclusion of
the next Annual General Meeting of the Company in accordance with Section 271 of the Companies
Act 2016.
5. Ordinary Resolution 6: Authority to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the
Companies Act 2016
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 6, if passed, is the renewal of general mandate to empower the
Directors to issue and allot shares up to an amount not exceeding 10% of the issued share capital
of the Company for the time being for such purposes as the Directors consider would be in the
best interest of the Company (“General Mandate”). This authority, unless revoked or varied by the
Company at a General Meeting, will expire at the next Annual General Meeting.
The General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities,
including but not limited to further placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment
project(s) workings capital and/or acquisitions.
Pursuant to Section 85(1) of the Companies Act 2016 read together with Clause 70 of the Company’s
Constitution, shareholders have pre-emptive rights to be offered any new shares in the Company
which rank equally to the existing issued shares in the Company:
Section 85(1) of the Companies Act 2016 states:
Subject to the constitution, where a company issues shares which rank equally to existing shares as
to voting or distribution rights, those shares shall first be offered to the holders of existing shares in a
manner which would, if the offer were accepted, maintain the relative voting and distribution rights
of those shareholders.
Clause 70 of the Company’s Constitution provides as follows:
Subject to any direction to the contrary that may be given by the Company in general meeting, all
new shares or other convertible Securities shall, before they are issued, be offered to such persons
as at the date of the offer are entitled to receive notices from the Company of general meetings in
proportion, as nearly as the circumstances admit, to the amount of the existing shares or Securities
to which they are entitled. The offer shall be made by notice specifying the number of shares or
Securities offered, and limiting a time within which the offer, if not accepted, will be deemed to be
declined, and, after the expiration of that time, or on the receipt of an intimation from the person to
whom the offer is made that he declines to accept the shares or Securities offered, the Directors may
dispose of those shares or Securities in such manner as they think most beneficial to the Company.
The Directors may, likewise, also dispose of any new shares or Securities which (by reason of the ratio
which the new shares or Securities bear to shares or Securities held by persons entitled to an offer of
new shares or Securities) cannot, in the opinion of the Directors, be conveniently offered under this
Clause.
In order for the Board to issue any new shares free of pre-emptive rights, such pre-emptive rights must
be waived. The proposed Ordinary Resolution 6, if passed, will exclude your pre-emptive rights over
all new shares in the Company to be issued under the General Mandate.
As at the date of this Notice, the Company has not issued any new shares pursuant to the General
Mandate granted to the Directors at the Fourth (4th) Annual General Meeting held on 28 November
2022 and which the said General Mandate will lapse at the conclusion of the 5th Annual General
Meeting.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 139
6. Ordinary Resolution 7: Proposed Renewal of Existing Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related
Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 7, if passed, will enable the Company and/or its subsidiaries to
enter into recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature which are necessary for
the day-to-day operations of the Company and/or its subsidiaries, subject to the transactions being
carried out in the ordinary course of business of the Company and/or its subsidiaries and on normal
commercial terms which are generally available to the public and not detrimental to the minority
shareholders of the Company. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general
meeting, will expire at the next annual general meeting of the Company. For more information,
please refer to the Company’s Circular to Shareholders dated 31 October 2023.
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(Pursuant to Rule 8.29 (2) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad)
As at date of this notice, there are no individuals who are standing for election as Directors (excluding the
above Directors who are standing for re-election) at the Fifth (5th) Annual General Meeting.
The Company will seek shareholders’ approval on the general mandate for issue of securities in accordance
with Rule 6.04 (3) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. Please refer
to the proposed Ordinary Resolution 6 as stated in the Notice of Fifth (5th) Annual General Meeting of the
Company for the details.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023
140
APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
Shareholders who appoint proxy(ies) to participate AGM must ensure that the duly executed Form of Proxy
are deposited in a hard copy form or by electronic means to Tricor no later than Monday, 27 November
2023 at 10.00 a.m.
The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following
manner:
(i) In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the proxy form must be deposited with
the Share Registrar of the Company at Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd, Unit 32-01,
Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical
Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(ii) By electronic form
The proxy form can be electronically lodged with the Share Registrar of the Company via TIIH Online
at https://tiih.online. Kindly refer to procedures below for electronic lodgement of proxy form.
Procedure Action
i. Steps for Individual Members
(a) Register as a User with Tricor’s TIIH
Online website
• Using your computer, please access the website at https://
tiih.online Register as a user under the “e-Services”. Please
do refer to the tutorial guide posted on the homepage for
assistance.
• If you are already a user with TIIH Online, you are not
required to register again.
(b) Proceed with submission of Form
of Proxy
• After the release of the Notice of Meeting by the
Company, login with your user name (i.e. email address)
and password.
Select the corporate event: “ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD
AGM 2023 – Submission of Proxy Form”.
• Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions and confirm
the Declaration.
• Insert your CDS account number and indicate the number
of shares for your proxy(ies) to vote on your behalf.
• Indicate your voting instructions – FOR or AGAINST,
otherwise your proxy will decide your vote.
• Review and confirm your proxy(ies) appointment.
• Print Form of Proxy for your record.
PROCEDURES TO SUBMIT PROXY FORM
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD I ANNUAL REPORT 2023 141
Procedure Action
ii. Steps for Corporation or Institutional Members
(a) Register as an User with Tricor’s
TIIH Online website
• Access TIIH online at https://tiih.online
• Under e-Services, the authorised or nominated
representative of the corporation or institutional member
selects “Create Account by Representative of Corporate
Holder”.
• Complete the registration form and upload the required
documents.
• Registration will be verified, and you will be notified by
email within one (1) to two (2) working days.
• Proceed to activate your account with the temporary
password given in the email and re-set your own password.
(Note: The representative of a corporation or institutional
member must register as a user in accordance with the above
steps before he/she can subscribe to this corporate member
electronic proxy submission. Please contact our Share Registrar
if you need clarifications on the user registration.)
(b) Proceed with submission of Form
of Proxy
• Login to Tricor’s TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online
• Select the corporate event: “ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD
AGM 2023 – Submission of Proxy Form”.
• Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions and confirm
the Declaration.
• Proceed to download the file format for “Submission of
Proxy Form” in accordance with the Guidance Note set
therein.
• Prepare the file for the appointment of proxies by inserting
the required data.
• Proceedtouploadthedulycompletedproxyappointment
file.
• Select “Submit” to complete your submission.
• Print the confirmation report of your submission for your
record.
ENQUIRY
If you have any enquiries on the above, please contact the following persons during office hours on
Mondays to Fridays from 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. (except on public holidays): -
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd.
General Line : +603-2783 9299
Fax Number : +603-2783 9222
Email : is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com
Contact persons : Mohammad Khairudin: +603-2783 7973
Email : Mohamad.Khairudin@my.tricorglobal.com
PROCEDURES TO SUBMIT PROXY FORM
(CONT’D)
This page is intentionally left blank
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD
Company Registration No. 201801016797 (1278813-M)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
PROXY FORM
I/We Tel:
[Full name in block and as per NRIC/passport, NRIC/Passport/Company No.]
of
[Full address]
being member(s) of ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD, hereby appoint:
Full Name (in Block and as per NRIC/Passport) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
and / or* (*delete as appropriate)
Full Name (in Block and as per NRIC/Passport) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
or failing him, the Chairman of the meeting as my/our proxy to attend and to vote for me/us on my/our behalf at the Fifth (5th)
Annual General Meeting of the Company will be held at Sapphire Hall 1, Level 3, Setia Ecohill Club 360, No 1, Persiaran Ecohill
Barat, Setia Ecohill, 43500 Semenyih, Selangor on Wednesday, 29 November 2023 at 10.00 a.m. or any adjournment thereof,
and to vote as indicated below:
No. Agenda Resolution For Against
1. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and others benefits payable
to the Directors for the period commencing from 29 November 2023
until the next annual general meeting of the Company.
Ordinary Resolution 1
2. To re-elect Mr Ean Yong Hien Voon as Director. Ordinary Resolution 2
3. To re-elect Dato’ Magaret Ting Thien Hung as Director. Ordinary Resolution 3
4. To re-elect Mr Tan Kim Siong as Director. Ordinary Resolution 4
5. To re-appoint Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT as External Auditors of the
Company for the ensuing year and to authorise the Directors to fix
their remuneration.
Ordinary Resolution 5
6. To approve the authority to allot and issue shares pursuant to Sections
75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016.
Ordinary Resolution 6
7. To approve the proposed renewal of existing shareholders’ mandate
for recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature.
Ordinary Resolution 7
Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions. In the
absence of specific direction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he/she thinks fit.
Signed this __________day of __________2023
								 Signature*
								 Member
^ Delete whichever is inapplicable
* Manner of execution:
(a) If you are an individual member, please sign where indicated.
(b) If you are a corporate member which has a common seal, this proxy form should be executed under seal in accordance
with the constitution of your corporation.
(c) If you are a corporate member which does not have a common seal, this proxy form should be affixed with the rubber
stamp of your company (if any) and executed by:
(i) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which your corporation
is incorporated.
CDS Account No.
No. of shares held
Notes:
1. Only depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 22 November 2023 shall be regarded as members and be entitled
to attend, participate, speak and vote at the 5th AGM.
2. A member shall be entitled to appoint another person as his/her proxy to exercise all or any of his/her rights to attend, participate, speak
and vote in his/her stead pursuant to Section 334 of the Companies Act 2016. There shall be no restriction as to the qualification of the
proxy.
3. Where a member of the Company is an Exempt Authorised Nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial
owners in one securities account (“Omnibus Account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the Exempt Authorised Nominee
may appoint in respect of each Omnibus Account it holds.
4. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her
shareholding to be represented by each proxy.
5. Any alterations in the Proxy Form must be initialed by the member.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his/her attorney duly authorised in writing. If the
appointer is a corporation, the instrument must be executed under its Common Seal or under the hand of an attorney so authorised.
7. The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority, if any, under which it is signed or a notarially certified
copy of that power of attorney, must be deposited at the Share Registrar’s office, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Sdn. Bhd. at Unit 32-01,
Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or its Customer
Service at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia not less
than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding this meeting or any adjournment thereof as Rule 8.31A(1) of the ACE
Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities requires all resolutions set out in the Notice of 5th AGM to vote by poll. You may also submit
the proxy form electronically via TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online no later than Monday, 27 November 2023 at 10.00 a.m. Kindly
refer to the Administrative Details on the procedures for electronic lodgement of proxy form via TIIH Online.
8. Pursuant to Rule 8.31A of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all resolutions set out in the Notice will
be put to vote by way of poll.
THE SHARE REGISTRAR OF
ORGABIO HOLDINGS BERHAD
COMPANY REGISTRATION NO. 201801016797 (1278813-M)
TRICOR INVESTOR & ISSUING HOUSE SERVICES SDN. BHD.
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
1st Fold Here
Then Fold Here
Affix
Stamp
