EMPOWERING
Prog ress
EMBRACING LIMITLESS
Opportunities
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Registration No. 201901032139 (1341469-P))
(Incorporated in Malaysia under the Companies Act 2016)
4
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
DAY & DATE
Thursday, 26 October 2023
TIME
10:00 a.m.
VENUE
Concorde Hotel Kuala Lumpur
Concorde Ballroom, Lobby
2 Jalan Sultan Ismail,
50250 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
th
SCAN FOR ANNUAL
REPORT 2023
IN THIS REPORT
What’s
ABOUT US
About PT Resources Holdings Berhad
Our Branches
In the News
At a Glance
Financial Highlights
Corporate Structure
Corporate Information
LEADERSHIP AND PEOPLE
Board of Directors
Key Senior Management Team
PERFORMANCE REVIEW
Chairman’s Statement
Management Discussion and Analysis
Sustainability Statement
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
  Overview Statement
Statement on Risk Management and
  Internal Control
Audit and Risk Management
  Committee Report
Additional Compliance Information
Statement of Directors’ Responsibility
FINANCIAL REVIEW
Financial Statements
OTHERS
List of Properties
Analysis of Shareholdings
Notice of the Fourth (4th)
  Annual General Meeting
Appendix A
Administrative Notes for the
  Fourth (4th) Annual General Meeting
Proxy Form
2
4
6
8
9
10
11
12
18
20
25
29
42
60
63
66
67
68
142
144
147
151
153
COVER RATIONALE
The Annual Report cover for PT Resources Holdings Berhad embodies the
company’s vision, mission, and commitment to sustainability under the theme
“Empowering Progress, Embracing Limitless Opportunities.” Against a backdrop
of pure white, symbolizing transparency and integrity, the cover prominently
features images of collaboration with local fishermen. These visuals underline
the company’s support for local communities and ethical seafood sourcing, in
line with its mission to enrich lives through high-quality food delivery.
Complementing this are depictions of clean and frozen seafood products and
delighted customers shopping in domestic and international supermarkets.
These elements illustrate the company’s focus on customer satisfaction and its
core business of processing and trading of seafood. Subtle touches of marine
life and pristine environments subtly convey PT Resources Holdings Berhad’s
dedication to socially and environmentally responsible practices, aligning with
its commitment to sustainability.
This Annual Report 2023 cover design encapsulates PT Resources Holdings
Berhad’s narrative of growth, quality, and sustainability. It serves as a visual
testament to the company’s commitment to delivering value to stakeholders
while upholding ethical and environmental standards, leaving a lasting
impression with our stakeholders
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
2
PT Resources Holdings Berhad (“PTRB” or “the Company”) was listed on
the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 27 September 2022
(“Listing”). The Company was first incorporated as a private limited company
under the name of PT Resources Holdings Sdn. Bhd. on 6 September 2019.
Through its subsidiaries (collectively known as “the Group”), the Group is principally involved in the processing and
trading of frozen seafood products as well as retail trading of meat and non-meat products.
CORE VALUES
Responsibility
We take full ownership and
responsibility of our results.
Integrity
We are committed to acting with integrity
in all our dealings. We believe that integrity
is essential for building trust and credibility
with our customers, partners, and
employees.
About
PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD
Annual Report 2023 3
Discipline
We are committed to achieving
higher efficiency and effectiveness
through discipline.
Teamwork
We achieve our mission through
teamwork, open communication,
respect, and knowledge sharing.
MISSION
• To carry out the businesses in ways that are both socially and
environmentally responsible.
• To enrich people’s lives through consistent delivery of high quality
food.
• To generate profitable rate of return for shareholders.
• To ensure total customer satisfaction.
VISION
To be a leading food organisation which carries on profitable and sustainable
businesses in line with the Group’s diverse business development and value
creation aspirations and interests of all its stakeholders.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
4
B22 & 24, Lorong Seri Damai
Perdana 57, Jalan Gambang,
25150 Kuantan, Pahang
Ground Floor, No. 41, Jalan
Sultan Abdullah,
26600 Pekan, Pahang
Ground Floor and Basement Floor,
K-90K, Taman Idaman, Jalan Jakar,
24000 Kemaman, Terengganu
Ground Floor, No. B2/1470,
Perkampungan Balok Permai,
Jalan Kuantan-Kemaman,
26000 Kuantan, Pahang
Ground Floor, Lot 1052 and
1053, and 2nd Floor, Lot 1052,
Jalan Sulaimani,
24000 Kemaman, Terengganu
OUR BRANCHES
Annual Report 2023 5
Ground Floor, No. B48,
Lorong Jaya Gading 31
Kampung Jaya Gading.
26070 Kuantan Pahang.
Ground Floor, No. A5,
Lorong Padang Maju 1,
Perumahan Padang Maju,
25200 Kuantan, Pahang.
Lot 8217, Jalan Besar,
Kampung Cacar Baru,
23100 Paka, Terengganu
Kompleks Pasar Borong Baru
Kemunting Kuantan, Jalan
Kemunting 2, 25100 Kuantan,
Pahang
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
6
NEWS
In the
Annual Report 2023 7
DATE : 28 SEP 2022
PUBLICATION : KOSMO
SECTION : BISNES
HEADLINE : PT RESOURCES PERLUAS PASARAN EKSPORT
CATEGORY : COMPANY
MEASUREMENT : 104 CM²
TONE : NEUTRAL
REMARKS : N/A
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
8
REVENUE
RM502.6
million
TOTAL ASSETS
RM251.9
million
PAT
RM36.8
million
GROSS PROFIT
RM63.1
million
PROFIT MARGIN
7.33%
BRANCHES
9
TOTAL EQUITY
RM157.2
million
PBT
RM37.5
million
RM349.1 million (FYE 2022) RM138.7 million (FYE 2022)
RM21.1 million (FYE 2022)
RM38.6 million (FYE 2022) 6.05% (FYE 2022)
RM73.3 million (FYE 2022) 7 branches (FYE 2022)
RM21.3 million (FYE 2022)
2023
At a Glance
Annual Report 2023 9
		 2020 2021 2022 2023
Revenue RM 161,309,917 186,446,823 349,143,996 502,604,992
Gross Profit RM 25,062,760 28,729,774 38,614,007 63,073,586
PBT RM 12,751,934 17,368,962 21,294,764 37,467,943
PAT RM 12,226,115 16,056,188 21,111,322 36,833,180
Gross Profit Margin		 15.54% 15.41% 11.06% 12.55%
Profit Margin		 7.58% 8.61% 6.05% 7.33%
				
Total Assets RM 94,411,902 117,919,806 138,657,451 251,884,873
Total Equity RM 36,063,228 52,219,414 73,330,736 157,209,612
FINANCIAL
HIGHLIGHTS
Financial Ratio (Profit & Loss)
Total Assets
RM (‘000)
600,000
500,000
400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
-
2020
2020
Total Revenue PBT Profit Margin
2021
2021
2022
2022
2023
2023
0.00%
1.00%
2.00%
3.00%
4.00%
5.00%
6.00%
7.00%
8.00%
9.00%
10.00%
7.58%
7.33%
300,000,000
250,000,000
200,000,000
150,000,000
100,000,000
50,000,000
-
251,884,873
37,467,943
138,657,451
117,919,806
94,411,902
6.05%
8.61%
12,751,934
161,309,917
17,368,962
186,446,823
21,294,764
349,143,996 502,604,992
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
10
CORPORATE
STRUCTURE
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
MALAYSIA INDONESIA CHINA
MHC Coldstorage
Sdn Bhd
100%
PT MCI
International
Indonesia*
PT Resources
International
Group*
Fujian
Hongjiasheng
International
Holdings Co., Ltd
95%
95%
HGMC Holding
Sdn Bhd
More Distribution
Sdn Bhd
MO Foodmart
Sdn Bhd
100%
100%
100%
100%
* 
As at the reporting date and date of authorisation of the financial statements,
the process of incorporation has not been completed.
Annual Report 2023 11
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
Directors
BOARD OF
Heng Chang Hooi
(Managing Director)
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim
(Independent Non-Executive Chairman)
Dato’ Asmuni Bin Sudin
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
Chan Foong Ping (Chairperson)
Steven Wong Chin Fung
Dato’ Asmuni Bin Sudin
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION
COMMITTEE
Dato’ Asmuni Bin Sudin (Chairman)
Chan Foong Ping
Steven Wong Chin Fung
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Tea Sor Hua
(MACS 01324)
SSM PC No. 201908001272
Winnie Goh Kah Mun
(MAICSA 7068836)
SSM PC No. 202308000205
AUDITORS
Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT
Chartered Accountants
Level 11, Sheraton Imperial Court
Jalan Sultan Ismail
50250 Kuala Lumpur
Wilayah Persekutuan
Tel: 03-2692 4022
Fax: 03-2691 5229
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Bank Pertanian Malaysia Berhad
MBSB Bank Berhad
Bank of China (Malaysia) Berhad
Hong Leong Bank Berhad
Malayan Banking Berhad
REGISTERED OFFICE
Third Floor, No. 77, 79 & 81
Jalan SS21/60, Damansara Utama
47400 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel: 03-7725 1777
Fax: 03-7722 3668
Email: cms_cospec@yahoo.com
PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS
​
Kuantan Integrated Fish Processing
Park (KIFPP)
Jalan Seri Kemunting 2
Tanah Putih, 25100 Kuantan
Pahang Darul Makmur
Tel: 09-515 6666
Fax: 09-513 0700
Email: info@ptresourcesgroup.com.my
Website: www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my
SPONSOR
Mercury Securities Sdn. Bhd.
L-7-2, No 2, Jalan Solaris
Solaris Mont Kiara
50480 Kuala Lumpur
Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur
Tel: 03-6203 7227
Fax: 03-6203 7117
Email: mercurykl@mersec.com.my
SHARE REGISTRAR
BoardRoom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel: 03-7890 4700
Fax: 03-7890 4670
Email: info.my@boardroomlimited.com
STOCK EXCHANGE
ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
Stock name: PTRB
Stock Code: 0260
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally involved in investment holding and provision of management services. The principal
activities of its subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Company and its subsidiaries during the
financial year.
Mohd Rofzan Bin Mohd Latiff
(Executive Director)
Chan Foong Ping
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Steven Wong Chin Fung
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
12
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
TAN SRI DATO’ DR. SYED JALALUDIN BIN SYED SALIM
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim (“Tan Sri Jalaludin”) was appointed to the Board on 14 July 2020.
He has completed his Bachelor of Veterinary Science degree from the University of Punjab, Pakistan in 1967 before
pursuing his Master of Philosophy as well as Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) from the University of London, United Kingdom
in 1970 and 1977 respectively. He was honoured with six honorary doctorates, including Doctor of Science from the
University of Hull, United Kingdom in 1999, Doctor of Science from Soka University, Japan in 2000, Doctor of Agriculture
Technology from Thaksin University, Thailand in 2005, Doctor of Science from the Open University Malaysia in 2006,
Doctor of Engineering from Universiti Malaysia Perlis in 2008, and Honorary Doctorate of Arts in Education from the
Eastern Asia University, Thailand in 2020. In addition, he was admitted as an Honorary Fellow member of Kolej Pakar
Veterinar Malaysia in 2018.
He illustrious career began as an assistant lecturer at the University of Malaya’s Faculty of Agriculture in 1969 before
joining Universiti Pertanian Malaysia (previously known as Universiti Putra Malaysia) (“UPM”) as a lecturer at the Faculty of
Veterinary & Animal Science in 1975. He retired as the Vice Chancellor of UPM in 2001. He was honoured with the National
Science Laureate in 1993 and the National Academic Laureate in 2007. He is a Fellow (with the title of academician) at the
Academy of Sciences Malaysia, as well as an Emeritus Professor of Universiti Malaysia Terengganu and UPM. He also
serves as the Chancellor of Taylor’s University and is a member of the Executive Committee and Governing Board of the
International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance.
Tan Sri Jalaludin was the founding Chairman of Halal Industry Development Corporation Sdn. Bhd., an agency responsible
for promoting the participation and facilitating the growth of halal industry players and development of Halal ecosystem
in Malaysia.
He is currently an Independent Non-Executive Chairman of SL Innovation Capital Berhad, a public company listed on the
LEAP Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) since 30 November 2017, and Bioalpha Holdings
Berhad, a public company listed on the ACE Market of Bursa Securities since 8 July 2014. Additionally, he serves as a
Director in several private limited companies in Malaysia.
As an Independent Non-Executive Chairman of the Company, Tan Sri Jalaludin plays an important role in ensuring that
the Board fulfil its duties and that the Company adheres to the best corporate governance practices. Tan Sri Jalaludin
attended all three (3) Board meetings held during the financial year ended 30 April 2023. He has no any family relationship
with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He has also neither been convicted for any offences within
the past five (5) years other than traffic offences, if any, nor received any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the
relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
79
Nationality Gender
Age
Date of Appointment : 14 July 2020
Annual Report 2023 13
HENG CHANG HOOI
Managing Director
Mr. Heng Chang Hooi (“Mr. Heng”) is the founder and Managing Director of PT Resources Holdings Berhad. He was
appointed to the Board on 6 September 2019, assuming the responsibility of overseeing strategic planning, and overall
business operations for the Group.
Mr. Heng took a bold step in 1998 to become a management trainee at Thein Shing Trading, a seafood trading company
owned by his family to learn the ropes of operating a business. The hard work invested gave him invaluable experience
into running the business and with the competitive edge built over the years, he saw a great potential for the company to
grow and become a leader in the industry. Hence, in 2002, Mr. Heng formally joined Thein Shing Trading to broaden his
involvement in the business.
As a strategic move to expand the business and propel its growth, Mr. Heng together with his father co-founded Meng
How (M) Sdn. Bhd. (formerly known as Thein Shing Enterprise Sdn. Bhd.) in 2007. Designed to corporatise the family
business, the new entity was also aimed to diversify its product range to include trading in other frozen and processed
food for both local and international markets.
Through his sole proprietorship, MO Frozen Food founded in 2010, Mr. Heng established another brand of frozen seafood
and related products under the label, “MO Frozen Food”. The corporate identity of MO Frozen Food was later improved
to exude its brand value under a new name, “MO” in 2012. Subsequently, he ventured into frozen seafood processing
through MHC to enrich the company’s value chain.
To strengthen the business presence in the industry further, Mr. Heng together with his father established Freshzo Seafood
Sdn. Bhd. (formerly known as Meng How (Sabah) Sdn. Bhd.) (“Freshzo Seafood”). Freshzo Seafood, was granted an
operating license to source raw supplies from fish landing jetties within the state, helping the Group to add value to its
supply chain. His extensive experience in managing these enterprises has played a vital role in building his vast network
of suppliers and customers within the seafood industry.
Mr. Heng took another strategic step to grow the business further by consolidating the subsidiaries under his stewardship
namely MHC Coldstorage Sdn. Bhd., MO Foodmart Sdn. Bhd. and HGMC Holding Sdn. Bhd. by placing them under an
investment holding company, PT Resources Holdings Berhad. The Company was subsequently listed on the ACE Market
of Bursa Securities Malaysia Berhad on 27 September 2022.
Mr. Heng does not hold directorships in any other public companies and listed issuer in Malaysia. He attended all three
(3) Board meetings held during the financial year ended 30 April 2023. He has no any family relationship with any Director
and/or major shareholder of the Company. He has also neither been convicted for any offences within the past five (5)
years other than traffic offences, if any, nor received any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year.
40
Nationality Gender
Age
Date of Appointment : 6 September 2019
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
14
CHAN FOONG PING
Independent Non-Executive Director
Ms. Chan Foong Ping (“Ms. Chan”) was appointed to the Board of PT Resources Holdings Berhad as an Independent
Non-Executive Director on 11 November 2020. She is the Chairperson of the Company’s Audit and Risk Management
Committee and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
She graduated from Universiti Putra Malaysia with a Bachelor Degree in Accountancy in 1995. A Chartered Accountant
by profession, Ms. Chan is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants since 1998.
Her career began as an Audit Assistant at Kassim Chan & Co in 1995 and later promoted as a Senior Associate before
joining Sepang Education Center Sdn. Bhd. as an Accounting Manager in 1998. She was subsequently recruited by
Phillips Seafood (East Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. to become its Financial Controller in 2000 where she played a pivotal role
in the establishment of its new manufacturing plant for its Malaysian operations. Then in 2006, she was appointed as
the Executive Director of Phillips Foods International (Hong Kong) Limited and in this capacity, she oversaw the overall
financial aspects of seafood processing plants across the company’s international operations. In addition, she played
a key role in the establishment and oversight of shared service centres located in Indonesia and India, enhancing the
efficiency and effectiveness of financial reporting processes for Phillips Foods group of companies.
Ms. Chan joined Resource Holding Management Limited, formerly known as RedHot Media International Limited, as
the Group Finance Director in 2011. Since 2014, she was an independent consultant to private organizations such as
Paracelsus Suisse International Limited and Swiss Biological Medicine Group Ltd; providing insight guidance on corporate
strategies, business development, corporate finance, and governance.
Currently, Ms. Chan serves as an Independent Non-Executive Director at Seremban Engineering Berhad, Success
Transformer Corporation Berhad, and SFP Tech Holdings Berhad, all of which are public companies listed on the
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. Her appointment to those positions commenced on 22 April 2016,
23 September 2016, and 16 August 2021 respectively.
Ms. Chan attended all three (3) Board meetings convened during the financial year ended 30 April 2023. Ms. Chan has no
any family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. She has also neither been convicted
for any offences within the past five (5) years other than traffic offences, if any, nor received any public sanctions or
penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Date of Appointment : 11 November 2020
52
Nationality Gender
Age
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
Annual Report 2023 15
MOHD ROFZAN BIN MOHD LATIFF
Executive Director
En. Mohd Rofzan Bin Mohd Latiff (“En. Rofzan”) was appointed to the Board on 11 November 2020 with responsibility to
oversee the operations of “MO FoodmartTM” and “MO Wholesale Centre” outlets.
He was the co-founder and manager of Paradigme Enterprise, a partnership dedicated to retailing of grocery products,
stationery, and provision of printing services and training courses from 1997 to 1998. En. Rofzan took a sabbatical leave
from business to pursue his study in Political Science at the University of Malaya in 2001 and successfully graduated in
2003.
Upon completing his tertiary education, En. Rofzan joined the civil service as an Assistant Director (Training Officer)
at the National Civics Bureau, under the Prime Minister’s Office. His tasks included program planning, liaising with
authorities, and facilitating seminars and courses. Subsequently, from 2014 to 2020, he set up a sole proprietorship, Nadi
Armada Enterprise to undertake facility management services, which include cleaning and catering services. In 2017, he
co-founded Nadi Armada Training and Consultancy which provided training management and consultancy services.
En. Rofzan joined PT Resources Holdings Berhad as Head of Operations (MO) in July 2020.
En. Rofzan does not hold directorships in any other public companies and listed issuer in Malaysia. He attended all three
(3) Board meetings held during the financial year ended 30 April 2023. He has no any family relationship with any Director
and/or major shareholder of the Company. He has also neither been convicted for any offences within the past five (5)
years other than traffic offences, if any, nor received any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year.
Date of Appointment : 11 November 2020
47
Nationality Gender
Age
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
16
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
DATO’ ASMUNI BIN SUDIN
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Asmuni Bin Sudin (“Dato’ Asmuni”) was appointed to the Board on 11 November 2020. He is the Chairman of the
Nomination and Remuneration Committee and a member of the Audit and Risk Management Committee.
Dato’ Asmuni graduated from the University of Malaya with a Bachelor of Economics degree in 1980. In addition, he has
been a member of the Chartered Institute of Islamic Finance Professionals since 2019.
He started his career as a Trainee Officer with Malayan Banking Berhad (“Maybank”) in 1981, and steadily progressed
through the ranks, to become a Branch Manager in 1989. He was appointed as the bank’s Regional Head of Business
Banking in 2004, General Manager (Brunei) in 2009, and Regional Director in 2010. His tenure with the bank enabled him
to gain extensive experience in various banking functions, including retail, small & medium enterprises, and commercial
financing.
After serving Maybank in various capacities for thirty (30) years, Dato’ Asmuni joined Bank Pertanian Malaysia Berhad
as its Chief Financial Services Officer in 2011. In this capacity, he was responsible for managing the overall business
operations related to corporate, commercial, small & medium enterprises, micro-financing, and consumer financing.
Subsequently, in 2017, he joined Bank Kerjasama Rakyat Malaysia Berhad as its Chief Operating Officer, overseeing the
bank’s business planning and operations before he retired from the bank in 2019.
Currently, Dato’ Asmuni serves as a member of the board of directors of Malaysia Debt Ventures Berhad. In addition,
he holds the position of an Independent Non-Executive Director of One Glove Group Berhad (formerly known as GETS
Global Berhad), a public company listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad since 24 February 2021.
Dato’ Asmuni attended all three (3) Board meetings held during the financial year ended 30 April 2023. He has no any
family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He has also neither been convicted for
any offences within the past five (5) years other than traffic offences, if any, nor received any public sanctions or penalties
imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Date of Appointment : 11 November 2020
66
Nationality Gender
Age
Annual Report 2023 17
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
(CONT’D)
STEVEN WONG CHIN FUNG
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Steven Wong Chin Fung (“Mr. Steven”) was appointed to the Board on 8 July 2021. He is a member of the Audit and
Risk Management Committee and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee.
Mr. Steven completed his Bachelor of Laws degree from the University of Melbourne, Australia in 1990 and became a
member of the Malaysian Bar on 8 February 1991. He commenced his career as a professional legal practitioner when
he joined Arifin & Partners in 1990 and later was appointed as the firm’s Legal Associate in 1991 before he was admitted
as a partner in 1995. His outstanding performance prompted the firm to appoint him as its Managing Partner in 2018.
His tenure at Arifin & Partners enabled him to gain extensive experience in various legal areas, including corporate
and commercial law, litigation, family law, and industrial relations/labour law. His expertise in corporate and commercial
law encompasses mergers and acquisitions, legal due diligence for listings and corporate exercises, joint ventures,
distributorships, licensing and franchise agreements, media & entertainment law, liquidation & receivership, debt
restructuring, and sale and purchase transactions. He has effectively represented companies, individuals, and societies
in contract claims, construction law disputes, consumer and commercial loan recovery, enforcement of bank securities
(both conventional and Islamic), injunctions, general debt recovery, real property contractual disputes, land matters, and
other commercial disputes.
In the field of family law, Mr. Steven has provided valuable advice and representation in divorce cases, judicial separations,
polygamous marriages, bigamy, child custody matters, guardianship, and adoption proceedings. Additionally, he
possesses extensive experience in industrial relations and labour law, advising on employment law matters, misconduct
or disciplinary procedures, and management procedures.
Throughout his illustrious career spanning over thirty (30) years, Mr. Steven has served a diverse clientele, including public
listed companies, private limited companies, financial institutions, nonprofit organizations, societies, and individuals,
demonstrating his versatility and breadth of expertise.
Currently, Mr. Steven does not hold directorships in any other public companies and listed issuer in Malaysia but holds
directorships in various private limited companies in Malaysia.
He attended all three (3) Board meetings held during the financial year ended 30 April 2023. He has no any family
relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. He has also neither been convicted for any
offences within the past five (5) years other than traffic offences, if any, nor received any public sanctions or penalties
imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Date of Appointment : 8 July 2021
56
Nationality Gender
Age
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
18
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT
TEAM
Mr. Lai Ji Hwa (“Mr. Ji Hwa”) was appointed as the Group’s Financial Controller on 31 March 2023 to help PT Resources
Holdings Berhad maintain and expand its strategic leadership position in the industry.
His academic and working experience background related to accounting, auditing, finance, tax & legal, and sustainability
& governance in various global class corporates has given him wider spectrum of knowledge and expertise in his line of
duty as the Group’s Financial Controller. These will enable him to help the Group chart its future strategic growth plan.
Mr. Ji Hwa has a Bachelor of Science (Hons) degree in Accounting & Finance from the University of London. Having
passed his Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA) and the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA)
examinations, Mr. Ji Hwa is now a qualified Chartered Accountant.
His career began at KPMG, a globally known audit and corporate consultancy firm where he gained knowledge and
exposure on fresh insights not restricted to only corporate finance, but also into many other business and non-business
related subjects.
To enrich his finance expertise in the corporate sector, Mr. Ji Hwa joined Genpact, an international corporate entity which
provides business and technology services towards digital transformation, innovation, and growth to companies around
the world. Subsequently, he moved to AstraZeneca, a global pharmaceutical company based in the United Kingdom.
Later, he joined Assa Abloy Group, a Swedish company which is the largest global supplier in access solution products
for homes, businesses, and institutions. Before joining PT Resources, Mr. Ji Hwa took a short break from the corporate
finance scene to join EY, an international audit and corporate consultancy firm to gain a deeper insight into contemporary
and best corporate practices.
The various corporate expertise he brought along into the Group is an asset to help PT Resources Holdings Berhad to
grow further both horizontally and vertically.
He does not hold any directorships in public companies and lister issuer in Malaysia. He does not have any family
relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and any conflict of interest with the Company.
He has also neither been convicted for any offences within the past five (5) years other than traffic offences, if any, nor
received any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended
30 April 2023.
LAI JI HWA
Group Financial Controller 29
Nationality Gender
Age
Annual Report 2023 19
Mr. Yong Zi Fung (“Mr. Zi Fung”) is the Head of Operations of MHC Coldstorage Sdn. Bhd. (“MHC”), responsible in
overseeing the overall operations of the Group’s processing activities.
Mr. Zi Fung studied at Sekolah Menengah Kebangsaan Sri Permata in Petaling Jaya, Selangor. He began his career with
MHC as a production assistant upon completing Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia in 2015. Having displayed excellent record of
performance, he was promoted to the post of Processing Supervisor in 2016 where he supervised the Group’s seafood
processing activities and performed quality control inspection at the same time. The Group entrusted him to procure
seafood supplies from fishing enterprises which requires the skills in identifying suitable supplies and negotiating prices
and terms with suppliers.
His excellent skills and efficiency in handling tasks entrusted to him earned him another promotion in 2017 to the post of
a Procurement Executive. His line of duty includes procurement of the Group’s raw materials and expanding its customers
and suppliers’ bases.
Mr. Zi Fung was promoted to the post of Head of Operations of MHC in 2020 where his responsibilities are managing the
Group’s overall activities which include procurement, production and inventory control management. Having acquired
close rapport with the Group’s clientele and supply bases over the years, he is also tasked to assist the Managing Director
maintain close rapport with them.
He does not hold any directorships in public companies and lister issuer in Malaysia. He does not have any family
relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and any conflict of interest with the Company.
He has also neither been convicted for any offences within the past five (5) years other than traffic offences, if any, nor
received any public sanctions or penalties imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended
30 April 2023.
YONG ZI FUNG
Head of Operations
(MHC Coldstorage Sdn. Bhd.)
26
Nationality Gender
Age
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM
(CONT’D)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
20
On behalf of the Board of Directors (“the Board”), I am pleased to present the inaugural Annual
Report and the Audited Financial Statements of PT Resources Holdings Berhad (“PTRB” or
“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (collectively, “the Group”) for the financial year ended
30 April 2023 (“FYE 2023”).
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim
Chairman
Dear
Shareholders,
CHAIRMAN’S
STATEMENT
With 26.75 million
new shares made
available under the initial
public offering (“IPO”)
for the Malaysian public
oversubscribed by
24.48 times.
PTRB made a smooth debut on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) on 27 September 2022, with 26.75 million new
shares made available for the Malaysian public under its initial public offering
(“IPO”) oversubscribed by 24.48 times. It has been an eventful journey starting
with the incorporation of MO Foodmart Sdn. Bhd. (“MO Foodmart”) in February
2012, which grew from a sole proprietorship established in 2010 by the Group’s
founder Mr. Heng Chang Hooi for the retail trade of frozen seafood and other
products.
Annual Report 2023 21
Since then, the Group has expanded
into a network of six MO Foodmart
outlets in Pahang and Terengganu,
one MO Wholesale Centre in Pahang
together with its processing facility
at the Kuantan Integrated Fish
Processing Park (“KIFPP”). Ever since
the opening of the first MO Foodmart
outlet in Kuantan, Pahang, the Group
has set its sights on becoming
bigger. The Group remains focused
on strengthening access to channel
partners and establishing more MO
Foodmart outlets in the east coast
region of Peninsular Malaysia, with
two outlets being opened through its
business licensing model in the fourth
quarter of FYE 2023.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
These certifications and qualifications have enabled MHC Coldstorage to export,
since 2019, to Saudi Arabia, China and the Philippines, and to the United Arab
Emirates (“UAE”) since 2020. Through its online marketplace, MO Signature,
launched in June 2020, it has seen a surge in online sales as consumers shifted
towards online purchases in the wake of the pandemic lockdowns while enabling
the Group to reach out directly to end-customers in the central and east coast
regions of Peninsular Malaysia. This additional sales channel has facilitated the
Group’s efforts to widen its market reach.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
22
With the demand for frozen seafood growing exponentially due to both domestic and
international consumption, the Group is committed to implementing the strategies and
plans disclosed in the PTRB’s Prospectus dated 30 August 2022. As indicated, these
strategies and plans include setting aside proceeds for the construction of a cold storage
warehouse near the KIFPP processing facility and the MO Wholesale Centre in Kuantan.
The cold storage warehouse will increase the Group’s storage capacity to 4,000 tonnes
from 700 tonnes while catering to the growing demand for frozen seafood and other
products such as frozen meat, fruits and vegetables to be sold at the MO Foodmart outlets,
MO Wholesale Centre and MO Signature online marketplace. This will also help support
the overseas sales of MHC Coldstorage, which will have a safe and secured storage area
before exporting the products.
It has seen a
surge in online
sales as consumers shifted
towards online purchases in
the wake of the pandemic
lockdowns while enabling
the Group to reach out
directly to end-customers
in the central and east
coast regions of Peninsular
Malaysia
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
The cold storage warehouse will increase the Group’s storage capacity to
4,000 tonnes from 700 tonnes while catering to the growing demand for frozen
seafood and other products such as frozen meat, fruits and vegetables to be sold at the
MO Foodmart outlets, MO Wholesale Centre and MO Signature online marketplace
Annual Report 2023 23
We consider Saudi Arabia,
China, the Philippines
and the UAE markets
as opportunities for
the Group to expand
its market presence in
light of the prospects,
where average seafood
consumption in the Asia
Pacific stood at
33.9 kg per capita,
with large volume sales
of frozen seafood to the
Middle East
PTRB will continue to grow overseas sales of frozen seafood products,
particularly to the Asia Pacific and Middle East regions. Contribution from
overseas sales has surpassed the contribution from the Malaysian market since
financial year ended 30 April 2022. The Group considers Saudi Arabia, China,
the Philippines and the UAE markets as opportunities for the Group to expand its
market presence in light of the prospects, where average seafood consumption
in the Asia Pacific stood at 33.9 kg per capita, with large volume sales of frozen
seafood products to the Middle East.
Besides tapping into the existing network for business referrals, the Group is also
looking to launch its own “MyLaut” brand of seafood products for the overseas
markets, which is at present only sold in the Malaysian market through the MO
Foodmart outlets, MO Wholesale Centre and MO Signature online marketplace.
The Group intends to expand its overseas customer segments to include
retailers and end-customers, as its overseas customers presently comprise
wholesalers. With the Chinese Academy of Inspection and Quarantine (“CAIQ”)
registration, the Group also see opportunities in expanding its presence in China
through marketing its range of frozen seafood products through sellers on online
marketplaces in China and grocery retailers. The Group intends to finalise the
appointment of a distributor by the end of 2023.
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
24
As part of its expansion plans for the domestic and overseas markets, the Group
is also increasing the variety of products being offered by sourcing supplies
through Indonesia where two subsidiaries are being incorporated, namely
PT MCI International Indonesia and PT Resources International Group.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
On behalf of the Board, I would like to thank the Board for their patience and
guidance as they steered the Group forward following its debut on the ACE
Market of Bursa Securities. Their advice and suggestions are valued. To the
PTRB team, your hard work and dedication through the past year is very much
appreciated. Without your contributions, the Group would not be where it is
today.
My thanks also go out to all of the Group’s customers, suppliers, vendors and
other associates for their confidence and support in the Group over the past
year. The Board and myself as well as the PTRB team hope that you will continue
to place your confidence and trust in us.
Thank you.
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim
Chairman
Given the CAIQ
registration, the Group
also see opportunities in
expanding our presence in
China
through marketing our
range of frozen seafood
products through sellers
on online marketplaces
in China and grocery
retailers
CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
Annual Report 2023 25
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS
OVERVIEW OF THE GROUP’S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
PT Resources Holdings Berhad (“PTRB”) operates in two (2) business segments:
Processing and
trading
of frozen seafood
products
Retail trading
of other products
The Group’s primary domestic market are the
central and east coast regions of Peninsular
Malaysia while its overseas markets include Saudi
Arabia, China, the Philippines and the United Arab
Emirates (“UAE”).
CHINA
PHILLIPHINES
SAUDI
ARABIA
UAE
The core of the Group’s operations is located
at Kuantan Integrated Fish Processing Park,
where it owns and operates a processing
facility in proximity to the fish landing jetty at
Pahang’s LKIM Complex in Kuantan.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
26
The Group procures wild-caught and farm-raised seafood supplies from local and international wholesalers,
aquaculture farms and fishing enterprises. The processed frozen seafood products are then sold to wholesalers, food
manufacturers and retailers as well as sold to end-customers directly through the Group’s network of MO Foodmart
outlets, MO Wholesale Centre and its online marketplace, MO Signature.
The Group also offers a comprehensive range of other
products to end-customers through its MO Foodmart
outlets, MO Wholesale Centre and MO Signature. Sourced
from local and international wholesalers, these products
include halal-certified chilled and frozen meat (poultry,
beef, lamb and mutton) as well as ready-to-eat and ready-
to-cook meat and seafood products.
In addition, a range of non-meat items, including fruits
and vegetables, staple food, beverages and, non-food
products such as tissue and cleaning solutions are also
offered through the MO Foodmart outlets, MO Wholesale
Centre and MO Signature. As an additional service, meat
deboning, cutting, slicing and mincing services are also
provided in the Group’s network of outlets while its MO
Wholesale Centre also offers frozen seafood products that
are master packaged, vacuum packed and skin packed.
Frozen seafood Sold to wholesalers,
food manufactuers and
retailers
Group’s network
Customers
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
Annual Report 2023 27
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
REVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS AND OPERATIONS
For the financial year ended 30 April 2023 (“FYE 2023”), the Group’s revenue grew 44.0% to RM502.6 million compared
with RM349.1 million recorded in the financial year ended 30 April 2022 (“FYE 2022”) on a 74.6% increase in domestic
demand mainly as a result of the gradual reopening and recovery of the Malaysian economy as the country transitioned
into the COVID-19 endemic phase effective 1 April 2022. Our domestic market was also supported by the opening of two
additional MO Foodmart outlets located in Kuantan, Pahang through our licensing business model in the fourth quarter
of FYE 2023.
PTRB’s revenue growth was also supported by a 21.0% increase in overseas
demand mainly due to an increase in orders from China following the reopening
of its borders. The increase in the Group’s revenue translated to a 63.3% or
RM24.5 million increase in gross profit to RM63.1 million while gross profit margin
improved by 1.4 percentage point higher to 12.5% mainly due to the Group’s
ability in securing supplies at competitive pricing through bulk purchasing in the
third and fourth quarters of FYE 2023.
On a segmental basis, processing and trading of frozen seafood products
contributed a revenue of RM471.9 million in FYE 2023 compared with RM321.5
million in FYE 2022 while the retail trading of other products contributed a
revenue of RM30.7 million compared with RM27.6 million in FYE 2022. By
geographical market, Malaysia contributed RM260.8 million revenue, China
contributed RM229.8 million, followed by Saudi Arabia at RM10.4 million, while
Indonesia, Singapore and UAE contributed a total RM1.6 million revenue. Profit
before tax (“PBT”) increased to RM37.5 million in FYE 2023 compared with
RM21.3 million recorded in FYE 2022 as a result of the increase in the Group’s
revenue. The Group’s PBT margin of 7.5% in FYE 2023 was 1.4 percentage
point higher compared with FYE 2022.
GROUP’S REVENUE
RM502.6
million
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
RM37.5
million
PROCESSING AND
TRADING OF FROZEN
SEAFOOD PRODUCTS
RM471.9
million
MALAYSIA
RM260.8
million
CHINA
RM229.8
million
INDONESIA, SINGAPORE
AND UAE
RM1.6
million
SAUDI ARABIA
RM10.4
million
RETAIL TRADING OF
MEAT AND NON-MEAT
PRODUCTS
RM30.7
million
(RM349.1 million FYE 2022)
(RM21.3 million FYE 2022)
(RM321.5 million FYE 2022)
(RM27.6 million FYE 2022)
GEOGRAPHICAL MARKET
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
28
OUTLOOK AND PROSPECTS
The global economy appears to be recovering with a
gradual decline of inflation following the tighter monetary
policies undertaken by major central banks. Quick actions
taken by governments to stem financial turbulence arising
from the failure of several mid-sized US banks and Credit
Suisse Group AG in Switzerland have also helped in
reducing risks. The International Monetary Fund (“IMF”), in
the July update of the World Economic Outlook (“WEO”),
has raised global GDP growth to 3.0% for 2023 compared
with 2.8% in the April WEO. The IMF cautioned that
while there is near-term resilience, there are persistent
challenges.
For the domestic economy, based on the Economic and
Monetary Review 2022, Bank Negara Malaysia (“BNM”)
has projected GDP to grow by 4.0% to 5.0% in 2023, driven
by firm demand and supported by improving employment
and income as well as continued implementation of
multi-year projects. Higher inbound tourism is also
expected to support consumption in the services sector.
BNM expects downside risks to come from lower exports
due to the possibility of weaker-than-expected global
growth and more volatile global financial market conditions.
Given the backdrop of conditions in the global and
domestic fronts, the Group remains optimistic for the long-
term growth in demand of frozen seafood. While PTRB will
continue to monitor the latest developments in the market
and take steps to mitigate risks to its operations and
financial performance, the Group will remain focused on
strengthening access to channel partners and establishing
more MO Foodmart outlets in the east coast region of
Peninsular Malaysia, with two such outlets being opened
through its business licensing model in the fourth quarter
of FYE 2023.
The Group is planning to increase overseas sales of frozen
seafood products to China leveraging on its Chinese
Academy of Inspection and Quarantine registration by
marketing through sellers on online marketplaces and
grocery retailers. The Group is currently in the midst of
identifying suitable sellers on online marketplaces to serve
as its distributors and intend to finalise the appointment
of a distributor by the end of the year. To grow market
share both domestically and internationally, the Group also
plans to increase product variety through sourcing from
Indonesia.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
AND ANALYSIS
(CONT’D)
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
It has been an incredible year for the Group, with our listing
on the ACE Market of Bursa Securities marking a notable
milestone in its corporate journey.
On behalf of the Board of Directors (“the Board”), I wish
to convey my appreciation to the PTRB team for their
dedication, efforts and commitment to the Group. We
would not be where we are in our achievements if not for
you. I would also like to extend my appreciation to the
Board for their advice and guidance. To our shareholders,
suppliers, business partners and customers, thank you for
your support.
I look forward to another year in which we will bring PTRB
to another level of success while sharing the fruits of this
success together.
Thank you.
Mr. Heng Chang Hooi
Managing Director
World Economic Outlook
(“WEO”), has raised global
GDP growth to
3.0%
for 2023 compared with 2.8%
in the April WEO
Bank Negara Malaysia
(“BNM”) has projected GDP to
grow by 4.0% to
5.0%
in 2023
Annual Report 2023 29
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
PT Resources Holdings Berhad (“PTRB”) and its subsidiaries (“PTRB Group” or “the Group”) is
committed towards value creation for long-term sustainability for its stakeholders. To this end,
PTRB has embedded practices that focus on building sustainability throughout the Group’s
business operations.
Introduction
PTRB is pleased to present its Sustainability Statement that details the Group’s Environmental, Social and Governance
(“ESG”) performances (“Statement”). This Statement communicates the Group’s journey towards embedding
sustainability in the business and daily operations whilst considering the interests of our stakeholders and business
growth. This Statement also sets out PTRB’s approach towards sustainable development and management of ESG risks
and opportunities, after considering the impact of our business endeavours on the ESG facets the Group interacts with.
SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES
PTRB Group is principally involved in the processing and trading of frozen seafood products as well as retail trading of
meat and non-meat products in Malaysia. The scope of this Statement mainly relates to the Group’s processing and
trading operation in Malaysia and where available, this Statement also provides comparative historical data.
REPORTING PERIOD AND CYCLE
This Statement describes the Group’s sustainability activities covering both financial and non-financial aspects for the
financial year ended 30 April 2023 (“FYE 2023”), and up to the date of this Statement.
E S G
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
30
INTRODUCTION (CONT’D)
GUIDELINES AND STANDARDS
We are pleased to present this Statement prepared with reference to the Sustainability Reporting Guide (“SRG”) issued
by Bursa Securities.
Our Group has considered key sustainability matters as guided and defined by both the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”)
on Sustainability Standards and SRG.
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
The Board of Directors of PTRB (“Board”) adopts a sustainability governance approach that is fit for the Group’s purpose,
after considering amongst others, the Group’s culture, needs, sustainability-related risks and opportunities and level of
maturity of the sustainability intellect and readiness.
The diagram below highlights the key roles and responsibilities of the Board, Managing Director and Senior Management
in relation to ESG matters:
GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
• Approves targets and market disclosures
• Formulates ESG strategy and recommend appropriate revision to the Board
• Evaluates overall ESG risks and opportunities
• Support the Board and Managing Director in the implementation of
sustainability-related strategies
• Oversees departments / functions in ensuring robustness of system in relation
to ESG management
• Report management targets
• Develop plan and timeline for relevant disclosures
• Oversees and governs the Group’s sustainability agenda and strategy
• Embeds ESG within the Group’s business strategy
• Approves the Group’s ESG strategy
Managing Director
Board of Directors
Senior Management
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
Annual Report 2023 31
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS
OBJECTIVES
The objective of the materiality assessment process is to facilitate the Group’s identification of material sustainability
matters with a view to enhance the Group’s strategic planning, implementation and business decision-making, and to
enable stakeholders to make better informed decisions with regard to ESG matters.
The Board considers that it is appropriate in this regard to limit the scope of materiality assessment and by extension the
sustainability disclosure to the active companies within the Group. The scope within which materiality applies as far as
operations are concerned is limited to the processing and trading operation in Malaysia.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT

PTRB’s stakeholders are parties who are impacted by our Group’s business decisions and activities and the parties
whose actions and decisions will influence PTRB’s business growth. PTRB continuously maintains a regular engagement
with its stakeholders, which enables the Group to identify and align their key priorities and concerns on the Group’s
business practices and strategies towards addressing material sustainability matters.
The various types of stakeholder engagements as well as the areas of interest identified together with the appropriate
responses to address such interests are set out below:
Investors and Shareholders
Customers
Community
Government and Regula
tors
Employee
Suppliers
PTRB’S
STAKEHOLDER
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
32
Stakeholder Areas of Concern Management Response
• Business performance
• Business directions
• Prospects and strategies
• Return on Investment
• Business continuity
• Business risks
• Trade velocity
• Corporate governance
• 
Quarterly reporting and regular
audit
• Bursa announcements
• Press releases
• Annual reports
• Company’s website
• Quality of products
• 
Product prices and value of
products
• Quality Management System
• Competitive pricing
• 
Procurement process, payment
terms and lead time
• 
Business conduct, integrity
and ethics
• 
Constant and regular
engagement and coordination
• Process improvement
• Quality assessment
• Financial support and aid
• Social responsibility
• 
Environmental awareness and
education
• Lifestyle support
• Business opportunity
• Employment support
• Livelihood support
• 
Financial assistance and
donation
• 
Corporate Social Responsibility
(“CSR”) events and
programmes with community
• Job opportunity
• Festive events
• 
Regulations, governance
and compliance to law,
requirements and standards
• 
Accuracy, transparency and
disclosure
• 
Engagement with regulatory
bodies and government
agencies
• Compliance monitoring
• 
Participation in training
provided by relevant agencies
• Career development
• 
Compensation, welfare and
benefits
• Employment equality
• Working environment
• Safety
• 
Job performance evaluation /
assessment
• 
Ethics, disciplinary and
misconducts
• Induction and orientation
• Internal and external training
• 
Employee activities and staff
welfare events
• 
Performance management
system
• Whistleblowing channel
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS (CONT’D)
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (CONT’D)
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
Investors and
Shareholders
Customer
Suppliers
Community
Government and
Regulators
Employee
Annual Report 2023 33
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT PROCESS (CONT’D)
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (CONT’D)
Based on the interest indicated as well as feedback received from PTRB’s stakeholder groups during the above-mentioned
engagement process, the Group identifies and prioritises issues and matters which are most relevant to each of the
stakeholder groups. Each stakeholder group is assessed by the Management based on their influence on the achievement
of PTRB Group’s strategic objectives and their impact on the Group’s business and operational sustainability.
With reference to the SRG and in the context of the PTRB Group, the prioritised sustainability matters that have been
identified are illustrated in the following sections.
PRIORITISATION OF SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS (MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT)
The Group has identified key sustainability matters that materially impact the PTRB Group’s sustainability areas or
significantly influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. Pursuant to the stakeholders’ engagement as
mentioned above together with a desktop review of the Group’s business operations, risks and opportunities, a materiality
assessment has been undertaken to identify and prioritise sustainability matters affecting the PTRB Group’s sustainability
goals. Accordingly, the material sustainability initiatives undertaken by PTRB Group are illustrated in the diagram below:
The activities undertaken in respect of such initiatives/ matters are set out in the following section.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
Influence on Stakeholder Assessments and Decisions
Materiality Matrix
Significance of Group’s Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts
0%
0%
10%
10%
20%
20%
30%
30%
40%
Community Contribution
Employment Diversity
and Equal Opportunity
Employee Turnover
Rate of Local Sources
Ethics and Integrity
Managing Regulatory
Compliance and
Changes
Quality and Food Safety
Resource and Waste
Management
Reasonable Remuneration
Employee Benefits
40%
50%
50%
60%
60%
70%
70%
80% 90% 100%
Low
Low
Medium
High
Medium High
80%
90%
100%
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
34
SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES
ECONOMIC
Quality and Food Safety
PTRB utilises Individual Quick Freezing (“IQF”) technology in its processing
activities, which is a quick and efficient way of freezing individual seafood
products to reach a temperature of between -20°C to -25°C. This process
significantly reduces ice crystals formation, which preserves the quality and
freshness of the frozen seafood products in terms of shape, colour and taste.
PTRB also utilises semi-contact blast freezers for freezing of large-sized
seafood supplies as well as other machineries to undertake cutting, glazing and
packaging activities in a temperature-controlled environment.
As an assurance of the Group’s seafood product quality and safety, our
processing facility in Kuantan Integrated Fish Processing Park (“KIFPP”)
has obtained independent certifications for food quality and safety standard
compliance, such as the ISO 22000:2018, HACCP, GMP and MeSTI Secure
Food Certification Scheme.
ISO 22000 : 2018
Food safety management systems
• 
Specifies requirements for a food safety management system where an organisation in
the food chain needs to demonstrate its ability to control food safety hazards in order to
ensure that food is safe at the time of human consumption.
HACCP
Hazard analysis and critical control points
• 
Management system in which food safety is addressed through the analysis and control
of biological, chemical and physical hazards from raw material production, procurement
and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product.
GMP
Good Manufacturing Practice
• 
A system for ensuring that products are consistently produced and controlled according
to quality standards.
MeSTI
Food safety assurance system
• 
Certification scheme imposed by the Ministry of Health.
• 
Food Safety is Responsibility of the Industry (Malay: Makanan Selamat, Tanggungjawab
Industri)
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
Annual Report 2023 35
SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES (CONT’D)
ECONOMIC (CONT’D)
Quality and Food Safety (Cont’d)
In addition, PTRB has also obtained ‘Halal’ certification from JAKIM for the
KIFPP Processing Facility, which provides assurance that our frozen seafood
products are processed in a ‘Halal’ manner.
These certifications are beneficial to the Group and allow us to further expand
and penetrate international markets in the Asia Pacific and Middle East regions.
Managing Regulatory Compliances and Changes
PTRB recognises that any actual or potential regulatory non-compliances may
affect the Group’s reputation and operations. As such, the Group continues to
commit to high standards of governance by ensuring the Group’s policies and
procedures are continuously adhered to and are updated regularly at appropriate
intervals.
In instilling awareness among employees, PTRB has instituted adequate checks
and balances to preserve and maintain compliances with relevant guidelines,
regulations and industry practices to safeguard the Group’s interest.
For the FYE 2023, we are pleased to report there is no claim or incident of
non-compliances reported.
Ethics and Integrity
PTRB adopts a zero-tolerance stance against fraud, bribery and corruption.
Apart from the Code of Ethics and Conduct, the Group is guided by a set of
robust corporate policies that address anti-bribery and corruption, anti-money
laundering and whistleblowing. The Anti-Bribery & Corruption (“ABC”) Policy
is communicated to employees via various platforms, including our Group’s
corporate website, training sessions and induction programmes.
Employees are expected to conduct themselves professionally and with integrity
and shall not engage in any form of corrupt or illegal acts. Any allegation or
suspicion of corruption or illegality is taken seriously, and every employee is
to uphold its promulgated business ethics when carrying out their tasks and
responsibilities.
In FYE 2023, there was no bribery and corruption case reported and our Group
aims to maintain this record by promoting a positive culture of compliance.
None of our employees was disciplined or dismissed due to non-compliance
with the ABC policy. PTRB remains committed towards preserving this record
and will continue to uphold high levels of integrity and ethical standards.
There was no bribery
and corruption case
reported and our Group
aims to maintain this
record by promoting
a positive culture of
compliance
No claim or incident of
non-compliances
reported.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
36
SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES (CONT’D)
ECONOMIC (CONT’D)
Rate of Local Sources
PTRB has access to a network of suppliers (i.e. local and international wholesalers, aquaculture farms and fishing
enterprises), which allow the Group to source for a wide variety of seafood supplies that are either wild-caught or farmed.
These supplies can be either locally sourced or imported.
As a corporate citizen of Malaysia, PTRB aims to stand with the local community it operates in. PTRB prides itself in the
support of local businesses and society. The Group will prioritise to source from local vendors for the supply of products/
services required for PTRB whenever available.
The structure and principal activities of our subsidiaries are set out below, followed by the rate of local sources by the
respective subsidiaries during FYE 2022 and FYE 2023.
MHC MO HGMC
Processing of frozen seafood
products at the Kuantan
Integrated Fish Processing
Park Processing Facility and
trading of frozen seafood
products
Retail trading of frozen seafood
and other products via
“MO FoodmartTM” outlets
located in Pahang and
Terrengganu as well as our
online marketplace,
“MO SignatureTM”
Retail trading of frozen seafood
and other products via
“MO Wholesale Centre” and
“MO FoodmartTM” outlets
located in Pahang
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
Annual Report 2023 37
SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES (CONT’D)
ECONOMIC (CONT’D)
Rate of Local Sources (Cont’d)
(i) MHC
Local vs Non-Local Vendor (MHC)
-
50,000,000
76%
74%
100,000,000
78%
150,000,000
80%
200,000,000
82%
250,000,000
84%
300,000,000
86%
350,000,000
88%
400,000,000
80.1%
92.0%
FYE 2022 FYE 2023
90%
92%
94%
	
The rate of local sources for MHC has increased from 80.1% (financial year ended 30 April 2022 (“FYE 2022”)
to 92.0% (FYE 2023) of the total purchases of the Group. The value of purchases made from local suppliers has
increased from RM212.7 million (FYE 2022) to RM364.4 million (FYE 2023), whilst the value of purchases made
from non-local suppliers has decreased from RM53.0 million (FYE 2022) to RM31.5 million (FYE 2023).
(ii) MO
	
The rate of local sources for MO has been maintained at 100% for both FYE 2022 and FYE 2023. However,
the value of purchases made from local suppliers has decreased slightly from RM48.2 million (FYE 2022) to
RM44.5 million (FYE 2023).
Local Vendor (RM) Non-Local Vendor (RM) Percentage (Local/Total)
10,000,000 20%
0%
-
- -
20,000,000 40%
30,000,000 60%
40,000,000 80%
50,000,000 100%
60,000,000
100% 100%
120%
Local vs Non-Local Vendor (MO)
48,232,861
44,465,578
FYE 2022 FYE 2023
212,652,312
52,974,446
364,414,076
31,547,029
Local Vendor (RM) Non-Local Vendor (RM) Percentage (Local/Total)
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
38
SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES (CONT’D)
ECONOMIC (CONT’D)
Rate of Local Sources (Cont’d)
(iii) HGMC
	
The rate of local sources for HGMC remains unchanged at 100% for both FYE 2022 and FYE 2023. However,
the value of purchases made from local suppliers has increased slightly from RM18.1 million (FYE 2022) to
RM19.6 million (FYE 2023).
SOCIAL
Employment Diversity and Equal Opportunity
The backbone of success in any organisation lies in the human capital of the organisation. Organisation striving for
sustainable success will have to manage their human capital as their first and foremost priority.
25,000,000
250
20,000,000
200
15,000,000
150
10,000,000
100
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
5,000,000
50
20%
-
-
0%
- -
100% 100%
Local Vendor (RM) Non-Local Vendor (RM) Percentage (Local/Total)
FYE 2022
FYE 2022
FYE 2023
FYE 2023
Local vs Non-Local Vendor (HGMC)
Total Employee by Gender (FYE 2022 and FYE 2023)
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
18,096,475
97
19
19,565,550
207
54
Male Female
The total number of employees is 261 employees for the FYE 2023 compared with 116 employees for the FYE 2022.
For the FYE 2023, 79% (207 employees) of PTRB’s workforce are males whilst 21% (54 employees) are females. For the
FYE 2022, 84% (97 employees) of PTRB’s workforce are males whilst 16% (19 employees) are females.
In addition, the gender diversity ratio of male-to-female director is 80:20 (4 Male: 1 Female Director) during FYE 2023.
Annual Report 2023 39
In achieving the appropriate gender diversity in the Group, PTRB approaches gender diversity in a pragmatic manner with
a view to provide equal opportunity to all. Although there is still room for improvement, work opportunity in PTRB have
always remained fair and equitable to all.
Employee Gender by Department
(FYE 2022 and FYE 2023)
Employee Age Range by Gender
(FYE2022 and FYE 2023)
SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES (CONT’D)
SOCIAL (CONT’D)
Employment Diversity and Equal Opportunity (Cont’d)
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
Administrative Finance HR Managing Operation Purchasing Sales
Number of Empoyee
50
100
150
200
250
0
FYE 2022 FYE 2023
Male Male
Female Female
0 0 0 0 0
1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1
21
0
4
5 5 15 13
4 11 2
2
94
In FYE 2023, 74% of employees are below 30 years old and only 4% of employees are above 50 years old. Furthermore,
77% of male employees (159 out of 207 male employees) and 65% of female employees (35 out of 54 female employees)
are below 30 years old.
In addition, male employees below 30 years old has increase 109% from 76 (FYE 2022) to 159 (FYE 2023), while female
employees below 30 years old has increase 192% from 12 (FYE 2022) to 35 (FYE 2023). Within the age range of 30 to
50, male employee has increase from 19 to 41 and female employee has increase from 7 to 15. Both male and female
employee above 50 years old have increase to 7 (FYE 2022: 2) and 4 (FYE 2022: nil) respectively in FYE 2023.
Number of Empoyee
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
FYE 2022 FYE 2023
Male Female Male Female
76
19
2 12 7 0
159
41
7
35
15
4
Below 30 30-50 Above 50
191
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
40
SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES (CONT’D)
SOCIAL (CONT’D)
Employment Diversity and Equal Opportunity (Cont’d)
No discrimination based on gender, ethnicity, religion or sexuality is practised throughout the PTRB Group. Policies
instituted by the Group have been gender neutral and the Group is constantly working towards achieving employment
diversity.
Reasonable Remuneration
PTRB remunerates its employees in accordance with performance and in line with the minimum wage prescribed by the
relevant labour laws. A standard wage is applied on all employees at entry level and the Group rewards its employees
based on their merit and talent without any discrimination on gender, race or religion.
The PTRB Group is committed to provide equal employment opportunities to all employees. Consequently, wage equality
and standard benefits are provided to all employees throughout the Company regardless of gender, race or religion.
Employee Benefits
PTRB strives to foster a culture of work-life balance. The Group recognises that the availability of paid parental leave
benefits has positive impact on family development. Our parental leave benefits for both male and female employees are
provided in accordance with the prevailing labour regulations, comprising three (3) days of paid paternity leave and sixty
(60) days paid maternity leave respectively from 1 May 2022 to 1 January 2023. The maternity leave has been revised to
98 days whilst paternity leave has been revised to seven (7) days with effect from 1 January 2023, to be in line with the
amendments of the Employment Act 1955.
Community Contribution
PTRB believes in playing a key role in contributing towards the economic growth and well-being of the community. As a
company with high CSR, PTRB remains focused on creating value in the lives of the community.
Contributions made towards community and education in the FYE 2023 are as follows:
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
Contribution FYE 2022 (RM) FYE 2023 (RM)
1,812 14,800
- 100,000
Total 1,812 114,800
The Group believes that the continuous adoption of CSR towards the community will create value and enhance the
development of local society and community.
Age Range
FYE 2022 FYE 2023
Male Female Male Female
Below 30 76 12 159 35
30 - 50 19 7 41 15
Above 50 2 0 7 4
Sub-Total 97 19 207 54
Total 116 261
Community
Education
Annual Report 2023 41
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
SUSTAINABILITY ACTIVITIES (CONT’D)
ENVIRONMENT
Resource and Waste Management
Environmental conservation is vital towards a sustainable future as natural resources are finite and in demand. PTRB is
aware of its role in support of environmental preservation and protection for our future generations.
PTRB continuously strives to ensure energy and resources are managed in an effective and efficient manner. Following
the Malaysian Government’s initiative to steer transformation towards a future energy ecosystem that delivers a balance
between environmental sustainability, secure and reliable energy supply, and optimal economic development, the Group
is focused on controlling greenhouse emissions in its daily business operations and is planning for the installation of solar
panels for our new cold-room that is expected to be materialised in the financial year ending 30 April 2024.
CONCLUSION
The above activities and initiatives continue to demonstrate the PTRB Group’s commitment towards sustainability and
for the betterment of the economy, environment and social aspects of the community we operate in. The journey towards
attaining sustainable growth and long-term profitability is a continuous one and the principles on sustainability have been
ingrained into the Group’s culture, value system and way of doing business.
42 PT Resources Holdings Berhad
42
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of PT Resources Holdings Berhad (“Company”) is pleased
to present this statement to provide shareholders and investors with an overview of the
corporate governance practices of the Company during the financial year ended 30 April 2023
(“FYE 2023”). This statement is also presented in compliance with Rule 15.25(2) of the ACE
Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”).
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement (“CG Statement”) is based on the following three (3) principles as set out
in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”), which was further updated by the Securities Commission
Malaysia on 28 April 2021:
Principle A - Board leadership and effectiveness
Principle B - Effective audit and risk management
Principle C - Integrity in corporate reporting and meaningful relationship with stakeholders
This CG Statement is augmented with a Corporate Governance Report (“CG Report”) which provides a detailed
articulation of the application of the Company and its subsidiaries’ (“the Group”) corporate governance practices as
set out in the MCCG throughout the FYE 2023. This CG Report is available on the Company’s corporate website at
www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my, as well as via an announcement on the website of Bursa Securities.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
PART I - BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES
1.1 Board and Board Committees
	
The Board is always mindful of its pivotal role in the stewardship of its direction and operations in delivering the
sustainable and long-term success of the Company’s businesses and ultimately creating shareholders’ value. To
fulfil this role, the Board determines the strategic objectives and policies of the Group to ensure the sustainability
of the business.
	
An effective Board is one that is made up of a combination of Executive Directors (“ED”) with intimate knowledge
of the business and Non-Executive Directors from diversified industry/business backgrounds to bring broad
business and commercial experience to the Group.
	
In discharging its fiduciary duties and leadership functions, the Board is guided by the Board Charter which outlines
the duties and responsibilities of the Board. The Board also delegates certain responsibilities to the following
Board Committees to assist in the execution of its responsibilities within their respective Terms of Reference:-
a. Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”); and
b. Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”).
	
Each Committee operates in accordance with its respective Terms of Reference as approved by the Board. These
Committees are authorised by the Board to deal with and to deliberate on matters delegated to them within their
respective Terms of Reference and report to the Board on their proceedings and deliberation together with its
recommendations to the Board for approval. The Board Committees’ Terms of Reference can be accessed via the
Company’s website at www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my.
	
Apart from the responsibility of the Board Committees, the Managing Director (“MD”), ED and other Senior
Management are also delegated certain authorities to enable them to effectively discharge their responsibilities on
the day-to-day operations of the Group.
Annual Report 2023 43
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
43
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART I - BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1.2 Chairman of the Board
	
The Board is chaired by Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim (“Tan Sri Jalaludin”), an Independent
Non-Executive Chairman, who plays a crucial role in overseeing and ensuring the efficient functioning of the Board.
Tan Sri Jalaludin is dedicated to upholding high standards of corporate governance and has been instrumental in
fostering a high-performing culture within the Board.
	
The Chairman is responsible for providing leadership to the Board and ensuring the Board fulfils its supervisory
duties effectively. The Chairman plays a crucial role in facilitating effective decision-making within the Board.
One of the key responsibilities is to ensure that the Board receives pertinent and timely information, enabling
members to make informed decisions. Additionally, the Chairman is responsible for upholding good conduct and
best practices during both Board and general meetings.
	
Another important aspect of the Chairman’s role is to foster positive and constructive relationships among
Board members, as well as between the Board and the Company’s management. This includes promoting open
communication, collaboration, and mutual respect among all stakeholders.
	Furthermore, the Chairman represents the Company alongside the MD and ED when engaging with external entities
such as shareholders, creditors, consumer groups, and local governments. This joint representation showcases a
unified front and ensures effective communication and representation of the company’s interests to these external
groups.
	
While the Chairman is not a member of the Board Committees, he attends their meetings as an invitee only to
provide inputs for the matters discussed during the meetings. Tan Sri Jalaludin’s participation does not diminish
the Board’s objectivity in reviewing the Board Committees’ reports.
	
Overall, the Chairman’s responsibilities encompass facilitating decision-making, ensuring compliance with best
practices, nurturing relationships among stakeholders, and representing the company externally.
	
In summary, Tan Sri Jalaludin, as the Independent Non-Executive Chairman, plays an important role in ensuring
that the Board fulfills its duties and that the Company adheres to the best corporate governance practices. His
leadership, guidance, and oversight help maintain a high-performing culture within the Board and ensure the
Company’s success.
1.3 Chairman and MD
	
In line with good corporate practices, there is a clear distinction between the role of the Chairman of the Board and
the MD. This is to ensure that there is a balance of power and authority to promote accountability and unfettered
powers in decision making.
	
The Chairman of the Board is primarily responsible for the leadership, effectiveness, conduct and governance of
the Board whilst the MD has overall responsibilities over the business operations and day-to-day management of
the Group and implementation of the Board’s policies and decisions.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
44
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART I - BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1.4 Qualified and Competent Company Secretary
	
The Board is supported by two (2) qualified and experienced Company Secretaries, who are qualified to act as
Company Secretaries under Section 235(2) of the Companies Act 2016 (“CA 2016”) and are also registered holders
of the Practising Certificate issued by the Companies Commission of Malaysia.
	
The Company Secretaries are responsible for ensuring overall compliance with the CA 2016, Listing Requirements
and other relevant laws and regulations. In addition, the Company Secretaries assist the Board and Board
Committees in fulfilling their duties effectively while adhering to established Board policies and procedures and
best practices.
	
To discharge these critical roles, the Company Secretaries regularly attend relevant training programs, conferences,
seminars and forums to stay current with the latest developments in corporate governance and regulatory
requirements relevant to their profession. This ongoing education enables the Company Secretaries to provide the
necessary advice to the Board and ensure that the Company remains compliant.
	
The Board has direct access to the professional advice and services of the Company Secretaries to assist them
in performing their duties and discharging their responsibilities effectively. The Company Secretaries’ role in
facilitating compliance and ensuring the smooth functioning of the Board is critical to the Company’s success.
	
Overall, the Board is satisfied with the service and support rendered by the Company Secretaries and their team
to the Board in the discharge of their duties and functions.
1.5 Meeting of Board and Board Committees
	
To facilitate the Directors’ time planning, an annual meeting calendar is prepared in advance of each new year by
the Company Secretaries. The calendar provides the Directors with scheduled dates for meetings of the Board
and Board Committees as well as the annual general meeting of the Company (“AGM”). The closed periods for
dealings in securities by Directors and principal officers based on the scheduled dates of meetings for making
announcements of the Group’s quarterly results were also provided therein.
	
The notices of Board and Board Committees meetings together with the meeting papers are generally furnished
to the Board members at least five (5) working days prior to the dates of meetings. This is to accord sufficient time
for the Directors to peruse the Board papers and to seek any clarification or further details that they may need
from the Management or to consult independent advisers (if necessary) and to make an informed decision at each
Board meeting.
	
The deliberations and conclusions of matters discussed in the Board or Board Committees meetings are duly
recorded in the minutes of meetings. The draft minutes are circulated for the Board or Committee members’ review
within a reasonable timeframe after the meetings. The minutes of meetings accurately captured the deliberations
and decisions of the Board and/or the Board Committees, including whether any Director abstains from voting or
deliberating on a particular matter.
All the records of proceedings and resolutions passed are kept at the registered office of the Company.
	
For matters which require the Board’s decision on an urgent basis outside of Board Meetings, relevant supporting
documents along with the Directors’ Written Resolution will be circulated for the Board’s consideration. All written
resolutions approved by the Board will be tabled for notation at the next Board meeting.
Annual Report 2023 45
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART I - BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1.6 Board Charter
	
The Company has formalised and adopted a Board Charter which sets out the functions, authority, roles and
responsibilities of the Board as well as the various internal processes and principles governing the Board. The
Board Charter also serves as a source of reference and primary induction literature, providing insights to new
Board members.
	
The Board Charter provides a clear delineation of relevant matters and applicable limits, including those reserved
for the Board’s approval and those which the Board may delegate to the Board Committees, the MD / ED, and
the Management. This delineation ensures that all parties involved understand their roles and responsibilities, thus
promoting effective decision-making, risk management, and compliance.
	
The Board Charter would be reviewed as and when necessary to ensure that it remains aligned with the Board’s
objectives and responsibilities, as well as the latest compliance requirements resulting from changes in the
regulatory framework. This regular review process is necessary to ensure that the Board Charter remains relevant
and up-to-date, enabling the Board to operate effectively and in compliance with relevant regulations.
The Board Charter is published on the Company’s website at www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my.
1.7 Code of Ethics and Conduct
	
The Board has adopted a Code of Ethics and Conduct which summarises what the Company must endeavour
to do proactively in order to maintain an ethical corporate culture and to enhance the standard of corporate
governance and corporate behaviour across the Group. The summary of the same has also been incorporated in
the Board Charter of the Company.
	
The Code of Ethics and Conduct sets out the general principles and guidance regarding ethical behaviour and
professional conduct for the Directors and employees of the Group in addressing their duties and obligations
during the appointment and includes the expectation of professionalism and trustworthiness from the Directors
and employees of the Group.
The Code of Ethics and Conduct is published on the Company’s website at www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my.
	
The Board will review the Code of Ethics and Conduct from time to time to ensure that it continues to remain
relevant and appropriate with the prescribed requirements and best corporate governance practices.
1.8 Whistleblowing Policy
	
The Board has also adopted a Whistleblowing Policy to promote good business conduct and maintain business
integrity. It recognises the whistleblowing as an important mechanism in the prevention and detection of improper
conduct, harassment or corruption in the conduct of the Group’s businesses and operations.
	
The Whistleblowing Policy provides an avenue for employees to report any misconduct, breach or suspected
breach of any law or regulation, including business principles and the Group’s policies and guidelines, in a safe
and confidential manner.
The Whistleblowing Policy is published on the Company’s website at www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my.
	
The Board will review and update the Whistleblowing Policy as and when necessary to ensure that it remains
relevant to the Group’s changing business circumstances and/or comply with the applicable laws and regulations.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
46
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART I - BOARD RESPONSIBILITIES (CONT’D)
1.9 Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC Policy”)
	
In line with the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (Amendment) Act 2018 (“MACC Act 2018”), the Company
has put in place the ABC Policy to promote a culture of integrity and transparency in all the Group’s activities. This
policy which adheres to the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities and the Guidelines on Adequate Procedures
issued pursuant to Section 17A(5) of the MACC Act 2018, generally set out the responsibilities of the Company,
and all individuals who work for the Group, in observing and upholding the Group’s position on bribery and
corruption and provides key anti-bribery and corruption principles that apply to all interactions with the Group’s
customers, business partners, and other third parties, as well as guidelines for the prevention, management, and
remediation of bribery and corruption related risks.
The ABC Policy is available on the Company’s website at www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my.
	
The ABC Policy will be reviewed from time to time in accordance with the needs of the Company to ensure that it
continues to remain relevant and appropriate.
1.10 Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy
	
In line with Rule 15.01A of the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, the Board has adopted the Directors’
Fit and Proper Policy which serves as a guide to the NRC and the Board in their review and assessment of the
potential candidates for appointment to the Board as well as the retiring Directors who are seeking re-election at
the AGM.
	
The Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy shall be reviewed periodically by the Board and be revised at any time as it
may deem necessary to ensure that they remain consistent with the Board’s objectives, current law and practices.
The Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy is available on the Company’s website at www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my.
	
The Board has also adopted the Nomination and Appointment of New Directors Process and Procedures to
formalise the process for the nomination and appointment of a new Director to be undertaken by the NRC and
the Board in discharging their responsibilities in terms of the nomination and appointment of new Directors of the
Group.
1.11 Sustainability Governance
	
The Board recognizes the fundamental importance of sustainable business practices in creating long-term value
and believes that responsible business operations are closely linked to achieving operational excellence.
	
The Board holds the primary responsibility for overseeing sustainability-related matters, including the development
of strategies, setting priorities, and establishing targets. Operational execution pertaining to Environmental, Social,
and Governance (ESG) factors, as part of the Group’s corporate strategy, falls within the purview of Management.
	
As fiduciaries to the Company’s shareholders, the Board is deeply committed to upholding exemplary corporate
governance practices that prioritize ethics, integrity, and corporate responsibility. Moreover, the Board ensures
that both internal and external stakeholders are well-informed about the organization’s sustainability strategies,
priorities, targets, and overall performance. A comprehensive account of these efforts can be found in the
Sustainability Statement included in this Annual Report.
	
The Board also incorporated the assessment of the Board’s understanding of sustainability issues in the annual
performance evaluation process. This is critical to the Company’s performance and reflects the Board’s ongoing
commitment to sustainability.
Annual Report 2023 47
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II - BOARD COMPOSITION
2.1 Board Composition
	
The composition of the Board complies with Rule 15.02 of the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, which
stipulates that the Company must ensure that at least two (2) Directors or 1/3 of the Board members, whichever
is the higher, are Independent Directors. Currently, the Board has six (6) members. More than half of the Board
comprises Independent Non-Executive Directors as follows:-
No. Names Designations
1. Tan Sri Jalaludin Independent Non-Executive Chairman
2. Dato’ Asmuni Bin Sudin Independent Non-Executive Director
3. Chan Foong Ping Independent Non-Executive Director
4. Steven Wong Chin Fung Independent Non-Executive Director
5. Heng Chang Hooi MD
6. Mohd Rofzan Bin Mohd Latiff ED
	
The Board composition is also in line with this Practice 5.2 of the MCCG of having at least half of the Board
comprising Independent Non-Executive Directors. This composition is able to provide independent and objective
judgement as well as provide an effective check and balance to safeguard the interest of the minority shareholders
and other stakeholders, and ensure high standards of conduct and integrity are maintained.
	
The Board members have diverse backgrounds and experiences in various fields. Collectively, they bring a wide
range of skills, experience and knowledge to manage the Group’s business. The profiles of these Directors are
provided on pages 12 to 17 in this Annual Report.
2.2 Tenure of Independent Directors
	
The Board is fully aware that the tenure of an Independent Non-Executive Director shall not exceed a cumulative
term of nine (9) years as recommended by the MCCG. However, if the Board intends to retain a Director who
has served as an Independent Director of the Company for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years, the
Board must justify its decision and seek the shareholders’ approval through a two-tier voting process at a general
meeting.
	
Currently, none of the existing Independent Directors of the Company has exceeded the tenure of a cumulative
term of nine (9) years.
	
Based on the assessment carried out during the financial year under review, the Board is satisfied with the level of
independence demonstrated by all the Independent Non-Executive Directors and their abilities to act in the best
interest of the Company.
	
The Company has not adopted a policy that limits the tenure of its Independent Directors to nine (9) years.
Notwithstanding that, the assessment of the independence of Independent Non-Executive Directors will be
conducted annually via the Annual Evaluation of Independence of Directors to ensure that they are independent of
management and free from any business or other relationship which could materially interfere with the exercise of
their independent judgement or the ability to act in the best interests of the Company.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
48
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II - BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2.3 New Appointment of Board and Senior Management
	
The Board appoints its members through a formal and transparent selection process. The new candidates will
be considered and evaluated by the NRC, and the NRC will then recommend the candidates to be approved and
appointed by the Board. In making a recommendation to the Board on the candidates for directorship, the NRC
will consider and nominate the candidates based on the objective criteria, including:-
	In identifying for suitable candidates, the NRC may receive suggestions from existing Board members, Management
and major shareholders. The NRC is also open to referrals from external sources available or independent search
firms.
	
All Directors shall not hold more than five (5) directorships in other listed issuers as required under Rule 15.06 of
the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities.
	
The new appointment of Senior Management would be reviewed by the NRC based on objective criteria, merit and
with due regard for diversity in skills, experience, age, cultural background and gender.
	
The role of the NRC is detailed in its Terms of Reference, which is accessible on the Company’s website at
www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my.
skills, knowledge, expertise and experience;
professionalism;
integrity;
time commitment to the Company based on the number of directorships held; and
in the case of candidates for the position of Independent Non-Executive Directors, the NRC will
also evaluate the candidates’ ability to discharge such responsibilities/functions as expected
from Independent Non-Executive Directors.
Annual Report 2023 49
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II - BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2.4 Board Diversity and Senior Management Team
	
The Board is supportive of the diversity of the Board and Senior Management Team. The Group strictly adheres
to the practice of non-discrimination of any form, whether based on race, age, religion and gender throughout
the organisation, including the selection of Board members and Senior Management. The Board encourages a
dynamic and diverse composition by nurturing suitable and potential candidates equipped with competency,
skills, experience, character, time commitment, integrity and other qualities in meeting the future needs of the
Group.
	
In the event that a vacancy in the Board arises, the Board, through the NRC, will consider female representation
when suitable candidates are identified. However, the appointment of a new Board member will not be guided
solely by gender but will also take into account the skill sets, experience and knowledge of the candidate. The
Company’s prime responsibility in new appointments is always to select the best candidates available. Hence, the
normal selection criteria based on an effective blend of competencies, skills, extensive experience and knowledge
to strengthen the Board remains a priority.
	
In view of the gained attention of boardroom diversity as an important element of a well functioned organisation,
the Gender Diversity Policy was adopted by the Board on 31 July 2022 which provides a framework for the
Company to improve its gender diversity at the Board and Senior Management level and the same is published on
the Company’s website at www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my.
Currently, there is one (1) female Director on the Board, namely Ms. Chan Foong Ping.
2.5 Board Committees
	
The Board Committees are set up to manage specific tasks for which the Board is responsible within clearly
defined Terms of Reference. This ensures that the Board members can spend their time more efficiently while the
Board Committees are entrusted with the authority to examine particular issues.
	
The Board has established two (2) Board Committees and the membership of each committee is set out in the
table below:-
	
The Terms of Reference of the respective Board Committees are published on the Company’s website at
www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my.
Composition ARMC NRC
Tan Sri Jalaludin
(Independent Non-Executive Chairman)
N/A N/A
Dato’ Asmuni Bin Sudin
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Member Chairman
Chan Foong Ping
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Chairperson Member
Steven Wong Chin Fung
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Member Member
Heng Chang Hooi
(Managing Director )
N/A N/A
Mohd Rofzan Bin Mohd Latiff
(Executive Director )
N/A N/A
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
50
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II - BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2.6 NRC
The NRC is chaired by Dato’ Asmuni Bin Sudin, an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.
	
The NRC is responsible for identifying and recommending suitable candidates for Board membership and also for
assessing the performance of the Directors on an ongoing basis. The Board will have the ultimate responsibility
and final decision on the appointment of the Directors. This process shall ensure that the Board membership
accurately reflects the long-term strategic direction and needs of the Company and determine a skills matrix to
support the strategic direction and needs of the Company.
	
The NRC has written Terms of Reference dealing with its authority and duties which include the selection
and assessment of Directors. The Terms of Reference of the NRC had incorporated the relevant practices
recommended under the MCCG. The Terms of Reference of the NRC is published on the Company’s website at
www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my.
	
The Company was listed on the ACE Market of Bursa Securities on 27 September 2022 (“Listing”) and hence, the
activities undertaken by the NRC during the FYE 2023 and up to the date of this Statement were as follows:-
a.	
Evaluated the balance of skills, knowledge and experience of the Board. Carried out the assessment and
rating of each Director’s performances against the criteria as set out in the annual assessment form. The
performance of Non-Executive Directors was also carefully considered, including whether he/she could
devote sufficient time to the role.
b.	
Undertaken an effectiveness evaluation exercise of the Board and its Committees as a whole with the
objective of assessing its effectiveness.
c. Reviewed and assessed the independence of the Independent Directors of the Company.
d. Reviewed and assessed the performance of the ARMC.
e.	
Reviewed and recommended to the Board for consideration, the re-election of the Directors who were due
to retire at the AGM.
Annual Report 2023 51
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II - BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2.7 Board Appointment and Re-appointment Process
	The NRC is tasked by the Board to make independent recommendations for appointments to the Board. In evaluating
the suitability of candidates, the NRC considers, inter-alia, the character, experience, integrity, commitment,
competency, qualification and track record of the proposed new nominee for appointment to the Board. In the
case of a nominee for the position of Independent Non-Executive Director, NRC evaluates the nominee’s ability
to discharge such responsibilities/functions as expected from Independent Non-Executive Directors. The Board
has in the review the skills of Directors, including information technology, legal, public relations and experience
in the retailing industry as the matrix of skills of Directors that would be prioritised when selecting candidates for
appointment to the Board.
	
In accordance with the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities and the Company’s Constitution, one third (1/3)
of the Directors of the Company for the time being shall retire at the AGM of the Company provided always that
all Directors, shall retire from office at least once in every three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election at the
AGM. Additionally, the Directors appointed to fill a casual vacancy or as an addition to the Board shall hold office
only until the conclusion of the next AGM and shall be eligible for re-election.
	
In assessing the candidates’ eligibility for re-election, the NRC considers their competencies, commitment,
contribution, performance based on their respective performance evaluation to the Board and their ability to act in
the best interest of the Company.
	
The Board makes recommendations concerning the re-election, re-appointment, and continuation in office of any
Director for shareholders’ approval at the AGM.
2.8 Annual Evaluation of the Directors, Board and Board Committees as a whole
	The Board has, through the NRC, undertaken a formal and objective annual evaluation to assess the effectiveness of
the Board and the Board Committees as a whole and the contribution of each Director, including the independence
of the Independent Non-Executive Director, referring to the guides available and the good corporate governance
compliance.
	
The assessment of the Board and Board Committees is performed on a Board review whilst the assessment
of the individual Directors is performed on a peer-review basis. Each Director is provided with the assessment
forms for their completion prior to the meeting. The results of all assessments and comments by the Directors are
deliberated at the NRC meeting and thereafter the NRC’s Chairman will report the results and deliberation to the
Board.
	
In evaluating the performance of Non-Executive Directors, the assessment comprises amongst others, the
attendance at Board or Committee meetings, adequate preparation for Board and/or Board Committees’ meetings,
regular contribution to Board or Board Committees’ meetings, personal input to the role and other contributions to
the Board or Board Committees as a whole.
	
In evaluating the performance of MD and ED, the assessment was carried out against diverse key performance
indicators including amongst others, financial, strategic and sustainability, conformance and compliance, business
acumen or increase shareholders’ wealth, succession planning and personal input to the role.
	
Following the Listing and subsequent to the FYE 2023, the NRC and the Board carried out the annual assessment
of the Board and Board Committees as a whole as well as the individual Director’s performance in June 2023.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
52
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II - BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2.9 Attendance of Board and Board Committees’ Meetings
	
The Board schedules at least four (4) meetings in a financial year with additional meetings to be convened where
necessary. In view that the Company was listed on the ACE Market of Bursa Securities on 27 September 2022, the
Board had only conducted three (3) Board meetings during the FYE 2023 where it has deliberated and approved
various reports and matters, including the quarterly financial results of the Group for the announcement to Bursa
Securities as well as the Group’s strategy, operational and financial performance.
	
The number of meetings held and attended by each member of the Board and Board Committees during the
FYE 2023 are as follows:-
Name of Directors
Attendance
Board ARMC NRC
Tan Sri Jalaludin
(Independent Non-Executive Chairman)
3/3 - -
Dato’ Asmuni Bin Sudin
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
3/3 3/3 -
Chan Foong Ping
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
3/3 3/3 -
Steven Wong Chin Fung
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
3/3 3/3 -
Heng Chang Hooi
(Managing Director)
3/3 - -
Mohd Rofzan Bin Mohd Latiff
(Executive Director)
3/3 - -
Annual Report 2023 53
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART II - BOARD COMPOSITION (CONT’D)
2.10 Directors’ Training
	
Relevant guidelines on statutory and regulatory requirements were circulated to the Board from time to time
for Board’s reference. During the FYE 2023, the Directors have attended the following training programmes in
compliance with Rule 15.08 of the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities:
Name of Directors Training/seminars attended
Tan Sri Jalaludin • ASAIHL Conference in Tokyo, Japan
•	
Amendments to the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities in
relation to Enhanced Sustainability Reporting Framework
Dato’ Asmuni Bin Sudin •	
Amendments to the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities in
relation to Enhanced Sustainability Reporting Framework
Chan Foong Ping • Mandatory Accreditation Programme (“MAP”)
•	
Corporate Training on Environmental, Social and Governance
(ESG), Climate Change and Sustainability Reporting
•	
Amendments to the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities in
relation to Enhanced Sustainability Reporting Framework
•	
Corporate Training on Task Force on Climate-Related Financial
Disclosure
Steven Wong Chin Fung •	
Amendments to the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities in
relation to Enhanced Sustainability Reporting Framework
Heng Chang Hooi • MAP
•	
Amendments to the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities in
relation to Enhanced Sustainability Reporting Framework
Mohd Rofzan Bin Mohd Latiff • MAP
•	
Amendments to the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities in
relation to Enhanced Sustainability Reporting Framework
	
During the FYE 2023, all Directors of the Company participated in the following briefing sessions facilitated by the
Company Secretary before the Listing:-
• Key Disclosure and Continuous Listing Obligations of a Public Listed Company and its Directors
• The MCCG
• Corporate Liability on Corruption under the MACC Act 2018
	
In order to effectively carry out their roles and duties, the Directors are committed to participating in professional
development programs as necessary. This ongoing commitment to professional development ensures that the
Directors stay up-to-date with best practices and emerging trends in their respective areas of expertise. The
Company encourages and supports the Directors’ participation in such programs, recognising the importance of
maintaining a skilled and knowledgeable Board.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
54
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART III – REMUNERATION
3.1 Remuneration Policy
	
The Board had, through the NRC, established a formal and transparent Remuneration Policy to attract and retain
Directors and Senior Management of the Company. The Remuneration Policy was adopted by the Board on
31 July 2022 and is available on the Company’s website at www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my.
The Remuneration Policy aims to:-
a. determine the level of remuneration of Directors and Senior Management;
b.	
attract, retain and reward high performing, experienced and qualified Directors and Senior Management by
providing remuneration commensurate with their responsibilities and contributions, and being competitive
with the industry; and
c.	
encourage value creation for the Company by aligning the interests of Directors with the long-term interests
of shareholders.
	
The NRC assists the Board in implementing its policies and procedures on remuneration, which includes reviewing
and recommending the proposed remuneration packages of the Directors of the Company. The NRC is also
responsible to ensure that the remuneration packages are commensurate with the expected responsibility and
contribution by the Directors and link to the strategic objectives of the Company.
	
The Board will determine the remuneration package of the MD / ED, taking into consideration the recommendations
of the NRC for MD / ED. The remuneration package for the MD / ED are structured in such a way that it links
rewards to both corporate and individual performance.
	
Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company will be paid a basic fee as ordinary remuneration based on
their responsibilities in Committees and the Board, their attendance and/or special skills and expertise they bring
to the Board. The fee shall be fixed in sum and not by a commission on or percentage of profits or turnover. Apart
from Directors’ fees, all Independent Non-Executive Directors are entitled to meeting allowances for attending
Board and Board Committee meetings.
Each Director shall abstain from the deliberation and voting on matters pertaining to their own remuneration.
Annual Report 2023 55
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART III – REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
3.2 Remuneration of Directors
The remuneration payable to the Directors on the Company and the Group basis for the FYE 2023 are as follows:-
Name of
Directors
RM (‘000)
Fee Allowance Salary Bonus
Benefits-in
Kind
Other
emolument# Total
The Company and Group level
Tan Sri
Jalaludin
40 1.5 - - - - 41.5
Dato’
Asmuni Bin
Sudin
24 1.5 - - - - 25.5
Chan
Foong Ping
24 1.5 - - - - 25.5
Steven
Wong Chin
Fung
24 1.5 - - - - 25.5
Heng
Chang Hooi
- 230 423 - - 238.9 891.9
Mohd
Rofzan Bin
Mohd Latiff
- 27.5 46.4 - - 6.9 80.8
TOTAL 112 263.5 469.4 - - 245.8 1,090.7
Note:-
# 	
Other emoluments include Employees Provident Fund (EPF) and SOSCO & Employee Insurance Scheme (EIS).
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
56
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
PART III – REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
3.3 Remuneration of Senior Management
	
The Board has determined that disclosing the Senior Management’s remuneration components on a named basis
would not be in the best interest of the Company. Doing so may have a negative impact on the Company’s ability
to attract and retain talent within the competitive construction industry.
	The Board also took into consideration of sensitivity and security of the remuneration package of Senior Management
and therefore opted not to disclose on a named basis the remuneration or in bands of RM50,000.00. Instead, the
Board is of the view that disclosing the Senior Management’s aggregated remuneration on an unnamed basis in
the bands of RM50,000.00 in this Annual Report is adequate.
	
The aggregate remuneration and benefits paid to the Senior Management of the Group for the FYE 2023 are as
follows:-
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
PART I - ARMC
4.1 Effective and Independent ARMC
	
The ARMC is relied upon by the Board to, amongst others, provide advice and oversee in the areas of financial
reporting, external audit, internal control environment and internal audit processes, review of related party
transactions as well as conflict of interest situations.
	
The ARMC is chaired by Ms. Chan Foong Ping, whereas the Board is chaired by Tan Sri Jalaludin, both are
Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company. The positions of Board Chairman and ARMC Chairman are
assumed by different individuals to ensure that the Board’s review of the ARMC’s findings and recommendations
is not impaired.
	
The ARMC comprises three (3) members. The composition of the ARMC complies with Rules 15.09 and 15.10
of the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities and the recommendation of MCCG whereby all three (3) ARMC
members are Independent Non-Executive Directors. None of the Independent Directors has appointed alternate
Directors.
		
Currently, none of the members of the ARMC were former key audit partners of the present auditors of the Group.
	
The term of office and performance of the ARMC and its members are reviewed by the NRC annually to determine
whether such ARMC and members have carried out their duties in accordance with the terms of reference.
Range of Remuneration Number of Senior Management
RM50,001 to RM100,000 1
RM100,001 to RM150,000 1
RM150,001 to RM200,000 -
RM200,001 to RM250,000 -
Annual Report 2023 57
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
PART I - ARMC (CONT’D)
4.2 External Auditors
	
The Group has established a transparent and appropriate relationship with the External Auditors which has been
accorded the authority to communicate directly with the External Auditors. The External Auditors in turn are able to
highlight matters which require the attention of the Board to the ARMC in terms of compliance with the accounting
standards and other related regulatory requirements.
	
The Board had also established the External Auditors Assessment Policy together with an annual performance
evaluation form. The Policy is to outline the guidelines and procedures for the ARMC to review, assess and monitor
the performance, suitability and independence of the External Auditors.
	
The ARMC had reviewed the nature and extent of non-audit services rendered by the External Auditors during
the financial year and concluded that the provision of these services did not compromise their independence and
objectivity. In addition, the ARMC had received assurance from the External Auditors confirming that they are
and have been independent throughout the conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with the terms of all
relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
	
The ARMC had carried out an annual performance assessment of the External Auditors and requested the MD, ED,
Group Financial Controller and the Management to join the assessment.
	
The ARMC is satisfied with the suitability and independence of the External Auditors and had recommended their
re-appointment to the shareholders for approval at the forthcoming AGM.
PART II - RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
5.1 Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
	
The Board has put in place a structured risk management and internal control framework within the Group as an
ongoing process for identifying, evaluating, monitoring and managing the significant risks affecting the achievement
of its business objectives.
	
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibilities in establishing a sound risk management framework and
internal control system within the Group. The risk management framework and internal control system are designed
to manage the Group’s risks within an acceptable risk appetite, rather than eliminate the risk of failure to achieve
the policies, goals and objectives of the Group. It provides reasonable assurance against material misstatement of
financial information and records or against financial losses or fraud.
	
Details of the Group’s risk management and internal control framework are disclosed in the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control in this Annual Report.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
58
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
PART II - RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK (CONT’D)
5.2 Internal Audit Function
	
The Group’s internal audit function is outsourced to an independent professional firm namely Resolve IR Sdn.
Bhd. (“Resolve IR” or “Internal Auditors”) to assist the ARMC in managing the risks and establishing the internal
control system and processes of the Group by providing an independent assessment of the adequacy, efficiency
and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control system and processes. Resolve IR reports
directly to the ARMC during the ARMC Meeting on a half yearly basis.
	
The Internal Auditors are free from any relationship or conflict of interest, which could impair their objectivity and
independence.
	The ARMC had obtained assurance from the Internal Auditors confirming that they are, and have been, independent
throughout the conduct of the internal audit engagement in accordance with the terms of all relevant professional
and regulatory requirements.
	
The internal audit functions and activities carried out during the FYE 2023 are as disclosed in the ARMC Report in
this Annual Report.
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
PART I – COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS
6.1 Continuous Communication with Stakeholders
	
The Board recognises the importance of providing effective communication platforms to provide accurate, timely,
transparent and valuable insights on the Company’s performance and position to its stakeholders. As such, the
Board consistently ensures prompt and timely dissemination of information to its shareholders and investors, for
them to make informed investment decisions.
	
Quarterly results, announcements and annual reports serve as primary means of dissemination of information so
that the shareholders are constantly kept abreast of the Group’s progress and developments. The Company’s
corporate website, www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my serves as one of the most convenient ways for shareholders
and members of the public to gain access to corporate information, Board Charter and policies, announcements,
news and events relating to the Group.
6.2 Corporate Disclosure Policy
	
The Board is committed to provide effective communication to its shareholders and the general public regarding
the business, operations and financial performance of the Group and where necessary, that information filed with
regulators is in accordance with all applicable legal and regulatory requirements.
	
The Company has adopted a Corporate Disclosure Policy, which is applicable to the Board and all employees of
the Group, in handling and disclosing material information to the shareholders and the investing public.
Annual Report 2023 59
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(CONT’D)
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)
PART II – CONDUCT OF GENERAL MEETINGS
7.1 Conduct of General Meetings
	
The AGM remains the principal forum for dialogue with shareholders where they may seek clarification on the
Company’s business and reports.
	
In line with Practice 13.1 of MCCG, the notice convening the Fourth AGM (“4th AGM”) of the Company to be
held on 26 October 2023 was issued to shareholders at least 28 days before the 4th AGM date, which gives
shareholders sufficient time to prepare themselves to attend the 4th AGM or to appoint a proxy to attend and vote
on their behalf.
	
In addition, the Company took extra steps to also include explanatory notes to the ordinary business of the
4th AGM, facilitating full understanding and evaluation of issues involved in the proposed resolutions.
	
The Board believes that the participation of shareholders in the Company’s general meeting is the more appropriate
platform where shareholders’ queries and concerns may be conveyed to the Board for clarification. The Board will
ensure that all Board members, management team, External Auditors and Company Secretaries are present to
respond to shareholders’ queries during the forthcoming 4th AGM and any other general meetings.
	
At the AGM, the shareholders are encouraged to participate in discussing the resolutions proposed or future
developments of the Group’s operations in general. The Board members and the Senior Management will present
to answer the questions raised and provide clarification as requested by the shareholders.
	
All resolutions set out in the notice of the 4th AGM will be put to vote by poll and the votes cast will be validated
by an independent scrutineer appointed by the Company. The outcome of all resolutions proposed at the general
meetings will be announced to Bursa Securities at the end of the meeting day.
7.2 Effective Communication and Proactive Engagement
	
From the Company’s perspective, the AGM serves as a forum for Directors to engage with the shareholders
personally to understand their needs and seek their feedback. The Board encourages the shareholders to raise
their questions and feedback during the shareholders’ meetings and ensures their queries are responded to
properly and systematically.
	
The Board ensures that a reasonable time is provided to the shareholders for discussion at the 4th AGM before
each resolution is proposed. The summary of the key matters discussed at the 4th AGM will be published on the
Company’s website at www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my for the shareholders’ information.
STATEMENT BY THE BOARD ON CG STATEMENT
The Board has deliberated, reviewed and approved this CG Statement. The Board considers and is satisfied that to the
best of its knowledge, the Company has fulfilled its obligations under the MCCG, the relevant chapters of the Listing
Requirements of Bursa Securities on corporate governance and all applicable laws and regulations throughout the
FYE 2023, except for the departures set out in the CG Report. The Company shall continue to strive for high standards of
corporate governance throughout the Group, and the highest level of integrity and ethical standards in all of its business
dealings.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
60
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND
INTERNAL CONTROL
INTRODUCTION
The Board of Directors of PT Resources Holdings Berhad (“PTRB” or “the Company”)
(“the Board”) is pleased to present the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
(“this Statement”) pursuant to Rule 15.26(b) of the ACE Market Listing Requirements
(“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and as
guided by the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of
Listed Issuers (“the Guidelines”).
The Board is committed to the effective management of risk and the maintenance of a sound system of internal control of
the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”). The Board believes that effective risk management and internal control
are essential to the achievement of the Company’s objectives and the protection of its assets.
RESPONSIBILITY
The Board of PTRB recognises that it is responsible for the Group’s system of risk management and internal control and
for reviewing its adequacy and integrity. The Board’s responsibility in relation to the system of risk management and
internal control extends to the Group.
The Group’s system of risk management and internal control is designed to manage the principal business risks that may
impede the Group from achieving its business objectives. However, due to the limitations that are inherent in any system
of risk management and internal control, the Group’s risk management and internal control system may not completely
eliminate the risk of failure to achieve its business objectives. The system can only provide reasonable assurance against
material misstatement or loss.
The Board has undertaken a review of the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management and internal control
system and concluded that the risk management and internal control system is adequate and effective. Further, the
Board has obtained assurance from the Managing Director (“MD”) and the Group Financial Controller that the Group’s risk
management and internal control system is operating adequately and effectively in all material aspects.
MANAGEMENT STYLE AND CONTROL CONSCIOUSNESS
The Group is involved in various food related businesses. These business interests are operated by the subsidiaries of the
Company. Management of the day-to-day affairs of the Group’s various subsidiaries are assigned to local management
who are accountable for the conduct and performance of their subsidiaries within agreed business strategies. The MD and
key management team attend various scheduled management meetings as well as conduct regular reviews of financial
and operational reports. These provide the platform for timely identification of the Group’s risks and development of
systems to manage those risks. The MD regularly updates the Board on any significant matters.
INTERNAL CONTROL PROCESSES
The key aspects of the internal control process are as follows:
•	
The business units identify the areas of control relevant to their business, design the internal control procedures
and document the procedures in manuals.
•	
The internal auditors of the Group establish the annual audit plan and table the plan to the Audit and Risk
Management Committee (“ARMC”) for review and approval.
•	
The internal auditors perform the audit and present their audit reports to the ARMC, highlighting any shortcomings
by the business units in implementing the controls and the remedial procedures required to be implemented by the
business units.
Annual Report 2023 61
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(CONT’D)
ASSURANCE MECHANISM
The Board has assigned the ARMC with the duty of reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s system
of internal control. The internal auditors furnish the ARMC with reports on findings of the internal audit, including the
recommended corrective actions, potential risks, implications and Management’s responses. The External Auditors
update the ARMC on areas for improvement identified during the course of their statutory audit. The Board also reviews
the minutes of the meetings of the ARMC. The Report of the ARMC is set out on pages 63 to 65 of the Annual Report.
KEY FEATURES OF THE INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The Group has an extensive system of internal control that enables the Management to ensure that established policies,
guidelines and procedures are followed and complied with. The key features of PTRB’s system of internal control include
the following:
• Clear organisation structure with delineated reporting lines.
• Defined levels of authority.
• Capable workforce with ongoing training efforts.
• Timely financial and operational reports.
• Scheduled operations and Management meetings.
• Payment functions controlled at Head Office.
• Regular visits to the operating units of the Group’s businesses by the MD and key management personnel.
• Independent assurance on the system of internal control from regular internal audit visits.
WHISTLEBLOWING POLICY
The Group has adopted a Whistleblowing Policy, which provides an avenue for employees, third party service providers,
independent contractors, vendors and suppliers and members of the public to raise genuine concerns, disclose alleged,
suspected or actual wrongdoings or known improper conduct on a confidential basis without fear of any form of
victimization, harassment, retribution or retaliation. The Whistleblowing Policy is published on the Company’s website at
www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my.
ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION POLICY (“ABC POLICY”)
In response to Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009, the Group has established its ABC
Policy. The Group strictly adopts a zero-tolerance policy approach against all forms of bribery and corruption in its daily
operations, and take all reasonable and appropriate measures to ensure that all its Directors and employees are committed
to act professionally and with integrity in all their business dealings and not participate in any corruption activities for their
advantage or benefit. The ABC Policy is published on the Company’s website at www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my.
RISK MANAGEMENT
In line with the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance, the Company has established a risk management system. The
Board entrusts the ARMC with the overall responsibility to regularly review and monitor the risk management activities of
the Group, and to approve appropriate risk management procedures and measurement methodologies.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
62
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
The key aspects of the risk management process are as follows:
For the financial year ended 30 April 2023, the ARMC held three (3) meetings where it reviewed and evaluated the
adequacy of risk management activities of a subsidiary of the Company, MHC Coldstorage Sdn. Bhd. and recommended
certain measures to be adopted to mitigate its business risk exposures.
The abovementioned process has been in place for the financial year under review and up to the date of approval of this
Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report.
REVIEW BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS
Pursuant to Rule 15.23 of the ACE Market Listing Requirements, the Company’s External Auditors have reviewed this
Statement for inclusion in the Annual Report of the Company, and have reported to the Board that nothing has come
to their attention that causes them to believe that this Statement is inconsistent with their understanding of the process
adopted by the Board in reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the system of internal control and risk management.
The External Auditors do not assume responsibility to any person other than the Board in respect of any aspect of this
Statement.
CONCLUSION
The Board is of the view that the Company’s risk management and internal control system is adequate and effective to
safeguard the Group’s assets, as well as the shareholders’ investments. The Board will continue to monitor and review
the framework on an ongoing basis to ensure that it remains effective.
The system of risk management and internal control was satisfactory and has not resulted in any material losses,
contingencies or uncertainties that would require disclosure in the Company’s Annual Report.
The business units are required to
identify the risks relevant to their
businesses.
The level of residual risk is determined
after evaluating the effectiveness of
controls and mitigating measures.
The business units are required to
update their risk profiles and review
their processes in monitoring the
risks periodically.
The business units develop control
procedures or action plans to either
prevent the occurrence or reduce the
impact upon its occurrence.
As and when needed, the business
units are required to prepare a report
summarising the significant risks and
status of action plan. Selected reports
will be submitted to the ARMC for
review and deliberation.
The risks are then assessed based
on the probability of their occurrence
and are evaluated as Low, Medium or
High.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(CONT’D)
Annual Report 2023 63
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE REPORT
The Audit and Risk Management Committee (“ARMC”) of PT Resources Holdings Berhad
(“the Company”) is pleased to present the ARMC Report for the financial year ended
30 April 2023 (“FYE 2023”).
1. OBJECTIVE
	
The primary objective of the ARMC is to assist the Board of Directors of the Company (“the Board”) in fulfilling its
fiduciary duties and responsibilities in accordance with its Terms of Reference, providing additional assurance to
the Board by giving an objective and independent review of financial, operational and administrative controls and
procedures.
2. COMPOSITION OF THE ARMC
	
The ARMC comprises the following members, all of whom are Independent Non-Executive Directors of the
Company:-
ARMC Members Designation Directorship
Chan Foong Ping Chairperson Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Asmuni Bin Sudin Member Independent Non-Executive Director
Steven Wong Chin Fung Member Independent Non-Executive Director
ARMC Members Attendance
Chan Foong Ping 3/3
Dato’ Asmuni Bin Sudin 3/3
Steven Wong Chin Fung 3/3
	
The Company complies with Rule 15.09 of the ACE Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) as well as Practice 9.1 and Practice 9.4 of the Malaysian Code of
Corporate Governance, where all members of the ARMC fulfil the requirements as prescribed.
	
The Chairperson of the ARMC, Ms. Chan Foong Ping is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA)
and a Chartered Accountant. In this respect, the composition of the ARMC complies with Rules 15.09 and 15.10
of the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities.
3. TERMS OF REFERENCE
	
The Terms of Reference of the ARMC which sets out its duties and responsibilities are accessible via the Company’s
website at www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my.
4. ARMC MEETINGS AND ATTENDANCE
	
During the FYE 2023, the ARMC conducted a total of three (3) ARMC meetings. The details of attendance of each
of the ARMC members at the ARMC meetings are as follows:-
	
The presence of the External Auditors, Internal Auditors and/or the Management of the Company at the ARMC
meetings, if required, will be requested by the ARMC. They are invited to the ARMC meetings to provide clarification
on audit issues, the operations of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) and any other matters of interests.
Other members of the Board may attend the ARMC meetings upon invitation of the ARMC.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
64
5. SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES OF THE ARMC DURING THE FYE 2023
	
The summary of activities carried out by the ARMC during the FYE 2023 included, amongst others, the following:
•	
Reviewed the unaudited quarterly report on consolidated financial results including the announcement
pertaining thereto. The discussion focused particularly on any changes in or implementation of major
accounting policy changes, significant and unusual events and compliance with accounting standards and
other legal requirements before recommending to the Board for approval and making the announcement to
Bursa Securities;
•	
Reviewed the related party transactions and/or recurrent related party transactions, if any, that transpired
within the Group to ensure that the transactions entered into were at arm’s length basis and on normal
commercial terms;
• Reviewed the appointment of Internal Auditors of the Group;
• Reviewed and received the internal audit plan to ensure the adequacy of the scope, functions and resources;
•	Reviewed the internal audit report, which highlighted the audit issues, recommendations, and Management’s
responses;
•	
Discussed with the Management on actions taken to improve the systems of internal control based on the
recommendations and findings identified in the internal audit report;
•	
Reviewed and discussed with the External Auditors on their audit planning memorandum of the statutory
audit of the Group for the FYE 2023; and
•	
Reviewed and discussed with the External Auditors on their audit, including system evaluation and audit
and non-audit fees.
6. INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
	
The Group has outsourced its internal audit function to a professional services firm, Resolve IR Sdn. Bhd.
(“Resolve IR” or “Internal Auditors”) to assist the ARMC in discharging its duties and responsibilities in reviewing
and assessing the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s internal control system. Resolve IR is free from any
relationship or conflict of interest, which could impair their objectivity and independence. It is independent of the
activities and operations of the Group. It reports directly to the ARMC.
	
The purpose of the internal audit function is to provide reasonable assurance of the effectiveness of the system of
internal control in the Group to the ARMC.
For the FYE 2023, the summary of works undertaken by the Internal Auditors comprised the following:-
• Reviewed compliance with policies, procedures and standards, relevant rules and regulations;
•	
Assessed the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control and recommended
appropriate actions to be taken where necessary;
•	
The internal audits performed met the objective of highlighting to the ARMC the outstanding audit issues
which required corrective actions to be taken to ensure an adequate and effective internal control system
within the Group, as well as any weaknesses in the Group’s internal control system;
•	
Ensured that those weaknesses were appropriately addressed and that recommendations from the internal
audit reports and corrective actions on reported weaknesses were taken appropriately within the required
timeframe by the Management; and
• Presentation of audit findings and corrective actions to be taken by the Management in the ARMC meetings.
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE REPORT
(CONT’D)
Annual Report 2023 65
6. INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION (CONT’D)
	
During the FYE 2023, the Internal Auditors had conducted reviews on the adequacy and effectiveness of the
internal control system on Procurement to Payables and Inventory Management of MHC Coldstorage Sdn. Bhd.,
a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company.
	
The total costs incurred for the outsourced internal audit function of the Group for the FYE 2023 amounted to
RM22,202.19.
	
The ARMC is of the view that the internal audit function is independent and that Resolve IR has performed its audit
with impartiality, proficiency and due professional care.
AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE REPORT
(CONT’D)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
66
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE
INFORMATION
1. UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS RAISED FROM CORPORATE PROPOSAL
	
The Company was listed on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 27 September 2022 (“Listing”).
In conjunction with the Listing, the Company undertook a public issue of 135,000,000 new ordinary shares at an
issue price of RM0.36 per share, raising total gross proceeds of RM48.6 million (“IPO Proceeds”).
As at 30 April 2023, the status of the utilisation of the IPO Proceeds are as follows:-
		 Proposed Actual Balance Intended timeframe
			 Utilisation Utilisation Unutilised for utilisation from
Purpose RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 the date of listing
		
Capital expenditure for new cold 17,635 - 17,635 Within 36 months
storage warehouse				
Working capital 27,175 27,175 - Within 12 months
Estimated listing expenses 3,790 3,790 - Within 3 months
				
Total		 48,600 30,965 17,635 -
	
The utilisation of proceeds as disclosed above should be read in conjunction with the Prospectus of the Company
dated 30 August 2022.
2. AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES
	
The amount of audit and non-audit fees paid/payable to the External Auditors by the Company and its subsidiaries
(collectively, the “Group”) respectively for the financial year ended 30 April 2023 (“FYE 2023”) were as follows:-
		 Group Company
			 RM RM
Audit fees 187,000 27,000
Non-audit fees 31,000 11,000
3. MATERIAL CONTRACTS INVOLVING DIRECTORS’ AND/OR MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS’ INTEREST
	
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and/or its subsidiaries involving the interests of
the Directors, chief executive and/or major shareholders which were still subsisting at the end of the FYE 2023 or
which were entered into since the end of the previous financial year.
4. RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSCATIONS (“RRPT”)
	
There was no RRPT or RPT entered into by the Group which involves the Directors’ and/or major shareholders’
interests during the FYE 2023.
Annual Report 2023 67
STATEMENT OF DIRECTORS’
RESPONSIBILITY IN RESPECT OF THE
AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors are required by the Companies Act 2016 (“CA 2016”) to prepare financial statements which give a true and
fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and the Company at the end of each financial year and of their results and
cash flows for the financial year then ended in accordance with the applicable Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards
(MFRs), the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs), the provision of the CA 2016 and the ACE Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
In preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 30 April 2023, the Directors have:
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that the Group and the Company keep proper accounting records, which
disclose with reasonable accuracy on the financial position of the Group and of the Company, and which enable them to
ensure that the financial statements comply with the provisions of the CA 2016.
The Directors are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company and
to prevent and detect other irregularities.
Additionally, the Directors have relied on the system of risk management and internal control to ensure that the information
generated for the preparation of the financial statements from the underlying accounting records is accurate and reliable.
adopted appropriate
accounting policies
and applied them
consistently;
made judgements
and estimates that are
reasonable;
ensured that applicable
accounting standards
have been complied
with; and
applied the going
concern basis, that the
Group and the Company
have adequate
resources to continue
operations for the
foreseeable future.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
68
Financial
Statements
Directors’ Report
Financial Statements
Statements of Financial Position
Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
Statements of Changes in Equity
Statements of Cash Flows
Notes to the Financial Statements
Statement by Directors
Statutory Declaration
Independent Auditors’ Report
69
74
76
77
78
81
136
136
137
Annual Report 2023 69
69
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report together with the audited financial statements of the Group and of
the Company for the financial year ended 30 April 2023.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally involved in investment holding and provision of management services. The principal activities
of its subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Company and its subsidiaries during the
financial year.
RESULTS
Group Company
RM RM
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year 36,833,180 (1,900,770)
Attributable to:
Owners of the Company 36,833,180
DIVIDENDS
There were no dividends proposed, declared or paid by the Company since the end of the previous financial year.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.
DIRECTORS
The names of the Directors of the Company in office during the financial year and during the period commencing from the
end of the financial year to the date of this report are as follows:-
Heng Chang Hooi*
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim
Dato’ Asmuni Bin Sudin
Mohd Rofzan Bin Mohd Latiff
Chan Foong Ping
Steven Wong Chin Fung
* Director of the Company and its subsidiaries
The Director of the subsidiaries since the beginning of the financial year to the date of this report, not including those
Directors listed above is:-
Norfahana Binti Abdullah
DIRECTORS’
REPORT
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
70
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
According to the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings required to be kept under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 in
Malaysia, the interests and deemed interests in the ordinary shares of the Company and its related corporations of those
who were Directors as at year end (including the interests of the spouses or children of the Directors who themselves are
not Directors of the Company) are as follows:-
Number of ordinary shares
Balance at
1.5.2022 Bought Sold
Balance at
30.4.2023
The Company
Direct interest
Heng Chang Hooi 380,020,000 - - 380,020,000
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim - 150,000 - 150,000
Dato’ Asmuni Bin Sudin - 100,000 - 100,000
Mohd Rofzan Bin Mohd Latiff - 400,000 (350,000) 50,000
Chan Foong Ping - 100,000 - 100,000
Steven Wong Chin Fung - 100,000 - 100,000
By virtue of the direct interest of Heng Chang Hooi in the Company, he is also deemed to have interest in shares of all the
subsidiaries during the financial year to the extent that the Company has an interest under Section 8 of the Companies
Act 2016.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
During the financial year, the remuneration and other benefits received and receivable by the Directors of the Group and
of the Company are as follows:-
Incurred
by the
Company
Incurred
by the
subsidiaries Total
RM RM RM
Salaries and other emoluments 6,000 726,900 732,900
Directors’ fees 112,000 - 112,000
Defined contribution plan - 243,805 243,805
Social security contribution - 1,772 1,772
Employment insurance scheme - 203 203
118,000 972,680 1,090,680
During and at the end of the financial year, no arrangements subsisted to which the Company is a party, with the object or
objects of enabling Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures
of, the Company or any other body corporate.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
Annual Report 2023 71
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR DIRECTORS AND OFFICERS
There were no indemnity coverage and insurance premium paid for Directors and Officers of the Group and of the
Company during the financial year.
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
On 23 September 2022, the Company issued 135,000,000 new ordinary shares at an issue price of RM0.36 per ordinary
share for a total cash consideration of RM48,600,000 for pursuant to its Initial Public Offering exercise.
There were no issuance of debentures during the financial year.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable steps:-
(a)	
to ascertain that action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of provision for
doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that adequate provision
had been made for doubtful debts; and
(b)	
to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including
their values as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company have been written down to an
amount which they might be expected so to realise.
At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:-
(a)	
which would render the amounts written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts in the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any substantial extent; or
(b)	
which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company misleading; or
(c)	
which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the
Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(d) 	
not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which would render any amount stated in the
financial statements misleading.
At the date of this report, there does not exist:-
(a)	
any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year
which secures the liability of any other person; or
(b)	
any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
72
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (CONT’D)
In the opinion of the Directors:-
(a)	
no contingent liability or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable within the period
of twelve months after the end of the financial year which will or may affect the ability of the Group and of the
Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due;
(b)	
the results of operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year were not substantially affected
by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature; and
(c)	
there has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report any item,
transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the results of operations of the
Group and of the Company for the current financial year in which this report is made.
SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AND SUBSEQUENT TO THE REPORTING PERIOD
The significant events during the financial year and subsequent to the reporting period are disclosed in Note 31 to the
financial statements.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
Annual Report 2023 73
AUDITORS
The Auditors, Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT, have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
The amount of audit and other fees paid or payable to the external auditor and its member firm by the Group and the
Company for the financial year ended 30 April 2023 amounted to RM218,000 and RM38,000 respectively. Further details
are disclosed in Note 22 to the Financial Statements.
The Group and the Company have agreed to indemnify the Auditors, Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT, to the extent
permissible under requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. However, no payment has been made arising
from this indemnity for the financial year.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.
................................................................. )
HENG CHANG HOOI 		)
		 )
		 )
						)
						) DIRECTORS
				 		 )
			 )
				 		 )
		 )
................................................................. )
TAN SRI DATO’ DR. SYED JALALUDIN )
BIN SYED SALIM			)
25 August 2023
			
		
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(CONT’D)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
74
Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 4 20,316,320 20,481,741 - -
Right-of-use assets 5 5,778,203 6,522,478 - -
Investment in subsidiaries 6 - - 20,005,000 20,000,000
Fixed deposits with licensed banks 7 17,626,560 9,859,422 - -
Total non-current assets 43,721,083 36,863,641 20,005,000 20,000,000
Current assets
Inventories 8 7,605,990 11,623,366 - -
Trade receivables 9 127,077,781 43,145,972 - -
Other receivables 10 3,316,880 1,167,305 37,332,557 300
Tax recoverable 333,762 330,616 - -
Fixed deposits with licensed banks 7 10,176,020 1,000 - -
Cash and bank balances 59,653,357 45,525,551 7,574,557 1,000
Total current assets 208,163,790 101,793,810 44,907,114 1,300
TOTAL ASSETS 251,884,873 138,657,451 64,912,114 20,001,300
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to owners of the
Company
Share capital 11 67,046,696 20,001,000 67,046,696 20,001,000
Merger deficit 12 (13,400,000) (13,400,000) - -
Retained earnings/(Accumulated losses) 103,562,916 66,729,736 (2,990,021) (1,089,251)
TOTAL EQUITY 157,209,612 73,330,736 64,056,675 18,911,749
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings 13 9,357,523 10,965,260 - -
Lease liabilities 14 2,742,673 3,294,421 - -
Provision for restoration costs 15 1,856,728 1,336,074 - -
Deferred tax liabilities 16 285,000 272,000 - -
Total non-current liabilities 14,241,924 15,867,755 - -
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 APRIL 2023
Annual Report 2023 75
Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
Current liabilities
Trade payables 17 6,104,699 3,686,941 - -
Other payables 18 5,593,545 9,276,222 794,500 1,089,551
Contract liabilities 19 - - - -
Borrowings 13 68,155,424 35,924,924 - -
Lease liabilities 14 469,972 562,096 - -
Tax payable 109,697 8,777 60,939 -
Total current liabilities 80,433,337 49,458,960 855,439 1,089,551
Total liabilities 94,675,261 65,326,715 855,439 1,089,551
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 251,884,873 138,657,451 64,912,114 20,001,300
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 APRIL 2023
(CONT’D)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
76
Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
Revenue 20 502,604,992 349,143,996 - -
Cost of sales (439,531,406) (310,529,989) - -
Gross profit 63,073,586 38,614,007 - -
Other income 786,523 3,084,252 - -
Impairment gain of financial assets, net - 245,903 - -
Administration expenses (23,478,031) (18,206,096) (2,093,745) (909,455)
Other expenses (54,129) - - -
Finance income 475,207 217,906 253,914 -
Finance costs 21 (3,335,213) (2,661,208) - -
Profit/(Loss) before tax 22 37,467,943 21,294,764 (1,839,831) (909,455)
Tax expense 23 (634,763) (183,442) (60,939) -
Profit/(Loss)/Total comprehensive
income/(loss) for the financial year 36,833,180 21,111,322 (1,900,770) (909,455)
Profit/(Loss)/Total comprehensive
income/(loss) attributable to:
Owners of the Company 36,833,180 21,111,322 (1,900,770) (909,455)
Earnings per share attributable to
owners of the Company (sen)
- Basic/ Diluted 24 7.65 5.28
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2023
Annual Report 2023 77
Non-distributable Distributable
Share Merger Retained Total
Group capital deficit earnings equity
RM RM RM RM
At 1 May 2021 20,001,000 (13,400,000) 45,618,414 52,219,414
Total comprehensive income for the financial year - - 21,111,322 21,111,322
At 30 April 2022 20,001,000 (13,400,000) 66,729,736 73,330,736
Transactions with owners:-
Issuance of shares 48,600,000 - - 48,600,000
Capitalisation of share issuance
expenses (1,554,304) - - (1,554,304)
Total comprehensive income for the financial year - - 36,833,180 36,833,180
At 30 April 2023 67,046,696 (13,400,000) 103,562,916 157,209,612
Non-
distributable
Share Accumulated
Company capital losses Total
RM RM RM
At 1 May 2021 20,001,000 (179,796) 19,821,204
Total comprehensive loss for the financial year - (909,455) (909,455)
At 30 April 2022 20,001,000 (1,089,251) 18,911,749
Transactions with owners:-
Issuance of shares 48,600,000 - 48,600,000
Capitalisation of share issuance expenses (1,554,304) - (1,554,304)
Total comprehensive loss for the financial year - (1,900,770) (1,900,770)
At 30 April 2023 67,046,696 (2,990,021) 64,056,675
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2023
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
78
Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit/(Loss) before tax 37,467,943 21,294,764 (1,839,831) (909,455)
Adjustments for:-
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 1,984,161 1,873,653 - -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 689,568 815,974 - -
Gain on early termination on leases - (22,264) - -
Gain on disposal of property, plant and
equipment
(296,100) - - -
Loss on disposal of right-of-use assets - 30,333 - -
Net impairment gain of financial assets - (245,903) - -
Interest expense 2,941,302 2,661,208 - -
Interest income (475,207) (217,906) (253,914) -
Property, plant and equipment written off 54,129 - - -
Bad debts written off 633,428 38,893 - -
Rent concessions (20,000) (75,808) - -
Unrealised gain on foreign exchange (409,569) (142,809) - -
Operating profit/(loss) before working capital
changes
42,569,655 26,010,135 (2,093,745) (909,455)
Changes in working capital:-
Inventories 4,017,376 (3,461,903) - -
Receivables (86,042,667) (3,516,717) (32,257) -
Contract liabilities - (120,440) - -
Payables (1,264,919) 8,495,308 (295,051) 909,455
Bankers’ acceptance 30,007,503 (3,703,381) - -
Invoice financing (10,361) (8,153) - -
Revolving financing 34,907 (249,490) - -
Cash (used in)/generated from operations (10,688,506) 23,445,359 (2,421,053) -
Interest paid (1,862,145) (1,610,027) - -
Interest received 258,729 2,178 - -
Tax paid (523,989) (1,067,339) - -
Net cash (used in)/from operating activities (12,815,911) 20,770,171 (2,421,053) -
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2023
Annual Report 2023 79
Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Interest received 216,478 215,728 253,914 -
Advances to a subsidiary - - (37,300,000) -
Acquisition of shares in a new subsidiary - - (5,000) -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment A (737,768) (239,468) - -
Purchase of right-of-use assets B - (160,606) - -
Proceeds from disposal of right-of-use assets - 6,500 - -
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and
equipment 296,100 - - -
Net cash used in investing activities (225,190) (177,846) (37,051,086) -
FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Interest paid (853,683) (938,480) - -
Repayment of term loans (1,881,060) (2,285,842) - -
Repayment of lease liabilities (1,409,086) (701,972) - -
Placement of fixed deposits pledged (7,767,138) (1,717,506) - -
Withdrawal of fixed deposit pledged - 2,376,334 - -
Proceeds from issuance of shares, net of
share issuance expenses 47,045,696 - 47,045,696 -
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities 35,134,729 (3,267,466) 47,045,696 -
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2023
(CONT’D)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
80
Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Net changes 22,093,628 17,324,859 7,573,557 -
Brought forward 43,686,702 26,366,186 1,000 1,000
Effect of foreign exchange difference (262,576) (4,343) - -
Carried forward C 65,517,754 43,686,702 7,574,557 1,000
NOTES TO THE STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
A. PURCHASE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group Company
2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
Total purchase 1,032,948 239,468 - -
Less: Provision for restoration costs capitalised (295,180) - - -
Cash payment 737,768 239,468 - -
B. PURCHASE OF RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Group Company
2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
Total purchase 785,214 1,262,033 - -
Less: Acquistion by way of lease liabilities (785,214) (1,101,427) - -
Cash payment - 160,606 - -
C. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Cash and cash equivalents included in the statements of cash flows comprise the following amounts:-
Group Company
2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
Fixed deposits with licensed banks 27,802,580 9,860,422 - -
Cash and bank balances 59,653,357 45,525,551 7,574,557 1,000
Bank overdrafts (4,311,623) (1,839,849) - -
83,144,314 53,546,124 7,574,557 1,000
Less: Fixed deposits pledged (17,626,560) (9,859,422) - -
Total cash and cash equivalents 65,517,754 43,686,702 7,574,557 1,000
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 APRIL 2023
(CONT’D)
Annual Report 2023 81
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and listed on the ACE
Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The registered office of the Company is located at Third Floor, No.
77, 79 & 81, Jalan SS21/60, Damansara Utama, 47400 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan. The principal place
of business of the Company is located at Kuantan Integrated Fish Processing Park (KIFPP), Jalan Seri Kemunting
2, Tanah Putih, 25100 Kuantan, Pahang.
The Company is principally involved in investment holding and provision of management services. The principal
activities of its subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 6 to the financial statements.
There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Company and its subsidiaries during
the financial year.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the
Directors on 25 August 2023.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2.1 Statement of Compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company are prepared in accordance with Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
2.2 Basis of Measurement
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost
convention, unless otherwise indicated in the summary of significant accounting policies.
Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in exchange for goods and
services.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
transaction between market participants at the measurement date and its measurement assumes that the
transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market for the asset or
liability, or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market for the asset or liability.
The principal or the most advantageous market must be accessible to by the Group and the Company.
The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured on the assumptions that market participants would use
when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market participants act in their economic best interest.
A fair value measurement of a non-financial asset takes into account a market participant’s ability to
generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market
participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
The Group and the Company use valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for
which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs
and minimising the use of unobservable inputs.
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
82
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)
2.2 Basis of Measurement (Cont’d)
All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the financial statements are
categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is
significant to their fair value measurement as a whole:-
Level 1 - Quoted (unadjusted) market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities.
Level 2 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to their fair value
measurement is directly or indirectly observable.
Level 3 - Valuation techniques for which the lowest level input that is significant to their fair value
measurement is unobservable.
For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the financial statements on a recurring basis, the Group and
the Company determine whether transfers have occurred between levels in the hierarchy by re-assessing
categorisation (based on the lowest level input that is significant to their fair value measurement as a whole)
at the end of each reporting year.
For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group and the Company have determined classes of assets
and liabilities on the basis of the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability and the level of fair
value hierarchy as explained above.
2.3 Functional and Presentation Currency
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”) which is the Company’s functional
currency and all values are rounded to the nearest RM except when otherwise stated.
2.4 MFRSs
2.4.1 Adoption of New Standards/Amendments/Improvements to MFRSs
The Group and the Company have consistently applied the accounting policies set out in Note 3 to
the financial statements to all periods presented in these financial statements.
At the beginning of current financial year, the Group and the Company adopted new standards/
amendments/improvements to MFRSs which are mandatory for the financial periods beginning on
or after 1 January 2022.
The initial application of the new standards/amendments/improvements to the standards did not
have a material impact on the financial statements.
2.4.2 Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective
The new and amended standards and interpretations that are issued, but not yet effective, up to the
date of issuance of the Group’s and of the Company’s financial statements are disclosed below. The
Group and the Company intend to adopt these new and amended standards and interpretations, if
applicable, when they become effective.
Annual Report 2023 83
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)
2.4 MFRSs (Cont’d)
2.4.2 Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective (Cont’d)
MFRSs and Amendments to MFRS effective for the financial period beginning on or after 1 January 2023:-
MFRS 17*# Insurance contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17*# Insurance contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17*# Insurance contracts: Initial application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 -
Comparative information
Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of financial statements: Disclosure of accounting
policies
Amendments to MFRS 108 Accounting policies, changes in accounting estimates and errors:
Definition of accounting estimates
Amendments to MFRS 112 Income taxes: Deferred tax related to assets and liabilities arising
from a single transaction
Amendments to MFRS 112 Income taxes: International tax reform - pillar two model rules
Amendments to MFRSs effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024:-
Amendments to MFRS 16* Leases: Lease liability in a sale and leaseback
Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of financial statements: Non-current liabilities with
covenants
Amendments to MFRS 101 Presentation of financial statements: Classification of liabilities as
current or non-current
Amendments to MFRSs – Effective date deferred indefinitely:-
Amendments to MFRS 10*
and MFRS 128*#
Consolidated financial statements and investments in associate
and joint ventures - Sale or contribution of assets between an
investor and its associate or joint venture
* Not applicable to the Company’s operations.
# Not applicable to the Group’s operations.
The initial application of the above standards, amendments and interpretations are not expected to
have material financial impact to the financial statements.
2.5 Significant Accounting Estimates and Judgements
Estimates, assumptions concerning the future and judgements are made in the preparation of the financial
statements. They affect the application of the Group’s and of the Company’s accounting policies and
reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses, and disclosures made. Estimates and
underlying assumptions are assessed on an on-going basis and are based on experience and relevant
factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances.
The actual results may differ from the judgements, estimates and assumptions made by the management,
and will seldom equal the estimated results.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
84
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)
2.5 Significant Accounting Estimates and Judgements (Cont’d)
2.5.1 Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty
Information about significant estimates and assumptions that have the most significant effect on
recognition and measurement of assets, liabilities, income and expenses are discussed below.
Useful Lives of Depreciable Assets
Property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over
their useful life. However, significant judgement is involved in estimating the useful life and residual
value of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets which are subjected to technological
development and level of usage. Therefore, residual values of these assets and future depreciation
charges may vary.
Impairment of Non-financial Assets
An impairment loss is recognised for the amount by which the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s
carrying amount exceeds its recoverable amount. To determine the recoverable amount, the
management estimates expected future cash flows from each cash-generating unit and determines
a suitable interest rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows. In the process of
measuring expected future cash flows, the management makes assumptions about future operating
results. The actual results may vary, and may cause significant adjustments to the Group’s and the
Company’s assets within the next financial year.
In most cases, determining the applicable discount rate involves estimating the appropriate
adjustment to market risk and the appropriate adjustment to asset-specific risk factors.
Provision for Restoration Costs
The Group has an obligation to dismantle, remove and restore the factory and leased outlets to its
original state and condition upon the expiry or termination of the lease agreement. The liabilities
for dismantling, removal and restoration costs are recognised at present value of the compounded
future expenditure estimated using existing technology, at current prices and discounted using a
real discount rate. Any change in the present value of the estimated expenditure is reflected as an
adjustment to the provision. While the provision is based on the best estimate of future costs and
the economic lives of the affected assets, there is uncertainty regarding both the amount and timing
of incurring these costs. All the estimates are reviewed on an annual basis or more frequently, where
there is indication of a material change.
Annual Report 2023 85
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)
2.5 Significant Accounting Estimates and Judgements (Cont’d)
2.5.1 Key Sources of Estimation Uncertainty (Cont’d)
Information about significant estimates and assumptions that have the most significant effect on
recognition and measurement of assets, liabilities, income and expenses are discussed below
(Cont’d).
Provision for Expected Credit Losses of Trade Receivables
The Group uses a provision matrix to calculate Expected Credit Losses (“ECLs”) for trade receivables.
The provision rates are based on the repayment pattern of the customers, customers type and
coverage by letters of credit.
The provision matrix is initially based on the Group’s historical observed default rates. The Group will
calibrate the matrix to adjust the historical credit loss experience with forward-looking information.
At every reporting date, the historical observed default rates are updated and changes in the
forward-looking estimates are analysed.
The assessment of the correlation between historical observed default rates, forecast economic
conditions and ECLs is a significant estimate. The amount of ECLs is sensitive to changes in
circumstances and of forecast economic conditions. The Group’s historical credit loss experience
and forecast of economic conditions may also not be representative of customer’s actual default in
the future.
Inventories
The management reviews inventories to identify damaged, obsolete and slow-moving inventories
which require judgement and changes in such estimates could result in revision to valuation of
inventories.
Income Taxes/Deferred Tax Liabilities
Significant judgement is involved in determining the Group’s and the Company’s provision for income
taxes. There are certain transactions and computations for which the ultimate tax determination is
uncertain during the ordinary course of business. The Group and the Company recognised tax
liabilities based on estimates of whether additional taxes will be due. Where the final tax outcome of
these matters is different from the amounts that were initially recognised, such difference will impact
the income tax and deferred tax provisions in the period in which such determination is made.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
86
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONT’D)
2.5 Significant Accounting Estimates and Judgements (Cont’d)
2.5.2 Judgements Made in Applying Accounting Policies
The following is the significant management judgement in applying accounting policies that have
most significant effect on the financial statements.
Leases
In applying MFRS 16, the management uses judgement in determining the rate to discount the lease
payments and assess whether a right-of-use assets is impaired. Besides, the Group estimates the
lease term and reassess whether it is reasonably certain to exercise and extension option, or not
to exercise a termination option, upon the occurrence of either a significant event or a significant
change in circumstances.
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
	
The Group and the Company apply the significant accounting policies as summarised below, consistently
throughout all years presented in the financial statements, unless otherwise stated.
3.1 Consolidation
3.1.1 Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities, including structured entities, controlled by the Company. Control exists
when the Company is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the
entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Potential voting
rights are considered when assessing control only when such rights are substantive. Besides, the
Company considers it has de facto power over an investee when, despite not having the majority of
voting rights, it has the current ability to direct the activities of the investee that significantly affect
the investee’s return.
Investment in a subsidiary is stated at cost less any impairment losses in the Company’s statements
of financial position, unless the investment is held for sale or distribution. The cost of investments
includes transaction costs. Where an indication of impairment exists, the carrying amount of the
subsidiary is assessed and written down immediately to their recoverable amount.
Upon the disposal of investment in a subsidiary, the difference between the net disposal proceeds
and its carrying amount is recognised in profit or loss.
3.1.2 Basis of Consolidation
Changes in the ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control are accounted
for as equity transactions. In such circumstances, the carrying amounts of the controlling and non-
controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiary.
Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interest is adjusted and the fair
value of the consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners
of the Company.
Annual Report 2023 87
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.1 Consolidation (Cont’d)
3.1.2 Basis of Consolidation (Cont’d)
Business Combinations and Goodwill
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an acquisition is
measured as the aggregate of the consideration transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value
and the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. For each business combination,
the Group elects whether it measures the non-controlling interest in the acquiree either at fair value
or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Acquisitioncosts incurred are
expensed and included in administrative expenses.
When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial assets and liabilities assumed for
appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic
circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date. This includes the separation of
embedded derivatives in host contracts by the acquiree.
If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s
previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date
through profit or loss.
Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at
the acquisition date. Subsequent changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration which is
deemed to be an asset or liability will be recognised in accordance with MFRS 9 either in profit or
loss or as a change to other comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is classified as
equity, it will not be remeasured. Subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. In instances
where the contingent consideration does not fall within the scope of MFRS 9, it is measured in
accordance with the appropriate MFRS.
Goodwill in initially measured at cost, being the excess of the aggregate of the consideration
transferred and the amount recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable assets
acquired and liabilities assumed. If this consideration is lower than the fair value of the net assets of
the subsidiary acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss.
After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses.
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the
acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit
from the combination, irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are assigned to
those units.
Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part of the operation within that unit is
disposed of, the goodwill associated with the operation disposed of is included in the carrying
amount of the operation when determining the gain or loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill
disposed of in this circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the operation disposed
of and the portion of the cash-generating unit retained.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
88
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.1 Consolidation (Cont’d)
3.1.2 Basis of Consolidation (Cont’d)
Merger Method
A business combination involving entities under common control is a business combination in
which the Group or business are ultimately controlled by same party or parties both before or after
the business combination, and that control is not transitory. The acquisition of MHC Coldstorage
Sdn. Bhd., MO Foodmart Sdn. Bhd. and HGMC Holding Sdn. Bhd. resulted in a business involving
common control entities since the management of all the entities which took part in the acquisition
were controlled by common Directors and under common shareholders before and immediately
after the acquisition, and accordingly the accounting treatment is outside the scope of MFRS 3.
For such common control business combinations, the merger accounting principles are used to
include the assets, liabilities, results, equity changes and cash flows of the Group in the financial
statements. The merger method of accounting on a retrospective basis and restated its comparative
as if the consolidation had taken place before the state of the earliest period presented in the
financial statements.
Under the merger method of accounting, the results of subsidiaries are presented as if the merger
had been effected throughout the current year. The consolidated assets and liabilities are accounted
for based on the carrying amounts from the perspective of the common control shareholders at the
date of transfer. On consolidation, the cost of the merger is cancelled with the values of the shares
received. Any resulting credit difference is classified as equity and regarded as a non-distributable
reserve. Any resulting debit difference is adjusted against any suitable reserve. Any reserves which are
attributable to share capital of the merged entities, to the extent that they have not been capitalised
by a debit difference, are reclassified and presented as movement in other capital reserves.
3.1.3 Loss of Control
Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities of the
subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of the equity related to the
subsidiary. Any surplus or deficit arising on the loss of control is recognised in profit or loss.
If the Group retains any interest in the previous subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value
at the date that control is lost. Subsequently it is accounted for as an equity accounted investee or
as a financial asset depending on the level of influence retained.
3.1.4 Eliminations on Consolidation
All intra-group balances, income and expenses and unrealised gains and losses resulting from intra-
group transactions are eliminated on consolidation.
Annual Report 2023 89
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.2 Property, Plant and Equipment
All property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less accumulated depreciation and less any
impairment losses. The cost of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised as an asset if, and
only if, it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the
cost of the item can be measured reliably.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the assets and any other
costs directly attributable to bring the asset to working condition for its intended use, cost of replacing
component parts of the assets, and the present value of the expected cost for the decommissioning of the
assets after their use. All other repair and maintenance costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Completed buildings on the freehold land are depreciated at 2% per
annum on a straight-line basis.
Depreciation is recognised on the straight-line method in order to write off the cost of each asset over its
estimated useful life. All property, plant and equipment are depreciated based on the estimated useful lives
of the assets as follows:-
Motor vehicles 20%
Factory equipment and machinery 5% - 10%
Office and other equipment and fittings 10% - 40%
Tools and renovations 10% - 20%
The residual values, useful life and depreciation method are reviewed for impairment when events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable, or at least annually
to ensure that the amount, method and period of depreciation are consistent with previous estimates and
expected pattern of consumption of future economic benefits embodied in the items of property, plant and
equipment.
Property, plant and equipment is derecognised upon disposal or when no future economic benefits are
expected from its use or disposal. Gain or loss arising on the disposal of property, plant and equipment are
determined as the difference between the disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the assets and are
recognised in profit or loss in the financial year in which the asset is derecognised.
Restoration cost relating to an item of property, plant and equipment is capitalised only if such expenditure
is expected to increase the future benefits from the existing property, plant and equipment beyond its
previously assessed standard of performance. The capitalised cost is depreciated over the expected life
of the asset.
Property, plant and equipment are written down to recoverable amount if, in the opinion of the Directors,
it is less than their carrying value. Recoverable amount is the net selling price of the property, plant and
equipment i.e. the amount obtainable from the sale of an asset in an arm’s length transaction between
knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of disposal.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
90
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.3 Inventories
Inventories, comprising raw materials, trading goods and finished goods, are stated at lower of cost and
net realisable value after adequate specific write down has been made by the Directors for deteriorated,
obsolete and slow-moving inventories.
Cost of raw materials is determined using first-in-first-out method and finished goods include direct
materials, direct labour and an approximate proportion of manufacturing overheads.
Cost of trading goods are determined using first-in-first-out method. Cost includes the original purchase
price plus direct cost of bringing these inventories to their present condition and location.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated cost
is necessary to make the sale.
3.4 Financial Instruments
3.4.1 Financial Assets
Initial Recognition and Measurement
Financial assets are classified, at initial recognition, as subsequently measured at amortised cost,
fair value through other comprehensive income (“OCI”) and fair value through profit or loss.
The classification of financial assets at initial recognition depends on the financial asset’s contractual
cash flow characteristics and the Group’s and the Company’s business model for managing them.
With the exception of trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component or
for which the Group and the Company have applied the practical expedient, the Group and the
Company initially measure a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset not at
fair value through profit or loss, transaction costs. Trade receivables that do not contain a significant
financing component or for which the Group and the Company have applied the practical expedient
are measured at the transaction price.
In order for a financial asset to be classified and measured at amortised cost or fair value through
OCI, it needs to give rise to cash flows that are ‘solely payments of principal and interest (“SPPI”)’ on
the principal amount outstanding. This assessment is referred to as the SPPI test and is performed
at an instrument level. Financial assets with cash flows that are not SPPI are classified and measured
at fair value through profit or loss, irrespective of the business model.
The Group’s and the Company’s business model for managing financial assets refers to how it
manages its financial assets in order to generate cash flows. The business model determines
whether cash flows will result from collecting contractual cash flows, selling the financial assets, or
both. Financial assets classified and measured at amortised cost are held within a business model
with the objective to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows while financial
assets classified and measured at fair value through OCI are held within a business model with the
objective of both holding to collect contractual cash flows and selling.
Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established
by regulation or convention in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade
date, i.e., the date that commits to purchase or sell the asset.
Annual Report 2023 91
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.4 Financial Instruments (Cont’d)
3.4.1 Financial Assets (Cont’d)
Subsequent Measurement
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial assets are classified in four categories:-
• Financial assets at amortised cost (debt instruments);
•	
Financial assets at fair value through OCI with recycling of cumulative gains and losses
(debt instruments);
•	
Financial assets designated at fair value through OCI with no recycling of cumulative gains
and losses upon derecognition (equity instruments); and
• Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss.
The Group and the Company only carry financial assets at amortised cost on the statements of
financial position.
Financial Assets at Amortised Cost
Financial assets at amortised cost are subsequently measured using the effective interest rate
(“EIR”) method and are subject to impairment. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss
when the asset is derecognised, modified or impaired. The Group’s and the Company’s financial
assets measured at amortised cost include trade and most of other receivables, fixed deposits with
licensed banks and cash and bank balances.
Derecognition
A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial
assets) is primarily derecognised when:-
• The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired; or
•	
The Group and the Company have transferred their rights to receive cash flows from the
asset or have assumed an obligation to pay the received cash flows in full without material
delay to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the Group and the
Company have transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the
Group and the Company have neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and
rewards of the asset, but has transferred control of the asset.
When the Group and the Company have transferred their rights to receive cash flows from an asset
or have entered into a passthrough arrangement, it evaluates if, and to what extent, it has retained
the risks and rewards of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor retained substantially all of
the risks and rewards of the asset, nor transferred control of the asset, the Group and the Company
continue to recognise the transferred asset to the extent of their continuing involvement. In that
case, the Group and the Company also recognise an associated liability. The transferred asset
and the associated liability are measured on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the
Group and the Company have retained.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
92
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.4 Financial Instruments (Cont’d)
3.4.1 Financial Assets (Cont’d)
Derecognition (Cont’d)
Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over the transferred asset is measured
at the lower of the original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of consideration
that the Group and the Company could be required to repay.
Impairment
The Group and the Company recognise an allowance for expected credit losses (“ECLs”) for all debt
instruments not held at fair value through profit or loss. ECLs are based on the difference between
the contractual cash flows due in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group
and the Company expect to receive, discounted at an approximation of the original effective interest
rate. The expected cash flows will include cash flows from the sale of collateral held or other credit
enhancements that are integral to the contractual terms.
ECLs are recognised in two stages. For credit exposures for which there has not been a significant
increase in credit risk since initial recognition, ECLs are provided for credit losses that result from
default events that are possible within the next 12-months (a 12-month ECLs). For those credit
exposures for which there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition, a loss
allowance is required for credit losses expected over the remaining life of the exposure, irrespective
of the timing of the default (a lifetime ECLs).
For trade receivables, the Group and the Company apply a simplified approach in calculating ECLs.
Therefore, the Group and the Company do not track changes in credit risk, but instead recognises
a loss allowance based on lifetime ECLs at each reporting date. The Group and the Company have
established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted for
forward-looking factors specific to the debtors and the economic environment.
The Group and the Company consider a financial asset in default when contractual payments are
past due. However, in certain cases, the Group and the Company may also consider a financial asset
to be in default when internal or external information indicates that the Group and the Company are
unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual amounts in full before taking into account any credit
enhancements held by the Group and the Company. A financial asset is written off when there is
no reasonable expectation of recovering the contractual cash flows. Other receivables which are in
default or credit impaired are assessed individually.
Annual Report 2023 93
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.4 Financial Instruments (Cont’d)
3.4.2 Financial Liabilities
Initial Recognition and Measurement
Financial liabilities are classified, at initial recognition, as financial liabilities at fair value through profit
or loss, loans and borrowings, payables, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments in an
effective hedge, as appropriate.
All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value and, in the case of loans and borrowings
and payables, net of directly attributable transaction costs.
Subsequent Measurement
For purposes of subsequent measurement, financial liabilities are classified in two categories:
• Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss; and
• Financial liabilities at amortised cost.
The Group and the Company only have financial liabilities at amortised cost on the statements of
financial position.
Financial Liabilities at Amortised Cost
After initial recognition, other payables and borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised
cost using the effective interest rate (“EIR”) method. Gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss
when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR amortisation process. Amortised cost
is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that
are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included as finance costs in the statements
of profit or loss. The Group’s and the Company’s financial liabilities measured at amortised cost
include trade and other payables, borrowings and lease liabilities.
Derecognition
A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the liability is discharged or cancelled
or expires. When an existing financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on
substantially different terms, or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an
exchange or modification is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the recognition
of a new liability. The difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the profit or loss.
3.4.3 Offsetting of Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount reported in the statements of
financial position if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognised
amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, to realise the assets and settle the
liabilities simultaneously.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
94
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.5 Impairment of Non-financial Assets
The Group and the Company assess at each reporting period whether there is an indication that an asset
may be impaired. If any indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for an asset is required,
the Group and the Company estimate the asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount
is higher of an asset’s or cash-generating unit’s (“CGU”) fair value less costs to sell and its value in use
and is determined for an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash inflows that are largely
independent of those from other assets or group of assets. Where the carrying amount of an asset or CGU
exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable
amount.
In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a
pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks
specific to the asset. In determining fair value less costs to sell, recent market transactions are taken into
account, if available. If no such transactions can be identified, an appropriate valuation model is used. These
calculations are corroborated by valuation multiples, quoted share prices for publicly traded subsidiaries or
other available fair value indicators.
The Group and the Company base their impairment calculation on detailed budgets and forecast calculations
which are prepared separately for each of the Group’s and the Company’s cash-generating units to which
the individual assets are allocated. These budgets and forecast calculations are generally covering a period
of five years. For longer periods, a long-term growth rate is calculated and applied to project future cash
flows after the fifth year.
For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether there is any
indication that previously recognised impairment losses may no longer exist or may have decreased.
If such indication exists, the Group and the Company estimate the asset’s or cash-generating unit’s
recoverable amount. A previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if there has been a change
in the assumptions used to determine the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was
recognised. The reversal is limited so that the carrying amount of the asset does not exceed its recoverable
amount, nor exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had no
impairment loss has been recognised for asset in prior years. Such reversal is recognised in the profit or
loss.
3.6 Cash and Cash Equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and bank balances, fixed deposits with licensed banks and bank
overdrafts which are readily convertible to known amount of cash and which are subject to an insignificant
risk of changes in value.
For the purpose of presentation in the statements of financial position, cash and cash equivalents restricted
to be used to settle a liability of 12 months or more after the end of the reporting year are classified as non-
current asset.
For the purpose of presentation in the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents are presented
net of bank overdrafts and pledged deposits.
Annual Report 2023 95
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.7 Contract Liabilities
A contract liability is recognised if a payment is received or a payment is due (whichever is earlier) from a
customer before the Group transfers the related goods or services. Contract liabilities are recognised as
revenue when the Group performs under the contract (i.e., transfers control of the related goods or services
to the customer).
3.8 Equity, Reserve and Distribution to Owners
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of the Company after
deducting all of its liabilities. Ordinary shares are equity instruments.
Retained earnings/(Accumulated losses) includes all current and prior years/period retained earnings/
(accumulated loss).
Interim dividends are simultaneously proposed and declared, because the articles of association of the
Company grants the Directors the authority to declare interim dividends. Consequently, interim dividends
are recognised directly as a liability when they are proposed and declared.
Final dividends proposed by the Directors are not accounted for in shareholder’s equity as an appropriation
of retained earnings, until they have been approved by the shareholders in a general meeting. When these
dividends have been approved by the shareholders and declared, they are recognised as a liability.
The distribution of non-cash assets to owners is recognised as a dividend payable when the dividend was
approved by shareholders. The dividend payable is measured at the fair value of the shares to be distributed.
At the end of the financial year, the Company reviews the carrying amount of the dividend payable, with any
changes in the fair value of the dividend payable are recognised in equity. When the Company settles the
dividend payable, the difference between the carrying amount of the dividend distributed and the carrying
amount of the dividend payable is recognised as a separate line item in profit or loss.
All transactions with owners of the Company are recorded separately within equity.
3.9 Leases
The Group assesses at contract inception whether a contract is, or contains, a lease. That is, if the contract
conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration.
As a Lessee
The Group applies a single recognition and measurement approach for all leases, except for short-term
leases and leases of low-value assets. The Group recognises lease liabilities to make lease payments and
right-of-use assets representing the right to use the underlying assets.
Right-of-use Assets
The Group recognises right-of-use assets at the commencement date of the lease (i.e., the date the
underlying asset is available for use). Right-of-use assets are measured at cost, less any accumulated
depreciation and impairment losses, and adjusted for any remeasurement of lease liabilities. The cost of
right-of-use assets includes the amount of lease liabilities recognised, initial direct costs incurred, and lease
payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentives received.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
96
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.9 Leases (Cont’d)
As a Lessee (cont’d)
Right-of-use Assets (cont’d)
Right-of-use assets are depreciated based on the estimated useful life of the assets as follows:-
Leasehold land 2% - 3%
Leasehold land and building Over the remaining lease term of 96 years
Motor vehicles 20%
Leased outlets and office Over the lease term of 2 to 9 years
If ownership of the leased asset transfers to the Group at the end of the lease term or the cost reflects the
exercise of a purchase option, depreciation is calculated using the estimated useful life of the asset.
The right-of-use assets are also subject to impairment. Refer to the accounting policies in Note 3.5 to the
financial statements.
Lease Liabilities
At the commencement date of the lease, the Group recognises lease liabilities measured at the present
value of lease payments to be made over the lease term. The lease payments include fixed payments
(including in-substance fixed payments) less any lease incentives receivable, variable lease payments that
depend on an index or a rate, and amounts expected to be paid under residual value guarantees. The lease
payments also include the exercise price of a purchase option reasonably certain to be exercised by the
Group and payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Group exercising
the option to terminate. Variable lease payments that do not depend on an index or a rate are recognised
as expenses (unless they are incurred to produce inventories) in the period in which the event or condition
that triggers the payment occurs.
In calculating the present value of lease payments, the Group uses its incremental borrowing rate at the
lease commencement date because the interest rate implicit in the lease is not readily determinable. After
the commencement date, the amount of lease liabilities is increased to reflect the accretion of interest and
reduced for the lease payments made. In addition, the carrying amount of lease liabilities is remeasured if
there is a modification, a change in the lease term, a change in the lease payments (e.g., changes to future
payments resulting from a change in an index or rate used to determine such lease payments) or a change
in the assessment of an option to purchase the underlying asset.
As a practical expedient, MFRS 16 permits a lessee not to separate non-lease components, and instead
account for any lease and associated non-lease components as a single arrangement. The Group has used
this practical expedient.
Annual Report 2023 97
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.9 Leases (Cont’d)
As a Lessee (cont’d)
Short-term Leases and Leases of Low-value Assets
The Group applies the short-term lease recognition exemption to its short-term leases of staff quarters,
cold room, machinery and equipment (i.e., those leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less from
the commencement date and do not contain a purchase option). It also applies the lease of low-value
assets recognition exemption to leases of forklift, equipment and software that are considered to be low
value. Lease payments on short-term leases and leases of low-value assets are recognised as expense on
a straight-line basis over the lease term.
As a Lessor
The Group classified its leases as either operating leases or finance leases. Leases where the Group retains
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the leased assets are classified as operating leases.
Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased
asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as rental income.
If the Group transfers substantially all the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the leased assets,
leases are classified as finance leases and are capitalised at an amount equal to the net investment in the
lease.
3.10 Borrowing Costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are
capitalised as part of the cost of the assets during the period of time that is necessary to complete and
prepare the asset for its intended use or sale.
The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when expenditure
for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that are necessary to
prepare the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation of borrowing costs is suspended
or ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use
or sale are interrupted or completed.
All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which they are incurred. Borrowing costs consist of
interest and other costs that the Group incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
98
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.11 Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Group or the Company have a present obligation (legal or constructive)
as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will
be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation.
When the Group or the Company expect some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, for example, under an
insurance contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset, but only when the reimbursement
is virtually certain. The expense relating to a provision is presented in the statement of profit or loss net of
any reimbursement.
If the effect of the time of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre tax rate that
reflects, where appropriate, the risks specific to the liability. When discounting is used, the increase in the
provision due to the passage of time is recognised as a finance cost.
3.11.1 Provision for Restoration Costs
A provision for restoration is recognised when there is a present obligation as a result of production
activities undertaken, it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required to settle
the obligation, and the amount of the provision can be measured reliably. The estimated future
obligations include the costs of removing the facilities and restoring the affected areas.
3.12 Contingencies
3.12.1 Contingent Liabilities
Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount cannot
be estimated reliably, the obligation is not recognised in the statements of financial position and is
disclosed as a contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote.
Possible obligations, whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-occurrence
of one or more future events, are also disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the probability of
outflow of economic benefits is remote.
3.12.2 Contingent Assets
When an inflow of economic benefit of an asset is probable where it arises from past events and
where existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more
uncertain future events not wholly within the control of the entity, the asset is not recognised in the
statements of financial position but is being disclosed as a contingent asset. When the inflow of
economic benefit is virtually certain, then the related asset is recognised.
Annual Report 2023 99
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.13 Foreign Currency Transactions and Balances
Transactions in foreign currencies are initially recorded at the functional currency rates prevailing at the date
of the transaction.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the functional currency
spot rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date.
All differences are taken to the profit or loss.
Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are translated using
the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non-monetary items measured at fair value
in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined.
The gain or loss arising in translation of non-monetary items is recognised in line with the gain or loss of
the item that gave rise to the translation difference (translation differences on items whose gain or loss
is recognised in other comprehensive income or profit or loss is also recognised in other comprehensive
income or profit or loss respectively).
3.14 Employee Benefits
3.14.1 Short-term Employee Benefits
Wages, salaries, bonuses and social security contributions are recognised as an expense in
the financial period, in which the associated services are rendered by employees of the Group.
Short-term accumulating compensated absences such as paid annual leave is recognised when
services are rendered by employees that increase their entitlement to future compensated absences,
and short-term non-accumulating compensated absences such as sick leave are recognised when
the absences occur.
3.14.2 Defined Contribution Plan
Defined contribution plan is post-employment benefit plan under which the Group pays fixed
contributions into independent entities of funds and will have no legal or constructive obligation to
pay further contribution if any of the funds do not hold sufficient assets to pay all employee benefits
relating to employee services in the current and preceding financial years.
Such contributions are recognised as expenses in the profit or loss as incurred. As required by law,
the Group makes such contributions to the Employees Provident Fund.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
100
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.15 Revenue Recognition
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer in exchange
for transferring goods to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The Group
recognises revenue when it transfers control over a product to the customer. An asset is transferred when
the customer obtains control of the asset.
The control of the promised goods may be transferred over time or at a point in time. Revenue for performance
obligation that is not satisfied over time is recognised at the point in time at which the customer obtains
control of the promised goods or services.
The control over the goods is transferred over time and revenue is recognised over time if:-
•	
the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group’s performance
as the Group performs;
•	
the Group’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is
created or enhanced; or
•	
the Group’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group has an
enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
3.15.1 Sale of Goods
Revenue relating to sale of goods is recognised net of sales returns and discount upon the transfer
of control of the goods to the customers. Revenue is not recognised to the extent where there
are significant uncertainties regarding recovery of the consideration due, associated costs or the
possible return of goods.
3.15.2 Other Revenue Recognition
Rental Income
Rental income is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the lease terms. The aggregate costs
of incentives provided to lessees are recognised as a reduction of rental income over the lease term
on a straight-line basis.
Interest Income
Interest income is recognised in the profit or loss on time proportion basis, taking into account the
principal outstanding and the effective rate over the period to maturity, when it is determined that
such income will accrue to the Group.
Annual Report 2023 101
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.16 Tax Expense
Tax expense comprise current tax and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are recognised in profit or
loss except to the extent that it relates to a business combination or items recognised directly in equity or
other comprehensive income.
3.16.1 Current Tax
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using
tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, and any adjustment to
tax payable in respect of previous year.
Current tax is recognised in the statements of financial position as a liability (or an asset) to the
extent that it is unpaid (or refundable).
3.16.2 Deferred Tax
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the statements of financial position and their tax
bases. Deferred tax is not recognised for the temporary differences arising from the initial recognition
of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets and liabilities in a transaction that is not a business
combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is measured
at the tax rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences when they reverse,
based on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
The amount of deferred tax recognised is measured based on the expected manner of realisation or
settlement of the carrying amount of the assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted or substantively
enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current tax
liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the same
taxable entity, or on different entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a
net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be
available against which the temporary difference can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at
the end of each reporting period and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the
related tax benefit will be realised.
3.17 Related Parties
A related party is a person or entity that is related to the Group and the Company. A related party transaction
is a transfer of resources, services or obligations between the Company and its related party, regardless of
whether a price is charged.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
102
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONT’D)
3.17 Related Parties (cont’d)
		 (a) A person or a close member of that person’s family is related to the Group if that person:-
			 (i) Has control or joint control over the Group;
			 (ii) Has significant influence over the Group; or
			 (iii) Is a member of the key management personnel of the Group.
		 (b) An entity is related to the Group if any of the following conditions applies:-
			 (i) The entity and the Group are members of the same group.
			 (ii) The entity is an associate or joint venture of the Group.
			 (iii) Both the Group and the entity are joint ventures of the same third party.
			 (iv)	
The Group is a joint venture of a third entity and the other entity is an associate of the same
third entity.
			 (v)	
The entity is a post-employment benefit plan for the benefits of employees of either the
Group or an entity related to the Group.
			 (vi) The entity is controlled or jointly-controlled by a person identified in (a) above.
			 (vii) 	
A person identified in (a)(i) above has significant influence over the entity or is a member of
the key management personnel of the entity.
			 (viii)	The entity, or any member of a group of which it is a part, provides key management personnel
services to the Group.
3.18 Operating Segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may
earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenue and expenses that relate to transactions with any of
the Group’s other components. All operating segments’ operating results are reviewed regularly by the chief
operating decision maker to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess
its performance, and for which discrete financial information is available.
Annual Report 2023 103
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
4. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Freehold
land Buildings
Motor
vehicles
Factory
equipment
and
machinery
Office
and other
equipment
and
fittings
Tools and
renovations Total
RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Cost
At 1 May 2021 1,347,648 760,000 200,399 19,423,267 4,827,885 3,115,369 29,674,568
Additions - - - 213,282 19,910 6,276 239,468
Reclassified from
  right-of-use assets - - 490,390 - - - 490,390
At 30 April 2022 1,347,648 760,000 690,789 19,636,549 4,847,795 3,121,645 30,404,426
Additions
Written off
Disposal
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
-
(634,050)
594,264
-
-
141,205
(84,451)
-
297,479
-
-
1,032,948
(84,451)
(634,050)
Reclassified from
  right-of-use assets - - 1,468,656 - - - 1,468,656
At 30 April 2023 1,347,648 760,000 1,525,395 20,230,813 4,904,549 3,419,124 32,187,529
Accumulated
 depreciation
At 1 May 2021 - 78,533 191,559 4,668,129 1,748,463 871,958 7,558,642
Charge for the financial
year - 15,200 4,920 1,097,878 492,349 263,306 1,873,653
Reclassified from
  right-of-use assets - - 490,390 - - - 490,390
At 30 April 2022 - 93,733 686,869 5,766,007 2,240,812 1,135,264 9,922,685
Charge for the financial
year - 15,200 117,063 1,087,007 487,850 277,041 1,984,161
Written off - - - - (30,322) - (30,322)
Disposal - - (634,050) - - - (634,050)
Reclassified from
  right-of-use assets - - 628,735 - - - 628,735
At 30 April 2023 - 108,933 798,617 6,853,014 2,698,340 1,412,305 11,871,209
Net carrying amount
At 30 April 2023 1,347,648 651,067 726,778 13,377,799 2,206,209 2,006,819 20,316,320
At 30 April 2022 1,347,648 666,267 3,920 13,870,542 2,606,983 1,986,381 20,481,741
Included in the renovation of RM991,586 (2022: RM743,442) is the provision for restoration costs based on the
estimated costs to restore the factory and leased outlets at the end of their respective lease term.
The freehold land and buildings have been pledged to financial institution for banking facilities granted to the
Group as disclosed in Note 13 to the financial statements.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
104
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
5. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Leasehold
land
Leasehold
land and
building
Motor
vehicles
Leased
outlets and
office Total
RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Cost
At 1 May 2021 4,793,956 630,000 1,288,858 2,076,459 8,789,273
Additions - - 1,134,606 127,427 1,262,033
Disposal - - (130,000) - (130,000)
Reclassified to property, plant and
equipment - - (490,390) - (490,390)
Early termination of lease contracts - - - (284,125) (284,125)
Expiration of lease contracts - - - (133,837) (133,837)
At 30 April 2022 4,793,956 630,000 1,803,074 1,785,924 9,012,954
Additions 97,668 - - 687,546 785,214
Reclassified to property, plant and
equipment - - (1,468,656) - (1,468,656)
Expiration of lease contracts - - - (654,806) (654,806)
At 30 April 2023 4,891,624 630,000 334,418 1,818,664 7,674,706
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 May 2021 668,116 - 926,625 986,572 2,581,313
Charge for the financial year 121,351 - 288,644 405,979 815,974
Disposal - - (93,167) - (93,167)
Reclassified to property, plant and
equipment - - (490,390) - (490,390)
Early termination of lease contracts - - - (189,417) (189,417)
Expiration of lease contracts - - - (133,837) (133,837)
At 30 April 2022 789,467 - 631,712 1,069,297 2,490,476
Charge for the financial year 126,996 - 180,343 382,229 689,568
Reclassified to property, plant and
equipment - - (628,735) - (628,735)
Expiration of lease contracts - - - (654,806) (654,806)
At 30 April 2023 916,463 - 183,320 796,720 1,896,503
Net carrying amount
At 30 April 2023 3,975,161 630,000 151,098 1,021,944 5,778,203
At 30 April 2022 4,004,489 630,000 1,171,362 716,627 6,522,478
Annual Report 2023 105
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
5. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONT’D)
The cost and the net carrying amount of the leasehold land are not segregated from the building as required details
are not available.
The strata title of the leasehold land and building with net carrying amount of RM630,000 (2022: RM630,000) has
yet to be issued by relevant authorities.
Assets held under financial lease arrangements
The entire motor vehicles are held under finance lease arrangements and pledged as security for the related
finance lease.
Assets pledged as securities to financial institutions
The net carrying amount of assets pledged as securities for bank borrowings are:-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Leasehold land 2,397,345 2,455,018
Leasehold land and building 630,000 630,000
3,027,345 3,085,018
6. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2023 2022
RM RM
Unquoted shares
At cost 20,005,000 20,000,000
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:-
Effective
Interest
Principal Place of
Business Principal Activities
2023 2022
% %
Held by the Company:-
MHC Coldstorage Sdn. Bhd. (“MHC”) 100 100 Malaysia Processing and trading of frozen
seafood products
MO Foodmart Sdn. Bhd. (“MO”) 100 100 Malaysia Trading of frozen seafood and other
products
HGMC Holding Sdn. Bhd. (“HGMC”) 100 100 Malaysia Trading of frozen seafood and other
products
More Distribution Sdn. Bhd. (“MD”) 100 - Malaysia Dormant
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
106
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
6. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
Incorporation of new subsidiary
2023
On 18 January 2023, the Company incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary, More Distribution Sdn. Bhd. (“MD”)
with a paid-up capital of RM5,000.
7. FIXED DEPOSITS WITH LICENSED BANKS
Group
Fixed deposits with licensed banks amounted to RM17,626,560 (2022: RM9,859,422) have been pledged as
collateral for credit facilities obtained from financial institutions.
The interest rates of fixed deposits with licensed banks are ranging from 1.60% to 2.95% (2022: 1.60% to 1.89%)
per annum.
8. INVENTORIES
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Trading goods 7,605,990 11,623,366
Recognised in profit or loss:-
Inventories recognised in cost of sales 431,801,848 294,778,046
Annual Report 2023 107
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
9. TRADE RECEIVABLES
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Trade receivables 127,160,503 43,228,694
Less: Accumulated impairment losses
Brought forward (82,722) (293,926)
Reversal - 211,204
Carried forward (82,722) (82,722)
127,077,781 43,145,972
The normal credit terms granted to customers ranging from cash on delivery to 120 days (2022: cash on delivery
to 120 days).
10. OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
Non-trade receivables 1,241,291 176,803 32,257 -
Advance to suppliers 200,733 56,886 - -
Deposits 834,826 868,921 300 300
Prepayments 1,040,030 64,695 - -
Subsidiary - - 37,300,000 -
3,316,880 1,167,305 37,332,557 300
Less: Accumulated impairment losses
Brought forward - (34,699) - -
Reversal - 34,699 - -
Carried forward - - - -
3,316,880 1,167,305 37,332,557 300
Deposits of RM485,007 (2022: RM501,137) is pledged as securities for banking facilities granted to the Group.
The amount due from a subsidiary is unsecured, non-interest bearing and is repayable on demand.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
108
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
11. SHARE CAPITAL
Group and Company
2023 2022 2023 2022
Unit Unit RM RM
Issued and fully paid with no par value:-
Brought forward 400,020,000 400,020,000 20,001,000 20,001,000
Issuance of shares 135,000,000 - 48,600,000 -
Share issuance expenses - - (1,554,304) -
Carried forward 535,020,000 400,020,000 67,046,696 20,001,000
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company. All ordinary
shares carry one vote per share without restrictions and rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets.
12. MERGER DEFICIT
The merger deficit arise as and when the combination take place, it comprises the difference between the cost of
merger and the share capital of subsidiaries, as disclosed in Note 3.1.2 to the financial statements.
13. BORROWINGS
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Non-current
Secured:-
Term loans 9,357,523 10,965,260
Current
Secured:-
Bank overdrafts 4,311,623 1,839,849
Term loans 2,196,770 2,470,093
Bankers’ acceptance 56,688,181 26,377,284
Invoice financing 500,736 511,097
Revolving financing 4,458,114 4,423,207
Unsecured:-
Bankers’ acceptance - 303,394
68,155,424 35,924,924
Annual Report 2023 109
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
13. BORROWINGS (CONT’D)
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Total borrowings
Bank overdrafts 4,311,623 1,839,849
Term loans 11,554,293 13,435,353
Bankers’ acceptance 56,688,181 26,680,678
Invoice financing 500,736 511,097
Revolving financing 4,458,114 4,423,207
77,512,947 46,890,184
The borrowings are secured by the following:-
(i) First party legal charge over the freehold land and buildings as disclosed in Note 4 to the financial statements;
(ii) First party legal charge over the leasehold land and building as disclosed in Note 5 to the financial
statements;
(iii) Fixed deposits as disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements;
(iv) Debenture over fixed and floating, present and future assets of the Group;
(v) Corporate guarantee by the Company and companies in which a Director has interest;
(vi) Joint and several guarantee by a Director of the Group and an individual connected to a Director of the
Company;
(vii) Supplementary memorandum of deposit as disclosed in Note 10 to the financial statements; and
(viii) Guarantee by Syarikat Jaminan Pembiayaan Perniagaan Berhad and Credit Guarantee Corporation
Malaysia Berhad.
Group
2023 2022
% %
Effective interest rates:-
Bank overdrafts 7.20 -10.85 6.20 - 10.20
Term loans 4.10 - 7.20 2.90 - 6.70
Bankers’ acceptance 3.55 - 7.90 3.10 - 6.90
Invoice financing 6.58 - 6.77 4.99 - 5.00
Revolving financing 8.35 7.70
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
110
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
14. LEASE LIABILITIES
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Non-current 2,742,673 3,294,421
Current 469,972 562,096
3,212,645 3,856,517
The Group has leased several assets including leasehold land and building, motor vehicles, leased outlets and
office. Future minimum lease payments as at year end is as follows:-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Within 1 year 637,458 747,864
After 1 year but not later than 2 years 568,910 654,955
After 2 years but not later than 5 years 997,200 1,406,613
More than 5 years 2,638,125 2,784,000
Total undiscounted lease liabilities 4,841,693 5,593,432
The expenses relating to payments not included in the measurement of lease liabilities is as follows:-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Short-term leases 162,626 735,909
Low-value assets 553,824 138,376
716,450 874,285
The total cash outflows for leases of the Group is RM2,329,831 (2022: RM1,794,448).
The effective interest rates of lease liabilities of the Group are charged at rates ranging from 3.93% to 6.88%
(2022: 3.93% to 6.88%) per annum.
The lease liabilities of the Group are secured by the related underlying assets and against personal guarantee by
a Director.
Annual Report 2023 111
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
15. PROVISION FOR RESTORATION COSTS
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Non-current 1,856,728 1,336,074
Provision for restoration costs comprise estimated costs of dismantle, removal or restoration of factory and leased
outlets upon the expiry of tenancy agreements. The reconciliation of the provision for restoration costs is as
follows:-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Brought forward 1,336,074 1,223,373
Recognised in property, plant and equipment 295,180 -
Recognised in profit or loss 225,474 112,701
Carried forward 1,856,728 1,336,074
16. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Brought forward 272,000 264,000
Recognised in profit or loss 13,000 8,000
Carried forward 285,000 272,000
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
112
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
16. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
The components and movement of the Group’s deferred tax assets/(liabilities) are as follows:-
Provision
Unutilised
capital
allowance
Contract
liabilities
Property,
plant and
equipment
Right-of-
use assets
and lease
liabilities Total
RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
At 1 May 2021 - 65,000 29,000 (358,000) - (264,000)
Recognised in profit or loss 52,000 (65,000) (29,000) 34,000 - (8,000)
At 30 April 2022 52,000 - - (324,000) - (272,000)
Recognised in profit or loss (44,000) - - 11,000 20,000 (13,000)
At 30 April 2023 8,000 - - (313,000) 20,000 (285,000)
Presented after appropriate offsetting as follows:-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Deferred tax assets (before offsetting) (28,000) (52,000)
Offsetting 28,000 52,000
Deferred tax assets (after offsetting) - -
Deferred tax liabilities (before offsetting) 313,000 324,000
Offsetting (28,000) (52,000)
Deferred tax liabilities (after offsetting) 285,000 272,000
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets
against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes relate to the same authority.
17. TRADE PAYABLES
The credit terms granted by the suppliers ranging from cash on delivery to 90 days (2022: cash on delivery to 90
days).
Annual Report 2023 113
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
18. OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
Subsidiaries - - 735,500 854,148
Non-trade payables 4,495,290 3,735,947 - 218,403
Advance from customers
Accruals
92,518
980,307
-
5,522,931
-
59,000
-
17,000
Deposit received 25,430 17,344 - -
5,593,545 9,276,222 794,500 1,089,551
The amount due to subsidiaries are unsecured, non-interest bearing and has no fixed term of repayment.
19. CONTRACT LIABILITIES
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Loyalty points program - -
Contract liabilities related to the loyalty points that are yet to be redeemed. The amount was recognised as revenue
when the points were redeemed. The unredeemed loyalty points had no expiry date but the management expected
the loyalty points will be fully redeemed by customers within 1 to 2 years based on their historical trend and
experience.
The loyalty points program was terminated in 2022.
Movement of contract liabilities as at the end of each reporting year are as follows:-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Brought forward - 120,440
Recognised during the financial year - (74,470)
Lapsed during the financial year - (45,970)
Carried forward - -
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
114
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
20. REVENUE
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Revenue recognised at a point in time:-
- Sales of frozen seafood and other products 502,604,992 349,143,996
Primary geographical market:-
- Malaysia 260,814,411 149,395,401
- Saudi Arabia 10,372,815 42,728,825
- China 229,805,463 154,339,209
- United Arab Emirates 877,648 2,680,561
- Indonesia 429,241 -
- Singapore 305,414 -
502,604,992 349,143,996
21. FINANCE COSTS
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Lease liabilities 204,295 218,191
Bankers’ acceptance 1,230,815 1,141,514
Bank guarantee 393,911 82,300
Bank overdrafts 212,744 99,940
Invoice financing 36,912 18,534
Term loans 649,388 720,289
Restoration costs 225,474 112,701
Revolving financing 381,674 267,739
3,335,213 2,661,208
Annual Report 2023 115
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
22. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX
Profit/(Loss) before tax has been determined after charging/(crediting), amongst other items, the following:-
Group Company
2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
Auditors’ remuneration
- Statutory audit 187,000 158,000 27,000 15,000
- Others 31,000 33,000 11,000 4,000
Interest income:
- Current accounts (258,729) (2,178) (253,914) -
- Fixed deposits (216,478) (215,728) - -
Realised loss/ (gain) on foreign exchange 340,409 (2,787,024) - -
23. TAX EXPENSE
Group Company
2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
Current tax
- Current year 545,912 180,498 60,939 -
- Under/(Over) provision in prior financial year 75,851 (5,056) - -
621,763 175,442 60,939 -
Deferred tax
- Current year 13,000 75,000 - -
- Over recognised in prior financial year - (67,000) - -
13,000 8,000 - -
Total 634,763 183,442 60,939 -
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
116
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
23. TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)
Malaysian income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 24% of the estimated taxable profits for the financial
year. The numerical reconciliation between effective tax rate and the statutory tax rate of the Group and of the
Company are as follows:-
Group Company
2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
Profit/(Loss) before tax 37,467,943 21,294,764 (1,839,831) (909,455)
Tax at Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24% 8,992,306 5,110,743 (441,559) (218,269)
Tax effects in respect of:-
Income exempted under pioneer status (10,225,009) (5,706,224) - -
Income exempted under tax incentive (217,553) (143,400) - -
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,009,168 999,722 502,498 218,269
Income not subject to tax - (5,343) - -
Under/(Over) provision of tax expense in prior
financial year 75,851 (5,056) - -
Over recognised of deferred tax liabilities in
prior financial year - (67,000) - -
634,763 183,442 60,939 -
On 14 December 2017, the Malaysian Investment Development Authority had granted MHC 100% income tax
exemption on statutory income derived from approved business, pursuant to the Income Tax (exemption) (No. 6)
2016/P.U. (A) 159/2016 for a period of 10 years commencing from year of assessment from 2018 to 2027.
Annual Report 2023 117
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
24. EARNINGS PER SHARE
Group
(a) Basic earnings per share
Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to owners of the Company for
the financial year by the weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue during the financial year as
follows:
2023 2022
RM RM
Profit attributable to owners of the Company (RM) 36,883,180 21,111,322
Weighted average number of ordinary shares 481,389,863 400,020,000
Basic earnings per share (sen) 7.65 5.28
(b) Diluted earnings per share
The earnings per share equals basic earnings per share as there were no dilutive potential equity instruments
in issue that gave diluted effect to the earnings per share.
25. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS EXPENSE
Group Company
2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
Staffs’ remuneration
Salaries, wages and other emoluments 2,818,888 3,212,864 - -
Defined contribution plan 206,687 186,640 - -
Social security contribution 40,623 26,906 - -
Employment insurance scheme 4,148 3,126 - -
Total 3,070,346 3,429,536 - -
Directors’ remuneration
Salaries and other emoluments 732,900 1,516,960 6,000 -
Directors’ fees 112,000 - 112,000
Defined contribution plan 243,805 32,079 - -
Social security contribution 1,772 1,103 - -
Employment insurance scheme 203 127 - -
Total 1,090,680 1,550,269 118,000 -
Grand total 4,161,026 4,979,805 118,000 -
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
118
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
26. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
(a) There were no significant related party transactions other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial
statements during the current and previous financial year.
(b) The outstanding balances arising from related party transactions as at the reporting date are disclosed in
Notes 10 and 18 to the financial statements.
(c) Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning,
directing and controlling the activities of the Group either directly or indirectly and entity that provides key
management personnel services to the Group.
Key management includes all the Directors and certain members of senior management of the Group.
The remuneration of the Board of Directors are disclosed in Note 25 to the financial statements.
The remuneration of key management personnel other than the Board of Directors are as follows:-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Salaries and other emoluments 353,835 585,875
Defined contribution plan 39,234 28,508
Social security contribution 2,389 2,486
Employment insurance scheme 273 285
395,731 617,154
Annual Report 2023 119
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
27.1 Categories of Financial Instruments
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments measured at amortised cost.
Group Company
2023 2022 2023 2022
RM RM RM RM
Financial assets
Trade receivables 127,077,781 43,145,972 - -
Other receivables 2,276,850 1,102,610 37,332,557 300
Fixed deposits with licensed banks 27,802,580 9,860,422 - -
Cash and bank balances 59,653,357 45,525,551 7,574,557 1,000
216,810,568 99,634,555 44,907,114 1,300
Financial liabilities
Trade payables 6,104,699 3,686,941 - -
Other payables 5,593,545 9,276,222 794,500 1,089,551
Borrowings 77,512,947 46,890,184 - -
Lease liabilities 3,212,645 3,856,517 - -
92,423,836 63,709,864 794,500 1,089,551
27.2 Financial Risk Management
The Group and the Company are exposed to financial risks arising from their operations and the use of
financial instruments. The Group and the Company have established policies and procedures to ensure
effective management of credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
The following sections explain key risks faced by the Group, the Company and their management.
27.2.1 Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group and the Company if a customer or counterparty
to a financial instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations.
Concentration of credit risk exists when changes in economic, industry and geographical factors
similarly affect the group of counterparties whose aggregate credit exposure is significant in relation
to the Group’s and the Company’s total credit exposure. The Group’s and the Company’s portfolio
of financial instrument is broadly diversified along geographical lines and transactions are entered
into with diverse creditworthy counterparties, thereby mitigate any significant concentration of credit
risk.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
120
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
27.2 Financial Risk Management (Cont’d)
27.2.1 Credit Risk (Cont’d)
It is the Group’s and the Company’s policy to enter into financial instruments with a diversity of
creditworthy counterparties. The Group does not expect to incur material credit losses on their
financial assets or other financial instruments.
It is the Group’s and the Company’s policy that all customers who wish to trade on credit terms
are subject to credit verification procedures. The Group and the Company do not offer credit terms
without the approval of the management.
The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk are as follows:-
Trade Receivables
Trade receivables are monitored on an ongoing basis to mitigate risk of bad debts. The Group’s
exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer.
However, the management also considers the factors that may influence the credit risk of its
customer base, including the default risk associated with the industry in which customers operate.
The management has established a credit policy under which each new customer is analysed
individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and
conditions are offered. Sale limits are established for each customer and reviewed quarterly. Any
sales exceeding those limits require approval from the management.
An impairment analysis performed at each reporting date using provision matrix to measure expected
credit losses. The provision rates are based on days past due for groupings of various customer
segments with similar loss patterns by customer type and rating. The calculation reflects the
probability-weighted outcome, the time value of money and reasonable and supportable information
that is available at the reporting date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future
economic conditions.
Annual Report 2023 121
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
27.2 Financial Risk Management (Cont’d)
27.2.1 Credit Risk (Cont’d)
The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk are as follows (Cont’d):-
Trade Receivables (Cont’d)
The following table provides information about the credit risk exposure on the Group’s trade
receivables using provision matrix:-
Gross
carrying
amount
Expected
credit loss
Net carrying
amount
RM RM RM
Group
2023
Not past due 124,959,874 - 124,959,874
Past due 1 to 30 days 624,670 - 624,670
Past due 31 to 60 days 300,164 - 300,164
Past due 61 to 90 days 7,063 - 7,063
Past due 91 to 120 days 8,515 - 8,515
Past due more than 120 days 1,260,217 (82,722) 1,177,495
127,160,503 (82,722) 127,077,781
2022
Not past due 37,988,526 - 37,988,526
Past due 1 to 30 days 1,406,265 - 1,406,265
Past due 31 to 60 days 739,032 - 739,032
Past due 61 to 90 days 2,546,018 - 2,546,018
Past due 91 to 120 days 496,207 (30,076) 466,131
Past due more than 120 days 52,646 (52,646) -
43,228,694 (82,722) 43,145,972
Trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are credit worthy debtors with good payment
records with the Group. None of the Group’s trade receivables that are neither past due nor impaired
have been renegotiated during the financial year.
None of the Group’s financial assets are secured by collateral or other credit enhancements.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
122
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
27.2 Financial Risk Management (Cont’d)
27.2.1 Credit Risk (Cont’d)
The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk are as follows (Cont’d):-
Trade Receivables (Cont’d)
The credit risk concentration profile of the Group as at the reporting date is as follows:-
Group
2023 2022
RM % RM %
Malaysia
Top Nil (2021: 1) customer - - 10,022,862 23
China
Top 2 (2022: 2) customers 87,158,771 69 18,518,527 43
Other Receivables
The maximum exposure of credit risk of sundry receivables and deposits is represented by their
carrying amounts stated in the financial statements. The Company provides advances to a subsidiary
and monitor its results regularly.
As at the reporting date, there is no indication that the advances to the subsidiary are not recoverable.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
The credit risk for cash and cash equivalents is considered negligible, since the counterparties are
reputable financial institutions with high quality external credit ratings.
Performance Bond
Performance bond requires the Group to make payments to third parties in the event that the Group
does not perform in according to the terms of any related contracts. The maximum exposure to
credit risk amounted to RM300,000 (2022: RM300,000).
Annual Report 2023 123
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
27.2 Financial Risk Management (Cont’d)
27.2.1 Credit Risk (Cont’d)
The areas where the Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk are as follows (Cont’d):-
Financial Guarantees
The Company provides unsecured financial guarantees to licensed banks for banking facilities
granted to subsidiaries. The maximum exposure to credit risk of the Company as at the reporting
date is RM75,568,533 (2022: RM7,422,379), representing the outstanding banking facilities utilised
by the said subsidiaries as at the reporting date.
The Company monitors on an ongoing basis the results of the subsidiaries and repayments made
by the subsidiaries. As at the reporting date, there was no indication that the said subsidiaries
would default on repayment. The Directors considered that the fair value of the financial guarantee
contracts on initial recognition is insignificant.
27.2.2 Liquidity Risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet their financial
obligations as and when they fall due, due to shortage of funds.
In managing its exposures to liquidity risk that arises principally from their various payables, loans
and borrowings, the Group and the Company maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and
bank facilities deemed adequate by the management to ensure, as far as possible that they will have
sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as and when they fall due.
The Group and the Company aim at maintaining a balance of sufficient cash and deposits and
flexibility in funding by keeping diverse sources of committed and uncommitted credit facilities from
various banks.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
124
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
27.2 Financial Risk Management (Cont’d)
27.2.2 Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)
The summary of the maturity profile based on the contractual undiscounted repayment obligations
is as follows:-
Maturity
Carrying
amount
Contractual
cash flow
Less than 1
year
Between 1
to 2 years
Between 2
to 5 years
More than
5 years
RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
2023
Trade payables 6,104,699 6,104,699 6,104,699 - - -
Other payables 5,593,545 5,593,545 5,593,545 - - -
Borrowings 77,512,947 78,938,235 68,705,178 2,646,328 6,357,509 1,229,220
Lease liabilities 3,212,645 4,841,693 637,458 568,910 997,200 2,638,125
92,423,836 95,478,172 81,040,880 3,215,238 7,354,709 3,867,345
Performance bond* 300,000 300,000 300,000 - - -
2022
Trade payables 3,686,941 3,686,941 3,686,941 - - -
Other payables 9,276,222 9,276,222 9,276,222 - - -
Borrowings 46,890,184 48,806,391 36,567,439 2,563,409 8,591,805 1,083,738
Lease liabilities 3,856,517 5,593,432 747,864 654,955 1,406,613 2,784,000
63,709,864 67,362,986 50,278,466 3,218,364 9,998,418 3,867,738
Performance bond* 300,000 300,000 300,000 - - -
Annual Report 2023 125
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
27.2 Financial Risk Management (Cont’d)
27.2.2 Liquidity Risk (Cont’d)
The summary of the maturity profile based on the contractual undiscounted repayment obligations
is as follows (Cont’d):-
Maturity
Carrying
amount
Contractual
cash flow
Less than 1
year
Between 1
to 2 years
Between 2
to 5 years
More than
5 years
RM RM RM RM RM RM
Company
2023
Other payables 794,500 794,500 794,500 - - -
Financial
guarantees* - 75,568,533 75,568,533 - - -
2022
Other payables 1,089,551 1,089,551 1,089,551 - - -
Financial
guarantees* - 7,422,379 7,422,379 - - -
*	
This exposure is included in liquidity risk for illustration only. No performance bond or financial
guarantees were called upon by the holders as at the end of the reporting year.
The above amounts reflect the contractual undiscounted cash flows, which may differ from the
carrying values of financial liabilities at the reporting date.
27.2.3 Interest Rate Risk
Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of the Group’s financial instruments
will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
The Group’s fixed rate instruments are exposed to a risk of change in their fair value due to changes
in interest rates. The Group’s variable rate instruments are exposed to the risk of change in cash
flows due to changes in interest rates. Short-term receivables and payables are not significantly
exposed to interest rate risk.
The Group’s interest rate management objective is to manage interest expenses consistent with
maintaining an acceptable level of exposure to interest rate fluctuation. In order to achieve this
objective, the Group targets a mix of fixed and floating debts based on assessment of its existing
exposure and desired interest rate profile.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
126
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
27.2 Financial Risk Management (Cont’d)
27.2.3 Interest Rate Risk (Cont’d)
The interest rate profile of the Group’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments, based on
carrying amounts as at the reporting date is as follows:-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Fixed rate instruments
Financial asset
Fixed deposits with licensed banks 27,802,580 9,860,422
Financial liabilities
Lease liabilities (3,212,645) (3,856,517)
Bankers’ acceptance (56,688,181) (26,680,678)
Invoice financing (500,736) (511,097)
Revolving financing (4,458,114) (4,423,207)
(64,859,676) (35,471,499)
(37,057,096) (25,611,077)
Floating rate instruments
Financial liabilities
Bank overdrafts (4,311,623) (1,839,849)
Term loans (11,554,293) (13,435,353)
(15,865,916) (15,275,202)
Fair Value Sensitivity Analysis for Fixed Rate Instruments
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value
through profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates as at the reporting date would not affect
profit or loss.
Annual Report 2023 127
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
27.2 Financial Risk Management (Cont’d)
27.2.3 Interest Rate Risk (Cont’d)
Cash Flow Sensitivity Analysis for Variable Rate Instruments
The following table illustrates the sensitivity of profit/equity to a reasonably possible change
in interest rate of +/-50 (2022: +/-50) basis points (“bp”). These changes are considered to be
reasonably possible based on observation of current market conditions. The calculations are based
on a change in the average market interest rate for each period, and the financial instruments held at
each reporting date that is sensitive to changes in interest rate. All other variables are held constant.
Impact on profit/equity
(Decrease)/Increase
+50bp -50bp
RM RM
Group
2023 (79,330) 79,330
2022 (76,376) 76,376
27.2.4 Foreign Currency Risk
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk as a result of their normal operating activities, where
the currency denomination differs from the local currency, Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”). The Group’s
policy is to keep the foreign exchange exposure to an acceptable level.
The Group is exposed to transactional currency risk primarily through trade receivables, other
receivables, cash and bank balances and other payables that are denominated in a currency other
than the functional currency to which they related. The currency giving rise to this risk is primarily
United States Dollar (“USD”) and Chinese Yuan (“CNY”).
Foreign currency denominated financial assets which expose the Group to currency risk are
disclosed below. The amount shown is those reported to key management translated into RM at the
closing rate:-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Denominated in USD
Trade receivables 102,196,872 19,172,854
Fixed deposits with a licensed bank 4,576,210 -
Cash and bank balances 622,520 33,665
Other payables - (32,390)
Borrowings (3,166,105) -
104,229,497 19,174,129
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
128
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
27.2 Financial Risk Management (Cont’d)
27.2.4 Foreign Currency Risk (Cont’d)
Foreign currency denominated financial assets which expose the Group to currency risk are
disclosed below. The amount shown is those reported to key management translated into RM at the
closing rate (cont’d):-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Denominated in CNY
Trade receivables 6,094,688 -
Other payables (174,108) -
Borrowings (3,543,832) -
2,376,748 -
Foreign Currency Sensitivity Analysis
The following table illustrates the sensitivity of profit with regards to the Group’s financial assets and
financial liabilities and the RM/USD and RM/CNY exchange rate (2022: RM/USD) assuming all other
things being equal.
A +/-1% (2022: +/-1%) change in the RM/USD and RM/CNY exchange rate at the reporting is
deemed possible. Both of these percentages have been determined based on average market
volatility in exchange rates in the previous 12 months.
The sensitivity analysis is based on the Group’s foreign currency financial instruments held at
each reporting date that offset effects from changes in currency exchange rates. If the RM had
strengthened/weakened against the USD and CNY, then the impact would be as follows:-
Impact on profit/equity
Increase/(Decrease)
+1% -1%
RM RM
RM/USD
2023 1,042,295 (1,042,295)
2022 191,741 (191,741)
RM/CNY
2023 23,767 (23,767)
Annual Report 2023 129
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
27. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONT’D)
27.3 Fair Value of Financial Instruments
The carrying amounts of financial assets and financial liabilities of the Group and of the Company at
the reporting date approximate their fair values due to their short-term nature or that they are floating
rate instruments that are re-priced to market interest rates on or near the reporting date or immaterial
discounting impact.
27.4 Fair Value Hierarchy
No fair value hierarchy has been disclosed as the Group and the Company do not have financial instruments
measured at fair value.
28. RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
1.5.2022
Recognition of
right-of-
use assets
Rent
concessions Cash flows 30.4.2023
RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Lease liabilities 3,856,517 785,214 (20,000) (1,409,086) 3,212,645
Term loans 13,435,353 - - (1,881,060) 11,554,293
1.5.2021
Recognition of
right-of-
use assets
Early
termination
Rent
concessions Cash flows 30.4.2022
RM RM RM RM RM RM
Group
Lease liabilities 3,649,842 1,101,427 (116,972) (75,808) (701,972) 3,856,517
Term loans 15,721,195 - - - (2,285,842) 13,435,353
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
130
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
29. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION
Business Segments
For management purposes, the Group is organised into two major business units based on their products and
services, which comprises the following:-
Business segments Business activities
Processing and trading of frozen seafood
products
: Processing and trading of frozen seafood products.
Trading of other products : Trading of other products including meat and non-meat products.
The Group has aggregated certain operating segments to form a reportable segment due to the similar nature and
operational characteristics of the products.
The management monitors the operating results of its business units separately for the purpose of making
decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Segment performance is evaluated based on
operating profit or loss which, in certain respects as explained in the table below, is measured differently from
operating profit or loss in the financial statements.
Note
Processing
and trading of
frozen seafood
products
Trading of
other
products Adjustments Total
RM RM RM RM
2023
Revenue
External revenue 471,873,535 30,731,457 - 502,604,992
Inter-segment revenue (a) 21,484,350 10,572,457 (32,056,807) -
Total revenue 493,357,885 41,303,914 (32,056,807) 502,604,992
Results*
Finance income 475,207
Finance costs (3,335,213)
Depreciation of property, plant and
equipment 1,984,161
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 689,568
Other non-cash expenses (b) (257,988)
Tax expense (634,763)
Segment profit (c) 39,693,186
Annual Report 2023 131
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
29. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (CONT’D)
Business Segments (Cont’d)
Note
Processing
and trading of
frozen seafood
products
Trading of
other
products Adjustments Total
RM RM RM RM
2023
Assets
Additions to non-current assets other
than deferred tax assets (d) 1,818,162
Segment assets (e) 251,551,111
Liabilities
Segment liabilities (f) 13,554,972
*	
The breakdown of segment results between processing and trading of frozen seafood products and trading
of other products are not available.
2022
Revenue
External revenue 321,500,058 27,643,938 - 349,143,996
Inter-segment revenue (a) 24,479,064 9,296,653 (33,775,717) -
Total revenue 345,979,122 36,940,591 (33,775,717) 349,143,996
Results*
Finance income 217,906
Finance costs (2,661,208)
Depreciation of property, plant and
equipment (1,873,653)
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (815,974)
Other non-cash expenses (b) 447,891
Tax expense (183,442)
Segment profit (c) 23,554,624
Assets
Additions to non-current assets other
than deferred tax assets (d) 1,501,501
Segment assets (e) 138,326,835
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
132
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
29. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (CONT’D)
Business Segments (Cont’d)
Note
Processing
and trading
of frozen
seafood
products
Trading of
other
products Adjustments Total
RM RM RM RM
Liabilities
Segment liabilities (f) 14,299,237
*	
The breakdown of segment results between processing and trading of frozen seafood products and trading
of other products are not available.
Notes to the nature of adjustments and eliminations to arrive at amounts reported in the consolidated financial
statements:-
(a)	
Inter-segment revenue is eliminated on consolidation.
(b)	
Other non-cash income/(expenses) consist of the following items as presented in the respective notes to
the financial statements:-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Bad debts written off (633,428) (38,893)
Gain on early termination on leases - 22,264
Impairment gain of financial assets, net - 245,903
Property, plant and equipment written off (54,129) -
Rent concessions 20,000 75,808
Unrealised gain on foreign exchange 409,569 142,809
(257,988) 447,891
(c)	
The following items are added to/(deducted from) segment profit to arrive at “Profit after tax” presented in
the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income:-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Segment profit 39,693,186 23,554,624
Finance income 475,207 217,906
Finance costs (3,335,213) (2,661,208)
Profit after tax 36,833,180 21,111,322
Annual Report 2023 133
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
29. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (CONT’D)
Business Segments (Cont’d)
Notes to the nature of adjustments and eliminations to arrive at amounts reported in the financial statements
(Cont’d):-
(d) Additions to non-current assets other than financial instruments and deferred tax assets consist of:-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Property, plant and equipment 1,032,948 239,468
Right-of-use assets 785,214 1,262,033
1,818,162 1,501,501
(e)	
The following items are added to segment assets to arrive at total assets reported in the statements of
financial position:-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Segment assets 251,551,111 138,326,835
Tax recoverable 333,762 330,616
Total assets 251,884,873 138,657,451
(f)	
The following items are added to segment liabilities to arrive at total liabilities reported in the statements of
financial position:-
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Segment liabilities 13,554,972 14,299,237
Deferred tax liabilities 285,000 272,000
Lease liabilities 3,212,645 3,856,517
Borrowings 77,512,947 46,890,184
Tax payable 109,697 8,777
Total liabilities 94,675,261 65,326,715
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
134
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
29. SEGMENTAL INFORMATION (CONT’D)
Geographical Information
Revenue information based on the geographical location of the customers is disclosed in Note 20 to the financial
statements.
In presenting information on the basis on geographical segments, segment revenue is based on the geographical
location of customers. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets. The amount of
non-current assets does not include financial instruments.
Non-current assets information based on the geographical location of assets are as follow:
Group
2023 2022
RM RM
Malaysia 43,721,083 36,863,641
Information about Major Customers
The followings are major customers with revenue equal or more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue:-
Under processing and trading of frozen seafood products segment
Group
Revenue
2023 2022
RM RM
Customer A 104,394,865 53,795,707
Customer B 89,916,414 45,846,362
Customer C 86,615,052 37,334,880
280,926,331 136,976,949
30. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The primary objective of the Group’s and the Company’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong
credit rating and healthy capital ratio in order to support the business and maximise shareholders’ value.
The Group and the Company manage their capital structure and makes adjustments to it in light of changes in
economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group and the Company may adjust the
dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, sell assets to reduce debt or issue new share
capital. No changes were made in the objective, policies or processes during the financial years.
Annual Report 2023 135
NOTES TO THE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
(CONT’D)
31. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR AND SUBSEQUENT TO THE REPORTING PERIOD
(a)	
On 24 March 2023, the Company started the process of incorporating a new subsidiary in Indonesia,
PT MCI International Indonesia Pte Ltd with an intended paid-up capital of IDR9,500,000,000 (equivalent to
approximately RM2,736,000). As at the reporting date and date of authorisation of the financial statements,
the process of incorporation has not been completed.
(b)	
On 12 April 2023, the Company started the process of incorporating a new subsidiary in Indonesia,
PT Resources International Group Pte Ltd with an intended paid-up capital of IDR9,500,000,000 (equivalent
to approximately RM2,821,500). As at the reporting date and date of authorisation of the financial statements,
the process of incorporation has not been completed.
(c)	
On 7 June 2023, the Company had incorporated a wholly-owned subsidiary in China, Fujian Hongjiasheng
International Holdings Co., Ltd with a paid-up capital of CNY999,870 (equivalent to approximately
RM639,500).
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
136 PT Resources Holdings Berhad
136
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 74 to 135 are drawn up in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the
Company as at 30 April 2023 and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.
................................................................. .................................................................
HENG CHANG HOOI TAN SRI DATO’ DR. SYED JALALUDIN
		 BIN SYED SALIM
25 August 2023
I, Lai Ji Hwa, being the Officer primarily responsible for the financial management of PT Resources Holdings Berhad, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that to the best of my knowledge and belief, the financial statements set out on pages 74
to 135 are correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the
Statutory Declarations Act 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by )
the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur in )
the Federal Territory this day of		 )
25 August 2023 			)		.................................................................
LAI JI HWA
(MIA No.: 51152)
Before me:
Commissioner for Oaths
STATEMENT BY
DIRECTORS
STATUTORY
DECLARATION
Annual Report 2023 137
Annual Report 2023 137
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of PT Resources Holdings Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial
position as at 30 April 2023 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive
income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial
year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out
on pages 74 to 135.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and
of the Company as at 30 April 2023, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then
ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit
of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct
and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for
Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards)
(“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA
Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the
context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do
not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment of trade receivables
The risk
Impairment of trade receivables is a key audit matter due to the involvement of significant management judgements
and estimates in the assessment of credit risk exposures and collectability of trade receivables. These estimates and
judgements impact management’s assessment of Expected Credit Losses and thus the quantum of impairment required
which may vary due to changes in circumstances from year to year.
The Group’s disclosures regarding trade receivables are included in Notes 3.4, 9 and 27 to the financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD
(INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
138 PT Resources Holdings Berhad
138
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD
(INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
(CONT’D)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
Key Audit Matters (Cont’d)
Impairment of trade receivables (Cont’d)
Our response
Our procedures included, amongst others, evaluating management’s assessment of Expected Credit Losses by taking
into consideration if there is any indication of significant financial difficulty of these receivables and if there is any default or
delinquency in the repayment by debtors. We have also reviewed the ageing analysis of trade receivables and tested the
reliability thereof and assessed the recoverability of the overdue trade receivables through examination of cash receipts
subsequent to the year end. We reviewed managements’ key inputs and forward looking information used in the Expected
Credit Losses model.
Revenue recognition
The risk
Revenue generated is regarded as a key audit matter because the amount of revenue is significant to the financial
statements of the Group as a whole.
Furthermore, ISA 240 requires that we consider the risk of fraud arising in revenue recognition. Whilst revenue recognition
is not complex for the Group, revenue forms part of the Group’s key performance indicators which are considered by
investors and analysts and this could create an incentive to overstate revenue.
Our response
Our procedures included, amongst others, obtaining an understanding on the design and implementation of the Group’s
control over revenue recognition. We have performed substantive tests on a sampling basis to verify revenue recognised,
performed analytical procedures on revenue recognised to identify any unusual fluctuations; and performed cut-off tests
around the financial year end to check whether revenue is recognised in the correct accounting period. The Group’s
disclosures regarding revenue recognition are included in Notes 3.15 and 20 to the Financial Statements.
There is no key audit matter to be communicated in respect of the audit of the financial statements of the Company.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the annual report but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our
auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we
do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read
the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of the other information, we
are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Annual Report 2023 139
Annual Report 2023 139
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD
(INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
(CONT’D)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company
that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such
internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and
of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the
Group’s and the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going
concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the
Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit
conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will
always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered
material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of
users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:-
-	
Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
-	
Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Group’s and of the Company’s internal control.
-	
Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the Directors.
-	
Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Group’s or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a
material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However,
future events or conditions may cause the Group and the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
140 PT Resources Holdings Berhad
140
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also (cont’d):-
-	
Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions
and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
-	
Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the
direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in
our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest
benefits of such communication.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD
(INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
(CONT’D)
Annual Report 2023 141
Annual Report 2023 141
Other Matter
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of
this report.
GRANT THORNTON MALAYSIA PLT ALEX KINGSLEY CHUA
(201906003682 & LLP0022494-LCA) (NO: 03629/12/2023 J)
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANTS (AF 0737) CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT
Kuala Lumpur
25 August 2023
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD
(INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
(CONT’D)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
142
LIST OF PROPERTIES
No.
Title /
Postal address
Description /
Existing use Tenure
Land area /
Built-up area
Estimated
Age of
Building
Date of
Acquisition
NBV as at
30 Apr 2023
RM’000
1. Title
GM 38140, Lot
162943, Batu 6½
Jalan Gambang,
Mukim Kuala
Kuantan, Daerah
Kuantan, Negeri
Pahang
Postal address
B22, Lorong
Seri Damai
Perdana 57, Jalan
Gambang, 25150
Kuantan, Pahang
Description
3-storey shop
office
Existing use
Ground floor:
Retail outlet
1st and 2nd
floors: Workers’
accommodation
Freehold Land area
130 sqm
Built-up area
376.26 sqm
8 years 23 Jul 2015 999
2. Title
GM 38141, Lot
162944, Batu 6½
Jalan Gambang,
Mukim Kuala
Kuantan, Daerah
Kuantan, Negeri
Pahang
Postal address
B24, Lorong
Seri Damai
Perdana 57, Jalan
Gambang, 25150
Kuantan, Pahang
Description
3 storey shop
office
Existing use
Ground floor:
Retail outlet
1st floor: Vacant
2nd floor: Vacant
Freehold Land area
130 sqm
Built-up area
376.26 sqm
8 years 23 Jul 2015 999
3. Title
PM 31091, Lot
150651, Mukim
Kuala Kuantan,
Daerah Kuantan,
Negeri Pahang
Postal address
Not applicable
Description
Vacant land
Existing use
Not in use
60-year lease
expiring on
16 March
2068
Land area
4,464 sqm
Built-up area
Not
applicable
Not
applicable
5 Sep 2014 2,397
Annual Report 2023 143
LIST OF PROPERTIES
(CONT’D)
No.
Title /
Postal address
Description /
Existing use Tenure
Land area /
Built-up area
Estimated
Age of
Building
Date of
Acquisition
NBV as at
30 Apr 2023
RM’000
4. Title
HSD 57483, PT
120930, Mukim
Kuala Kuantan,
Daerah Kuantan,
Negeri Pahang
Postal address
B50, Jalan Biz
Park Utama,
Kuantan Biz Park,
25100 Kuantan,
Pahang
Description
Vacant land
Existing use
Not in use
99-year lease
expiring on
23 September
2117
Land area
152.4 sqm
Built-up area
457.4 sqm
Not
applicable
29 Aug 2018 630
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
144
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 28 JULY 2023
Total Number of Issued Shares : 535,020,000 ordinary shares
Class of Shares : Ordinary shares
Voting Rights : One (1) vote for every ordinary share held
DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE OF SHAREHOLDERS
Size of Holdings No. of Holders % No. of Shares %
Less than 100 shares 5 0.17 12 *
100 - 1,000 shares 256 8.53 164,588 0.03
1,001 - 10,000 shares 1,351 45.00 8,504,700 1.59
10,001 - 100,000 shares 1,170 38.97 42,548,400 7.95
100,001 - less than 5% of the issued shares 218 7.26 110,183,300 20.59
5% and above of the issued shares 2 0.07 373,619,000 69.83
Total 3,002 100.00 535,020,000 100.00
* Negligible
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
(As per the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings)
		 Direct Interest Indirect Interest
Name of Directors No. of Shares % No. of Shares %
Tan Sri Dato’ Dr. Syed Jalaludin Bin Syed Salim 150,000 0.03 - -
Heng Chang Hooi 373,619,000 69.83 - -
Mohd Rofzan Bin Mohd Latiff 50,000 0.01 - -
Dato’ Asmuni Bin Sudin 100,000 0.02 - -
Chan Foong Ping 100,000 0.02 - -
Steven Wong Chin Fung 100,000 0.02 - -
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
(As per the Register of Substantial Shareholders)
		 Direct Interest Indirect Interest
Substantial Shareholder No. of Shares % No. of Shares %
Heng Chang Hooi 373,619,000 69.83 - -
Annual Report 2023 145
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 28 JULY 2023
(CONT’D)
LIST OF THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS AS AT 28 JULY 2023
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares %
1 Heng Chang Hooi 322,469,000 60.27
2 Heng Chang Hooi 51,150,000 9.56
3 Yeoh Yew Choo 9,153,400 1.71
4 Ronie Tan Choo Seng 6,000,000 1.12
5 Ronie Tan Choo Seng 4,500,000 0.84
6 Ronie Tan Choo Seng 4,000,000 0.75
7 Tan Choo Teck 4,000,000 0.75
8 Tan Tian Wooi 3,300,000 0.62
9 CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 3,070,000 0.57
		 Pledged Securities Account for Ronie Tan Choo Seng
10 CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 2,978,100 0.56
		 Pledged Securities Account for Tay Moy Koh (SEGAMAT-CL)
11 Shin Kao Jack 2,676,000 0.50
12 Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 2,251,500 0.42
		 Pledged Securities Account for Sia Boon Huat
13 Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 1,640,000 0.31
		 Pledged Securities Account for Lim Kah Soon
14 Universal Trustee (Malaysia) Berhad 1,637,300 0.31
		 KAF Core Income Fund
15 Tay Moy Koh 1,624,700 0.30
16 KAF Trustee Berhad 1,500,000 0.28
		 KIFB for FOR Felda A/C A2
17 Fong Yoon Ling 1,450,000 0.27
18 Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 1,247,600 0.23
		 Rakutan Trade Sdn Bhd for Chia Hock Seng
19 Ng Siok Khing @ Ng Sook Keng 1,100,000 0.21
20 Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 1,100,000 0.21
		 Pledged Securities Account for Tan Yat Teng (E-SJA)
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
146
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 28 JULY 2023
(CONT’D)
LIST OF THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS AS AT 28 JULY 2023 (CONT’D)
(without aggregating securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same person)
No. Name of Shareholders No. of Shares %
21 KAF Trustee Berhad 1,062,700 0.20
		 KIFB for Felda A/C A
22 HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd 1,040,600 0.19
		 J.P. Morgan Securities PLC
23 Leong Yuet May 1,000,000 0.19
24 Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 1,000,000 0.19
		 Pledged Securities Account for Tan Choon Soo (E-BBB)
25 Tan Kew Chai 1,000,000 0.19
26 Teoh Denho 985,000 0.18
27 Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 900,000 0.17
		 Pledged Securities Account for Tew Boon Han (7008384)
28 Cheah Chor Kooi 870,000 0.16
29 Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 849,000 0.16
		 MTrustee Berhad for Ethereal Capital Sdn Bhd
		 (Growth Fund) (445788)
30 Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd 830,400 0.16
		 MTrustee Berhad for Ethereal Capital Sdn Bhd
		 (NSK Fund) (445734)
Annual Report 2023 147
PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD
201901032139 (1341469-P)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Fourth Annual General Meeting (“4th AGM” or “Meeting”) of PT RESOURCES
HOLDINGS BERHAD (“the Company”) will be held at Concorde Hotel Kuala Lumpur, Concorde Ballroom, Lobby, 2 Jalan
Sultan Ismail, 50250 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on Thursday, 26 October 2023 at 10:00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof,
to transact the following businesses:-
A G E N D A
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS:
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 April 2023
together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
Please refer to
Explanatory Note 1
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits of up to RM239,000.00 for the
period commencing from the date immediately after this 4th AGM until the next Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company.
Ordinary Resolution 1
3. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation pursuant to Clause 89 of the
Company’s Constitution:
i. Mr. Heng Chang Hooi; and
ii. En. Mohd Rofzan Bin Mohd Latiff
Ordinary Resolution 2
Ordinary Resolution 3
4. To re-appoint Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company until the
conclusion of the next AGM and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Ordinary Resolution 4
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS:
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without any modifications, the following
resolutions:
5. GENERAL AUTHORITY FOR THE DIRECTORS TO ISSUE AND ALLOT SHARES
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 75 AND 76 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016 (“ACT”)
“THAT subject always to the Constitution of the Company, the Act, the ACE Market
Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and
the approvals of the relevant governmental/regulatory authorities, where required, the
Directors of the Company, be and are hereby authorised and empowered pursuant to
Sections 75 and 76 of the Act, to issue and allot new ordinary shares in the Company
(“Shares”) to such persons, at any time, and upon such terms and conditions and for
such purposes as the Directors may, in their absolute discretion, deem fit, provided that
the aggregate number of shares to be issued does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of
the total number of issued shares of the Company (excluding treasury shares, if any) at
any point of time (“Mandate”) AND THAT the Directors be and also empowered to obtain
the approval for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so issued on Bursa
Securities AND THAT such authority shall continue in force until the conclusion of the
next AGM of the Company held next after the approval was given or at the expiry of the
period within which the next AGM is required to be held after the approval was given,
whichever is the earlier.
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act read together with the Company’s Constitution,
approval be given to waive the statutory pre-emptive rights conferred upon the
shareholders of the Company AND THAT the Board of Directors is exempted from the
obligation to offer such new Shares first to the existing shareholders of the Company in
respect of the issuance and allotment of new Shares pursuant to the Mandate.
AND FURTHER THAT the new Shares to be issued pursuant to the Mandate, shall,
upon issuance and allotment, rank pari passu in all respects with the existing shares of
the Company, save and except that they shall not be entitled to any dividends, rights,
allotments and/or any other forms of distribution that which may be declared, made or
paid before the date of allotment of such new Shares.”
Ordinary Resolution 5
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
148
NOTICE OF THE FOURTH (4TH)
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
6. PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION OF THE COMPANY
“THAT the proposed amendments to the Constitution of the Company as set out in
“Appendix A”, be approved and adopted with immediate effect AND THAT the Directors
and/or Secretaries of the Company be authorised to take all steps as are necessary
and expedient in order to implement, finalise and give full effect to the said proposed
amendments for and on behalf of the Company.”
Special Resolution
7. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given.
By order of the Board
TEA SOR HUA (MACS 01324) (SSM PC No.: 201908001272)
WINNIE GOH KAH MUN (MAICSA 7068836) (SSM PC No.: 202308000205)
Company Secretaries
Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan
30 August 2023
Notes:
a)	
A member who is entitled to present, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting shall be entitled to appoint more than
one (1) proxy to attend and vote at the Meeting in his/her stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy,
he/she shall specify the proportion of his/her shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.
b)	
A proxy may, but need not, be a member of the Company. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting shall
have the same rights as the member to speak and vote at the Meeting.
c)	
The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised
in writing, or if the appointor is a corporation, either under the seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly
authorised.
d)	
Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry
(Central Depositories) Act 1991, it may appoint one (1) proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with
ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
e)	
Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies
which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. The appointment of
multiple proxies shall not be valid unless the proportion of its shareholdings represented by each proxy is specified.
f)	
To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy may be made via hardcopy or by electronic means in the following
manners and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for
holding the Meeting or at any adjournment thereof at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote:
(i) In Hardcopy Form
		
The proxy form shall be deposited at the Share Registrar’s office, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd. at
Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling
Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
(ii) By Electronic Means
		
The proxy form shall be electronically lodged via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. Kindly refer to the Administrative Notes on the procedures for the
electronic lodgement of the proxy form via BSIP.
g)	
For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the Meeting, the Company will be requesting
Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. in accordance with Clause 65(b) of the Company’s Constitution to issue a
General Meeting Record of Depositors as at 19 October 2023. Only members whose names appear in the General
Meeting Record of Depositors as at 19 October 2023 shall be regarded as members and entitled to attend, speak and
vote at the Meeting.
Annual Report 2023 149
NOTICE OF THE FOURTH (4TH)
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
h) All the resolutions set out in this Notice of Meeting will be put to vote by poll.
i) The members are advised to refer to the Administrative Notes on the registration process for the Meeting.
j)	
Given the constantly evolving COVID-19 situation in Malaysia, we may be required to change the arrangements
of our Meeting at short notice. Kindly check Bursa Securities’ and the Company’s corporate website at
www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my for the latest updates on the status of the Meeting.
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO ORDINARY AND SPECIAL BUSINESS
1. Item 1 of the Agenda – Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 April 2023
	
The Agenda is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Act does not require a formal
approval of shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements. Hence, this Agenda is not put forward for voting.
2. Item 2 of the Agenda – Directors’ Fees and Benefits
	
The estimated Directors’ fees and benefits were calculated based on the current Board size and the number of
scheduled Board and Committee meetings to be held. This resolution is to facilitate payment of Directors’ fees and
benefits for the period from 27 October 2023 until the next AGM of the Company to be held in the year 2024. In the
event the proposed amount is insufficient due to more meetings or an enlarged Board size, approval will be sought
at the next AGM for such shortfall.
3. Item 3 of the Agenda – Re-election of Directors
	
Clause 89 of the Company’s Constitution provides that one-third (1/3) of the Directors of the Company for the time
being or, if their number is not three or a multiple of three, then the number nearest to one-third (1/3) shall retire from
office and be eligible for re-election PROVIDED ALWAYS that all Directors shall retire from office at least once every
three (3) years but shall be eligible for re-election. Hence, two (2) out of six (6) Directors of the Company are to retire
pursuant to Clause 89 of the Company’s Constitution.
	
Mr. Heng Chang Hooi and En. Mohd Rofzan Bin Mohd Latiff (“Retiring Directors”) who were appointed to the Board
on 6 September 2019 and 11 November 2020 respectively, will retire and being eligible, have offered themselves for
re-election at the 4th AGM pursuant to Clause 89 of the Company’s Constitution.
	
The Board has endorsed the Nomination and Remuneration Committee’s recommendation to seek shareholders’
approval to re-elect the Retiring Directors as they possess the required skill sets to facilitate and contribute to the
Board’s effectiveness and value.
	
The Retiring Directors had abstained from all deliberations and decisions on their own eligibility to stand for
re-election at the Board meeting.
	
The details and profiles of the Retiring Directors are provided in the Directors’ Profile on pages 13 and 15 of the
Company’s Annual Report 2023.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
150
NOTICE OF THE FOURTH (4TH)
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
4.	
Item 5 of the Agenda – General Authority for the Directors to issue and allot shares pursuant to Sections 75
and 76 of the Act
	
The Company had at its Third AGM held on 15 September 2022 (“3rd AGM”), obtained a general mandate pursuant
to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act from its shareholders, to empower the Directors to issue and allot shares in the
Company to such persons, at any time, and upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes as the Directors
may, in their absolute discretion, deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares to be issued does not
exceed 10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company (excluding treasury shares) at any point of time.
	
The Ordinary Resolution 5 proposed under item 5 of the Agenda, is a renewal of the general mandate for issuance
and allotment of shares by the Company pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act. This Ordinary Resolution, if
passed, will empower the Directors to issue and allot new Shares in the Company up to an amount not exceeding in
total ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for such purposes as the Directors
consider would be in the interest of the Company. This would avoid any delay and cost involved in convening a
general meeting to approve such an issue of shares. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a
general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM or the expiration of the period within which the next
AGM is required by law to be held, whichever is earlier.
	
This general mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for issuance and allotment of shares for any possible fund
raising activities, including but not limited to further placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment
project(s), working capital and/or acquisition(s).
	
Pursuant to Section 85 of the Act and the Company’s Constitution, shareholders have pre-emptive rights to be
offered any new shares in the Company which rank equally to the existing issued shares in the Company. This
Ordinary Resolution 5, if passed, will exclude the shareholders’ pre-emptive right to be offered new shares to be
issued by the Company.
	
As at the date of this Notice, no new shares in the Company were issued and allotted pursuant to the mandate
granted to the Directors at the 3rd AGM which will lapse at the conclusion of the 4th AGM.
5.	
Item 6 of the Agenda – Proposed Amendments to the Constitution of the Company (“Proposed Amendments”)
	
The Proposed Amendments are mainly to streamline the Constitution with the relevant regulatory requirements as
well as to enhance administrative efficiency.
	
The Proposed Amendments shall take effect once the special resolution has been passed by a majority of not less
than seventy-five per centum (75%) of such members who are entitled to vote and do vote in person or by proxy at
the Meeting.
Annual Report 2023 151
PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD
201901032139 (1341469-P)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
APPENDIX A
PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO THE CONSTITUTION OF PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD
(“THE COMPANY”)
This is Appendix A referred to in Agenda 6 of the Notice of Fourth Annual General Meeting of the Company dated
30 August 2023.
Clause No. Existing Clause Proposed Clause
56
Offer of new Shares
Subject to any direction to the contrary
that may be given by the Company in
general meeting, any new shares or other
convertible securities from time to time to
be created shall, before they are issued,
be offered to such persons as at the date
of the offer are entitled to receive notices
from the Company of general meetings in
proportion, as nearly as the circumstances
admit, to the amount of the existing shares
or Securities to which they are entitled. The
offer shall be made by notice specifying
the number of shares or Securities offered,
limiting a time within which the offer, if not
accepted, will be deemed to be declined,
and, after the expiration of that time, or on
the receipt of any intimation from the person
to whom the offer is made that he declines
to accept the shares or Securities offered,
the Directors may dispose of those shares
and/or Securities in such manner as they
think most beneficial to the Company. The
Directors may likewise dispose of any new
shares and/or Securities which (by reason of
the ratio which the new shares or Securities
bear to shares or Securities held by
persons entitled to any offer of new shares
or Securities) cannot, in the opinion of the
Directors be conveniently offered under this
Constitution. Notwithstanding the above,
the Directors shall not be required to offer
any new ordinary shares for the time being
unissued and not allotted and any new
shares or other convertible securities from
time to time to be created to the holders of
the existing shares where the said shares or
Securities are to be issued as consideration
or part consideration for the acquisition of
shares or assets by the Company.
Subject to any direction to the contrary
that may be given by the Company in
general meeting, any new shares or other
convertible Securities from time to time to
be created shall, before they are issued,
be offered to such persons as at the date
of the offer are entitled to receive notices
from the Company of general meetings in
proportion, as nearly as the circumstances
admit, to the amount of the existing shares
or Securities to which they are entitled. The
offer shall be made by notice specifying
the number of shares or Securities offered,
limiting a time within which the offer, if not
accepted, will be deemed to be declined,
and, after the expiration of that time, or on
the receipt of any intimation from the person
to whom the offer is made that he declines
to accept the shares or Securities offered,
the Directors may dispose of those shares
and/or Securities in such manner as they
think most beneficial to the Company. The
Directors may likewise so dispose of any
new shares and/or Securities which (by
reason of the ratio which the new shares
or Securities bear to shares or Securities
held by persons entitled to any offer of new
shares or Securities) cannot, in the opinion
of the Directors be conveniently offered
under this Constitution. Notwithstanding the
above, the Directors shall not be required to
offer any new ordinary shares for the time
being unissued and not allotted and any new
shares or other convertible securities from
time to time to be created to the holders of
the existing shares where the said shares or
securities are to be issued as consideration
or part consideration for the acquisition of
shares or assets by the Company.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
152
Clause No. Existing Clause Proposed Clause
56 (Cont’d)
Offer of new Shares
For the avoidance of doubt, where the
approval of Members is obtained in a
general meeting for any issuance of
shares or convertible securities, including
approvals obtained for implementation of
a scheme that involves a new issuance
of shares or other convertible securities
to employees of the Company and its
subsidiaries and approval obtained
under Sections 75 and 76 of the Act,
such approval shall be deemed to be a
direction to the contrary given in general
meeting which will render the pre-
emptive rights above inapplicable. In any
case and in respect of any issuance of
shares or convertible securities, the pre-
emptive rights of Members are strictly
as contained in the Constitution and
accordingly, the provisions of Section
85 of the Act in respect of pre-emptive
rights to new shares, shall not apply and
the Company is not required to offer
new shares or convertible securities in
proportion to the shareholdings of the
existing Members.
129A
Validity of Electronic
/ Digital Signature
New provision For the avoidance of doubt, any
document or instrument transmitted by
any technology purporting to include
a signature and/or electronic or digital
signature of any of the following persons:
(a)	
a holder of Shares;
(b)	
a Director (including Alternate
Director);
(c)	
a committee member;
(d)	
in the case of a corporation, which
is a holder of shares, its director
or secretary or a duly appointed
attorney or duly authorised
representative,
shall in the absence of express evidence
to the contrary available to the person
relying on such document or instrument
at the relevant time, be deemed to be a
document or instrument signed by such
person in the terms in which it is received.
APPENDIX A
(CONT’D)
Annual Report 2023 153
PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD
201901032139 (1341469-P)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES FOR THE FOURTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“4TH AGM” OR “MEETING”) OF
PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD (“THE COMPANY”)
Day & Date : Thursday, 26 October 2023
Time : 10:00 a.m.
Venue :	
Concorde Hotel Kuala Lumpur, Concorde Ballroom, Lobby, 2 Jalan Sultan Ismail,
50250 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
1.	
A member who is entitled to present, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint more than one
(1) proxy to attend and vote at the Meeting in his/her stead. If you are not able to participate in the 4th AGM, you are
encouraged to appoint the Chairman of the Meeting as your proxy and indicate the voting instructions in the Proxy
Form.
2.	
To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy may be made via hardcopy or by electronic means in the following
manners and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for
holding the Meeting or at any adjournment thereof at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote:
(i) In Hardcopy Form
		
The proxy form shall be deposited at the Share Registrar’s office, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd. at
Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling
Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
(ii) By Electronic Means
		
The proxy form shall be electronically lodged via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. Kindly refer to the Administrative Notes on the procedures for the
electronic lodgement of the proxy form via BSIP.
3. Kindly follow the steps below to register online with BSIP and to lodge the Proxy Form electronically.
Step 1 – Register Online with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (for first time registration only)
[Note: If you have already signed up with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”), you are not required to
register again. You may proceed to Step 2 to lodge your Proxy Form electronically.]
a.	
Access the website at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com
b.	
Click <<Register>> to sign up as a user.
c.	
Please select the correct account type i.e. “Sign Up as Shareholder” or “Sign Up as Corporate Holder”.
d.	Complete registration with all required information. Upload and attach a softcopy of your MyKad/Identification
Card (NRIC) (front and back) or Passport in JPEG, PNG or PDF format. For Corporate Holder, kindly upload
the authorisation letter as well. Click <<Sign Up>>.
e.	
You will receive an email from BSIP Online for email address verification. Click on <<Verify Email Address>>
from the email received to continue with the registration.
f.	
Once your email address is verified, you will be re-direct to BSIP Online for verification of mobile number.
g.	Click on <<Request OTP Code>> and an OTP code will be sent to the registered mobile number. You will
need to enter the OTP code and click <<Enter>> to complete the process.
h.	
Once your mobile number is verified, registration of your new BSIP account will be pending for final
verification.
i.	
An email will be sent to you to inform the approval of your BSIP account within one (1) business day.
Subsequently, you can log in at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com with the email address and password
filled up by you during the registration to proceed.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
154
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES FOR THE
FOURTH (4TH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
Step 2 – E-Proxy Lodgement
(i) Appointment of Proxy for Individual Shareholder or Corporation Holder via BSIP
a.	Login to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password from Step 1 above.
b.	
Click “Meeting Events” and select from the list of companies “PT Resources Holdings Berhad (4th) Annual
General Meeting” from the list of Corporate Meetings and click <<Enter>>.
c.	Click << Submit eProxy Form>>.
d.	
Select the company you would like to represent (if you are representing more than one company, for
Corporate Holder).
e.	
Enter your CDS account number and the number of securities held.
f.	
Select your proxy – either the Chairman of the meeting or individual named proxy(ies).
g.	
Read and accept the General Terms and Conditions then click <<Next>>.
h.	
Enter the required particulars of your proxy(ies).
i.	
Indicate your voting instructions – FOR or AGAINST or ABSTAIN. If you wish to have your proxy(ies) to act
upon his/her discretion, please indicate DISCRETIONARY.
j.	
Review and confirm your proxy(ies) appointment. Click <<Apply>>. Download or print the eProxy Form as
acknowledgement.
(ii)	
Appointment of Proxy for Authorised Nominees and Exempt Authorised Nominees via BSIP
a.	Login to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password from Step 1 above.
b.	
Click “Meeting Events” and select from the list of companies “PT Resources Holdings Berhad (4th) Annual
General Meeting” from the list of Corporate Meetings and click <<Enter>>.
c.	Click << Submit eProxy Form>>.
d.	
Select the company you would like to represent (if you are representing more than one company, for
Corporate Holder).
e.	
Proceed to download the file format for “Submission of Proxy Form” from BSIP.
f.	
Prepare the file format for the appointment of proxies by inserting the required data.
g. Proceed to upload the duly completed proxy appointment file.
h.	
Review and confirm your proxy appointment. Click <<Submit>>. Download or print the eProxy Form as
acknowledgement.
4.	
If you wish to participate in the Meeting yourself, please do not submit any Proxy Form for the Meeting. You will not
be allowed to participate in the 4th AGM together with the proxy(ies) appointed by you.
5.	
If you have submitted your Proxy Form prior to the Meeting and subsequently decide to personally participate in the
Meeting, please write to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com to revoke the earlier appointment of your proxy(ies) at
least forty-eight (48) hours before the commencement of the Meeting. Upon revocation, your proxy(ies) will not be
allowed to participate in the 4th AGM. In such an event, kindly advise your proxy(ies) accordingly.
Annual Report 2023 155
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES FOR THE
FOURTH (4TH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
ENTITLEMENT TO PARTICIPATE IN THE 4TH AGM
The date of Record of Depositors for the 4th AGM is 19 October 2023. As such, only members whose name appears in
the Record of Depositors of the Company as at 19 October 2023 shall be entitled to attend the 4th AGM and to present,
participate, speak and vote thereat.
REGISTRATION OF THE MEETING
1.	
Registration will start at 9:00 a.m. on Thursday, 26 October 2023.
2.	
Kindly produce your original MyKad/Passport (for foreigners) to the registration staff at the registration counter for
verification. Please ensure to collect your MyKad/Passport thereafter.
3.	
Upon verification, you are required to sign the Attendance List prepared by the registration staff.
4.	
After registration, a coloured wristband and a personalised polling slip will be issued to the respective members or
proxy(ies) for voting purpose.
5.	
You must wear the identification wristband throughout the 4th AGM as no person will be allowed to enter the
meeting hall without the identification wristband. There will be no replacement in the event you lose or misplace the
identification wristband.
6.	
If you are attending the meeting as a member as well as a proxy, you will be registered once and will be given only
one identification wristband to enter the meeting hall.
7.	
No person will be allowed to register on behalf of another person, even with the original MyKad/Passport of that
person.
8.	
Please vacate the registration area immediately after registration and proceed to the meeting hall.
9.	
Poll Administrator’s Helpdesk will handle the revocation of a proxy’s appointment.
COVID-19 PREVENTION MEASURES
In the interest of public health including the well-being of our members, members must cooperate with the following
precautionary measures put in place by the Company should members or proxies wish to attend the Meeting in person.
Your safety and health are the Company’s top priority.
1.	
Attendees are highly encouraged to perform a self-test for Covid-19 at home a day before the meeting.
2.	
A member or proxy who has symptoms of being unwell or showing any symptoms of Covid-19 is advised not to
attend the 4th AGM.
3.	
Members or proxies must sanitise their hands and to wear a face mask throughout the Meeting if they are attending
the Meeting in person. Please note that no face mask will be provided at the Meeting venue.
4.	
Members or proxies are advised to observe/maintain social distancing of at least 1 meter from each other throughout
the Meeting.
5.	
The Company will closely monitor the situation and reserve the right to take further measures or short-notice
arrangements as and when appropriate in order to minimise any risk to the Meeting.
In view of the constantly evolving Covid-19 situation in Malaysia, we may be required to change the arrangements
of the Meeting at short notice. Kindly check Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s and Company’s website at
www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my for the latest updates on the status of the Meeting.
PT Resources Holdings Berhad
156
ADMINISTRATIVE NOTES FOR THE
FOURTH (4TH) ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(CONT’D)
OTHER INFORMATION
1. NO door gift will be provided to the members/proxies.
2. Recording/Photography
By participating in this 4th AGM, you agree that no part of the 4th AGM proceedings may be recorded, photographed,
stored in any retrieval systems, reproduced, transmitted or uploaded in any form, platform or social media or by any
means whether it is mechanical, electronic, photocopying, recording or otherwise without the prior written consent of the
Company. The Company reserves the right to take appropriate legal actions against anyone who violates this rule.
ENQUIRY
If you have any questions regarding the Meeting, please contact the following persons during office hours on Monday to
Friday from 9:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. (except public holidays) prior to the Meeting: -
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
Tel No.		 : +603-7890 4700
Fax Number : +603-7890 4670
Email		 : bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com
PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD
201901032139 (1341469-P)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
PROXY FORM
I/We* NRIC/Passport/Registration No.*
(full name in capital letters)
of
(full address)
Email Address Mobile Phone No.
being (a) member(s) of PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD [201901032139 (1341469-P)] (“the Company”)
hereby appoint:-
Full Name (in Block) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
Email Address
Mobile Phone No.
and/ or*
Full Name (in Block) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
Email Address
Mobile Phone No.
or failing him/her*, the Chairman of the Meeting as my/our* proxy to vote for me/us* on my/our* behalf at the Fourth
Annual General Meeting (“4th AGM” or “Meeting”) of the Company to be held at Concorde Hotel Kuala Lumpur,
Concorde Ballroom, Lobby, 2 Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50250 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on Thursday, 26 October 2023 at
10:00 a.m. or at any adjournment thereof.
Please indicate with an “X” in the appropriate spaces how you wish your votes to be cast. If no specific direction as to
vote is given, the Proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his/her* discretion.
No. Ordinary Resolutions For Against
1. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits of up to RM239,000.00 for the
period commencing from the date immediately after this 4th AGM until the next Annual
General Meeting of the Company.
2. To re-elect Mr. Heng Chang Hooi as a Director who retires by rotation pursuant to
Clause 89 of the Company’s Constitution.
3. To re-elect En. Mohd Rofzan Bin Mohd Latiff as a Director who retires by rotation
pursuant to Clause 89 of the Company’s Constitution.
4. To re-appoint Grant Thornton Malaysia PLT as Auditors of the Company.
5. To approve the authority for the Directors to allot and issue shares pursuant to
Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016.
No. Special Resolution For Against
1. To approve the proposed amendments to the Constitution of the Company.
*delete whichever not applicable
CDS Account No.
No. of Shares Held
Dated this day of , 2023.
Percentage of shareholdings to be
represented by the proxies:
No. of shares %
Proxy 1
Proxy 2
TOTAL 100
		
Signature of Member(s) / Common Seal
Notes:
a)	
A member who is entitled to present, participate, speak and vote at the Meeting shall be entitled to appoint more than
one (1) proxy to attend and vote at the Meeting in his/her stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy,
he/she shall specify the proportion of his/her shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.
b)	
A proxy may, but need not, be a member of the Company. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting shall
have the same rights as the member to speak and vote at the Meeting.
c)	
The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised
in writing, or if the appointor is a corporation, either under the seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly
authorised.
d)	
Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry
(Central Depositories) Act 1991, it may appoint one (1) proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with
ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
e)	
Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
multiple beneficial owners in one (1) securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies
which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. The appointment of
multiple proxies shall not be valid unless the proportion of its shareholdings represented by each proxy is specified.
f)	
To be valid, the instrument appointing a proxy may be made via hardcopy or by electronic means in the following
manners and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for
holding the Meeting or at any adjournment thereof at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote:
	(i)	In Hardcopy Form
		
The proxy form shall be deposited at the Share Registrar’s office, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd. at
Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling
Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
	(ii) 
By Electronic Means
		
The proxy form shall be electronically lodged via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. Kindly refer to the Administrative Notes on the procedures for the
electronic lodgement of the proxy form via BSIP.
g)	
For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the Meeting, the Company will be requesting
Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. in accordance with Clause 65(b) of the Company’s Constitution to issue a
General Meeting Record of Depositors as at 19 October 2023. Only members whose names appear in the General
Meeting Record of Depositors as at 19 October 2023 shall be regarded as members and entitled to attend, speak and
vote at the Meeting.
h)	
All the resolutions set out in this Notice of Meeting will be put to vote by poll.
i)	
The members are advised to refer to the Administrative Notes on the registration process for the Meeting.
j)	
Given the constantly evolving COVID-19 situation in Malaysia, we may be required to change the arrangements of
our Meeting at short notice. Kindly check Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s and the Company’s corporate website
at www.ptresourcesgroup.com.my for the latest updates on the status of the Meeting.
The Share Registrar of PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD
C/O Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
11th Floor, Menara Symphony,
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13,
46200 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
Stamp
Fold this flap for sealing
Then fold here
First fold here
PT RESOURCES HOLDINGS BERHAD
Registration No. 201901032139 (1341469-P)
​
Kuantan Integrated Fish Processing Park (KIFPP),
Jalan Seri Kemunting 2,
Tanah Putih, 25100 Kuantan,
Pahang Darul Makmur.
Tel : +609-515-6666		 Fax : +609-513-0700
info@ptresourcesgroup.com.my
