Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of Wellspire Holdings Berhad (“Company” or “Wellspire”) is pleased
to present this statement to offer shareholders and investors an insight into the Company’s corporate
governance practices under the Board’s leadership during the financial year ended 31 December 2024
(“FYE2024”) and up to the date of this statement. This overview is based on the key corporate governance
principles outlined in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”).
The Company complies with and reports based on the following statutory requirements, best practices and
guidelines:
i. Companies Act 2016 (“CA 2016”)
ii. Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) ACE Market Listing Requirements (“AMLR”)
iii. Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”)
iv. Bursa Malaysia Berhad Corporate Governance Guide 2021, 4th Edition (“CG Guide”).
This Statement gives an overview of how the Company complies with the three (3) main corporate governance
principles in MCCG:
(a) Principle A: Board leadership and effectiveness;
(b) Principle B: Effective audit and risk management; and
(c) Principle C: Integrity in corporate reporting and meaningful relationship with stakeholders.
The Company has complied in all material aspects with the principles as set out in the MCCG and adopted all
the recommended practices in the MCCG in FYE2024, except for Practice 8.2 (Disclosure of the top five Senior
Management personnel’s remuneration on a named basis in bands of RM50,000).
The detailed application for each practice as set out in the MCCG is disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report
(“CG Report”) which is available on the Company’s website at www.wellspireholdings.com.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
THE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD
The Board is committed to fulfilling its responsibility of overseeing, guiding, and monitoring the Company’s strategic
direction with the goal of enhancing long-term sustainable value in alignment with shareholders’ interests. It is
dedicated to driving the long-term sustainable success of the Company, creating value for our shareholders, and
contributing to the local communities where the Company operates.
The Board’s main responsibility is to oversee the Company’s operations, ensuring they are conducted in a manner
that upholds sustainability, integrity, and compliance with all relevant laws and regulations. As part of this, the
Board reviews the Company’s strategy during the annual budget meeting and the road map to achieving the same.
In addition, the Board’s specific duties are detailed in the Board Charter, including matters specifically reserved
for its decision and delegated matters. The Board Charter is available on the Company’s website at https://www.
wellspireholdings.com.
SEC 05 OUR GOVERNANCE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
56
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
THE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD (CONT’D)
A framework of delegated authority is in place consistent with the structure of delegation below the Board level.
The Board delegates responsibility for the day-to-day operation of the businesses to Mr. Mo Guopiao, the Chief
Executive Officer (“CEO”) who is assisted by Senior Management.
SEPARATION ROLES OF THE BOARD CHAIRMAN AND CEO
YM Tengku Dato’ Seri Abu Bakar Ahmad Bin Tengku Tan Sri Abdullah, leads the Board as the Independent
Non-Executive Chairman. The Chairman provides leadership and is responsible for promoting good corporate
governance practices, as well as ensuring the Board operates efficiently in order to achieve the corporate goals of
the Company and Group.
The Company maintains a clear separation of responsibilities at its leadership level to ensure a proper balance of
power and authority. The roles of Chairman and CEO are held by different individuals to promote accountability
and prevent any one person from holding unchecked decision-making power. The Chairman’s main responsibility
is to ensure the Board operates effectively by fostering constructive and open dialogue between the Board and
Management, leading discussions on strategies and policies, and guiding the Board in its collective oversight
duties. The Chairman does not serve as the Chairman of any board committee.
The CEO is responsible for executing the Group’s strategies and policies while overseeing the day-to-day
management of its business and operations to achieve corporate objectives, performance targets, and long-term
goals. Supporting the CEO in these efforts are Saranjit Wang and Kua Chin Teck, the Executive Directors, along
with Tin Jiing Soon, the Chief Financial Officer (CFO).
Risk Management
Committee
Policies
and
Procedures
Nominating &
Remuneration Committee
Stakeholders
Board of Directors
Chief Executive Officer
Senior Management
Audit
Committee
Board of Committees
SEC 05
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 57
OUR GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF INDEPENDENT AND NON-INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
The role of the Independent Non-Executive Directors is to assess the Management’s progress in achieving the
Company’s performance targets while staying within the risk limits defined by the Board. They maintain open and
unrestricted communication with Management at all levels and collaborate with both external and internal auditors
to address issues related to the management and oversight of the Company’s business and operations.
Meanwhile, the Executive Directors are responsible for leading the management of the Group and overseeing the
daily operations within their designated areas of expertise or assigned duties.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMPANY SECRETARIES
The Board is supported by two (2) qualified company secretaries who are members of the Malaysian Institute of
Chartered Secretaries and Administrators. The Company Secretaries assist the Board in fulfilling its fiduciary duties
and stewardship responsibilities and also serve in an advisory capacity to the Board.
The Company Secretaries are responsible for setting the annual meeting calendar for board and committee meetings,
preparing the agendas for the Board and Board Committees, gathering and distributing relevant documents,
ensuring adherence to Board procedures, and advising on regulatory compliance and corporate governance
matters. The Chairman and committee chairs collaborate with the Company Secretaries to set the agendas for
upcoming meetings, ensuring that the information provided to the Board is timely, thorough, and well-organised for
effective discussion. All documents are expected to be clear, concise, and include supporting materials.
In addition, the Company Secretaries organise induction programs for Directors, assist with their training and
development as needed, and manage communications with shareholders, including the coordination of the Annual
General Meeting. They also ensure that all Board meetings are accurately documented and that records are properly
maintained.
All Directors have unlimited access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries. The Company
Secretaries keep the Board regularly informed about relevant laws, regulations (or any amendments), and directives
from regulatory authorities.
Access to Information and Advice
All Directors have unrestricted access to information related to the Group, including the ability to consult with the
Company’s auditors, consultants, and Company Secretaries. This ensures that Directors can perform their duties
with a thorough understanding of the issues being discussed, with all associated costs being covered by the
Company.
BOARD CHARTER
The Board Charter serves as a detailed reference guide for Directors on matters concerning the Board, its structure,
and its processes. It outlines the roles and responsibilities of the Board, individual Directors, the Chairman, the
CEO, and the Company Secretary. Additionally, the Charter provides procedures for onboarding new directors,
along with guidance on training, development, and the assessment of the Board. The Board will periodically review
and update this Board Charter, taking into account the Group’s needs and any regulatory developments that may
influence the Board’s duties and responsibilities.
SEC 05 OUR GOVERNANCE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
58
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
CORPORATE INTEGRITY
Directors’ Code of Conduct and Business Ethics and Whistle-Blowing Policy
Establishing an ethical culture is a key priority for the Board, and it is essential that the tone is set from the top. The
Company has implemented a Directors’ Code of Conduct and Business Ethics (“Code”), which offers guidance to
Directors on ethical and behavioural matters, helping them navigate their duties and responsibilities during their
appointment.
The Company has also established a comprehensive Whistleblowing Policy and Guidelines (“WBP”) that allows
employees and stakeholders to report suspected wrongdoing, inappropriate behaviour, or misconduct related to
fraud, corruption, or abuse in a timely manner. The goal of this policy is to provide a safe channel for employees
and stakeholders to raise concerns without the fear of retaliation, enabling Management to take appropriate action.
To promote the reporting of improper conduct, whistleblowers can submit their complaints via email or postal mail
to the Audit Committee Chairman, using the contact details provided in the policy.
As at the date of this Statement, the Company has not received any complaint under this procedure.
The Code and WBP are available for reference on the Company’s website at https://www.wellspireholdings.com.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
The Group enforces a strict zero-tolerance policy towards bribery and corrupt practices. To this end, the Company
has introduced its own Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, which outlines the expected conduct of the Company,
its subsidiaries, directors, employees, contractors, subcontractors, consultants, agents, and representatives in
their interactions with the Company, at work, and with its stakeholders. The Company is committed to ensuring that
its subsidiaries and employees act with honesty, ethics, and the highest standards of integrity, while fully complying
with all relevant laws, regulations, and legislation. A copy of the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy (to be read
alongside the Code and WBP) is available on the Company’s website at https://www.wellspireholdings.com.
Financial Reporting
The Board is focused on delivering a balanced and insightful evaluation of the Company’s financial performance
and future prospects through the annual financial statements, quarterly result announcements to shareholders, and
the Management Discussion and Analysis in the Annual Report. This is overseen by the Audit Committee. The Audit
Committee’s activities are detailed in the Audit Committee Report on page 68 of this Annual Report. Additionally,
the Directors’ Responsibility Statement regarding the preparation of the Group and Company’s annual audited
financial statements can be found on page 78 of this Annual Report.
SUSTAINABILITY AND THE BOARD
In FYE2024, the Company had enhanced its sustainability practices by carrying out a materiality assessment,
implementing material matters identified, setting out processes to collect data for its material matters and
introducing new policies.
The Company has through its board and management demonstrated a strong commitment to improve and enhance
the measurement and monitoring of its sustainability measures throughout the year. Upon the refinement of its data
tracking and monitoring processes, the Company plans to set clear, measurable targets and goals to further solidify
the Group’s sustainability commitment.
SEC 05
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 59
OUR GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
BOARD COMPOSITION
The Board presently consists of seven (7) members, consisting of three (3) Executive Directors and four (4)
Independent Non-Executive Directors. Hence, this is in line with Rule 15.02 of the AMLR with regards to Board’s
composition that at least one-third (1/3) of the Board shall consist of Independent Directors. The current board
composition is illustrated as below:
Current Directors Designation Date of
Appointment
Age Gender Nationality
YM Tengku Dato’ Seri Abu Bakar
Ahmad Bin Tengku Tan Sri Abdullah
Independent Non-
Executive Chairman
15 March 2022 39 Male Malaysian
Mo Guopiao CEO/Executive
Director
6 August 2021 43 Male Singaporean
Saranjit Wang Executive Director 1 March 2022 44 Female Thai
Kua Chin Teck Executive Director 1 March 2022 42 Male Malaysian
Tang Yuen Kin Independent Non-
Executive Director
15 March 2022 53 Male Malaysian
Fazidah Bt Zakaria Independent Non-
Executive Director
15 March 2022 56 Female Malaysian
Yang Shing Sing Independent Non-
Executive Director
15 March 2022 36 Female Malaysian
A brief profile of each Directors is detailed under Profile of Directors in this Annual Report.
None of the Directors of the Company hold more than five (5) directorships in listed issuers, in compliance with Rule
15.06 of the AMLR. The profiles of each Director are provided on pages 11 to 17 of this Annual Report.
The Board acknowledges the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (MCCG) recommendation that the tenure
of an Independent Director be limited to nine (9) years. It further recognises that an Independent Director may only
remain on the Board beyond this period if reclassified as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director. If the Board
intends to retain an independent director beyond nine years, it shall seek annual Shareholders’ approval through a
two-tier voting process. This policy is detailed in the Board Charter. Currently, none of the Independent Directors
has exceeded the nine (9)-year tenure limit.
BOARD MEETINGS
There were five (5) board meetings held for the FYE 31 December 2024.
During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, the following activities took place at the Board Meetings:-
Financial Reporting The Board reviewed the quarterly financial results tabled by the AC
for the board to review and approve.
External Auditors The Board reviewed the Audited Completion Report been presented
by the external auditors, BDO PLT.
Having considered the AC’s assessment of the independence
and suitability of the External Auditors, and based on the AC's
recommendation, the Board has resolved to recommend the re-
appointment of BDO PLT as External Auditors of the Company for
the financial year ended 31 December 2023 to the Shareholders for
approval at the 2nd AGM of the Company.
SEC 05 OUR GOVERNANCE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
60
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
BOARD MEETINGS (CONT’D)
During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, the following activities took place at the Board Meetings: -
(Cont’d)
Internal Auditors The Board reviewed the Internal Audit Report presented
by the internal auditors, ShineWing TY Teoh Risk &
Governance Sdn Bhd.
Related Party Transaction The Board took note of the related party transactions
and recurrent related party transactions (“RRPTs”)
presented by management.
Implementation of Sustainability
Matters
The Board approved the Environmental Policy, Health &
Safety Policy and Sustainability Policy and authorised
Management to upload the Sustainability Policy to the
Company’s website.
The Board approved the Materiality Matrix.
Re-election of Directors The Board deliberated on the re-election of Directors
retiring by rotation in accordance with Clause 77(3) of
the Company’s Constitution at the 2nd Annual General
Meeting. All Directors undergoing re-election were re-
assessed in line with the Fit and Proper Policy adopted
by the Company.
Based on the assessment results, the Board confirmed
that all retiring Directors satisfy the criteria outlined in
Rule 2.20A of the AMLR, demonstrating the necessary
character, experience, integrity, competence, and
commitment to effectively fulfill their responsibilities as
Directors.
Training for Directors and Senior
Management
The Board took note that Management would arrange
for a training session on related party transactions for
the Directors after the 2nd AGM of the Company.
Related party transaction and recurrent related
party transaction training for Directors and senior
management were held in December 2024.
Risk The Risk Management Committee ("RMC") reviewed
and approved the recommendation of the Environmental
Policy, Health & Safety Policy, and Sustainability Policy
to the Board for approval. Additionally, the RMC
reviewed and agreed to recommend the materiality
matrix to the Board for approval.
The Board was updated by the RMC on newly identified
risks and the action plan that has been developed to
address these issues.
SEC 05
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 61
OUR GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
ATTENDANCE AT BOARD AND COMMITTEE MEETINGS
Attendance at Board and Committee meetings as at 31 December 2024
Directors Attendance
Board AC NRC RMC
YM Tengku Dato’ Seri Abu Bakar Ahmad
Bin Tengku Tan Sri Abdullah
4/5
Mo Guopiao 5/5
Saranjit Wang 5/5
Kua Chin Teck 5/5
Tang Yuen Kin 5/5 5/5 1/1 2/2
Fazidah Bt Zakaria 5/5 5/5 1/1 2/2
Yang Shing Sing 5/5 5/5 1/1 2/2
Date of Board Meetings:
27 February 2024, 16 April 2024, 28 May 2024, 27 August 2024, 20 November 2024
Date of AC Meetings:
27 February 2024, 16 April 2024, 28 May 2024, 27 August 2024, 20 November 2024
Date of NRC Meetings:
27 February 2024
Date of RMC Meetings:
16 April 2024, 20 November 2024
BOARD COMMITTEES
The Board has established several Committees to assist in fulfilling its fiduciary duties and responsibilities. Specific
tasks are delegated to these Committees, which operate based on predefined terms of reference. The Board
Committees include the Audit Committee (“AC”), Nominating and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”), and Risk
Management Committee (“RMC”). Each Committee reports to the Board on the matters it has reviewed and
provides recommendations for decision-making and approval. The Terms of Reference for each Committee are
available on the Company’s website: https://www.wellspireholdings.com.
Name Audit Committee (“AC”) Risk Management
Committee (“RMC”)
Nominating &
Remuneration
Committee (“NRC”)
Tang Yuen Kin Chairman Member Member
Fazidah Bt Zakaria Member Chairperson Member
Yang Shing Sing Member Member Chairperson
SEC 05 OUR GOVERNANCE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
62
30-40 years
41-50 years
51-60 years
Age Diversity
29%
43%
29%
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
BOARDROOM DIVERSITY (CONT’D)
The Board is dedicated to fostering diversity in its membership, encompassing factors such as gender, ethnicity,
age, skills, and experience. It aims to maintain an optimal balance to ensure the Board functions effectively. The
Company has achieved a 30 percent representation of women directors, recognising the value of their unique
perspectives and contributions, thus meeting the target set by Practice 5.9 of the MCCG.
INDUCTION AND TRAINING FOR BOARD MEMBERS
The Company believes it is crucial for its Executive and Independent Directors to possess the knowledge and skills
necessary to address future challenges and opportunities. To support this, the Company promotes initiatives such
as training programs, knowledge-sharing sessions, and briefings from subject matter experts.
The following are the attendance records of Directors' participation in conferences, courses, seminars and training
programmes during the financial year ended 31 December 2024:
Name Courses/Training Programmes
YM Tengku Dato’ Seri Abu Bakar Ahmad Bin Tengku
Tan Sri Abdullah
Navigating Boundaries: Mastering RPT and RRPT
Mo Guopiao Navigating Boundaries: Mastering RPT and RRPT
Saranjit Wang Navigating Boundaries: Mastering RPT and RRPT
Kua Chin Teck Navigating Boundaries: Mastering RPT and RRPT
Tang Yuen Kin Navigating Boundaries: Mastering RPT and RRPT
Male
Female
Gender Diversity
57%
43%
Accounting
Entrepreneur
Science
Business
Skills and Experience
57%
14%
14%
14%
Malaysian
Thai
Singaporean
Nationality
68%
14%
19%
SEC 05
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 63
OUR GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
INDUCTION AND TRAINING FOR BOARD MEMBERS (CONT'D)
The following are attendance records of Directors participation in conferences, courses, seminars and training
programmes during the financial year ended 31 December 2024: (Cont'd)
Name Courses/ Training Programmes
Fazidah Bt Zakaria Navigating Boundaries: Mastering RPT and RRPT
Yang Shing Sing 1. Navigating Boundaries: Mastering RPT and RRPT
2. Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II:
Leading for Impact (LIP)
NOMINATING AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (“NRC”)
The NRC comprises of three (3) members, all of whom are independent Non-Executive Directors which are as
follows:
Name of members Membership Attendance at Meetings %
Yang Shing Sing Chairperson 1/1 100%
Fazidah Bt Zakaria Member 1/1 100%
Tang Yuen Kin Member 1/1 100%
Date of Meeting: 27 February 2024
The NRC is tasked with evaluating the composition, size, and diversity of the Board. It ensures that the Board
includes Directors with the right mix of skills, knowledge, expertise, and experience, while maintaining a proper
balance between Executive Directors and Independent Non-Executive Directors, in line with the Board Charter.
The NRC’s nominating responsibilities include conducting an annual evaluation of the essential blend of skills,
experience, and core competencies that Non-Executive Directors should contribute to the Board. Additionally, the
NRC advises the Board on remuneration matters for both the Board and senior management to ensure the retention
and attraction of top talent.
For the appointment or re-election of Directors, the NRC assesses candidates based on their independence in
accordance with the AMLR, time commitment, potential contributions, and alignment with the criteria set forth in
the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy, available on the Company’s website at https://www.wellspireholdings.com.
The NRC will recommend to the Board the re-election of directors who retire by rotation, in accordance with Clause
77(3) & (5) of the Company’s Constitution, as well as the re-appointment of directors retiring under the relevant
provisions of the Companies Act 2016. The NRC will ensure that the annual re-election of a Director is based on a
satisfactory evaluation of the Director’s performance and contributions to the Board.
Annual Board Assessment
In addition, the NRC conducts an annual assessment of the overall effectiveness of the Board, the performance
of the Board Committees, the individual contributions of each Director, the contributions of each Audit Committee
member, the independence of each Independent Director, and the alignment with the required skill set for the
Board, for the financial year ending 31 December 2024.
The annual evaluation process was facilitated by an external consultant. The Company Secretary conducted the
evaluation by distributing the evaluation forms to the Board.
SEC 05 OUR GOVERNANCE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
64
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
NOMINATING AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (CONT’D)
Annual Board Assessment (Cont'd)
The assessment criteria and outcome are as summarised below:
Evaluation Summary of Findings
Board effectiveness as a whole The rating was average and requires improvement in time
spent on improving and enhancing sustainability practices
and on training.
Individual Director Self & Peer Evaluations Overall, the Directors have performed satisfactorily.
Board Committee effectiveness All Board Committees received an outstanding rating.
Audit Committee Members’ Self and Peer
Evaluation
The AC members had performed satisfactory with the
appropriate level of knowledge, skills, experience and
commitment to discharge their responsibilities effectively.
Independent Directors’ Self-Assessment All Independent Directors have met the criteria under the
definition of “Independent Director”.
Further details on duties and responsibilities of the NRC may be found in its Terms of Reference which is made
available on the Company’s website at https://www.wellspireholdings.com.
Summary of NRC Activities
During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, the following activities took place at the NRC Meetings:-
Re-election of Directors The NRC discussed the re-election of Directors who are retiring by
rotation in accordance with Clause 77(3) of the Constitution of the
Company at the 2nd Annual General Meeting. All directors undergoing
re-election are being re-assessed pursuant to the Fit and Proper
Policy adopted by the Company.
Based on the result, the Board noted that all the Retiring Directors
meet the criteria prescribed by Rule 2.20A of the AMLR on character,
experience, integrity, competence and commitment to effectively
discharge their roles as Directors.
Training for Directors and Senior
Management
The NRC took note that the Management would arrange for a training
session on related party transactions for the Board members and
senior management of the Company.
Remuneration Package of Executive
Directors and Key Senior Management
The NRC noted the remuneration package of Executive Directors
and Key Senior Management remained unchanged as per financial
year 31 December 2023.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The principles and guidelines for determining the remuneration of the Board of Directors and Senior Management
(including personnel at the Deputy General Manager level and above) of the Group are outlined in the Company’s
Policies and Procedures for the Remuneration of Directors and Senior Management. This policy is available on the
Company’s website: www.wellspireholdings.com.
Remuneration for Executive Directors (“EDs”) and Senior Management
The Group understands that to attract and retain EDs and senior management, it is essential to offer a fair and
competitive remuneration package that reflects their qualifications, experience, skills, responsibilities, performance,
contributions, and industry benchmarks. The package is designed to link rewards to both corporate and individual
performance. The performance and remuneration of the EDs and Senior Management are reviewed by the NRC.
EDs are required to abstain from discussions and voting on their own remuneration during Board meetings.
SEC 05
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 65
OUR GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION (Cont’d)
Remuneration for Executive Directors (“EDs”) and Senior Management (Cont'd)
The Remuneration components of the EDs comprise fixed and variable components as follows:
Components Composition Purpose
Fixed Salary
Allowances
Benefits
Determined based on competencies, responsibilities of the
director, taking into consideration market competitive levels.
Variable Bonuses based on annual
performance
Performance-based and not guaranteed, reflecting the
individual Director's performance and the Group’s results.
Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors ("NEDs")
For NEDs, the level of remuneration is determined based on their knowledge, experience, and responsibilities and
benchmarked to industry peers of similar size and business complexity. NEDs receive fixed annual Directors’ fees,
Board Committee fees, and meeting allowances for each Board or Committee meeting attended. They also benefit
from Directors' indemnity insurance. The Board sets the fees for the NEDs, with individual Directors abstaining
from decisions regarding their own remuneration. The fees and allowances for Non-Executive Directors must be
approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company.
The details of the Directors’ remuneration received and receivable by Executive and Non-Executive Directors during
the financial year under review is as follows:
FYE 2024 Directors’
fees
RM’000
Salaries
RM’000
Bonuses
RM’000
Benefits-
in-kind and
Allowances
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Executive Directors
Mo Guopiao - 720.0 120.0 120.0 960.0
Saranjit Wang - 233.3 38.9 - 272.2
Kua Chin Teck - 660.0 110.0 270.8 1,040.8
Non-Executive Directors
YM Tengku Dato’ Seri Abu Bakar
Ahmad Bin Tengku Tan Sri Abdullah
54.0 - - 6.0 60.0
Tang Yuen Kin 42.0 - - 15.5 57.5
Fazidah Bt Zakaria 42.0 - - 15.5 57.5
Yang Shing Sing 42.0 - - 15.5 57.5
Key Senior Management Personnel’s remuneration and benefits
The Board has chosen not to disclose the remuneration details of key senior management members on an individual
basis due to the confidentiality and sensitivity of each individual’s compensation package, as well as concerns
about privacy, competition, and the potential risk of staff poaching.
Range of Remuneration No of Key Senior Management
RM 200,000 – RM 250,000 1
RM 350,000 – RM 400,000 1
SEC 05 OUR GOVERNANCE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
66
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee (“AC”) comprises three (3) members who are Independent Non-Executive Directors. The AC
is chaired by Tang Yuen Kin. None of the AC members were former audit partners, who must adhere to a mandatory
cooling-off period of at least three (3) years before being appointed, as specified in the AC’s terms of reference.
The AC supports the Board in reviewing, assessing, and providing recommendations on issues related to financial
and accounting records, internal controls, related party transactions (RPT), potential conflicts of interest, and the
Group’s financial reporting practices.
II. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
The Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) comprises three (3) members who are Independent Non-Executive
Directors. The RMC is chaired by Fazidah Binti Zakaria. The RMC, together with the AC, has been tasked by the
Board to guide management in identifying and managing the Group’s risks, which includes establishing internal
control systems and processes to mitigate those risks. The Board believes that the internal control and risk
management system in place during 2024 is robust and adequate to protect the Group’s assets, as well as the
investments of shareholders, and the interests of customers, regulators, employees, and other stakeholders. For
more information, the details of the Risk Management and Internal Control Framework are outlined in the Statement
on Internal Control and Risk Management on pages 72 to 75 of this report.
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH
STAKEHOLDERS
I. Communication with Stakeholders
The Board places great importance on transparent and effective communication with its shareholders, potential
investors, and the public. During the financial year under review, the Company shared important business and
financial information with its stakeholders through periodic announcements and the annual general meeting. This
information is also available on the Company’s website at www.wellspireholdings.com. The Company released its
second annual report on 30 April 2024.
II. Conduct of General Meetings
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) provides a platform for shareholders to engage in open discussions and interact
with the Board. The Board encourages active participation from shareholders in general meetings. To facilitate
broader and more efficient participation, the Company held its second virtual AGM on 7 June 2024, which included
live streaming and online remote voting. The AGM was streamed from the Broadcast Venue at Boardroom, Lot D/E,
Level 12, Tower 1, Etiqa Twins, 11, Jalan Pinang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. All Board members were present
at the Broadcast Venue, while the Company Secretaries joined via video conferencing. Shareholders unable to
attend the AGM were given the option to appoint a proxy to participate and vote online on their behalf.
The Company provided over 28 days’ notice for its 2nd AGM, scheduled for 7 June 2024. This gave shareholders
ample time to review the Annual Report and Circular to Shareholders, allowing them to make the necessary
arrangements to participate in the meeting.
The Poll Administrator, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd, verified the poll results for each
resolution, including the votes in favour and against. Following this, the Chairman of the 2nd AGM announced that
all resolutions had been approved. The poll results were also published on Bursa Securities' website via Bursa LINK
on the same day for the benefit of all shareholders. Additionally, the minutes of the 2nd AGM were made available
on the Company’s website: www.wellspireholdings.com.
SEC 05
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 67
OUR GOVERNANCE
Audit Committee Report
The Audit Committee (AC) supports the Board by reviewing, evaluating, and providing recommendations on issues
concerning financial and accounting records, internal controls, related party transactions (RPT), potential conflicts
of interest, and the Group’s financial reporting practices.
As of FYE 2024, the AC of the Company comprises three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors:
Name of members Membership Attendance at Meetings %
Tang Yuen Kin Chairman 5/5 100
Fazidah Bt Zakaria Member 5/5 100
Yang Shing Sing Member 5/5 100
Date of Meetings: 27 February 2024, 16 April 2024, 28 May 2024, 27 August 2024, 20 November
2024
All members of the AC have financial expertise, competence, and the capacity to understand matters within the
AC’s scope, including the financial reporting process. None of them have previously served as key audit partners
for the Company’s current External Auditors.
The AC also complies with the AMLR, which mandates that at least one Committee member must meet the financial
expertise requirement specified in Rule 15.09(c) of the AMLR of Bursa Securities. The Chairman of the AC, Mr. Tang
Yuen Kin, is a member of both the Malaysian Institute of Accountants and the Malaysian Institute of Certified Public
Accountants.
Chairman
To maintain the independence of the AC, the AC's Chairman is not the same as the Chairman of the Board. The
AC Chairman’s role is to present a summary of key issues discussed at each AC meeting to the Board. When
submitting recommendations for Board approval, the Committee will provide relevant background and supporting
information to help the Board make an informed decision.
Roles and Responsibilities
The roles and responsibilities of the AC are described in the terms of reference of the AC and they are as follows: -
(a) Financial Reporting – Review the Group’s annual report, quarterly results, and year-end financial statements
before they are presented to the Board for approval. Oversee the implementation of any new or revised major
accounting policy changes. Review significant adjustments resulting from the audit, and monitor the going
concern assumption as well as compliance with legal requirements;
(b) External Auditor – Assess the independence and competence of external auditors and recommend their
appointment to the Board. The AC will also collaborate with the external auditors to review the annual audit
plan, audit report, and the evaluation of the internal control system;
(c) Internal Audit – Evaluate the adequacy of the internal audit function’s scope, competence, and resources,
including the annual internal audit plan, program, processes, and the results of the internal auditor’s
evaluations. The AC will also assess the performance of the internal audit function annually; and
(d) Related Party Transactions (“RPT”) and Recurrent RPT (“RRPT”) – Oversee, review, and report to the Board
any related party transactions (RPT), recurrent related party transactions (RRPT), or potential conflicts of
interest that may occur within the Company or Group.
The terms of reference of the AC can be found on the Company’s website at www.wellspireholdings.com
SEC 05 OUR GOVERNANCE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
68
Audit Committee Report
Independence of External Auditors
The Audit Committee (AC) assesses the independence of the external auditors each year as part of the process
for their appointment and reappointment. In this evaluation, the AC considers the external auditor’s competence,
audit quality, efficiency, and resources, as well as the information in the audit firm’s Annual Transparency Report.
If the report is not available, the AC reviews the firm’s governance and leadership structure and the measures
taken to uphold audit quality and manage risks. Additionally, the external auditor is required to provide a written
confirmation of their independence throughout the audit engagement, in line with all applicable professional and
regulatory standards.
Internal Audit
For FYE 2024, the internal audit was conducted by ShineWing TY Teoh Risk & Governance Sdn Bhd, which is
responsible for performing the internal audit activities for the Group. The internal auditor reports directly to the AC.
The Internal Auditor submitted the internal audit plan for the financial year ending 31 December 2024 to the Audit
Committee (AC) for approval on 27 February 2024. The primary focus of the audit was on the “Recoverability of
Trade Receivables.”
The costs associated with the Internal Audit function for the FYE 31 December 2024 totalled RM48,000.
During FYE 31 December 2024, and up to the date of this report, the Internal Audit carried out the following
activities:
(a) Developed and presented a risk-based annual internal audit plan covering key business segments within the
Group for AC approval.
(b) Conducted reviews of internal control systems, risk management processes, and governance practices.
(c) Issued internal audit reports to the AC and Management, detailing the results of the assessments of internal
controls, identifying significant concerns, and providing recommendations for improvements, along with
follow-up audits.
Summary of AC Activities
During the FYE 31 December 2024, the following activities took place at the AC Meetings: -
Financial Reporting The AC reviewed the quarterly financial results with Management to
ensure the correctness of the accounting treatment and the accuracy
of the reported figures. The CFO emphasised key transactions
and provisions made and provided explanations for any significant
variances or movements during the relevant quarters. After reviewing
the unaudited quarterly financial results, the AC recommended that
they be presented to the Board for approval prior to their release to
Bursa Securities.
The AC also, in collaboration with the External Auditors and
Management, discussed the audited financial statements for the
FYE 31 December 2023. The AC was briefed on the significant audit
findings, key audit matters, and the impact of the adoption of new
accounting standards in the audited financial statements.
SEC 05
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 69
OUR GOVERNANCE
Audit Committee Report
Summary of AC Activities (Cont’d)
During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, the following activities took place at the AC Meetings:- (Cont’d)
External Auditors The AC assessed the independence, performance, resources, and
services of the External Auditors, BDO PLT, and recommended their
re-appointment for the financial year ending 31 December 2024. The
AC highlighted key points from the evaluation forms, noting that the
external auditors received ratings between 3.67 and 4, which reflects
an ‘above average’ performance in areas such as quality processes,
audit engagement team, independence and objectivity, audit
scope and planning, and audit communication. The audit fee was
considered reasonable. All AC members provided positive feedback
regarding the external auditors’ working relationship with the internal
audit team. Overall, the performance of the external auditors for the
financial year ended 31 December 2023 was deemed satisfactory.
The AC also had private meetings with the External Auditors to discuss
any issues and reservations arising from their annual audit without
the presence of management and the Executive Board members.
The External Auditors also presented their annual Audit Plan for the
financial year ending 31 December 2024 to the AC for approval.
Internal Auditors The AC completed the performance evaluation of the internal
auditors and expressed satisfaction with the overall performance
of the internal audit function, noting that no negative feedback or
comments were received. This evaluation will serve as the foundation
for the re-appointment of the internal auditors when their service
contract is up for renewal.
The AC had appointed the Internal Auditor and approved their annual
Internal Audit plan. The Internal Auditor also presented their findings
on “vendor management” and the “issuance of official receipts” to
the AC.
Related Party Transaction The AC had reviewed and deliberated on any potential conflict of
interest, related party transactions and recurrent related party
transactions (“RRPTs”). The AC had found that there were no conflict
of interest or potential conflict of interest pursuant to Rule 15.12(1)(h)
of the AMLR (excluding related party transaction).
SEC 05 OUR GOVERNANCE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
70
Risk Management
Committee Report
As of FYE 2024, the Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) of the Company comprises three (3) Independent Non-
Executive Directors:
Name of members Membership Attendance at Meetings %
Fazidah Bt Zakaria Chairperson 2/2 100
Tang Yuen Kin Member 2/2 100
Yang Shing Sing Member 2/2 100
Date of Meetings: 16 April 2024, 20 November 2024
The RMC is supported by the Risk Management Team (RM Team), which includes Tin Jiing Soon and Samart
Singphuak. The RM Team oversees the Group’s overall risk management activities, while the responsibility for
managing specific risks rests with the individual risk owners.
Roles and Responsibilities
The RMC is responsible for, amongst others, reviewing and overseeing the risk management function of the Group,
on behalf of the Board, which includes, amongst others, the following:
a) to evaluate the Group’s risk management policies, which cover key aspects of the enterprise-wide
risk management framework, risk appetite, strategy, processes, and methodology, and propose any
necessary changes to the Board. These recommendations should align with changes in the operating
and economic environment, current best practices in risk management, and applicable regulatory
requirements.
b) to supervise, assess, and monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management
framework and the system implemented by Management, ensuring they adapt to changing business
conditions to protect shareholders’ interests and the Group’s assets.
c) to report to the Board on the Group’s key risk exposures, including a review of the risk assessment
framework used to monitor these exposures, as well as Management’s perspective on the acceptable
and appropriate risk levels for each business unit or division within the Group.
d) to review the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, along with other disclosures
related to the Group’s risk management activities, for inclusion in the Company’s Annual Report, and
recommend them for approval by the Board.
e) to identify corporate liability risks, including specific risks related to bribery, corruption, and compliance
with the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009.
The terms of reference of the RMC is found on the Company’s website at www.wellspireholdings.com.
The Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control as set out in pages 72 to 75 of this Annual Report provides
an overview of the state of risk management and internal controls within the Group.
SEC 05
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 71
OUR GOVERNANCE
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is pleased to present the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control in accordance with
Chapter 15, Rule 15.26(b), Rule 15.23 and Guidance Note 11 of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad ACE Market
Listing Requirements (“AMLR”), as well as Principle B of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021
(“MCCG”), following the guidance provided in the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines
for Directors of Listed Issuers. This statement covers Wellspire Holdings Berhad (“Company”) and its subsidiaries
(collectively referred to as the “Group”) excluding the Group’s associate and joint venture entities.
BOARD RESPONSIBILITY
The Board recognises its ultimate responsibility for the oversight of the Group’s risk management and internal
control frameworks. This responsibility is supported by the Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) and Audit
Committee (“AC”), which are entrusted with the primary responsibility for monitoring and ensuring the effectiveness
of the Group’s risk management and internal control systems, respectively.
The Board is committed to embedding adequate risk management practices and internal controls within the
strategies, operations and day-to-day activities of the Company and the Group. The risk management framework is
meticulously designed to enable the Group to proactively identify, assess, manage or mitigate, monitor and report
risks or events that may have a significant adverse impact on the achievement of the Group’s objectives.
The integrated risk management and internal control framework is specifically structured to mitigate potential risks
or events that could substantially hinder the Group’s ability to meet its goals. As such, it provides a reasonable level
of assurance, but not absolute assurance, against material financial misstatements, financial losses or fraudulent
activities.
The Board, with the assistance of the RMC and AC, will annually review the effectiveness, adequacy and integrity
of the Group’s risk management practices and internal control systems. Given the dynamic nature of the business
environment, the Group’s risk management and internal control framework will undergo continuous scrutiny, testing
and refinement to ensure their ongoing resilience and ability to address new challenges and evolving circumstances.
RISK MANAGEMENT TEAM
The role of the RMC is to provide strategic oversight of the Group’s comprehensive risk management framework
and policies.
The RMC is supported by the Risk Management Team (“RM Team”) which is responsible for driving the Group’s
overall risk management initiatives. While the RM Team coordinates and facilitates risk management activities, the
responsibility for managing specific risks is delegated to the respective risk owners across the Group. The RM
Team is led by the Chief Executive Officer, with key support from senior members, including Mr. Tin Jiing Soon and
Mr. Samart Singphuak, who bring their expertise to ensure effective risk management practices are implemented
across the Group.
Through its meeting, the RMC undertakes the following considerations:
• Identify, assess and monitor key business risks and review risk mitigation strategies;
• Review and recommend risk management strategies, policies and levels of risk tolerance;
• Ensure infrastructure, resources and systems are in place to manage risks.
During the financial year, the RMC has reviewed, appraised and assessed the controls and progress of action plans
taken to mitigate and manage the Group’s risk exposure. Subsequently, the principal risks and remedial actions
highlighted by the Board would be cascaded to the Management team for remedial actions. Notwithstanding the
above, any emerging principal risks that may arise during the year will be escalated immediately to the RMC.
SEC 05 OUR GOVERNANCE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
72
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control
RISK APPROACH
The Group has implemented a comprehensive Risk Management Policy that outlines the framework for the effective
identification, evaluation, management and reporting of the Group’s risks.
The Group’s risk management framework is built on the following key principles and approach:
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
The Risk Management Process entails the following processes:
a) Risk Identification – risk owners are responsible for identifying potential risks through discussions with
relevant stakeholders and reviewing financial statements. This process helps categorise risks into areas
such as strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks, ensuring a comprehensive understanding of
potential threats to the Group.
b) Risk Assessment – risks are assessed by evaluating both the likelihood and potential impact of each identified
risk. Further, the Group’s vulnerability to these risks is analysed, taking into account the effectiveness of
existing risk treatments and control that have been proposed or implemented, providing a clear picture of the
risk exposure.
c) Identify Controls – risk owners must identify and evaluate the key controls or risk treatment strategies that
have been implemented to mitigate or manage each risk. This includes regularly reviewing the effectiveness
of these controls to ensure they are functioning as intended and addressing the risks in a proactive manner.
Risk
Identification
Risk
Assessment
Risk
Monitoring/
Reporting
Identify
Controls
Risk
Treatment
202101026155 (1426455-A)
SEC 05
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 73
OUR GOVERNANCE
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS (CONT’D)
The Risk Management Process entails the following processes: (Cont’d)
d) Risk Treatment – risk treatment involves selecting from a range of options for addressing identified risks,
including avoidance, reduction, transfer, retention of sharing. These options are thoroughly assessed and
detailed risk treatment plans are developed and executed to minimise the impact of these risks on the Group.
e) Risk Monitoring – risk monitoring is conducted by the respective Head of Departments within the Group, who
ensure that identified risks remain within acceptable limits. They are also responsible for identifying emerging
risks and gaps in the current risk management process. This proactive monitoring ensures that risk response
measures and controls are continuously updated, relevant and effective in addressing evolving challenges.
The Group conducts an annual risk analysis, which includes review of the processes used to identify, evaluate and
implement necessary action to assess, manage and monitor the impacts of risks on its operations and business.
The findings of this analysis are reviewed by the RMC and the Board at the respective meetings, with support from
the internal audit team.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing significant risks have been continuously updated throughout
the year under review and remain current up to the date of approval of this statement.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Board has outsourced its internal audit function to Shinewing TY Teoh Risk and Governance Sdn Bhd (“the
Internal Auditor”), an independent professional accounting and consulting firm. The Internal Auditor operates
autonomously and reports directly to the AC.
Adopting a risk-based approach, the internal audit function develops its audit plan to focus on the core auditable
areas of the Group, based on the risk profile established by the Company. The Internal Auditor conducts audits
across the Group’s divisions and operating units, in alignment with a risk-based audit plan that is approved annually
by the AC. Semi-annually reports are submitted to the AC, which highlight key observations, recommendations,
and proposed action plans aimed at strengthening the Group’s internal control system. Furthermore, the Internal
Auditor collaborates with management to monitor the implementation of action plans that address any control
deficiencies identified during the internal audits.
The AC, with support from the Internal Auditor, conducts an annual review of the Group’s internal control system to
address any weaknesses or areas for improvement.
The Internal Auditor prepared an annual internal audit plan for the financial year ending 31 December 2025 based
on the Group’s risk profile. This plan was reviewed and approved by the AC on 20 November 2024. The internal
audit plan encompasses critical areas such as sales and receivables, as well as procurement and account payables,
ensuring comprehensive coverage of the Group’s operations.
SEC 05 OUR GOVERNANCE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
74
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control
INTERNAL CONTROL STRUCTURES
The Group’s risk management is underpinned by a comprehensive and integrated internal controls system, which
applies uniformly across the entire Group. In addition to the risk management framework and internal audit function,
the internal control system includes the following key components:
a) Policies & Procedures
The Group’s internal control system is supported by formalised and well-documented internal policies,
standards and procedures, which are designed to ensure compliance with both internal controls and relevant
laws and regulations. These policies provide clear guidance to all divisions and operating subsidiaries, enabling
them to function effectively and efficiently. By establishing standardised operating procedures, the system
fosters consistency across the Group’s operations, ensuring alignment with best practices. Additionally,
these procedures empower management to respond proactively to potential business, operational, financial,
compliance and other risks, thereby safeguarding the Group’s ability to achieve its strategic objectives.
b) Ethics & Integrity
To foster an ethical business culture within the Group, leadership plays a pivotal role. As such, the Group has
implemented a comprehensive Directors’ Code of Conduct and Business Ethics, which sets the standard
for ethical behavior and decision-making. Additionally, the Group has established an Anti-Bribery and Anti-
Corruption Policy, alongside a Whistleblowing Policy & Guidelines, to ensure a zero-tolerance approach to
unethical practices and encourage transparency and accountability. These policies are readily accessible on
the Company’s website, www.wellspireholdings.com, underscoring the Group’s commitment to maintaining
the highest standards of integrity and corporate governance.
REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS
In compliance with the AMLR, the External Auditors have conducted a review of this Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control. Their limited assurance review was carried out in accordance with Audit and Assurance
Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3 issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. It is important to note that “AAPG”
3 does not require the External Auditors to assess whether the Directors’ Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control encompasses all risks and controls. Furthermore, they are not required to form an opinion on the
adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control system including the assessments
and opinions by the Board of Directors and management thereon.
THE BOARD’S CONCLUSION
The Board is pleased to report that the Group’s risk management and internal control framework is adequate
and effectively supports the Group’s objective of maintaining good corporate governance. During the year under
review, no significant failures or weaknesses were identified that could have had a material adverse impact on the
Group’s results. Additionally, the Board has received assurance from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
Officer that the Group’s risk management and internal control system is operating adequately and effectively, in
all material aspects, based on the framework adopted by the Group. Moving forward, the Group will continue to
focus on implementing measures that protect and enhance shareholder value, while ensuring long-term business
sustainability remains a core priority.
This Statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board dated 24 April 2025.
SEC 05
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 75
OUR GOVERNANCE
Additional Disclosure
Requirements
1. UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS
The Company was listed on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 16 January 2023
(“Listing”). In conjunction with the Listing, the Company undertook a public issue of 124.60 million new
ordinary shares at an issue price of RM0.23 per ordinary share, raising gross proceeds of RM28.66 million.
As at 31 December 2024, the gross proceeds from the public issue amounting to RM28.66 million has been
utilised in the following manner:-
				 Estimated				
				 Timeframe for 				 Balance
				 the utilisation Proposed Actual		 to be
Details of utilisation			 upon listing(1) Utilisation Utilisation Reallocation utilised
		 			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Acquire/construct a
warehouse and operational
facility in Thailand 			 Within 30 months(4) 16,000 - - 16,000
Working capital			 Within 30 months(3)(4) 5,958 (4,450) 912 2,420
Estimated listing expenses		 Within 3 months 6,700 (5,788) (912)(2) -
Total 					 28,658 (10,238) - 18,420
Notes:
1. From the date of listing of the Company on the ACE Market of Bursa Securities.
2. The actual utilisation of listing expenses amounted to RM5.79 million. The surplus of RM0.91 million from the
estimated listing expenses was re-allocated to the Group's general working capital requirements.
3. On 28 August 2023, the Company announced that the timeframe for the utilisation of the IPO proceeds
allocated for working capital was extended for an additional 12 months, up to 18 months from date of listing
of the Company.
4. On 15 July 2024, the Company announced that the timeframe for the utilisation of the IPO proceeds allocated
for acquiring/constructing a warehouse and operational facility in Thailand and working capital was extended
for an additional 12 months, up to 30 months from date of listing of the Company.
2. AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES
During the year under review, the amount of statutory audit and non-statutory audit fees payable by the
Group were RM298,262 and RM8,555 respectively. The statutory audit and non-statutory audit fees payable
by the Company were RM111,000 and RM7,000 respectively.
The non-audit fees paid or payable to the external auditors, or a firm or corporation affiliated to the auditors’
firm by the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2024 were RM8,555. The nature of services
rendered for non-statutory audit fees were mainly review of Statement on Risk Management & Internal Control
and agreed upon procedures.
The non-audit fees paid or payable to the external auditors, or a firm or corporation affiliated to the auditors’
firm by the Company during the financial year ended 31 December 2024 were RM7,000. The nature of
services rendered for non-statutory audit fees were mainly review of Statement on Risk Management &
Internal Control.
SEC 05 OUR GOVERNANCE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
76
Additional Disclosure
Requirements
3. MATERIAL CONTRACTS
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving the interest of
the Directors and chief executive who is not a director or major shareholders, either still subsisting at the end
of the financial year ended 31 December 2024, or if not then subsisting, entered into since the end of the
previous financial year ended 31 December 2023.
4. RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
At the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company held on 7 June 2024, Wellspire had obtained
a mandate from its shareholders of Wellspire and/or its subsidiaries to enter into recurrent related party
transactions (“RRPTs”) of a revenue or trading nature.
Pursuant to Rule 10.09(2)(b) and paragraph 3.1.5 of Guidance Note 8 of the ACE Market Listing Requirements,
details of the RRPTs of a revenue or trading nature entered into during the financial year ended 31 December
2024 are as follows:-
Transacting
Party
Transacting
Party within
the Group
Interested
Directors/Major
Shareholder and/or
person connected
to them
Nature of
relationship
Nature of
Transaction
Actual
value
(RM’000)
(i) Bai Li
Enterprise
Wellspire
Global
Trading
Saranjit Wang Saranjit Wang is
a Director and
shareholder of Bai
Li Enterprise.
She is also the
Executive Director
and shareholder of
Wellspire.
Sales of goods to
Bai Li Enterprise
– goods consist
of consumer
packaged foods
only
1,353
(ii) Bai Li
Enterprise
Wellspire
Global
Trading
Saranjit Wang Saranjit Wang is
a Director and
shareholder of Bai
Li Enterprise.
She is also the
Executive Director
and shareholder of
Wellspire.
Sales of goods to
Wellspire Global
Trading – goods
consist of snack
foods only
-
(iii) Keymall
Retail
Bai Li
Enterprise
Saranjit Wang Saranjit Wang is
a Director and
shareholder of Bai
Li Enterprise.
She is also the
Director and
indirect shareholder
of Keymall Retail.
Sales of goods to
Keymall Retail –
goods consist of
snack foods only
266
5. EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTION SCHEME
During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, Wellspire did not establish any employee share scheme.
6. LIST OF PROPERTIES
During the financial year ended 31 December 2024, there was no list of properties.
SEC 05
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 77
OUR GOVERNANCE
Directors’ Responsibility Statement in
Relation to the Financial Statements
In preparing the annual financial statements of the Group and the Company, the Directors are collectively responsible
to ensure that these financial statements have been properly drawn up in accordance with the applicable approved
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standard issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board and the provisions
of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”) so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of
the Company at the end of the financial year and of the financial results and the cash flows of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year ended on that date.
In preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2024, the Directors have:
1) adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
2) made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
3) prepared financial statements on the going concern basis; and
4) ensure the adoption of and compliance with applicable approved accounting standards.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the proper accounting records are kept which disclose with
reasonable accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and which enable them to
ensure that the financial statements comply with the Act.
The Directors are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and the
Company and to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
SEC 05 OUR GOVERNANCE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
78
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
STATUTORY DECLARATION
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
79
84
84
85
89
90
91
94
97
Directors’ Report
The Directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for
the financial year ended 31 December 2024.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding activities. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are
mainly investment holding, provision of management consultancy services, distribution, online retailer, trading and
manufacturing of consumer packaged foods, trading of food products and biomass fuel products. Further details
of the subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements. There have been no significant changes in
the nature of these activities of the Company and its subsidiaries during the financial year other than trading and
manufacturing of consumer packaged foods, which arose from the newly incorporated subsidiary.
RESULTS
								
Group Company
								
RM RM
			
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year					 12,598,756 (1,930,511)
			
Attributable to:			
			
Owners of the parent						 8,305,629 (1,930,511)
Non-controlling interests						 4,293,127 -
			
								
12,598,756 (1,930,511)
DIVIDEND
No dividend has been paid, declared or proposed by the Company since the end of the previous financial year. The
Directors do not recommend the payment of any dividend in respect of the current financial year.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
The Company did not issue any new shares or debentures during the financial year.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued ordinary shares of the Company during the financial
year.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
79
Directors’ Report
DIRECTORS
The Directors who have held office during the financial year and up to the date of this report are as follows:
Wellspire Holdings Berhad
YM Tengku Dato’ Seri Abu Bakar Ahmad Bin Tengku Tan Sri Abdullah
Mo Guopiao ^
Saranjit Wang ^
Kua Chin Teck ^
Tang Yuen Kin
Fazidah Binti Zakaria
Yang Shing Sing
Subsidiaries of Wellspire Holdings Berhad, excluding those who are already Directors of the Company
Ittiwat Rattakun
Waraporn Rattakun
Wang Zheng 					 (Appointed on 4 October 2024)
Master Sergeant First Class Wannapa Pansuk (First Director, resigned on 4 October 2024)
^ These Directors of the Company are also the Directors of certain subsidiaries of the Company.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The Directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in ordinary shares of
the Company and of its related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2024 as recorded in
the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 in
Malaysia were as follows:
				 ------------- Number of ordinary shares -------------
						
Balance as at 			 Balance as at
The Company					
1.1.2024 Acquired Sold 31.12.2024
				
Direct interests:				
YM Tengku Dato’ Seri Abu Bakar Ahmad Bin
Tengku Tan Sri Abdullah				 700,000 - - 700,000
Mo Guopiao 					
200,562,500 - - 200,562,500
Saranjit Wang					
5,750,000 - - 5,750,000
Kua Chin Teck				 700,000 - - 700,000
Fazidah Binti Zakaria				 380,000 - - 380,000
Yang Shing Sing					
700,000 - - 700,000
				
Deemed interests:				
Mo Guopiao *					
121,250,000 - - 121,250,000
Saranjit Wang #					
1,000,000 - - 1,000,000
* Deemed interested by virtue of his interest in Silver Line Capital Sdn. Bhd., applying Section 8(4) of the
Companies Act 2016.
# Deemed interested by virtue of the ordinary shares held by her spouse, applying Section 59(11)(c) of the
Companies Act 2016.
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 80
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors’ Report
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS (CONT’D)
None of the other Director holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in the ordinary shares of
the Company and of its related corporations during the financial year.
By virtue of Section 8(4) of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, Mo Guopiao is also deemed to be interested in the
shares of all the subsidiaries of the Company to the extent that the Company has an interest.
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
During the financial year, none of the Directors have received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other than
a benefit included in the aggregate amount of remuneration received or due and receivable by the Directors) by
reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the
Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest other than:
(i) the transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business with companies in which certain Directors
have substantial financial interests; and
(ii) remuneration received by certain Directors from subsidiaries as Directors of the subsidiaries.
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year, to which the Company is a party, which
had the object of enabling the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures
of the Company or any other body corporate.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The remuneration of Directors of the Group and of the Company during the financial year ended 31 December 2024
are as follows:
								
Group Company
								
RM RM
Directors of the Company:							
Fees								
180,000 180,000
Salaries and bonus						
1,882,197 1,610,000
Contributions to defined contribution plan					 119,600 119,600
Other employee benefits						
324,661 324,661
							
								
2,506,458 2,234,261
No benefit-in-kind was provided to Directors of the Company during the financial year.
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND AUDITORS
The Group and the Company effected Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance during the financial year to protect
the Directors and officers of the Group and of the Company against potential costs and liabilities arising from claims
brought against the Directors and officers.
The total amount of insurance premium effected for any Director and officer of the Group and of the Company was
RM9,800.
No indemnity was given to or insurance effected for the auditors of the Group and of the Company.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
81
Directors’ Report
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION REGARDING THE GROUP AND THE COMPANY
(I) AS AT THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the Directors took
reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the
making of provision for doubtful debts and have satisfied themselves that there are no known
bad debts to be written off and that adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets other than debts, which were unlikely to realise their book
values in the ordinary course of business had been written down to their estimated realisable
values.
(b) In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during
the financial year have not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material
and unusual nature.
(II) FROM THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR TO THE DATE OF THIS REPORT
(c) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would necessitate the writing off of bad debts or render the amount of the provision for
doubtful debts in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any
material extent;
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the
Group and of the Company misleading; and
(iii) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or
liabilities of the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) there has not arisen any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect
substantially the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year
in which this report is made; and
(ii) no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within
the period of twelve (12) months after the end of the financial yerar which would or may affect the
ability of the Group or of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due.
(III) AS AT THE DATE OF THIS REPORT
(e) There are no charges on the assets of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end
of the financial year to secure the liabilities of any other person.
(f) There are no contingent liabilities of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of
the financial year.
(g) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial
statements which would render any amount stated in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company misleading.
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 82
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors’ Report
SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
(a) Incorporation of a subsidiary
On 17 July 2024, an indirect subsidiary of the Company, Bai Li Enterprise Co., Ltd. (“BLE”) had subscribed
for 9,999 ordinary shares in the share capital of Pangya Enterprise Co., Ltd. (“Pangya”), a 99.99% owned
subsidiary of BLE for a total cash consideration of THB999,900, equivalent to approximately RM129,962. The
intended principal activities of Pangya are trading and manufacturing of consumer packaged foods. Pangya
has not commenced operations as at end of the reporting period.
AUDITORS
The auditors, BDO PLT (201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206), have expressed their willingness to continue
in office.
Auditors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 were as
follows:
								
Group Company
								
RM RM
							
Statutory audit							
- BDO PLT							
119,000 111,000
- Member firm of BDO PLT						 151,005 -
- Other auditors							
28,257 -
								
298,262 111,000
							
Other assurance services							
- BDO PLT							
7,000 7,000
- Member firm of BDO PLT						 1,555 -
								
8,555 7,000
							
								
306,817 118,000
Signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.
…………………….								 ………………….……
Mo Guopiao										 Kua Chin Teck
Director											 Director
Kuala Lumpur
24 April 2025
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
83
Statement By Directors
Statutory Declaration
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 89 to 137 have been drawn up in accordance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards and the provisions of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company
as at 31 December 2024 and of the financial performance and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year then ended.
On behalf of the Board,
…………………….								 ………………….……
Mo Guopiao										 Kua Chin Teck
Director												 Director
Kuala Lumpur
24 April 2025
I, Tin Jiing Soon, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Wellspire Holdings Berhad,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 89 to 137 are, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and
by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly		 )
declared by the abovenamed at )
Kuala Lumpur this 		 )
24 April 2025			)						 ………………….…………..
										 Tin Jiing Soon
Before me:
Mardhiyyah Abdul Wahab
No. W729
Commissioner of Oath
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 84
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent Auditors’ Report
To The Members Of Wellspire Holdings Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Wellspire Holdings Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial
position as at 31 December 2024 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other
comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including material accounting
policy information, as set out on pages 89 to 137.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2024, and of their financial performance and their cash flows
for the financial year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), IFRS
Accounting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards on Auditing (“ISAs”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence
we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics,
Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics
Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International
Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance
with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit
of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, in
forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Recoverability of trade receivables
The net carrying amount of trade receivables of the Group as at 31 December 2024 were RM34,845,171 as disclosed
in Note 9 to the financial statements.
We determined this to be a key audit matter because it requires management to exercise significant judgement in
determining the probability of default by trade receivables and appropriate forward-looking information.
Audit response
Our audit procedures, with the involvement of component auditors, included the following:
(a) Recomputed the probability of default using historical data and forward-looking information adjustment
applied by the Group;
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
85
Independent Auditors’ Report
To The Members Of Wellspire Holdings Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Key Audit Matters (Cont’d)
Audit response (Cont’d)
Our audit procedures, with the involvement of component auditors, included the following: (Cont’d)
(b) Recomputed the correlation coefficient between the macroeconomic indicators used by the Group and
historical credit losses to determine the appropriateness of the forward-looking information used by the
Group; and
(c) Inquiries of management to assess the rationale underlying the relationship between the forward-looking
information and expected credit losses.
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to be communicated in our auditors’ report of the audit of
the separate financial statements of the Company.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and
we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to
read the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise
appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of
the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with MFRSs, IFRS Accounting Standards, and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control
as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the
Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing
the ability of the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters
related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to
liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that
an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and ISAs will always detect a
material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if,
individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users
taken on the basis of these financial statements.
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 86
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Independent Auditors’ Report
To The Members Of Wellspire Holdings Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and ISAs, we exercise professional
judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not
detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may
involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
internal control of the Group and of the Company.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
and related disclosures made by the Directors.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If
we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the
related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are
inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date
of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease
to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f) Plan and perform the group audit to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial
information of the entities or business units within the Group as a basis for forming an opinion on the financial
statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and review of the audit work
performed for purposes of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought
to bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are
therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not
be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to
outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
87
Independent Auditors’ Report
To The Members Of Wellspire Holdings Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of
which we have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person
for the content of this report.
BDO PLT									Lu Yan Fen
201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206					 03803/11/2025 J
Chartered Accountants								Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
24 April 2025
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 88
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Statements Of Financial Position
As At 31 December 2024
							
Group		Company
						
2024 2023 2024 2023
ASSETS				
Note RM RM RM RM
								
Non-current assets							
								
Property, plant and equipment			 5 485,166 813,544 60,867 151,932
Right-of-use assets			 6 5,203,057 986,186 370,620 546,456
Investments in subsidiaries			 7 - - 12,501,000 12,501,000
						
5,688,223 1,799,730 12,932,487 13,199,388
								
Current assets								
								
Inventories				
8 15,116,887 6,130,711 - -
Trade and other receivables			 9 36,561,343 21,582,119 6,873,313 6,926,175
Cash and bank balances			 10 41,285,061 41,805,484 21,821,234 22,437,829
						
92,963,291 69,518,314 28,694,547 29,364,004
								
TOTAL ASSETS 				
98,651,514 71,318,044 41,627,034 42,563,392
								
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES								
					
Equity attributable to owners of the parent							
							
Share capital				
11 50,528,836 50,528,836 50,528,836 50,528,836
Merger reserve				
12 (10,721,287) (10,721,287) - -
Reserves				
13 310,133 804,395 - -
Retained earnings/(Accumulated losses)			 20,300,103 12,086,760 (10,763,487) (8,832,976)
						
60,417,785 52,698,704 39,765,349 41,695,860
Non-controlling interests				
11,392,108 8,148,321 - -
								
TOTAL EQUITY					
71,809,893 60,847,025 39,765,349 41,695,860
								
LIABILITIES								
								
Non-current liabilities								
						
Borrowings				
14 10,514 129,363 - -
Lease liabilities				
6 3,464,955 519,771 206,875 387,977
Deferred tax liabilities			 15 4,618,621 3,145,558 - -
						
8,094,090 3,794,692 206,875 387,977
Current liabilities								
								
Borrowings				
14 22,592 2,792,825 - -
Lease liabilities				
6 1,734,181 308,362 181,102 171,852
Trade and other payables			 16 13,354,130 2,550,920 1,473,708 307,703
Current tax liabilities				 3,636,628 1,024,220 - -
						
18,747,531 6,676,327 1,654,810 479,555
								
TOTAL LIABILITIES				
26,841,621 10,471,019 1,861,685 867,532
								
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES			98,651,514 71,318,044 41,627,034 42,563,392
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
89
Statements Of Profit Or Loss And
Other Comprehensive Income
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
							
Group		Company
						
2024 2023 2024 2023
					
Note RM RM RM RM
								
Revenue				
17 143,886,383 124,879,773 2,132,808 -
								
Cost of sales					 (103,048,547) (99,969,523) - -
								
Gross profit					
40,837,836 24,910,250 2,132,808 -
								
Other operating income				 1,034,701 1,242,785 778,612 1,048,750
								
(Impairment losses)/Reversal of impairment
losses of financial assets			 9(d) (3,369) 12,898 - -
								
Selling and distribution expenses			 (10,794,632) (8,324,618) - -
								
Administrative expenses				 (11,872,198) (10,237,120) (4,817,228) (3,755,993)
								
Finance costs					
(131,798) (163,293) (24,703) (12,643)
								
Profit/(Loss) before tax			 18 19,070,540 7,440,902 (1,930,511) (2,719,886)
								
Tax expense				
19 (6,471,784) (2,987,170) - -
								
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year			 12,598,756 4,453,732 (1,930,511) (2,719,886)
								
Other comprehensive (loss)/income							
							
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to
profit or loss: 							
								
Foreign currency translation, net of tax		 19(d) (781,960) 1,554,122 - -
								
Total comprehensive income/(loss)			 11,816,796 6,007,854 (1,930,511) (2,719,886)
								
Attributable to:								
								
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year							
Owners of the Company				 8,305,629 2,637,125 (1,930,511) (2,719,886)
Non-controlling interests				 4,293,127 1,816,607 - -
								
						
12,598,756 4,453,732 (1,930,511) (2,719,886)
								
Total other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax						
Owners of the Company				 7,719,081 3,802,872 (1,930,511) (2,719,886)
Non-controlling interests				 4,097,715 2,204,982 - -
								
						
11,816,796 6,007,854 (1,930,511) (2,719,886)
								
Earnings per ordinary shares attributable to equity
holders of the Company:								
Basic and diluted (sen)			 22 1.17 0.37		
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 90
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Consolidated Statement Of
Changes In Equity
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
						
Foreign					
						
currency				
Non-
				
Share Merger translation Legal Retained		
controlling Total
				
capital reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
Group		
Note RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
									
Balance as at
1 January 2023			 23,501,000 (10,721,287) (414,095) 52,743 9,449,635 21,867,996 5,842,607 27,710,603
											
Profit for the financial
year			 - - - - 2,637,125 2,637,125 1,816,607 4,453,732
Other comprehensive
income, net of tax		 - - 1,165,747 - - 1,165,747 388,375 1,554,122
Total comprehensive
income			 - - 1,165,747 - 2,637,125 3,802,872 2,204,982 6,007,854
									
Transactions with owners									
									
Issuance of ordinary
shares		 11 28,658,000 - - - - 28,658,000 - 28,658,000
Listing expenses
attributable to the
initial public offering 11 (1,630,164) - - - - (1,630,164) - (1,630,164)
Issuance of ordinary
shares to non-
controlling interests
by a subsidiary			 - - - - - - 100,732 100,732
								
Total transactions
with owners			 27,027,836 - - - - 27,027,836 100,732 27,128,568
									
Balance as at
31 December 2023		 50,528,836 (10,721,287) 751,652 52,743 12,086,760 52,698,704 8,148,321 60,847,025
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
91
Consolidated Statement Of
Changes In Equity
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
						
Foreign					
						
currency				
Non-
				
Share Merger translation Legal Retained		
controlling Total
				
capital reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
Group			RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
									
Balance as at 1 January 2024		 50,528,836 (10,721,287) 751,652 52,743 12,086,760 52,698,704 8,148,321 60,847,025
									
Transfer to legal reserve		 - - - 92,286 (92,286) - - -
											
Profit for the financial year		 - - - - 8,305,629 8,305,629 4,293,127 12,598,756
Other comprehensive loss, 									
net of tax			 - - (586,548) - - (586,548) (195,412) (781,960)
									
Total comprehensive (loss)
/income			 - - (586,548) - 8,305,629 7,719,081 4,097,715 11,816,796
									
Transactions with owners									
									
Issuance of ordinary shares to
non-controlling interests by
a subsidiary			 - - - - - - 13		 13
Dividends paid to non-controlling									
interests by subsidiaries		 - - - - - - (853,941) (853,941)
									
Total transactions with owners		- - - - - - (853,928) (853,928)
									
Balance as at
31 December 2024		 50,528,836 (10,721,287) 165,104 145,029 20,300,103 60,417,785 11,392,108 71,809,893
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 92
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
							
Share Accumulated Total
							
capital losses equity
Company					
Note RM RM RM
				
Balance as at 1 January 2023					 23,501,000 (6,113,090) 17,387,910
						
Loss for the financial year					 - (2,719,886) (2,719,886)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax				 - - -
				
Total comprehensive loss					 - (2,719,886) (2,719,886)
				
Transactions with owners				
				
Issuance of ordinary shares				 11 28,658,000 - 28,658,000
Issuance of ordinary shares for the acquisition of subsidiary 11 (1,630,164) - (1,630,164)
				
Total transactions with owners					 27,027,836 - 27,027,836
				
Balance as at 31 December 2023				 50,528,836 (8,832,976) 41,695,860
				
Balance as at 1 January 2024					 50,528,836 (8,832,976) 41,695,860
					
Loss for the financial year					 - (1,930,511) (1,930,511)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax				 - - -
				
Total comprehensive loss					 - (1,930,511) (1,930,511)
				
Balance as at 31 December 2024				 50,528,836 (10,763,487) 39,765,349
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Consolidated Statement Of
Changes In Equity
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
93
Statements Of Cash Flows
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024
							
Group		Company
						
2024 2023 2024 2023
					
Note RM RM RM RM
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES						
								
Profit/(Loss) before tax				 19,070,540 7,440,902 (1,930,511) (2,719,886)
								
Adjustments for:								
Depreciation of:								
- property, plant and equipment			 5 344,583 346,195 91,065 89,508
- right-of-use assets			 6 454,787 604,088 175,836 195,828
Gain on disposal of property, plant and
equipment				 18 (2,124) - - -
Gain on lease termination			 6 (2,880) - - -
Impairment losses/(Reversal of impairment
losses) on trade receivables			 9(d) 3,369 (12,898) - -
Interest expense on:							
- borrowings				
18 98,795 136,964 - -
- lease liabilities				 6 33,003 26,329 24,703 12,643
Interest income				 18 (890,038) (778,884) (713,407) (718,899)
Inventories written down			 8 - 156,606 - -
Inventories written off			 8 88,752 - - -
Net unrealised gain on foreign exchange		 18 (127,412) (266,153) (65,205) (283,382)
Reversal of inventories written down		 8 (11,593) - - -
							
Operating profit/(loss) before changes in
working capital					 19,059,782 7,653,149 (2,417,519) (3,424,188)
								
Changes in working capital:								
							
Inventories					
(9,159,622) 1,915,946 - -
Trade and other receivables				 (15,428,165) (92,644) 83,010 248,796
Trade and other payables				 10,922,795 (1,505,952) 1,165,505 (884,159)
			
					
Cash generated from/(used in) operations			 5,394,790 7,970,499 (1,169,004) (4,059,551)
								
Interest received 					
35,781 18,177 - -
Tax paid					
(2,379,395) (1,749,643) - -
							
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities			 3,051,176 6,239,033 (1,169,004) (4,059,551)
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 94
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Statements Of Cash Flows
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
							
Group		Company
						
2024 2023 2024 2023
					
Note RM RM RM RM
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES						
									
Advances to subsidiaries				 - - (20,294) (6,552,491)
Interest received from short term deposits			 854,257 760,707 713,407 718,899
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 		 5 (37,920) (209,623) - (15,400)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant
and equipment					 4,119 - - -
Subscription of ordinary shares in a subsidiary 7(d) - - - (1,000,000)
Withdrawals/(Placements) of short term
deposits with maturity period more than
three (3) months					 3,339,694 (25,000,000) 3,704,809 (20,000,000)
								
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities			 4,160,150 (24,448,916) 4,397,922 (26,848,992)
								
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES						
		
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests by
subsidiaries					 (853,941) - - -
Drawdowns of borrowings				 - 17,008,950 - -
Interest expense paid on:							
- borrowings					
(98,795) (136,964) - -
- lease liabilities					
(33,003) (26,329) (24,703) (12,643)
Payments of listing expenses attributable to the
initial public offering			 11 - (1,630,164) - (1,630,164)
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares 		 11 - 28,658,000 - 28,658,000
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares to
non-controlling interests by a subsidiary			 13 100,732 - -
Repayments of:								
- borrowings					
(2,787,278) (19,616,631) - -
- lease liabilities					
(303,594) (499,803) (171,852) (196,942)
								
Net cash (used in)/from financing activities			 (4,076,598) 23,857,791 (196,555) 26,818,251
								
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and
cash equivalents					 3,134,728 5,647,908 3,032,363 (4,090,292)
								
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and
cash equivalents					 (315,457) 687,739 55,851 281,125
								
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of
financial year					 16,805,484 10,469,837 2,437,829 6,246,996
								
Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 10(f) 19,624,755 16,805,484 5,526,043 2,437,829
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
95
Statements Of Cash Flows
For The Financial Year Ended 31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
								Group Company
							
Lease 		
Lease
							
liabilities Borrowings liabilities
							
(Note 6) (Note 14) (Note 6)
							
RM RM RM
					
As at 1 January 2023					 809,512 5,298,221 391,079
					
Cash flows:					
- Drawdowns of borrowings					 - 17,008,950 -
- Repayments of principal					(499,803) (19,616,631) (196,942)
- Repayments of interest					 (26,329) (136,964) (12,643)
							
(526,132) (2,744,645) (209,585)
					
Non-cash flows:					
- Addition						
133,534 - -
- Lease modification					
365,692 - 365,692
- Interest expense						
26,329 136,964 12,643
- Exchange differences					
19,198 231,648 -
							
544,753 368,612 378,335
					
As at 31 December 2023					 828,133 2,922,188 559,829
					
As at 1 January 2024					 828,133 2,922,188 559,829
					
Cash flows:					
- Repayments of principal					(303,594) (2,787,278) (171,852)
- Repayments of interest					 (33,003) (98,795) (24,703)
							
(336,597) (2,886,073) (196,555)
					
Non-cash flows:					
- Addition						
4,725,429 - -
- Interest expense						
33,003 98,795 24,703
- Termination						
(79,912) - -
- Exchange differences					
29,080 (101,804) -
							
4,707,600 (3,009) 24,703
					
As at 31 December 2024					
5,199,136 33,106 387,977
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 96
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024
1. CORPORATE INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia, and is listed on
the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The registered office of the Company is located at Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite,
Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
The principal place of business of the Company is located at Lot D/E, Level 12, Tower 1, Etiqa Twins, 11,
Jalan Pinang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
The principal place of business of the Group is located at 220/3, Moo 4 Tambon Rangsit, Thanyaburi District,
Pathum Thani Province 12110, Thailand.
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding activities. The principal activities of the subsidiaries
are mainly investment holding, provision of management consultancy services, distribution, online retailer,
trading and manufacturing of consumer packaged foods, trading of food products and biomass fuel
products. Further details of the subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements. There have
been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Company and its subsidiaries during the
financial year other than trading and manufacturing of consumer packaged foods, which arose from the
newly incorporated subsidiary.
The consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 comprise the Company
and its subsidiaries. The functional currency of the Company is Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”). The financial
statements of the Group and of the Company are presented in RM.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors
on 24 April 2025.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), IFRS Accounting Standards and the provisions of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the effects
of adoption of Amendments to MFRSs during the financial year. The Amendments to MFRSs adopted during
the financial year are disclosed in Note 3.1 to the financial statements.
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost
convention except as otherwise stated in the financial statements.
The acquisitions of Vine Growth Holdings Pte. Ltd. and its subsidiaries have been accounted for as a business
combination amongst entities under common control. Accordingly, the financial statements of Wellspire
Holdings Berhad have been consolidated using the merger method of accounting.
Under merger method of accounting, the results of the subsidiaries are presented as if the merger had
been effected throughout the current and previous financial years. The assets and liabilities combined are
accounted for based on the carrying amounts from the perspective of the common control shareholder at the
date of transfer.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
97
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
3. ADOPTION OF NEW MFRSs AND AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs
3.1 New MFRSs adopted during the financial year
The Group and the Company adopted the following Amendments of the MFRS Framework that were
issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) during the financial year:
Title							Effective Date
Amendments to MFRS 16 Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback 		 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current
or Non-current 						
1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 101 Non-current Liabilities with Covenants 		 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 107 and MFRS 7 Supplier Finance Arrangements		 1 January 2024
Adoption of the above Amendments did not have any material effect on the financial performance or
position of the Group and of the Company.
3.2 New MFRSs that have been issued, but only effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1
January 2025
Title							Effective Date
Amendments to MFRS 121 Lack of Exchangeability			 1 January 2025
Amendments to MFRS 9 and MFRS 7 Amendments to the Classification
and Measurement of Financial Instruments				 1 January 2026
Amendments to MFRS 9 and MFRS 7 Contracts Referencing Nature
- dependent Electricity					
1 January 2026
Annual Improvements to MFRS Accounting Standards - Volume 11		 1 January 2026
MFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements		 1 January 2027
MFRS 19 Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures		 1 January 2027
Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128 Sale or Contribution of
Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture		 Deferred
The Group and the Company are still in the process of assessing the impact of implementing these
Standards and Amendments, since the effects would only be observable in future financial years.
4. OPERATING SEGMENTS
(a) Business segment
The primary activities of the Group are in a single industry segment of distribution of consumer packaged
foods. Other reporting segments include online retailer of consumer packaged foods, investment
holding and trading of biomass fuel products, which are not of a sufficient size to be reported separately.
Management monitors the operating results of the Group as a whole for the purpose of making
decisions about resource allocation and performance assessment. Accordingly, the Group has only
one (1) reportable segment.
(b) The Group evaluates performance on the basis of profit or loss for the financial year.
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 98
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
4. OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONT’D)
(c) Major customer
The following are major customers with revenue equal to or more than ten per centum (10%) of Group
revenue:
						
Group
					
2024		
2023
					
RM % RM %
							
Customer A				 76,488,763 53 55,374,209 44
Customer B				 28,056,364 19 30,384,711 24
Customer C				 19,590,763 14 18,020,106 15
							
					
124,135,890 86 103,779,026 83
(d) Geographical information
In determining the geographical segment of the Group, revenue is based on the geographical location
of customers.
								
Revenue
							
2024 2023
							
RM RM
							
Malaysia						
955,377 1,294,518
Thailand						
142,931,006 123,585,255
							
							
143,886,383 124,879,773
Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets. The amounts of non-current
assets do not include financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
				 Segment assets		 Non-current assets
					2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
							
Malaysia				29,748,921 30,634,068 431,487 698,388
Thailand				68,518,463 40,503,141 5,256,736 1,101,342
Singapore				384,130 180,835 - -
							
					
98,651,514 71,318,044 5,688,223 1,799,730
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
99
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group				
Balance 				
Balance
				 as at			 Exchange as at
2024				
1.1.2024 Additions Disposal differences 31.12.2024
				RM RM RM RM RM
Cost					
					
Renovation				
270,142 - - (1,772) 268,370
Office equipment			 147,482 9,073 - (3,932) 152,623
Office computers			 222,396 12,802 - (4,924) 230,274
Furniture and fittings			 215,339 1,037 - (4,433) 211,943
Machinery and tools			 339,256 15,008 - (9,091) 345,173
Motor vehicles			 752,685 - (19,443) (20,595) 712,647
					
				
1,947,300 37,920 (19,443) (44,747) 1,921,030
			
		Depreciation
				 Balance charge for 			 Balance
				 as at the financial 		 Exchange as at
				 1.1.2024 year Disposal differences 31.12.2024
				RM RM RM RM RM
Accumulated 				
depreciation					
					
Renovation				 135,903 80,887 - (498) 216,292
Office equipment			 88,877 21,605 - (2,239) 108,243
Office computers			 134,583 53,054 - (2,959) 184,678
Furniture and fittings			 103,305 40,207 - (2,166) 141,346
Machinery and tools			 153,541 56,926 - (3,711) 206,756
Motor vehicles			 517,547 91,904 (17,448) (13,454) 578,549
					
				1,133,756 344,583 (17,448) (25,027) 1,435,864
Group					
Balance 			
Balance
					 as at 		 Exchange as at
2023					
1.1.2023 Additions differences 31.12.2023
					RM RM RM RM
Cost				
				
Renovation					
235,179 32,466 2,497 270,142
Office equipment				
122,681 17,511 7,290 147,482
Office computers				
178,955 34,338 9,103 222,396
Furniture and fittings				 201,978 4,708 8,653 215,339
Machinery and tools				 312,380 9,191 17,685 339,256
Motor vehicles				604,725 111,409 36,551 752,685
				
					
1,655,898 209,623 81,779 1,947,300
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 100
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
					Depreciation
					
Balance charge for		
Balance
					 as at the financial Exchange as at
					
1.1.2023 year differences 31.12.2023
					
RM RM RM RM
Accumulated depreciation				
				
Renovation					
59,191 75,764 948 135,903
Office equipment				
63,537 21,264 4,076 88,877
Office computers				
73,507 55,979 5,097 134,583
Furniture and fittings				 59,657 39,848 3,800 103,305
Machinery and tools				 90,708 56,370 6,463 153,541
Motor vehicles				
396,046 96,970 24,531 517,547
				
					
742,646 346,195 44,915 1,133,756
Company								
Balance
								
as at
								
1.1.2024/
2024								
31.12.2024
								
RM
Cost			
			
Renovation								
204,854
Office computers							
37,279
Furniture and fittings							
51,772
			
								
293,905
						Depreciation
						
Balance charge for Balance
						 as at the financial as at
						
1.1.2024 year 31.12.2024
						
RM RM RM
Accumulated depreciation			
			
Renovation						
113,807 68,285 182,092
Office computers					
13,499 12,426 25,925
Furniture and fittings					
14,667 10,354 25,021
			
						
141,973 91,065 233,038
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
101
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
Company						
Balance 		
Balance
						
as at		
as at
2023						
1.1.2023 Additions 31.12.2023
						
RM RM RM
Cost			
			
Renovation						
204,854 - 204,854
Office computers					
26,429 10,850 37,279
Furniture and fittings					
47,222 4,550 51,772
			
						
278,505 15,400 293,905
						Depreciation
						
Balance charge for Balance
						 as at the financial as at
						
1.1.2023 year 31.12.2023
						
RM RM RM
Accumulated depreciation			
			
Renovation						
45,523 68,284 113,807
Office computers					
1,947 11,552 13,499
Furniture and fittings					
4,995 9,672 14,667
			
						
52,465 89,508 141,973
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
Carrying amounts							
							
Renovation					
52,078 134,239 22,762 91,047
Office equipment				44,380 58,605 - -
Office computers				45,596 87,813 11,354 23,780
Furniture and fittings				 70,597 112,034 26,751 37,105
Machinery and tools				 138,417 185,715 - -
Motor vehicles				134,098 235,138 - -
					
					
485,166 813,544 60,867 151,932
(a) All items of property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. Cost includes expenditure
that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. After initial recognition, property, plant and
equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 102
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
(b) Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost of the assets to
their residual values on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. The principal annual
depreciation rates are as follows:
Renovation							
20% - 33%
Office equipment							
20%
Office computers							
20% - 33%
Furniture and fittings						
20%
Machinery and tools						
20%
Motor vehicles							
20%
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES
The Group as lessee
Right-of-use assets
				 Distribution Motor
					
facility* vehicles Offices Total
2024					RM RM RM RM
				
Cost				
				
As at 1 January 2024				 - 1,663,785 1,044,820 2,708,605
Addition					
4,725,429 - - 4,725,429
Termination					
- - (132,055) (132,055)
Exchange differences				
38,070 (45,178) (4,779) (11,887)
				
As at 31 December 2024				 4,763,499 1,618,607 907,986 7,290,092
		
		
Accumulated depreciation				
				
As at 1 January 2024				 - 1,349,486 372,933 1,722,419
Depreciation charged for the financial year		 - 234,933 219,854 454,787
Termination					
- - (55,023) (55,023)
Exchange differences				
- (34,750) (398) (35,148)
				
As at 31 December 2024				 - 1,549,669 537,366 2,087,035
* The lease for distribution facility was entered into by the Group towards the end of December 2024.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
103
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
The Group as lessee (Cont’d)
Right-of-use assets (Cont’d)
				 Distribution Motor
					
facility vehicles Offices Total
2023					
RM RM RM RM
				
Cost				
				
As at 1 January 2023				 3,724,045 1,575,720 542,294 5,842,059
Addition					
- - 133,534 133,534
Lease modification 				 - - 365,692 365,692
Termination					
(3,786,826) - - (3,786,826)
Exchange differences				
62,781 88,065 3,300 154,146
				
As at 31 December 2023				 - 1,663,785 1,044,820 2,708,605
				
Accumulated depreciation				
				
As at 1 January 2023				 3,653,780 962,914 165,702 4,782,396
Depreciation charged for the financial year		 72,402 324,730 206,956 604,088
Termination					
(3,786,826) - - (3,786,826)
Exchange differences				
60,644 61,842 275 122,761
				
As at 31 December 2023				 - 1,349,486 372,933 1,722,419
The Company as lessee
Right-of-use assets
				
							
Office Total
2024							
RM RM
		
Cost		
		
As at 1 January 2024/31 December 2024				 907,986 907,986
		
Accumulated depreciation 		
		
As at 1 January 2024						 361,530 361,530
Depreciation charged for the financial year				 175,836 175,836
		
As at 31 December 2024						 537,366 537,366
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 104
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
The Company as lessee (Cont’d)
Right-of-use assets (Cont’d)
							Office Total
2023							
RM RM
		
Cost		
		
As at 1 January 2023						 542,294 542,294
Lease modification						
365,692 365,692
		
As at 31 December 2023						 907,986 907,986
Accumulated depreciation 		
		
As at 1 January 2023						 165,702 165,702
Depreciation charged for the financial year				 195,828 195,828
		
As at 31 December 2023						 361,530 361,530
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
Carrying amounts							
							
Distribution facility				
4,763,499 - - -
Motor vehicles				
68,938 314,299 - -
Offices					370,620 671,887 370,620 546,456
							
					
5,203,057 986,186 370,620 546,456
Lease liabilities
Group					
Distribution Motor
					
facility* vehicles Offices Total
2024					
RM RM RM RM
				
As at 1 January 2024				 - 142,544 685,589 828,133
Addition					
4,725,429 - - 4,725,429
Payments of:				
- Principal					
- (90,285) (213,309) (303,594)
- Interest expense				 - (1,097) (31,906) (33,003)
Interest charged for the financial year			 - 1,097 31,906 33,003
Termination					
- - (79,912) (79,912)
Exchange differences				
38,070 (4,599) (4,391) 29,080
				
As at 31 December 2024				 4,763,499 47,660 387,977 5,199,136
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
105
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
Lease liabilities (Cont’d)
					 Motor
						
vehicles Offices Total
2023						
RM RM RM
				
As at 1 January 2023					 418,433 391,079 809,512
Addition						
- 133,534 133,534
Lease modification					
- 365,692 365,692
Payments of:				
- Principal						
(292,055) (207,748) (499,803)
- Interest expense					
(12,190) (14,139) (26,329)
Interest charged for the financial year				 12,190 14,139 26,329
Exchange differences					
16,166 3,032 19,198
				
As at 31 December 2023					 142,544 685,589 828,133
* The lease for distribution facility was entered into by the Group towards the end of December 2024.
Company		
							
Office Total
2024							
RM RM
		
As at 1 January 2024						 559,829 559,829
Payments of:		
- Principal							
(171,852) (171,852)
- Interest expense						
(24,703) (24,703)
Interest charged for the financial year					 24,703 24,703
		
As at 31 December 2024						 387,977 387,977
Company		
							
Office Total
2023							
RM RM
		
As at 1 January 2023						 391,079 391,079
Lease modification						
365,692 365,692
Payments of:		
- Principal							
(196,942) (196,942)
- Interest expense						
(12,643) (12,643)
Interest charged for the financial year					 12,643 12,643
		
As at 31 December 2023						 559,829 559,829
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 106
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
Lease liabilities (Cont’d)
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
Represented by:							
							
Non-current liabilities				
3,464,955 519,771 206,875 387,977
Current liabilities				
1,734,181 308,362 181,102 171,852
							
					
5,199,136 828,133 387,977 559,829
					
		
Lease liabilities owing to:							
							
Financial institutions 							
- motor vehicles				 14,488 31,223 - -
							
Non-financial institutions							
- distribution facility				 4,763,499 - - -
- motor vehicles				 33,172 111,321 - -
- offices					387,977 685,589 387,977 559,829
							
					
5,199,136 828,133 387,977 559,829
(a) The Group leases an office in Malaysia, as well as motor vehicles and properties in Thailand. These
leases comprise only fixed payments over the lease terms.
(b) Right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, which comprise the initial amount of the lease
liabilities adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date of the leases.
After initial recognition, right-of-use assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and
accumulated impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liabilities.
(c) Right-of-use assets are depreciated on the straight-line basis over the earlier of the estimated useful
lives of the right-of-use assets or the end of the lease term. The lease terms of right-of-use assets are
as follows:
Distribution facility					 36 months (2024 : 53 months)
Motor vehicles						 36 - 60 months
Offices						 36 months
(d) The Group has certain leases of office equipment with lease term of 12 months or less and low value
leases of office equipment of RM20,000 and below. The Group applies the “short-term lease” and
“lease of low-value assets” exemptions for these leases.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
107
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
Lease liabilities (Cont’d)
(e) The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
							
Group		Company
					2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
							
Included in cost of sales:						
Depreciation of right-of-use assets		 - 72,402 - -
Expenses relating to short-term lease		 1,911,304 1,797,959 - -
							
Included in finance costs:							
Interest expense on lease liabilities		 33,003 26,329 24,703 12,643
							
Included in administrative expenses:						
Depreciation of right-of-use assets		 454,787 531,686 175,836 195,828
Expenses relating to short-term lease		 152,351 80,919 - -
Expenses relating to leases of low-value assets 21,100 21,272 6,527 6,089
							
Included in other operating income:						
Gain on lease termination			 (2,880) - - -
							
					
2,569,665 2,530,567 207,066 214,560
(f) At the end of the financial year, the Group and the Company had total cash outflow for leases of
RM2,421,352 (2023: RM2,426,282) and RM203,082 (2023: RM215,674) respectively.
(g) The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the incremental borrowing rates and the remaining
maturities of the lease liabilities:
				 Incremental Within 1 - 5
					 borrowing rate 1 year years Total
Group					 % RM RM RM
				
2024				
Lease liabilities				 4.49% - 7.15% 1,734,181 3,464,955 5,199,136
				
2023 			
Lease liabilities				 2.68% - 11.83% 308,362 519,771 828,133
					 Incremental Within 1 - 5
					 borrowing rate 1 year years Total
Company				 % RM RM RM
2024				
Lease liabilities				 5.10% 181,102 206,875 387,977
				
2023 			
Lease liabilities				 5.10% 171,852 387,977 559,829
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 108
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
Lease liabilities (Cont’d)
(h) The table below summarises the maturity profile of the lease liabilities of the Group and of the Company
at the end of the reporting period based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations as follows:
					Within 1 year 1 - 5 years Total
Group						
RM RM RM
			
2024			
Lease liabilities					
2,051,080 3,767,895 5,818,975
			
2023			
Lease liabilities					
321,908 544,068 865,976
					Within 1 year 1 - 5 years Total
Company					
RM RM RM
			
2024 		
Lease liabilities					
196,688 213,079 409,767
			
2023			
Lease liabilities					
180,298 409,768 590,066
(i) Sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk for lease liabilities as at the end of the reporting period is not
presented as fixed rate instruments are not affected by change in interest rates.
(j) Management exercises significant judgement in determining the incremental borrowing rates whenever
the implicit rates of interest in a lease are not readily determinable as well as the lease terms. The
incremental borrowing rates used are based on prevailing market borrowing rates over similar lease
terms, of similar value as the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment. Lease terms are
based on management expectations driven by prevailing market conditions and past experience in
exercising similar renewal and termination options.
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
							
		Company
							
2024 2023
							
RM RM
			
Unquoted equity shares, at cost					 12,501,000 12,501,000
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
109
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of Company Country of
incorporation/
Principal
place of
business
Effective interest
in equity
Principal Activities
2024
%
2023
%
Vine Growth Holdings
Pte. Ltd. @
Wellspire Global
Trading Sdn. Bhd.
Subsidiaries of Vine
Growth Holdings
Pte. Ltd.
Bai Li Holdings Co.,
Ltd.#
Subsidiaries of Bai Li
Holdings Co., Ltd.
Bai Li Enterprise Co.,
Ltd. #
Subsidiaries of Bai Li
Enterprise Co., Ltd.
Keymall Retail Co.,
Ltd.#
Pangya Enterprise Co.,
Ltd. #
Singapore
Malaysia
Thailand
Thailand
Thailand
Thailand
100.00
100.00
51.00*
75.01
56.26
75.00
100.00
100.00
51.00*
75.01
56.26
-
Investment holding company and
provision of management consultancy
services
Trading of food products and biomass
fuel products
Investment holding company
Distribution of consumer packaged
foods
Online retailer of consumer packaged
foods
Trading and manufacturing of
consumer packaged foods
@ Not audited by BDO PLT or BDO Member Firms
# Subsidiaries audited by BDO Member Firms
* The effective interest in equity held is based on voting rights.
(a) Investments in subsidiaries, which are eliminated on consolidation, are stated in the separate financial
statements of the Company at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. On disposal of such
investments, the difference between net disposal proceeds and their carrying amounts is included in
profit or loss.
All components of non-controlling interests shall be initially measured at fair value on the acquisition
date, unless another measurement basis is required by MFRS. The choice of the measurement basis is
made on a combination-by-combination basis. Subsequent to initial recognition, the carrying amount
of the non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-
controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity.
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 110
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
(b) The acquisitions of Vine Growth Holdings and its subsidiaries have been accounted for as a business
combination amongst entities under common control. Accordingly, the financial statements of Wellspire
Holdings Berhad have been consolidated using the merger method of accounting.
Under merger method of accounting, the results of the subsidiaries are presented as if the merger
had been effected throughout the current and previous financial years. The assets and liabilities
combined are accounted for based on the carrying amounts from the perspective of the common
control shareholder at the date of transfer.
(c) On 17 July 2024, an indirect subsidiary of the Company, Bai Li Enterprise Co., Ltd. (“BLE”) had subscribed
for 9,999 ordinary shares in the share capital of Pangya Enterprise Co., Ltd. (“Pangya”), a 99.99%
owned subsidiary of BLE for a total cash consideration of THB999,900, equivalent to approximately
RM129,962. The intended principal activities of Pangya are trading and manufacturing of consumer
packaged foods. Pangya has not commenced operations as at end of the reporting period.
(d) In the previous financial year, the Company incorporated a subsidiary known as Wellspire Global Trading
Sdn. Bhd. with a paid-up share capital of RM100,000 comprising 100,000 ordinary shares of RM1
each. The principal activities of the subsidiary are trading of food products and biomass fuel products.
Subsequently, the Company subscribed an additional 900,000 ordinary shares for a cash consideration
of RM900,000. The equity interest of the Company in the subsidiary remained unchanged as at end of
the reporting period.
(e) In the previous financial year, an indirect subsidiary of the Company, Bai Li Enterprise Co., Ltd.
subscribed an additional 30,000 ordinary shares in Keymall Retail Co., Ltd. for a cash consideration of
THB3,000,000, equivalent to approximately RM402,927. The equity interest of the Company in Keymall
Retail Co., Ltd. remained unchanged as at end of the reporting period.
(f) Summarised information of companies with non-controlling interests (“NCI”) that are material to the
Group is set out below. The summarised financial information presented below are the amounts before
inter-company elimination.
									
							
2024 2023
Bai Li Holdings Co., Ltd. Group					 RM RM
			
NCI percentage of ownership interest and voting interest 			 49.00% 49.00%
			
Carrying amount of NCI					 11,392,108 8,148,321
			
Profit allocated to NCI					 4,293,127 1,816,607
Other comprehensive (loss)/income allocated to NCI			 (195,412) 388,375
			
Total comprehensive income allocated to NCI				 4,097,715 2,204,982
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
111
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
(f) Summarised information of companies with non-controlling interests (“NCI”) that are material to the
Group is set out below. The summarised financial information presented below are the amounts before
inter-company elimination. (Cont’d)
							
2024 2023
Assets and liabilities					
RM RM
Non-current assets						
5,287,566 1,101,188
Current assets						
63,261,728 39,409,643
Total assets						
68,549,294 40,510,831
Non-current liabilities					
(3,268,594) (261,158)
Current liabilities						
(17,146,600) (6,429,483)
		
Total liabilities						
(20,415,194) (6,690,641)
		
Net assets						
48,134,100 33,820,190
			
Equity attributable to owners of the parent				 48,094,327 33,787,235
Non-controlling interests					
39,773 32,955
Total equity						
48,134,100 33,820,190
		
Results			
			
Revenue						
142,931,006 123,633,654
Profit for the financial year/Total comprehensive income			 18,683,510 8,231,370
Profit/Total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to:			
- owners of the parent					 18,676,692 8,276,655
- non-controlling interests					
6,818 (45,285)
			
Cash flows from operating activities				 6,657,745 10,862,891
Cash flows used in investing activities				 (37,919) (194,222)
Cash flows used in financing activities				 (6,008,935) (2,960,459)
		
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents				 610,891 7,708,210
			
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the financial year			 12,141,142 4,020,198
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash
equivalents						
(784,334) 412,734
			
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the financial year			 11,967,699 12,141,142
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 112
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
8. INVENTORIES
							 Group
							
2024 2023
							
RM RM
At cost			
			
Finished goods						
15,116,887 6,130,711
(a) Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
(b) Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out basis and comprises all costs of purchase, cost of conversion
plus other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
(c) During the financial year, inventories of the Group recognised as cost of sales amounted to RM98,838,440
(2023: RM97,392,173).
(d) The Group had written off its inventories amounted to RM88,752 (2023: Nil) that were included in cost
of sales.
(e) During the financial year, the Group had reversed inventories written down amounted to RM11,593
that were subsequently not required as the Group was able to sell those inventories above their
carrying amounts. In the previous financial year, the Group had written down its obsolete inventories by
RM156,606 based on assessment of their estimated recoverable amounts.
9. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
							
Trade receivables							
Third parties				
34,971,607 19,228,087 - -
Less: Impairment losses				 (126,436) (126,475) -
Total trade receivables				34,845,171 19,101,612 - -
							
Other receivables							
							
Amounts due from subsidiaries			 - - 6,536,101 6,515,807
Other receivables				1,166,495 1,367,898 186,980 238,356
Deposits					162,948 173,982 110,677 135,018
Total other receivables				1,329,443 1,541,880 6,833,758 6,889,181
							
Prepayments				386,729 938,627 39,555 36,994
							
Total trade and other receivables			36,561,343 21,582,119 6,873,313 6,926,175
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
113
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
9. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
(a) Trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments are classified as financial assets and measured at
amortised cost.
(b) Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted by the Group to
retail customers range from 30 days to 60 days (2023: 30 days to 60 days) and wholesale customers
are dealt with vide cash terms. They are recognised at their original invoice amounts, which represent
their fair values on initial recognition.
(c) Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
Impairment for trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are recognised
based on the simplified approach using the lifetime expected credit losses.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default
events over the expected life of the asset. The maximum period considered when estimating expected
credit losses is the maximum contractual year over which the Group is exposed to credit risk.
The Group assesses the expected credit losses of trade receivables using the flow-rate methods based
on customer segments, historical information on payment patterns, terms of payment, and information
about the general economic situation in the country where customer operates. Individual assessment
of impairment of trade receivables are separately assessed when it is probable that cash due will not
be received in full.
During this process, the probability of non-payment by the trade receivables is adjusted by forward-
looking information based on macroeconomic factors such as Gross Domestic Product, unemployment
rate and inflation rate of Thailand, and multiplied by the amount of the expected loss arising from
default to determine the lifetime expected credit loss for the trade receivables. For trade receivables,
which are reported net, such impairments are recorded in a separate impairment account with the loss
being recognised in the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. On confirmation
that the trade receivable would not be collectable, the gross carrying value of the asset would be
written off against the associated impairment.
Significant judgement is required in determining the probability of default by trade receivables, and the
appropriate forward-looking information.
Lifetime expected loss provision for trade receivables at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
						
Gross Lifetime Net
						
carrying expected carrying
Group						
amount loss amount
2024						
RM RM RM
					
Collective assessment					
Not past due					
33,763,129 (1,047) 33,762,082
					
Past due					
1 - 30 days					 977,836 (559) 977,277
31 - 120 days					 105,762 (2,647) 103,115
						
1,083,598 (3,206) 1,080,392
					
Individual assessment				
124,880 (122,183) 2,697
					
						
34,971,607 (126,436) 34,845,171
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 114
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
9. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
(c) Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (Cont’d)
Lifetime expected loss provision for trade receivables at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
(Cont’d)
					 Gross Lifetime Net
						
carrying expected carrying
Group						
amount loss amount
2023						
RM RM RM
					
Collective assessment					
Not past due					
17,921,378 (37) 17,921,341
					
Past due					
1 - 30 days					 1,145,368 (40) 1,145,328
31 - 120 days					 34,716 (62) 34,654
More than 120 days					 3,992 (3,703) 289
						
1,184,076 (3,805) 1,180,271
					
Individual assessment				
122,633 (122,633) -
					
						
19,228,087 (126,475) 19,101,612
Trade receivables are not secured by any collateral or credit enhancement.
During the financial year, the Group did not renegotiate the terms of any trade receivables.
Impairment for other receivables, amounts due from subsidiaries and deposits are recognised based
on the general approach within MFRS 9 using the forward-looking expected credit loss model. The
methodology used to determine the amount of the impairment is based on whether there has been a
significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of the financial asset by comparing the risk
of default occurring over the expected life with the risk of default since initial recognition. For those in
which the credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition of the financial asset, twelve
month expected credit losses along with gross interest income are recognised. For those in which
credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime expected credit losses along with the gross interest
income are recognised. For those that are determined to be credit impaired, lifetime expected credit
losses along with interest income on a net basis are recognised.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default
events over the expected life of the asset, while twelve-month expected credit losses are the portion
of expected credit losses that result from default events that are possible within the twelve (12) months
after the reporting date. The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses is
the maximum contractual period over which the Group is exposed to credit risk.
The Group determined significant increase in credit risk based on operating performance of the
receivables, changes to contractual terms, payment delays and past due information, with a significant
increase in credit risk indicator of 120 days past due.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
115
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
9. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
(c) Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (Cont’d)
The probabilities of non-payment by other receivables, amounts owing by subsidiaries and deposits
are adjusted by forward-looking information based on macroeconomic factors such as Gross Domestic
Product, unemployment rate and inflation rate of respective jurisdictions, and multiplied by the amount
of the expected loss arising from default to determine the twelve-month or lifetime expected credit
loss.
Noexpectedcreditlosseswererecognisedarisingfromotherreceivables,amountsduefromsubsidiaries
and deposits as the probability of default by other receivables, amounts due from subsidiaries and
deposits were negligible.
(d) The reconciliation of movements in the impairment losses for trade receivables is as follows:
								
12-month
								
expected
								
credit losses
								
allowance
								
RM
		
At 1 January 2024							
126,475
Impairment losses							
3,369
Exchange differences						
(3,408)
		
At 31 December 2024						
126,436
At 1 January 2023							
132,298
Reversal of impairment losses						
(12,898)
Exchange differences						
7,075
		
At 31 December 2023						
126,475
(e) The credit risk concentration profile of the trade receivables of the Group at the end of each reporting
period is as follows:
						Group
						
2024		
2023
					
RM % RM %
							
Customer A				24,248,177 69 10,580,743 55
Customer C				4,489,989 13 4,875,031 25
							
					
28,738,166 82 15,455,774 80
(f) Included in the other receivables of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 are
reimbursement of promotional expenses receivable from a supplier of the Group amounted to
RM597,053 (2023: RM1,048,017).
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 116
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
9. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
(g) Amounts due from subsidiaries represent advances and payments on behalf, which are unsecured,
interest-free and receivable within next twelve (12) months in cash and cash equivalents.
(h) The currency exposure profile of trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments are as follows:
							
Group		Company
				 2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
							
Ringgit Malaysia				285,162 356,949 6,778,720 6,830,948
Thai Baht				35,834,414 20,228,310 - -
Singapore Dollar				55,038 58,233 55,038 58,233
							
					
36,174,614 20,643,492 6,833,758 6,889,181
(i) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, assuming that
all other variables remain constant, are as follows:
					 2024		 2023
					
Profit/(Loss) Equity Profit/(Loss) Equity
					
RM RM RM RM
						
Effects of 5% changes to RM against
foreign currencies							
						
Group							
							
Singapore Dollar				
2,752 - 2,912 -
Thai Baht				- 1,791,721 - 1,011,416
							
Company							
							
Singapore Dollar				
(2,752) - (2,912) -
10. CASH AND BANK BALANCES
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
							
Cash and bank balances				 15,528,771 16,805,484 1,430,059 2,437,829
Short term deposits with a licensed bank		 25,756,290 25,000,000 20,391,175 20,000,000
							
					41,285,061 41,805,484 21,821,234 22,437,829
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
117
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
10. CASH AND BANK BALANCES (CONT’D)
(a) Cash and bank balances are classified as financial assets and measured at amortised cost.
(b) The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average effective interest rates and the
remaining maturities of the short term deposits with a licensed bank:
					 Weighted average		
						 effective interest 		Within 1 year/
2024						 rate 		
Total
						 %		
RM
Group		
		
Short term deposits with a licensed bank			 3.32		 25,756,290
Company		
		
Short term deposits with a licensed bank			 3.51		 20,391,175
 
2023					
Group		
		
Short term deposits with a licensed bank			 3.56		 25,000,000
Company		
		
Short term deposits with a licensed bank			 3.75		 20,000,000 
(c) Sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk for short term deposits with a licensed bank as at the end of
reporting period is not presented as fixed rate instruments are not affected by change in interest rates.
(d) The currency exposure profile of the cash and bank balances are as follows:
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
							
Ringgit Malaysia				28,487,303 26,859,753 21,814,857 20,138,671
Thai Baht				11,957,985 12,131,110 - -
United States Dollar			 480,594 2,653,777 4,450 2,297,029
Singapore Dollar				359,179 160,844 1,927 2,129
							
					41,285,061 41,805,484 21,821,234 22,437,829
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 118
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
10. CASH AND BANK BALANCES (CONT’D)
(e) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, assuming that
all other variables remain constant, are as follows:
						
2024		
2023
					
Profit/(Loss) Equity Profit/(Loss) Equity
					
RM RM RM RM
						
Effects of 5% changes to RM against
foreign currencies							
						
Group							
							
United States Dollar			 24,030 - 132,689 -
Singapore Dollar				
17,959 - 8,042 -
Thai Baht				- 597,899 - 606,556
						
Company							
							
United States Dollar			 (223) - (114,851) -
Singapore Dollar				
(96) - (106) -
(f) For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following as
at the end of each reporting period:
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
							
Cash and bank balances			 41,285,061 41,805,484 21,821,234 22,437,829
							
Less:							
Short term deposits with
maturity period more
than three (3) months			 (21,660,306) (25,000,000) (16,295,191) (20,000,000)
		
					
Reported in statements
of cash flows				 19,624,755 16,805,484 5,526,043 2,437,829
(g) No expected credit losses were recognised arising from the bank balances and deposits with financial
institutions because the probability of default by these financial institutions were negligible.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
119
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
11. SHARE CAPITAL
						
Group and Company
						
2024		
2023
				 Number of		 Number of
					
shares RM shares RM
							
Issued and fully paid with no par value						
								
Balance as at 1 January				712,125,000 50,528,836 587,525,000 23,501,000
							
Issued during the financial year			 - - 124,600,000 28,658,000
Listing expenses attributable to the initial
public offering 				 - - - (1,630,164)
							
Balance as at 31 December			712,125,000 50,528,836 712,125,000 50,528,836
(a) On 16 January 2023, the Company issued 124,600,000 new ordinary shares at an issue price of
RM0.23 per ordinary share for a total consideration of RM28,658,000 in conjunction with the initial
public offering and listing of the Company on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The ordinary shares issued ranked equally in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the
Company. There were no other issuance of shares in the previous financial year.
(b) The owners of the parent are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company and
are entitled to one (1) vote per ordinary share at general meeting of the Company. All ordinary shares
rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets.
12. MERGER RESERVE
The merger reserve arose as a result of the excess of the consideration paid over the share capital of the
subsidiaries pursuant to the internal reorganisation exercise for the purpose of the Company’s listing on ACE
Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
13. RESERVES
							 Group
							
2024 2023
							
RM RM
			
Non-distributable:			
Foreign currency translation reserve					 165,104 751,652
Legal reserve						 145,029 52,743
			
							
310,133 804,395
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 120
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
13. RESERVES (CONT’D)
(a) Foreign currency translation reserve
Foreign currency translation reserve is used to record foreign currency exchange differences arising
from the translation of the consolidated financial statements of foreign operations whose functional
currencies are different from that of the presentation currency of the Group. It is also used to record
the exchange differences arising from monetary items, which form part of the net investment in foreign
operations of the Group, where the monetary item is denominated in either the functional currency of
the reporting entity or the foreign operation.
(b) Legal reserve
In accordance with the Civil and Commercial Code of Thailand, the Group’s subsidiaries operating in
Thailand must appropriate a reserve fund at each distribution of dividend, being at least 5% of the profit
or more until such legal reserve reaches 10% of the registered capital.
14. BORROWINGS
							
Group		Company
				 2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
							
Non-current liabilities							
Term loans					
10,514 129,363 - -
							
Current liabilities							
							
Term loans 				 22,592 106,645 - -
Revolving credit				- 2,686,180 - -
Financial guarantee contracts			 - - * *
					
22,592 2,792,825 * *
							
Total borrowings				
33,106 2,922,188 * *
* Amounts are negligible
(a) Details of the borrowings of the Group are as follows:
							 Group
							
2024 2023
							
RM RM
Non-current			
			
Unsecured term loan I from financial institution of THB3,500,000 repayable
by 84 equal monthly instalments commencing on 23 January 2020. The
borrowing bore a fixed interest rate of 3% per annum in year 1 to Year 3
and variable interest rate in Year 4 to year 7 at Minimum Retail Rate
(“MRR”) minus 1% per annum.					 - 95,326
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
121
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
14. BORROWINGS (CONT’D)
(a) Details of the borrowings of the Group are as follows: (Cont’d)
								
Group
							
2024 2023
							
RM RM
Non-current (Cont’d)			
			
Secured term loan II from financial institution of THB726,400 repayable by
60 equal monthly instalments commencing on 30 November 2024. The
borrowing bears a variable interest rate of Minimum Loan Rate (“MLR”)
minus 2.00% per annum and guaranteed by the Company.		 - 9,651
			
Secured term loan III from financial institution of THB531,000 repayable by
60 equal monthly instalments commencing on 31 July 2021. The
borrowing bears a variable interest rate of MLR minus 1.00% per
annum and guaranteed by the Company.				 10,514 24,386
			
							
10,514 129,363
			
Current			
			
Unsecured term loan I 					 - 72,048
Secured term loan II 					 9,389 20,653
Secured term loan III 					 13,203 13,944
			
Unsecured revolving credit V from financial institution of THB20,000,000
repayable 3 months after drawdown. The revolving credit bears a
fixed interest rate of 4% per annum.				 - 2,686,180
			
							
22,592 2,792,825
(b) Borrowings are classified as financial liabilities and measured at amortised cost.
(c) Financial guarantee contracts issued are initially measured at fair value. Subsequently, they are
measured at higher of:
(i) the amount of the loss allowance; and
(ii) the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income
recognised in accordance to the principles of MFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The financial guarantee contracts have not been recognised since the fair value on initial recognition was
not material as the guarantee is provided as credit enhancement to a subsidiary’s secured borrowings.
(d) Borrowings of the Group are dominated in THB.
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 122
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
14. BORROWINGS (CONT’D)
(e) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currency at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all
other variables remain constant, are as follows:
						
2024		
2023
					
Profit/(Loss) Equity Profit/(Loss) Equity
					
RM RM RM RM
						
Effects of 5% changes to RM against
foreign currencies						
Group							
							
Thai Baht				- (1,655) - (146,109)
(f) The carrying amounts of the current portion of borrowings are reasonable approximation of fair value
due to the insignificant impact of discounting.
The fair values of non-current borrowings that carry floating interest rates approximate their carrying
amounts as they are repriced to market interest rates on or near the reporting date.
Fair value of the borrowings of the Group are categorised as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. There is
no transfer between levels in the hierarchy during the financial year.
(g) At the end of reporting period, the interest rate profile of the borrowings were as follows:
								
Group
							
2024 2023
							
RM RM
Non-current liabilities:			
Floating rates						
10,514 129,363
			
Current liabilities:			
Floating rates						
22,592 106,645
Fixed rates						
- 2,686,180
			
							
33,106 2,922,188
(h) At the end of reporting period, the weighted average effective interest rates for the borrowings were as
follows:
								
Group
							
2024 2023
			
Term loans						
5.87% 7.23%
Revolving credit						
- 4.00%
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
123
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
14. BORROWINGS (CONT’D)
(i) The following table sets out the remaining maturities of the borrowings of the Group:
					
Within One to five Over five
					
one year years years Total
Group					RM RM RM RM
2024				
				
Floating rates				
Term loans				22,592 10,514 - 33,106
			
2023				
				
Fixed rate				
Revolving credit				
2,686,180 - - 2,686,180
				
Floating rates				
Term loans				106,645 129,363 - 236,008
				
					
2,792,825 129,363 - 2,922,188
(j) The table below summarises the maturity profile of the borrowings of the Group and of the Company at
the end of each reporting period based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations as follows:
					
On demand			
					 or within One to five Over five
					
one year years years Total
Group					RM RM RM RM
2024				
				
Term loans				23,751 10,762 - 34,513
				
2023				
				
Term loans				120,233 135,654 - 255,887
Revolving credit				2,695,011 - - 2,695,011
				
					
2,815,244 135,654 - 2,950,898
				
Company				
2024 			
							
Financial guarantee contracts			 34,513 - - 34,513
				
2023				
				
Financial guarantee contracts			 73,189 - - 73,189
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 124
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
14. BORROWINGS (CONT’D)
(k) Sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk for the floating rate instruments at the end of each reporting
period, assuming all other variables remain constant, are as follows:
						
2024		
2023
					
Profit/(Loss) Equity Profit/(Loss) Equity
					
RM RM RM RM
						
Effects of 5% changes to interest rate 						
								
Group							
							
Floating instruments			 (78) - (682) -
		
Sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk for fixed rate borrowings as at the end of each reporting period
is not presented as fixed rate instruments are not affected by changes in interest rates.
15. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
(a) The deferred tax liabilities are made up of the following:
								
Group
							
2024 2023
							
RM RM
			
As at beginning of the financial year				 3,145,558 2,333,901
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 19)				 1,473,315 811,291
Exchange differences					
(252) 366
			
As at end of the financial year					 4,618,621 3,145,558
			
Presented after appropriate offsetting:			
			
Deferred tax liabilities, net					 4,618,621 3,145,558
					
(b) The component of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities during the financial year prior to
offsetting are as follows:
						
Other
						
Right-of- deductible
						
use temporary
						
assets differences Total
Deferred tax assets of the Group			 RM RM RM
			
As at 1 January 2024				 (27,781) 27,627 (154)
Recognised in profit or loss				 27,398 3,333 30,731
Exchange differences				
975 (723) 252
			
As at 31 December 2024 prior to off-setting			 592 30,237 30,829
Off-setting					
(592) (30,237) (30,829)
			
As at 31 December 2024 after off-setting			 - - -
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
125
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
15. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
(b) The component of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities during the financial year prior to
offsetting are as follows: (Cont’d)
						
Other
						
Right-of- deductible
						
use temporary
						
assets differences Total
Deferred tax assets of the Group			 RM RM RM
			
As at 1 January 2023					 (40,935) 29,021 (11,914)
Recognised in profit or loss				 15,070 (2,944) 12,126
Exchange differences				
(1,916) 1,550 (366)
		
As at 31 December 2023 prior to off-setting			 (27,781) 27,627 (154)
Off-setting					
27,781 (27,627) 154
As at 31 December 2023 after off-setting			 - - -
							 Group
								
Withholding
								
tax on
								
undistributed
								
profits/Total
Deferred tax liabilities of the Group					 RM
As at 1 January 2024							
3,145,404
Recognised in profit or loss						 1,504,046
As at 31 December 2024 prior to off-setting					 4,649,450
Off-setting							
(30,829)
As at 31 December 2024 after off-setting					 4,618,621
As at 1 January 2023							
2,321,987
Recognised in profit or loss						 823,417
As at 31 December 2023 prior to off-setting					 3,145,404
Off-setting							
154
As at 31 December 2023 after off-setting					 3,145,558
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 126
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
15. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
(c) The amounts of temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the
statements of financial position are as follows:
								
Group
						 2024 2023
							
RM RM
			
Unabsorbed tax losses, gross			
- Expires by 31 December 2025					 18,475 45,968
- Expires by 31 December 2027					 18,484 18,484
- Expires by 31 December 2028					 162,513 162,513
- Expires by 31 December 2029					 180,579 180,579
			
							
380,051 407,544
Deferred tax assets of a subsidiary have not been recognised in respect of unabsorbed tax losses as
it is not probable that taxable profit of the subsidiary would be available against which the unabsorbed
tax losses could be utilised.
The amount and availability of the unabsorbed tax losses to be carried forward up to the periods as
disclosed above are subject to the agreement of the Revenue Department of Thailand.
16. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
Trade payables							
							
Third parties					
7,340,673 86,477 - -
							
Other payables							
							
Other payables				3,106,427 1,374,020 594,110 153,453
Accruals					
2,907,030 1,090,423 879,598 154,250
					6,013,457 2,464,443 1,473,708 307,703
							
Total trade and other payables			
13,354,130 2,550,920 1,473,708 307,703
(a) Trade and other payables are classified as financial liabilities and measured at amortised cost.
(b) Trade payables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted to the Group range
from 30 to 120 days (2023: 30 to 120 days).
 
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
127
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
16. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (CONT’D)
(c) The currency exposure profile of the trade and other payables are as follows:
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
							
Ringgit Malaysia				1,131,273 317,026 1,062,576 307,703
Thai Baht				9,232,817 2,121,198 17,284 -
United States Dollar			 2,722,130 86,477 163,123 -
Singapore Dollar				267,910 26,219 230,725 -
							
					
13,354,130 2,550,920 1,473,708 307,703
(d) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, assuming that
all other variables remain constant, are as follows:
						
2024		
2023
					
Profit/(Loss) Equity Profit/(Loss) Equity
					
RM RM RM RM
						
Effects of 5% changes to RM against
foreign currencies							
						
Group							
							
United States Dollar			 (136,107) - (4,324) -
Singapore Dollar				
(11,536) (1,859) - (1,311)
Thai Baht				
(864) (460,777) - (106,060)
						
Company							
							
United States Dollar			 8,156 - - -
Singapore Dollar				
11,536 - - -
Thai Baht				
864 - - -
(e) The maturity profile of the trade and other payables of the Company at the end of the reporting period
based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations are repayable on demand or within one (1)
year.
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 128
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
17. REVENUE
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
							
Revenue from contracts with customers:					
- Distribution of consumer packaged foods		142,931,006 123,585,255 - -
- Trading of biomass fuel products			 955,377 1,294,518 - -
							
Other revenue:							
- Dividend income				 - - 2,132,808 -
						
					
143,886,383 124,879,773 2,132,808 -
							
Timing of revenue recognition:						
Transferred at a point in time			143,886,383 124,879,773 2,132,808 -
(a) Revenue from distribution of consumer packaged foods and trading of biomass fuel products are
recognised at a point in time when the products have been transferred and coincide with the delivery
of products and acceptance by customers.
There is no material right of return and warranty provided to the customers on the sale of the products
rendered.
There is no significant financing component in the revenue as the revenue is made on the normal credit
terms not exceeding twelve (12) months.
(b) Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements,
which has been presented based on geographical location from which the sales transactions originated.
(c) Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
129
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
18. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX
Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, profit/(loss) before tax is arrived at:
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
After charging:							
							
Auditors’ remuneration:							
Statutory audit							
- Current year							
- BDO PLT					 119,000 103,000 111,000 98,000
- Member firm of BDO PLT			 151,005 129,758 - -
- Other auditors				 28,257 23,107 - -
- Over-provision in prior year							
- Other auditors				 - (3,170) - -
Non-statutory audit							
- BDO PLT					
7,000 7,000 7,000 7,000
- Member firm of BDO PLT			 1,555 1,573 - -
Depreciation of:							
- property, plant and equipment			 344,583 346,195 91,065 89,508
- right-of-use assets				 454,787 604,088 175,836 195,828
Impairment losses on trade receivables			 3,369 - - -
Interest expense on:							
- borrowings				
98,795 136,964 - -
- lease liabilities				 33,003 26,329 24,703 12,643
Inventories written off				 88,752 - - -
Inventories written down				 - 156,606 - -
Listing expenses				
- 60,697 - 60,697
Realised loss on foreign exchange			 - - 13,781 -
							
And crediting:							
							
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment		 (2,124) - - -
Gain on lease termination				 (2,880) - - -
Interest income							
- short term deposits			 (854,257) (760,707) (713,407) (718,899)
- others					
(35,781) (18,177) - -
Realised gain on foreign exchange			 (7,027) (94,574) - (46,469)
Reversal of impairment losses on trade receivables		 - (12,898) - -
Reversal of inventories written down			 (11,593) - - -
Net unrealised gain on foreign exchange		 (127,412) (266,153) (65,205) (283,382)
(a) Interest income
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 130
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
19. TAX EXPENSE
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
							
Current tax expense based on profit for the
financial year				 4,994,541 2,175,879 - -
Under-provision in prior year			 3,928 - - -
							
					
4,998,469 2,175,879 - -
							
Deferred tax (Note 15):							
							
Relating to origination and reversal of temporary						
differences				 1,473,315 801,414 - -
Under-provision in prior year			 - 9,877 - -
					
1,473,315 811,291 - -
							
					
6,471,784 2,987,170 - -
(a) Malaysian corporate income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 24% (2023: 24%) of the
estimated taxable profits for the fiscal year.
(b) Thai corporate income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 20% (2023: 20%) of the estimated
taxable profits for the fiscal year.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
131
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
19. TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)
(c) Numerical reconciliation between the tax expense and the product of accounting profit/(loss) before tax
multiplied by the applicable tax rates of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					
RM RM RM RM
							
Profit/(Loss) before tax			 19,070,540 7,440,902 (1,930,511) (2,719,886)
							
Tax at the Malaysian statutory tax rate
of 24% (2023: 24%)			 4,576,930 1,785,816 (463,323) (652,773)
							
Tax effects in respect of:							
Non-allowable expenses			 1,654,212 745,303 990,846 652,773
Non-taxable income 			 (15,649) - (527,523) -
Utilisation of previously unrecognised
tax losses				 (6,598) - - -
Deferred tax assets not recognised		 - 48,894 - -
Origination of temporary differences on
undistributed retained earnings of
subsidiaries*				 1,870,490 823,417 - -
Crystallisation of withholding tax on
dividends paid*				 (366,444) - - -
Different tax rate in foreign jurisdiction		 (1,245,129) (411,758) - -
Exchange differences			 44 (14,379) - -
							
					
6,467,856 2,977,293 - -
Under-provision in prior years						
- Tax expense				 3,928 - - -
- Deferred tax				 - 9,877 - -
					
6,471,784 2,987,170 - -
* In accordance with Section 70 of Thai Revenue Code, dividends paid to holding companies
incorporated under foreign laws and not carrying on business in Thailand are subject to a
withholding tax at the rate of 10% of the distributed amount.
(d) Tax on each component of other comprehensive income is as follows:
Group						
Before tax Tax effect After tax
2024						
RM RM RM
					
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to
profit or loss
				
Foreign currency translations				 (781,960) - (781,960)
					
2023 				
					
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to
profit or loss								
		
Foreign currency translations				 1,554,122 - 1,554,122
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 132
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
20. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
						
Short term employees benefits			 7,342,150 6,400,276 2,621,286 2,030,707
Contributions to defined contribution plan		 302,302 278,974 183,261 181,844
							
					7,644,452 6,679,230 2,804,547 2,212,551
Included in employee benefits of the Group and of the Company are Directors’ remuneration amounting to
RM2,506,458 (2023: RM1,830,940) and RM2,234,261 (2023: RM1,575,356) respectively as disclosed in Note
21 to the financial statements.
21. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
							
Directors of the Company:							
Fees					180,000 180,000 180,000 180,000
Salaries and bonus				1,882,197 1,290,584 1,610,000 1,035,000
Contributions to defined contribution plan		 119,600 112,450 119,600 112,450
Other employee benefits				324,661 247,906 324,661 247,906
							
					2,506,458 1,830,940 2,234,261 1,575,356
 
22. EARNINGS PER SHARE
(a) Basic
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the consolidated profit
for the financial year attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary
shares outstanding during the financial year.
								
Group
							
2024 2023
			
Profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary equity holders
of the parent (RM)						 8,305,629 2,637,125
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue			712,125,000 707,004,452
			
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen)					 1.17 0.37
(b) Diluted
The diluted earnings per share equal basic earnings per ordinary share because there are no potential
dilutive instruments in existence as at the end of the reporting period.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
133
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
23. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
(a) Identities of related parties
Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly,
to control the party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating
decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common
significant influence. Related parties could be individuals or other parties.
The Company has related party relationship with its subsidiaries, and companies which Directors have
substantial direct/indirect financial interests.
(b) In addition to the related party information disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group
had the following transactions with related parties during the financial year:
								
Group
							
2024 2023
							
RM RM
Companies which Directors have substantial direct/indirect
financial interests 		
Lease paid						
1,744,388 1,763,920
The related party transactions described above have been entered into the normal course of business
and have been established at terms agreed between the parties during the financial year.
Information regarding outstanding balances with related parties of the Group at end of the financial
year are disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel are those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning,
directing and controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly.
							
Group		Company
					
2024 2023 2024 2023
					RM RM RM RM
							
Short term employees benefits			 676,998 650,727 348,417 322,400
Contributions to defined contribution plan		 47,372 44,271 45,136 41,912
							
					724,370 694,998 393,553 364,312
24. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
(a) Capital management
The primary objective of the capital management of the Group is to ensure that entities of the Group
would be able to continue as going concerns whilst maximising return to shareholders through the
optimisation of the debt and equity ratios. The overall strategy of the Group remains unchanged
throughout the reporting periods.
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 134
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
24. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
(a) Capital management (Cont’d)
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in response to changes in
economic conditions. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the
dividend payment to shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes
were made in the objectives, policies or processes during the financial years ended 31 December 2024
and 31 December 2023.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is total borrowings, including lease liabilities on
motor vehicles divided by total equity.
								
Group
							
2024 2023
							
RM RM
			
Borrowings (Note 14)					
33,106 2,922,188
Lease liabilities on motor vehicles (Note 6) 			
- owing to financial institutions					 14,488 31,223
- owing to non-financial institutions 				 33,172 111,321
			
Total debt						
80,766 3,064,732
			
Total equity						
71,809,893 60,847,025
			
Gearing ratio						
* 0.05
* The gearing ratio is lower than 0.01.
The gearing ratio for the Company is not presented as the Company does not have borrowings as at
the end of the reporting period.
(b) Financial risk management
The Group is exposed to financial risks arising from its operations and the use of financial instruments.
The key financial risks include credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
The following sections provide details regarding the Group’s exposure to the above-mentioned financial
risks and the objectives, policies and processes for the management of these risks.
(i) Credit risk
Cash deposits, receivables and financial guarantee given to bank for banking facilities granted to a
subsidiary could give rise to credit risk, which requires the loss to be recognised if a counter party
fails to perform as contracted. The counter parties are reputable institutions and organisations. It
is the policy of the Group to monitor the financial standing of these counter parties on an ongoing
basis to ensure that the Group is exposed to minimal credit risk.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
135
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
24. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management (Cont’d)
(i) Credit risk (Cont’d)
The primary exposure of the Group to credit risk arises through its trade and other receivables.
The credit year is generally 30 days, extending up to 60 days for major customers. Each customer
has a maximum credit limit and the Group seek to maintain strict control over its outstanding
receivables via a credit control section to minimise credit risk. In addition, receivable balances
are monitored on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not
significant.
The risk concentration profile has been disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial guarantee contract provided as
credit enhancement to a subsidiary amounted to RM33,106 (2023: RM68,634) represents the
outstanding banking facilities of the subsidiary as at the end of the reporting period.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss of financial guarantee contract
The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the financial position
of the subsidiary deteriorates significantly. The Company considers a financial guarantee to be
credit impaired when:
(a) the subsidiary is unlikely to repay its credit obligation to the bank in full; or
(b) the subsidiary is continuously loss making and are having a deficit shareholders’ fund.
The Company determines the probability of default of the subsidiary using internal and external
information available. No impairment loss is recognised arising from financial guarantee as it is
negligible.
(ii) Liquidity risk
The Group actively manages its debt maturity profile, operating cash flows and the availability of
funding so as to ensure that all operating, investing and financing needs are met. In executing
its liquidity risk management strategy, the Group measures and forecasts its cash commitments
and maintains a level of cash and cash equivalents deemed adequate to finance the activities of
the Group.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities,
the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the
ability to close out market positions. The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between
continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of stand-by credit facilities.
The analysis of financial instruments by remaining contractual maturities has been disclosed in
Note 6, Note 14 and Note 16 to the financial statements.
(iii) Interest rate risk
The primary interest rate risk of the Group relates to interest-earning deposits and interest-bearing
borrowings from financial institutions. The fixed-rate deposits and borrowings of the Group are
exposed to a risk of changes in their fair values due to changes in interest rates. The floating rate
borrowings of the Group are exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to changes in interest
rates. The Group borrows in the desired currencies at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
The Group actively reviews its debt portfolio, taking into account the investment holding period
and nature of their assets. This strategy allows the Group to capitalise on cheaper funding in a
low interest rate environment and achieve a certain level of protection against rate hikes.
SEC 06
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 136
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Notes To The Financial Statements
31 December 2024 (Cont’d)
24. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management (Cont’d)
(iii) Interest rate risk (Cont’d)
The interest rate profile and sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk have been disclosed in Note
6, Note 10 and Note 14 to the financial statements respectively.
(iv) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument
would fluctuate because of changes in foreign currency rates.
The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions that are
denominated in currencies other than the functional currencies of the operating entities. The
Group is exposed to foreign currency risk in respect of assets and liabilities of its foreign
operations, which are denominated in Thai Baht and Singapore Dollar. Exposure in foreign
currency is monitored on an ongoing basis and the Group and the Company endeavour to keep
the net exposure at an acceptable level.
The foreign currency profile and sensitivity analysis have been disclosed in Note 9, Note 10, Note
14 and Note 16 to the financial statements.
25. CAPITAL COMMITMENT
The Group’s and the Company’s capital commitment at the end of each reporting period are as follows:
							
Group and Company
							
2024 2023
							
RM RM
			
Approved but not contracted for:			
			
Acquisition of a warehouse and operational facility in Thailand			 16,000,000 16,000,000
On 15 July 2024, the Group announced to extend the timeframe for the utilisation of IPO proceeds on the
acquisition or construction of a warehouse and operational facility in Thailand for a further 12 months up to
15 July 2025 as the Group requires additional time to identify a suitable warehouse and operational facility/
land at the required size and price.
26. SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
(a) Incorporation of a subsidiary
On 17 July 2024, an indirect subsidiary of the Company, Bai Li Enterprise Co., Ltd. (“BLE”) had subscribed
for 9,999 ordinary shares in the share capital of Pangya Enterprise Co., Ltd. (“Pangya”), a 99.99%
owned subsidiary of BLE for a total cash consideration of THB999,900, equivalent to approximately
RM129,962. The intended principal activities of Pangya are trading and manufacturing of consumer
packaged foods. Pangya has not commenced operations as at end of the reporting period.
SEC 06 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
137
Issued Shares		 : 712,125,000 ordinary shares
Class of Shares		 : Ordinary Shares
Voting Rights		 : One vote per share
Size of Holdings No. of Holders % of Holders No. of Issued
Shares
% of Issued
Shares
1 - 99 3 0.892 100 0.000
100 - 1,000 74 22.023 25,500 0.003
1,001 - 10,000 127 37.797 700,300 0.098
10,001 -100,000 75 22.321 2,759,100 0.387
100,001 - 35,606,249* 52 15.476 70,287,952 9.870
35,606,250 and above** 5 1.488 638,352,048 89.640
Total 336 100.000 712,125,000 100.000
Notes:
*Less than 5% of issued shares.
**5% and above of issued shares.
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
(As per Register of Substantial Shareholders as at 9 April 2025)
No. Name
No. of Shares Held
Direct % Indirect %
1. MO GUOPIAO 200,562,500 28.163 121,250,000(1) 17.026
2. SILVER LINE CAPITAL SDN BHD 121,250,000 17.026 - -
3. HE HAIBIN 84,412,500 11.853 - -
4. CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[RHB TRUSTEES BERHAD FOR KENANGA
ISLAMIC ABSOLUTE RETURN FUND]
64,296,300 9.028 - -
Note:
(1) Deemed interested by virtue of his shareholdings in Silver Line Capital Sdn Bhd pursuant to Section 8(4) of
the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”).
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
(As per Register of Directors’ Shareholdings as at 9 April 2025)
No. Name
No. of Shares Held
Direct % Indirect %
1. YM TENGKU DATO’ SERI ABU BAKAR AHMAD
BIN TENGKU TAN SRI ABDULLAH
700,000 0.098 - -
2. MO GUOPIAO 200,562,500 28.163 121,250,000(1) 17.026
3. SARANJIT WANG 5,750,000 0.807 1,000,000(2) 0.140
4. KUA CHIN TECK 700,000 0.098 - -
5. TANG YUEN KIN - - - -
6. FAZIDAH BT ZAKARIA 380,000 0.053 - -
7. YANG SHING SING 700,000 0.098 - -
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested by virtue of his shareholdings in Silver Line Capital Sdn Bhd pursuant to Section 8(4) of
the Act.
(2) Deemed interested by virtue of her spouse, Mr. Wang Zheng’s shareholdings in the Company pursuant to
Section 59(11)(c) of the Act.
Analysis of Shareholdings
As at 9 April 2025
SEC 07
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 138
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Analysis of Shareholdings
As at 9 April 2025
LIST OF TOP 30 SHAREHOLDERS
(Without aggregating the securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same Registered Holder)
(As per Record of Depositors as at 9 April 2025)
No. Name No. of Shares Held %
1. MO GUOPIAO 200,562,500 28.163
2. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[EXEMPT AN FOR KENANGA INVESTORS BHD]
167,830,748 23.567
3. SILVER LINE CAPITAL SDN BHD 121,250,000 17.026
4. HE HAIBIN 84,412,500 11.853
5. CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[RHB TRUSTEES BERHAD FOR KENANGA ISLAMIC ABSOLUTE
RETURN FUND]
64,296,300 9.028
6. CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
[EXEMPT AN FOR KENANGA INVESTORS BHD]
6,081,731 0.854
7. MIDF AMANAH INVESTMENT NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR YEO HOCK CHEONG]
6,000,000 0.842
8. SARANJIT WANG 5,750,000 0.807
9. TA NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR YEO HOCK CHEONG]
5,645,000 0.792
10. CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[KENANGA INVESTORS BERHAD FOR MALAYSIAN RUBBER
COUNCIL]
5,394,524 0.757
11. AMSEC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[KGI SECURITIES (SINGAPORE) PTE. LTD. FOR JAIN CONSULTANCY
SDN BHD]
5,000,000 0.702
12. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[EXEMPT AN FOR KENANGA ISLAMIC INVESTORS BHD (CLIENTS'
ACCOUNT)]
3,742,997 0.525
13. KENANGA NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
[EXEMPT AN FOR PHILLIP SECURITIES PTE LTD (CLIENT ACCOUNT)]
3,115,000 0.437
14. MRS. RONGRONG BHURIDEJ 3,000,000 0.421
15. JAIN CONSULTANCY SDN BHD 2,911,700 0.408
16. SJR HOLDINGS SDN BHD 2,550,000 0.358
17. MIKRO SDN BHD 2,400,000 0.337
18. HSBC NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
[J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES PLC]
1,588,400 0.223
19. MY QALAM (M) SDN BHD 1,200,000 0.168
20. ALLIANCEGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TIN JIING SOON]
1,070,000 0.150
21. WANG ZHENG 1,000,000 0.140
22. JAMSARI BIN TAHAK 962,000 0.135
23. CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN SEW CHING]
800,000 0.112
SEC 07 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
139
Analysis of Shareholdings
As at 9 April 2025
LIST OF TOP 30 SHAREHOLDERS (CONT'D)
(Without aggregating the securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same Registered Holder)
(As per Record of Depositors as at 9 April 2025) (Cont'd)
No. Name No. of Shares Held %
24. MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[YM TENGKU DATO’ SERI ABU BAKAR AHMAD BIN TENGKU TAN
SRI ABDULLAH]
700,000 0.098
25. RHB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR YANG SHING SING]
700,000 0.098
26. RHB NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR KUA CHIN TECK]
700,000 0.098
27. AMSEC NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR CHOK PUI WOON]
628,500 0.088
28. LOO ZE HUI 590,100 0.082
29. MAZLAN BIN LAZIM 589,800 0.082
30. MOOMOO NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
[PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR LIM YI RU]
550,000 0.077
Total 701,021,800 98.440
SEC 07
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 140
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
Notice Of Annual
General Meeting
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Third Annual General Meeting (“3rd AGM”) of the Company will be held
at Platinum Ballroom, Level 2, Novotel Kuala Lumpur City Centre, 2, Jalan Kia Peng, 50450 Kuala Lumpur on
Tuesday, 10 June 2025, at 10.00 a.m. to transact the following businesses:
A G E N D A
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31
December 2024 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 1)
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of up to RM300,000 for the period
from 11 June 2025 until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be
held in 2026.
Ordinary Resolution 1
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 2)
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits of up to RM100,000 for the period
from 11 June 2025 until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be
held in 2026.
Ordinary Resolution 2
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 2)
4. To re-elect the following Directors who are retiring by rotation in accordance
with Clause 77(3) of the Constitution of the Company and, being eligible, offer
themselves for re-election:
(a) Mr Kua Chin Teck
(b) Mr Tang Yuen Kin
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 3)
Ordinary Resolution 3
Ordinary Resolution 4
5. To re-appoint Messrs BDO PLT as External Auditors of the Company for the
financial year ending 31 December 2025 and to authorise the Directors to fix their
remuneration.
Ordinary Resolution 5
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 4)
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, with or without modifications:
6. ORDINARY RESOLUTION
AUTHORITY TO ISSUE AND ALLOT SHARES PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 75
AND 76 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
“THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of
the Company, the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and the approvals of the relevant governmental/
regulatory authorities, the Directors of the Company be and are hereby
empowered, pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act, to issue and allot shares
in the capital of the Company from time to time at such price, upon such terms
and conditions, and for such purposes as the Directors may in their absolute
discretion deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares to be issued
pursuant to this Ordinary Resolution does not exceed 10% of the total number of
issued shares (excluding treasury shares) of the Company for the time being AND
THAT the Directors of the Company be and are also empowered to obtain the
approval from Bursa Securities for the listing of and quotation for the additional
shares so issued on the Bursa Securities AND FURTHER THAT such authority
shall continue to be in force until the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company, or at the expiry of the period within which the
next AGM is required to be held after the approval was given, whichever is earlier,
unless revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution of the Company at a general
meeting.”
Ordinary Resolution 6
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 5)
SEC 08 AGM NOTICE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
141
Notice Of Annual
General Meeting
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS (CONT'D)
7. ORDINARY RESOLUTION
PROPOSED RENEWAL OF SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR EXISTING
RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
"THAT pursuant to Rule 10.09 of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“ACE Listing Requirements”), approval be and is
hereby given to the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter into
recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature with the related
party(ies) as set out in Section 2.5 of the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April
2025, provided that such transactions and/or arrangements are:
(a) necessary for the day-to-day operations for the Group;
(b) undertaken in the ordinary course of business on an arm’s length basis and
on normal commercial terms, which are not more favourable to the related
party(ies) than those generally available to the public; and
(c) not detrimental to the minority shareholders of the Company,
(collectively referred to as the “Shareholders’ Mandate”).
THAT the authority conferred by this Shareholders’ Mandate shall commence
upon the passing of this resolution and continue to be in force until:
(a) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the
Company, at which this Shareholders’ Mandate was passed, at which time
it will lapse, unless by a resolution passed at such AGM, the authority is
renewed; or
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company
after that date is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the
Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”) (but must not extend to such extension
as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of the Act); or
(c) revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the
Company in general meeting,
whichever is the earlier.
AND THAT the Board (save for Saranjit Wang, being the Interested Director) be
and is hereby authorised to complete and do all such acts and things (including
executing all such documents as may be required) as they may consider
expedient or necessary to give effect to the Shareholders’ Mandate.”
Ordinary Resolution 7
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 6)
8. To transact any other business for which due notice has been given in accordance
with the Companies Act 2016 and the Constitution of the Company.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
TAN BEE HWEE (SSM PC NO. 202008001497) (MAICSA 7021024)
LIM YOU JING (SSM PC NO. 202108000369) (MAICSA 7075638)
Company Secretaries
Kuala Lumpur
30 April 2025
SEC 08
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 142
AGM NOTICE
Notice Of Annual
General Meeting
NOTES:-
1. APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
(a) For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to attend this General Meeting, the Company
shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the Company, a Record
of Depositors as at 3 June 2025. Only a member whose name appears on this Record of Depositors
shall be entitled to attend this General Meeting or appoint a proxy to attend, speak and vote on his/her/
its behalf.
		
(b) A member entitled to attend and vote at this General Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney
or in the case of a corporation, to appoint a duly authorised representative to attend, participate, speak
and vote in his place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
		
(c) A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at a General Meeting of the Company
may appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend, participate, speak and vote instead of the member
at the General Meeting.
		
(d) If two (2) proxies are appointed, the entitlement of those proxies to vote on a show of hands shall be in
accordance with the listing requirements of the stock exchange.
(e) Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined in the Securities Industry
(Central Depositories) Act 1991 (“Central Depositories Act”), it may appoint not more than two (2)
proxies in respect of each securities account it holds in ordinary shares of the Company standing to
the credit of the said securities account.
		
(f) Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the
Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no
limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each
omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined
under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of Section
25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
		
(g) Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of shareholdings to be represented
by each proxy must be specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
(h) The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following
manner and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned General Meeting at which the person named
in the appointment proposes to vote:
(i) In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the proxy form must be deposited at the
Share Registrar of the Company, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd. at Unit 32-
01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Alternatively, the proxy form can be deposited in the designated
drop box at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan
Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(ii) By electronic means
In the case of an appointment made via the online lodgement facility, please login to the website
at https://tiih.online and select “e-Services” to login. Please refer to the Administrative Guide for
the AGM on the procedures for electronic lodgement of proxy form via TIIH Online.
SEC 08 AGM NOTICE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
143
Notice Of Annual
General Meeting
NOTES:- (CONT'D)
1. APPOINTMENT OF PROXY (CONT'D)
(i) Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be
deposited at the registered office of the Company situated at Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A, Vertical
Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, not
less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned
General Meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the
power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the
applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
(j) Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in this proxy form are completed, signed and dated
accordingly.
(k) Last date and time for lodging this proxy form is on Sunday, 8 June 2025 at 10.00 a.m.
(l) Please bring an ORIGINAL of the following identification papers (where applicable) and present it to the
registration staff for verification:
(i) Identity card (NRIC) (Malaysian), or
(ii) Police report (for loss of NRIC) / Temporary NRIC (Malaysian), or
(iii) Passport (Foreigner).
(m) For a corporate member who has appointed a representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL or DULY
CERTIFIED certificate of appointment with the Share Registrar of the Company, Tricor Investor &
Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3,
Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or alternatively, in the designated
drop box at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The certificate of appointment should be executed in the following
manner:
		
(i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised
representative should be executed under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate
member.
(ii) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of
authorised representative should be affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if
any) and executed by:-
(a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(b) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under
which the corporate member is incorporated.
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. Item 1 of the Agenda – Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2024
The item is for discussion only, as Sections 248(2) and 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”) do
not require formal shareholder approval for the Audited Financial Statements. Hence, this item is not subject
to voting by shareholders of the Company.
SEC 08
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 144
AGM NOTICE
Notice Of Annual
General Meeting
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON ORDINARY BUSINESS (CONT'D)
2. Ordinary Resolutions 1 to 2 – Payment of Directors’ Fees and Benefits
Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Act, the fees of the directors and any benefits payable to the directors must
be approved at a general meeting.
On 24 April 2025, the Nominating and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) reviewed the Directors’ fees and
benefits for the Independent Non-Executive Directors for the upcoming period, taking into consideration
market trends for similar positions, the time commitment, and the responsibilities of the respective Directors.
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 1, if passed, will authorise the Company to pay the Directors’ fees for the
period from 11 June 2025 until the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company to be held in 2026,
as and when their services are rendered. The Directors’ fees for this period are based on the following fee
structure:
Type of Fees Amount
Independent Non-Executive Chairman RM5,000.00 per month
Independent Non-Executive Director RM4,000.00 per month
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 2 will facilitate the payment of Directors’ benefits for the period from 11
June 2025 until the next AGM of the Company to be held in 2026.
The proposed structure of the Directors’ benefits for this period is as follows:
Type of Benefits Description Amount
Meeting Attendance Allowance
Board Meeting Allowances Chairman of the Board
Members of the Board
RM3,000.00 per meeting
RM2,000.00 per member per
meeting
Board Committee Meeting Allowance Members of the Committee RM1,500.00 per member per
meeting
Directors’ & Officers’ Liability Insurance - RM10,000.00
Payment of the Directors’ benefits will be made by the Company to the respective Directors as and when
incurred, should the proposed Ordinary Resolution 2 be passed by shareholders at the 3rd AGM.
In the event the Directors’ fees and benefits proposed are insufficient, approval will be sought at the next
AGM for additional fees to cover the shortfall.
3. Ordinary Resolutions 3 to 4 – Re-election of Directors who retire in accordance with Clause 77(3) of the
Constitution of the Company
Mr Kua Chin Teck and Mr Tang Yuen Kin, who are standing for re-election as Directors of the Company and,
being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election at the 3rd AGM.
SEC 08 AGM NOTICE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
145
Notice Of Annual
General Meeting
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON ORDINARY BUSINESS (CONT'D)
3. Ordinary Resolutions 3 to 4 – Re-election of Directors who retire in accordance with Clause 77(3) of the
Constitution of the Company (Cont'd)
Pursuant to Practice 5.7 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”), the profiles of the
aforementioned Directors are set out in the Directors’ profiles on pages 14 and 15 of the Annual Report 2024.
For the purpose of determining the eligibility of the Directors to stand for re-election at the 3rd AGM, the
Board, through the NRC, has considered the assessment of the retiring Directors’ fit and proper status. The
Board agrees that they meet the criteria as prescribed by Rule 2.20A of the ACE Market Listing Requirements
(“ACE Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”), covering character,
experience, integrity, competence, and time commitment to effectively discharge their roles as Directors.
Based on the recommendation of the NRC, the Board supports the re-election of the abovementioned
Directors with the following justifications:
Ordinary Resolution 3: Re-election of Mr Kua Chin Teck as Executive Director
Mr Kua Chin Teck has more than 20 years of experience in audit, financial reporting, corporate finance and
corporate development. His expertise and industry knowledge enable him to provide valuable insights that
contribute to the Company's decision making process.
The Board is satisfied with his performance and contribution, as he has diligently carried out his duties,
demonstrating his commitment to his roles, and adhering to the fit and proper criteria as set out in the
Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy.
Ordinary Resolution 4: Re-election of Mr Tang Yuen Kin as Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr Tang Yuen Kin fulfils the requirements of independence set out in the ACE Market Listing Requirements
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. He has consistently remained objective and independent in expressing
his views and participating in Board deliberations and decision-making.
He has more than 25 years of experience in audit, accounting and finance, corporate finance and corporate
planning. His extensive expertise and in-depth knowledge enable him to provide valuable insights and
contributes significantly to the Company’s decision-making process.
The Board is satisfied with his performance and contribution. He has diligently carried out his duties,
demonstrating his commitment to his roles, and adhering to the fit and proper criteria as set out in the
Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy.
Based on the above, the Board has collectively agreed and recommended that the aforementioned Directors
be re-elected as Directors of the Company at the 3rd AGM of the Company.
4. Ordinary Resolution 5 – Re-appointment of External Auditors
The Audit Committee (“AC”) at its meeting held on 24 April 2025 to assess the suitability and independence
of the External Auditors and recommended the re-appointment of BDO PLT as the External Auditors of the
Company for the financial year ending 31 December 2025.
The Board has reviewed the AC’s recommendation and has endorsed the same for tabling to the shareholders
for approval at the 3rd AGM of the Company.
SEC 08
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024 146
AGM NOTICE
Notice Of Annual
General Meeting
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON SPECIAL BUSINESS
5. Ordinary Resolution 6 – Authority to issue and allot shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 6, if passed, will renew the mandate granted to the Directors of the
Company at the 2nd Annual General Meeting held on 7 June 2024 (“2nd AGM”), empowering them to issue
and allot ordinary shares of the Company from time to time, grant rights to subscribe for shares, convert
any securities into shares, or allot shares under an agreement or option or offer, provided that the aggregate
number of shares issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total
number of the issued shares of the Company at the time of issuance ("Proposed General Mandate”).
The authority for the Proposed General Mandate will, unless revoked or varied by the Company in a general
meeting, expire at the conclusion of the next AGM or the expiration of the period within which the next AGM
is required by law to be held, whichever is earlier.
The mandate is intended to provide flexibility to the Company to issue new securities without the need to
convene a separate general meeting to obtain its shareholders’ approval so as to avoid incurring additional
costs and time.
The purpose of this general mandate, if passed, will enable the Directors to take swift action in case of a need
to issue and allot new shares in the Company for fund raising exercise, including but not limited to further
placement of shares for the purpose of funding current and/or future investment projects, working capital,
acquisitions and/or for issuance of shares as settlement of purchase consideration, or other circumstances
arise which involve grant of rights to subscribe for shares, conversion of any securities into shares, or allotment
of shares under an agreement or option or offer, or such other application as the Directors may deem fit in the
best interest of the Company.
As at the date of this Notice, the Company has not made any decision to issue new shares nor has it
implemented any allotment of shares under the general mandate granted by the shareholders at the 2nd AGM.
Should such a decision be made to issue new shares after the general mandate is sought, the Company will
make an announcement of the intended purpose and utilisation of proceeds arising from such issuance of
shares.
6. Ordinary Resolution 7 – Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Existing Recurrent Related
Party Transactions
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 7, if passed, will allow the Company and/or its subsidiaries renew its
shareholders mandate for the existing recurrent related party transactions granted by the shareholders at the
2nd AGM. These transactions are necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations and undertaken at arm’s
length, subject to the transactions being carried out in the ordinary course of business and on terms not to
the detriment of minority shareholders of the Company.
Please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April 2025 for further information.
Statement Accompanying Notice of 3rd Annual General Meeting
(pursuant to Rule 8.29 of ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad)
There are no individuals who are standing for election as director (excluding directors standing for re-election) as
per Appendix 8A of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
SEC 08 AGM NOTICE WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
147
CDS Account No.
			
No. of shares held
*I/We ___________________________________________________________________________ Tel: ___________________________________
[Full name in block, NRIC/Passport/Company No.]
of ______________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
being member(s) of Wellspire Holdings Berhad, hereby appoint:
Full Name (in Block and as per NRIC/Passport) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
and/or (*strikethrough if inapplicable)
Full Name (in Block and as per NRIC/Passport) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
or failing him/her, the Chairman of the Meeting, as *my/our proxy/proxies to attend and vote for *me/us and on *my/our behalf at the
Third Annual General Meeting (“3rd AGM”) of the Company to be held at Platinum Ballroom, Level 2, Novotel Kuala Lumpur City Centre,
2, Jalan Kia Peng, 50450 Kuala Lumpur on Tuesday, 10 June 2025 at 10.00 a.m., and to vote as indicated below:
Item Agenda
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial
year ended 31 December 2024 together with the Reports of the
Directors and Auditors thereon
Ordinary Resolution
(“OR”)
For Against
2. Approval of the payment of Directors’ fees of up to RM300,000
for the period from 11 June 2025 until the next Annual General
Meeting of the Company to be held in 2026
OR 1
3. Approval of the payment of Directors’ benefits of up to RM100,000
for the period from 11 June 2025 until the next Annual General
Meeting of the Company to be held in 2026
OR 2
4. (a) To re-elect Mr Kua Chin Teck as Director OR 3
(b) To re-elect Mr Tang Yuen Kin as Director OR 4
5. Re-appointment of Messrs BDO PLT as External Auditors of the
Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration
OR 5
Special Business
6. Authority to Issue and Allot Shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76
of the Companies Act 2016
OR 6
7. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Existing Recurrent
Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
OR 7
Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions. In the absence of
specific direction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he thinks fit.
Signed this_______________ day of ________________ 2025
									 __________________________________
											Signature**
											 Member
** Manner of execution:
(a) If you are an individual member, please sign where indicated.
(b) If you are a corporate member which has a common seal, this proxy form should be executed under seal in accordance with the
constitution of your corporation.
(c) If you are a corporate member which does not have a common seal, this proxy form should be affixed with the rubber stamp of
your company (if any) and executed by:
(i) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which your corporation is
incorporated.
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
REGISTRATION NO. 202101026155 (1426455-A)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
PROXY FORM
The Share Registrar
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Registration No. 202101026155 (1426455-A))
c/o Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd.
(Registration No. 197101000970 (11324-H))
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
AFFIX
STAMP
NOTES:-
1. APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
(a) For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to attend this
General Meeting, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the Company, a Record of
Depositors as at 3 June 2025. Only a member whose name appears
on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to attend this General
Meeting or appoint a proxy to attend, speak and vote on his/her/its
behalf.
(b) A member entitled to attend and vote at this General Meeting is
entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a corporation,
to appoint a duly authorised representative to attend, participate,
speak and vote in his place. A proxy may but need not be a member
of the Company.
(c) A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at a
General Meeting of the Company may appoint not more than two (2)
proxies to attend, participate, speak and vote instead of the member
at the General Meeting.
(h) The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or
by electronic means in the following manner and must be received
by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned General
Meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to
vote:
(i) In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the
proxy form must be deposited at the Share Registrar of the
Company, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn.
Bhd. at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business
Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Alternatively, the proxy form
can be deposited in the designated drop box at Unit G-3,
Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South,
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(ii) By electronic means
In the case of an appointment made via the online
lodgement facility, please login to the website at https://
tiih.online and select “e-Services” to login. Please refer to
the Administrative Guide for the AGM on the procedures for
electronic lodgement of proxy form via TIIH Online.
(i) Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a
power of attorney must be deposited at the registered office of the
Company situated at Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A, Vertical Business
Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala
Lumpur, Malaysia, not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned General
Meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to
vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that
it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal
requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
(d) If two (2) proxies are appointed, the entitlement of those proxies
to vote on a show of hands shall be in accordance with the listing
requirements of the stock exchange.
(e) Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined
in the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991 (“Central
Depositories Act”), it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies in
respect of each securities account it holds in ordinary shares of the
Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
(f) Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee
which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial
owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no
limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee
may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt
authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under
the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with
the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
(g) Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of
shareholdings to be represented by each proxy must be specified in
the instrument appointing the proxies.
(j) Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in this proxy form are
completed, signed and dated accordingly.
(k) Last date and time for lodging this proxy form is on Sunday, 8 June
2025 at 10.00 a.m.
(l) Please bring an ORIGINAL of the following identification papers
(where applicable) and present it to the registration staff for
verification:
(i) Identity card (NRIC) (Malaysian), or
(ii) Police report (for loss of NRIC) / Temporary NRIC (Malaysian),
		or
(iii) Passport (Foreigner).
(m) For a corporate member who has appointed a representative,
please deposit the ORIGINAL or DULY CERTIFIED certificate of
appointment with the Share Registrar of the Company, Tricor Investor
& Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower
A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan
Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or alternatively, in the
designated drop box at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium,
Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia. The certificate of appointment should be executed in the
following manner:
(i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate
of appointment of authorised representative should be
executed under seal in accordance with the constitution of
the corporate member.
(ii) If the corporate member does not have a common seal,
the certificate of appointment of authorised representative
should be affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate
member (if any) and executed by:-
(a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one
shall be a director; or
(b) any director and/or authorised officers in
accordance with the laws of the country under
which the corporate member is incorporated.
Then fold here
1st fold here
www.wellspireholdings.com
Lot D/E, Level 12, Tower 1, Etiqa Twins 11, Jalan Pinang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
Tel: +603-9779 7066 E-mail: info@wellspireholdings.com
202101026155 (1426455-A)
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
