SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
THIS STATEMENT
REPORTING PERIOD
SCOPE AND BASIS OF SCOPE
We publish Wellspire’s sustainability statement annually, with our last
sustainability statement published in April 2023. This Statement covers
information on the Group’s sustainability performance from 1 January 2023 to
31 December 2023.
The scope of the Statement includes the business operations and activities of
the Company as well as all subsidiaries within the Group. These subsidiaries are
divided into the business segments as below:
ENTITY PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES COUNTRY
Wellspire Holdings Berhad Investment holding company Malaysia
Wellspire Global Trading
Sdn Bhd
Trading of food products and
biomass fuel products
Malaysia
Bai Li Enterprise Co. Ltd
(“Bai Li”)
Distribution of consumer
packaged foods
Thailand
Keymall Retail Co. Ltd
(“Keymall”)
Online retailer of consumer
packaged foods
Thailand
We have excluded our other subsidiaries, namely, Vine Growth Holdings Pte. Ltd.
and Bai Li Holdings Co. Ltd (both of which are investment holding companies)
from our reporting scope, as they do not have significant impact on the Group’s
overall sustainability performance for the financial year under review.
Please refer to page 4 of this Annual Report 2023 for the Group structure.
The Statement discloses how Wellspire managed its sustainability topics and
the outcomes, highlights and performances throughout the financial year, as
well as the challenges faced and the plans on how Wellspire is managing these
challenges moving forward.
The report content, quality and scope are aligned with the prioritisation of its
materiality topics that are deemed significant to Wellspire. We are cognisant of
potential significant economic, environmental, social and governance (“EESG”)
impacts from our business value chain. Hence, Wellspire is committed to
gradually cascade our sustainability best practices in all our geographical areas
and eventually external stakeholders. Wellspire also plans to disclose its value
chain partners’ EESG performance in future reporting.
We are pleased to
present
WELLSPIRE
HOLDINGS
BERHAD’S
(“Wellspire” or the
“Company”) and its
subsidiaries (collectively
the “Group”) second
Sustainability Statement
(“Statement”). This
Statement outlines
the Group’s ongoing
efforts to step-up
its sustainability
performance from
the previous year,
reflecting the Group’s
commitment to long-
term value for its
stakeholders.
This Statement should
be read together with
the other sections within
Wellspire’s Annual
Report 2023, for a more
detailed overview of
Wellspire’s financial
performance in the
financial year ended 31
December 2023 (“FYE
2023”). All monetary
references in this
Statement are in Ringgit
Malaysia (RM), unless
otherwise stated.
Annual Report 2023
34
REPORTING FRAMEWORKS AND STANDARDS
EXCLUSIONS, LIMITATIONS AND DISCLAIMERS REPORT AVAILABILITY
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
ASSURANCE
Wellspire’s Statement for FYE 2023 is prepared in alignment with the Sustainability Reporting Guide (Third Edition) of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) and the ACE Market Listing Requirements in relation to Sustainability
Reporting Framework. The Statement is also guided by other standards and frameworks, as below:
GUIDELINES AND FRAMEWORKS
While we acknowledge that there may be EESG impacts throughout its value
chain, the effects of outsourced activities are currently not included in this
Statement. We are dedicated to progressively integrate sustainability practices
along its entire subsidiaries and disseminating its EESG commitments to its
business partners, suppliers and contractors.
This Statement contains forward-looking statements on the Group’s future
strategies, targets, operations and performance aligned with projections
rationale based on the current business directions. As with any other business,
the Group is subjected to risks and unforeseen events beyond our control.
Thus, Wellspire advises readers not to depend solely on these statements as
actual outcomes may vary.
All financial data disclosed in this report have been independently assured as
part of the Group’s annual financial audit and is identical to that of the Group’s
Annual Report 2023. Non-financial data in this Statement has been internally
sourced and verified by the relevant business units or senior management to
ensure its accuracy and quality.
FEEDBACK
We value your feedback
and welcome any comments
you may have on the Statement.
Please send your comments to
info@wellspireholdings.com.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
The Statement can be accessed
from Wellspire’s corporate website at
www.wellspireholdings.com
to deliver
values
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
202101026155 (1426455-A)
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
202101026155 (1426455-A)
Lot D/E, Level 12, Tower 1, Etiqa Twins 11, Jalan Pinang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
Tel: +603-9779 7066 E-mail: info@wellspireholdings.com
www.wellspireholdings.com
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD REGISTRATION NO. 202101026155 (1426455-A) | ANNUAL REPORT 2023
innovating
KEY MESSAGES 35
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
MESSAGE
Dear Valued Shareholders,
We are pleased to present our 2nd sustainability statement for Wellspire and its subsidiary
companies in both Malaysia and Thailand for the financial year ended 2023. This statement
represents the Group’s overall sustainability performance since its full inaugural year as a
listed company on the ACE Market of Bursa Securities in 2023.
In line with our financial growth within FYE 2023 through our strategic drive to expand our
customer base and build new partnerships in our distribution channels, we are proud to have
commenced integrating the EESG aspects into our business practices to drive long-term value
for our stakeholders.
The Board of Directors (“Board”) has the overall strategic role to take into account the EESG
aspects when developing the Group’s strategies including commitment and performances
on key sustainability issues such as climate change. Wellspire recognises the importance
of adhering to the enhanced sustainability reporting requirements set by Bursa Securities
and aims to optimise its governance and risk control to improve its overall sustainability
management. We have done so initially by formulating and establishing policies in FYE 2023
focused on our commitment to sustainability.
Within the financial year ended 2023, we initiated a review of the Group’s business practices
and identified the material topics that are relevant and aligned them with the common
material matters listed by Bursa Securities, as well as those that have or is likely to have an
impact from the Group’s businesses. These included issues such as product quality, supply
chain management, employment practices, environmental impacts as well as ethical
business practices such as anti-corruption and data privacy and security. We
also focused on the contributions made by our Thai operations to the
local communities in Thailand. The Board recognises the teams’
ongoing efforts to proactively measure and monitor
the EESG performance throughout the year.
We aim to set clear targets and goals in the
future to reinforce the Group’s commitment to
sustainability.
We are committed to enhancing our
sustainability disclosures to fully embed
and align them into our overall strategic
direction for the Group. To our stakeholders,
your invaluable contributions are integral
for us to advance our sustainability
practices for a collective positive impact.
MR. MO GUOPIAO
CEO / Chief Executive Officer
Annual Report 2023
36
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
TO SUSTAINABILITY
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
As this is our second sustainability statement, we have embarked on enhancing Wellspire’s sustainability governance
to be progressively embedded into our corporate governance framework. Wellspire has taken steps to strengthen the
Group’s sustainability endeavours by identifying gaps and formulating policies in key areas. Wellspire has established a
Sustainability Policy in FYE 2023 to provide a framework to address the sustainability practices for the Group. The Policy
aims to, among others, promote sustainable practices, to integrate the sustainability risks and opportunities into the
Group’s strategies, policies and procedures and the general principles governing the Group’s sustainability strategy to
ensure Group’s activities and businesses are aligned to create long-term sustainable value for the business, shareholders
and other stakeholders.
The Board provides the strategic direction on Wellspire’s commitment to sustainable practices for the Group. The Board
has oversight responsibility to deliver sustainable value to our stakeholders through the principles, policies and strategies
of the Group. This includes the review and setting of the strategic plan for the Group that supports long-value creation and
includes economic, environmental and social considerations underpinning sustainability and promoting good corporate
governance culture within the Group.
The Board has delegated to the Group Chief Executive Officer, to assist the Board with the strategic direction on
sustainability matters while being supported by the Group’s risk management team. The Board will consider formalising
the establishment of a Sustainability Committee in the near future.
Our existing organisation chart and sustainability governance structure is as follows:
Board of
Directors
Executive Director
& CEO
Mo Guopiao
Saranjit Wang
Wang Zheng
Wanchai
Tin Jiing Soon Kua Chin Teck
Executive Director
COO
Deputy COO
Chief Financial
Officer
Accounting
& Finance
Sales & Marketing Procurement Logistics Warehouse
Human Resources
& Admin
Executive Director
Corporate Development
& Strategy
Note :
(1) The approvals required for accounting and finance related matters at Bai Li level are approved by Saranjit Wang.
(2) The above table represents the overall organisation structure of the Group.
KEY MESSAGES 37
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE (CONT’D)
TO SUSTAINABILITY
BOARD COMPOSITION
AND DIVERSITY
The Group recognises the importance
of diversity to enhance decision-
making capability and performance
of the Group by bringing diverse
perspectives. As of FYE 2023, female
representation on Wellspire’s Board
stand at 43%. Further details of the
Board’s composition and diversity
are outlined in Wellspire’s Corporate
Governance Overview Statement
on page 58 and on pages 60 to 61
respectively.
• Oversight of overall Wellspire’s sustainability
commitment
• Approves Wellspire’s sustainability
commitment, pillars and strategic priorities
Board of Director
BOARD
• Reviews the risk management framework,
policies and processes, which include
identifying, managing, monitoring, treating
and mitigating significant risks including any
risks impacting the material sustainability
matters of the Group and to recommend for
approval by the Board
Risk Management Committee
COMMITTEE
• Coordinates and supports the Board to
develop the sustainability strategy and
recommends implementation of the strategy
• Consolidates sustainability statement and
data from the Business Units
Chief Executive Officer
MANAGEMENT
Women Men
30 - 39 years old
40 - 49 years old
50 - 59 years old
Board
Gender
Composition
Board Age
Composition
43%
57%
• Independent Non Executive
Chairman
• Independent Non Executive
Director
• Chief Executive Officer,
Executive Director
• Executive Director
• Executive Director
• Independent Non Executive
Director
• Independent Non Executive
Director
BOD
BOD
BOD
Annual Report 2023
38
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Our stakeholders are important to us. The Group has a range of stakeholders that have an effect on, or are affected by the
Group and its activities. In the previous sustainability statement, we identified 6 stakeholder groups who have materially
influenced and impacted the Group’s material activities. For this Statement, we have refined our key stakeholders list to
also include the local communities who play a role in the areas we operate in Thailand. The heading “Senior Management”
team from the previous list is now consolidated under the “Employees” stakeholder group topic. It is vital for us to
listen and acknowledge the feedback and concerns of our stakeholders to ensure their expectations are addressed
into the Group’s decision-making processes and business objectives. We strive to establish and maintain consistent
communication channels with the stakeholder groups. The table below provides an overview of how the Group engaged
and responded to its key stakeholder groups in FYE 2023.
KEY
STAKEHOLDERS
ENGAGEMENT
PLATFORMS
AREAS OF INTEREST
OR CONCERNS
OUR
RESPONSE
Investors/
Shareholders
As and when required
• Press releases/
Announcements
• Corporate website
• E-mails
Quarterly
• Financial reports
• Analyst briefings/meetings
Annually
• Annual General Meeting
• Annual Report
• Financial returns
• Good corporate governance
• Published 1st Annual
Report in 2023
• Timely
announcements
• Upholding corporate
governance and
enhancing internal
controls with new
policies
Employees As needed
• Internal meetings
• E-mails
• Employee engagement
activities
Annually
• Employee evaluation
• Remuneration and benefits
• Health and safety at
workplace
• Career advancement
• Job satisfaction
• Stakeholder Feedback
Questionnaire
• Employee
engagement activities
such as festive
celebrations and
sports events
Customers Ongoing and as needed
• Meetings
• Site-visits
• Reasonable pricing and
affordability
• Delivery of high-quality
products and services
• Stakeholder Feedback
Questionnaire
• Site-visits
Suppliers &
Vendors
As needed
• Supplier / vendor meetings
and discussions
• Ensure suppliers meet or
exceed quality standards
• Timely delivery
• Offer best pricing and cost
efficiency
• Health and safety of contract
workers
• Stakeholder Feedback
Questionnaire
Government and
Regulators
Ongoing
• Business Meetings
As needed
• On-site visits
• Reports
• Ensure compliance with laws
and regulations
• Maintain standards and
certification
• Engagement with
local regulators
Local
Communities
As needed
• Meetings with local
communities and relevant
organisations
• To create positive impact for
the local communities
• Both in kind or
cash donations and
sponsorships
KEY MESSAGES 39
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
MATERIAL MATTERS
We recognise that material issues may have potential impact on the long-term value for our stakeholders. We have
reviewed the material matters in FYE 2023 and with the assistance of an external consultant, we have conducted a
limited materiality assessment on a list of material issues relevant to the Group. Moving forward, we intend to assess our
material matters on an annual basis to ensure that the sustainability matters remain relevant to the Group’s business and
are aligned with stakeholders needs.
The materiality assessment was carried out as follows:
IDENTIFYING RELEVANT
MATTERS
PRIORITISE MATERIAL
MATTERS
VALIDATE AND
COMMUNICATE
REVIEW
Reviewing sources such
as Bursa Securities’
common material matters
and feedback from
internal and external
stakeholders
Engagement with
stakeholders via Stakeholder
Feedback Questionnaire to
assess level of influence and
importance of each material
matter to the Group
Validate matters against
stakeholder expectations
to identify material
matters
Review impact of material
matters
We conducted an evaluation through internal deliberations and a stakeholders’ feedback questionnaire to a selected
group of our key stakeholders. This assessment was aimed to gauge the level of importance of the proposed material
matters which also included the list of material matters under Bursa Securities’ common material matters under the Bursa
Securities’ Enhanced Reporting Guide.
Based on the feedback, we set out below in a materiality matrix, the findings from our stakeholders and internal discussions
where each of the material matters stand. The materiality assessment process was undertaken by Wellspire and is
endorsed by the Board. We identified corporate governance, anti-corruption, compliance with laws and regulations,
energy management together with product quality and responsibility, as some key areas of importance for both our
stakeholders and the Group. For purposes of this Report, we have excluded packaging materials as a separate topic from
the list of outlined in the materiality matrix as the Group requires more time to assess the impacts of packaging materials
as a material topic. In addition, the material matter on “Laws and Regulations Compliance” has been repositioned under
the Corporate Governance narrative.
Significance of Company’s Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts
Influence on Stakeholder Assesments Decisions
Low
0%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
High
Medium
Low
Medium High
MATERIALITY MATRIX
Waste
Management
Communities
Investments
Packaging Materials
Labour Practices and Standards
Data Privacy and Security
Energy Management
Anti-Bribery and
Anti-Corruption
Laws and Regulations Compliance
Water Management
Corporate Governance
Product Quality and Responsibility
Health & Safety
Supply Chain Management
Diversity
Climate Change and
Emmision Management
Annual Report 2023
40
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
RISK MANAGEMENT
The Board has the overall responsibility for risk management process within the Group to ensure that the Group identifies
all of its risks, recorded in the risk register and adequately mitigate action to be taken by the risk owner to achieve a proper
balance between risks incurred and potential returns to the shareholder.
The Board has established the Risk Management Committee to review and oversee the Group’s risk management
framework and policies and review the risk management framework, policies and processes, which include identifying,
managing, monitoring, treating and mitigating significant risks of the Group including looking at those risks that have an
impact on the EESG matters and recommend for approval by the Board. The Risk Management Committee is assisted by
the Risk Management team, comprising members of the Management, nominated by the Chief Executive Officer.
The Board is also kept abreast with the material EESG-related risks and opportunities disclosed in this Statement. Further
information on our risk management, please refer to the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”)
section in this Annual Report 2023. The Group is guided by the Risk Management Policy on the overall intentions and
direction of the Group related to risk management.
In FYE 2023, we have taken steps to review the identified materiality matters and assessed their risks and opportunities
as outlined in the table below. We will continue to review the material matters to see how we can incorporate them into
our risk management framework over the coming year.
MATERIAL MATTERS RISKS OPPORTUNITIES
Anti-Bribery and Anti-
Corruption
• Non-compliance with anti-bribery, anti-
corruption, fraud laws can result in fines
and legal consequences;
• Unethical negative behaviour by
employees, management may lead
to reputational damage and unethical
culture within the Group
• Compliance with laws and regulations
may increase reputation, lead to more
transparent and ethical business
operations and maintain trust with
stakeholders
Supply Chain
Management
• Suppliers failing to comply with the
EESG related regulations (environmental
or labour laws in Thailand, Malaysia and
other regions where the Group carries
out business) or involved in unfair
labour practices, may expose the Group
to legal risks and reputational damage
• Regular engagement and assessment
of suppliers including EESG risks during
pre-engagement and evaluation attracts
like-minded suppliers and reduce
regulatory risks and EESG risks
Product Quality and
Responsibility
• Poor product quality may lead to
product recalls, legal issues, damage to
brand reputation
• Product safety concerns may pose
safety risks, loss of consumer trust,
reputation damage, non-compliance
with safety standards in Thailand
• Meeting product quality and safety
standards may reduce legal risks
• High-quality products in the market
can increase reputation and customer
loyalty and reduce legal risks
Data Privacy and
Security
• Security lapses may lead to data
breaches compromising customer/
employee information and damaging
trust and reputation
• Non-compliance to data protection laws
in Malaysia and Thailand may result in
fines and penalties;
• Effective security measures and
management protects critical data and
minimises legal risks and maintains
trust with customers, employees and
other stakeholders;
Energy Management • High energy consumption may lead to
reputational damage, high energy costs,
contribute to greenhouse gas (“GHG”)
emissions
• Implementing energy efficient practices
may lead to lower energy costs, energy
efficient and reduce GHG emissions
KEY MESSAGES 41
RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
MATERIAL MATTERS RISKS OPPORTUNITIES
Water Management • Water scarcity leads to supply chain
disruptions and any misuse or pollution
can lead to reputational damage
• Cost-savings and reduce environmental
impact
Waste Management • Non-compliance with disposal and
recycling may lead to fines and
penalties
• Poor waste management may lead to
damage to ecosystems and reputational
damage
• Efficient waste management may
contribute to cost savings
• Embracing circular economy may
create value and reduce environmental
impact
Climate Change and
Emissions Management
• Failure to reduce emissions can
contribute to climate-related risks
• Non-compliance with environmental
regulations may lead to fines and
penalties
• Alignment of climate goals to reduce
operational costs by transitioning to
renewable energy
Labour Practices and
Standards
• Poor relations with employees may
lead to dissatisfaction resulting in high
turnover, low productivity, disruptions
in operations, unskilled workforce,
exposure to non-compliance of
regulations and reputational damage
• Strong labour practices and good
working conditions, attract and retain
talent, contributing to a more productive
workforce and overall company
performance
Diversity • Lack of diversity practices may lead
to low morale, higher turnover, poor
corporate governance, reputational
damage if perceived as a company
lacking in diversity
• Enhanced reputation and diverse teams
bring a variety of perspective
Health and Safety • Workplace accidents and unsafe
practices may lead to operational
disruptions, legal consequences
resulting in fines, penalties, reputational
damage, lower morale and higher
turnover rate
• Effective safety measures and
standards may reduce likelihood
of accidents or incidents; enhance
reputation, improve operational
efficiencies; improve morale and
productivity
Community Investments • Negative interactions with community
can lead to reputational damage,
business disruptions due to
resistance from communities, lack of
understanding of community needs with
ineffective community programmes
• Positive long-term impacts for
the communities and strengthen
relationship with local communities
• Promote responsible practices across
the workforce via meaningful work
Corporate Governance • Failure to establish transparent and
sound internal controls may pose
reputational damage
• Reputational damage for failing to meet
regulatory conditions
• Upholding reputation as a responsible
business and improve stakeholder
confidence and trust
• Operational costs savings, engagement
with regulators increase preparedness
for any emerging regulations and
uphold reputation
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Annual Report 2023
42
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
As a step-up from Wellspire’s first sustainability statement, we have initiated a review of the Group’s business practices
to align them with the material matters that we have identified. We also took into account our key stakeholders’ interests
when addressing these topics. Our sustainability framework outlines the key focus areas where we can contribute
positively under each of the following pillars.
ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENT SOCIAL GOVERNANCE
• Supply Chain
Management
• Product Quality and
Responsibility
• Energy Management
• Water Management
• Waste Management
• Climate Change and
Emissions Management
• Labour Practices and
Standards
• Diversity
• Health and Safety
• Community Investments
• Corporate Governance
• Anti-Bribery and Anti-
Corruption
• Data Privacy and
Security
We have not established any specific targets on the topics we are currently monitoring. However, we will address the gaps
in the coming years to ensure that we are able to track the Group’s sustainability performance more effectively and take
the necessary measures on areas where improvements are needed.
United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
As previously reported, the Group has identified 4 United Nations (“UN”) Sustainable Development Goals (“UN SDGs”)
as a basis to align with the Group’s sustainability practices. The Group aims to promote the identified UN SDGs through
some of the Group’s sustainability practices as follows:
UN SDGS MATERIAL
MATTERS
GROUP’S EFFORTS TO ALIGN
WITH UN SDGS
Goal 3:
Good health and well-being
Ensure healthy lives and
promote well-being for all at
all ages.
• Labour
Practices and
Standards
• Health and
Safety
• Promoting health and safety practices across
the Group through training and awareness
building
• Maintaining zero fatalities rate in FYE 2023
Goal 8:
Decent Work and Economic
Growth
Promote sustained, inclusive
and sustainable economic
growth, full and productive
employment and decent
work for all
• Labour
Practices and
Standards
• Diversity
• Fair remuneration and benefits provided to
employees across the Group
Goal 12:
Responsible Consumption
and Production
Ensure sustainable
consumption and production
patterns
• Energy
Management
• Water
Management
• Waste
Management
• Development of Sustainability Policy and
Environmental Policies in FYE 2023
• Initiating water, waste and electricity
consumption practices and monitoring
mechanisms
• Progressively adopting sustainable practices
and aligning them with the reporting cycle by
publishing an annual Sustainability Statement
Goal 16 :
Promote just, peaceful and
inclusive societies
• Corporate
Governance
• Anti-bribery
and anti-
corruption
• Established an Anti-corruption and Anti-bribery
Policy and Whistle-blowing Policy from FYE
2022
• Building awareness on anti-corruption via the
Group-wide online workshop in FYE 2023
KEY MESSAGES 43
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
MATTERS
ECONOMIC
SUPPLY CHAIN
MANAGEMENT
LOCAL PROCUREMENT AND SUPPLY CHAIN
PRODUCT QUALITY AND RESPONSIBILITY
91.50% of the Group’s products are
sourced from Bai Li’s local supplier in
Thailand. We consider the products
from our suppliers based on their
quality, price and geographical
proximity. We collaborate with like-
minded business partners, who can
contribute to time and cost savings,
enhance customer satisfaction and
improve overall efficiency.
Supplier evaluation
At Bai Li, the internal team will
evaluate the supplier’s performance
encompassing aspects such as
quality, services, pricing, delivery
timelines and interactions with the
Bai Li team. The assessment criteria
currently do not incorporate ethical
sourcing, environmental or social
elements, which we will consider in
the forthcoming years.
The Group’s procurement and supply chain practices are mainly performed
in Thailand. Wellspire is continuously improving its general purchasing and
procurement policy to outline a better tender process for vetting external
providers. This requires all parties at every level of the process to be transparent
from pre-qualification until the award and post-project evaluations. Procurement
department conducts review on new suppliers to ascertain if they are competent
based on financial checks, track record, background, tax compliance and
compliance to legal requirements. At the same time, Wellspire actively seeks
out options and alternatives from a diversified list of vendors to ensure its tender
process remains robust, transparent and cost effective.
As a company dealing with consumer foods, we place importance on
ensuring safety and quality of the food distributed throughout our operations.
All our products purchased from our suppliers must carry a Food and Drug
Administration license issued in Thailand. For every new product, we ensure
samples undergo testing at certified laboratories. Additionally, samples from
overseas purchases will be sent for quality testing for each received batch.
Customer Satisfaction and Complaints Handling
Bai Li’s sales department is responsible to manage complaints received from
our customers. Any customer feedback is typically gathered during the teams’
visits and meetings at the customer sites. The Group has not established a
formal channel or system to capture customer complaints or assess customer
satisfaction levels as at the date of this Statement.
Product Recalls
Ensuring excellence of our products is a priority for us. In the event we find
serious product quality issues or damage detected in the products or if there are
concerns about potential adverse reactions of the products from consumers,
we have established efficient procedures to promptly recall the products.
FYE 2023
Number of recalls issued due to health and safety reasons -
Annual Report 2023
44
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
ENVIRONMENTAL
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
The Group is committed to minimise its energy consumption through energy-efficient technologies and practices in its
operations. We rely on various sources of energy to run our businesses such as electricity and fuel to operate our trucks
and company vehicles and the on-site generator in our warehouse.
In line with the Sustainability Policy, the Group adopted an Environmental Policy, reinforcing the Group’s dedication to
environmental stewardship. In FYE 2023, the Group did not receive any fines or penalties in relation to any environmental
laws or regulation in the areas where the Group operates.
Electricity Consumption
Bai Li and Keymall currently rent their warehouse and office premises in Thailand
from Bai Li’s landlord, SW Enterprise Co., Ltd. (“SW Enterprise”), a related
company of Bai Li. The electricity charges are included as part of the rental
payment to SW Enterprise. With efforts to improve the Group’s sustainability
practices, Bai Li and Keymall have taken steps to monitor their own electricity
consumption from this financial reporting year.
Some of the energy efficiency measures in place at our Thai operations include:
• utiilising energy saving LED lights in the warehouses and office building
• auto sensors lighting installed outside the warehouse to automatically
activate or deactivate based on the daylight hours
In FYE 2023, the total electricity consumption for the Group is 259.573 Mwh or
259,573 kWh.
UNIT FYE 2023
Total Electricity
Consumption
MWh 259.573
Fuel Consumption
A significant number of the transportation vehicles utilised by Bai Li is sourced
from third parties in Thailand. The Group is currently assessing the methods
to track the fuel consumption associated with the transportation of our goods
throughout the value chain in Thailand. Diesel currently is also used to operate
an on-site generator at Bai Li’s warehouse.
Total Energy Consumption
UNIT FYE 2023
Total Energy Consumption Gigajouless 934.463
Note: Electricity is the main source of energy currently consumed and monitored by our Group.
KEY MESSAGES 45
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
ENVIRONMENTAL (CONT’D)
WATER MANAGEMENT
Water is a finite resource and its availability is essential to operate sustainable
business across various industries. The Group is committed to protect the
environment through the efficient use of resources and compliance with
environmental laws and regulations.
The Group will strive to implement water conservation measures including
monitoring and minimising water wastage in the operations and promoting
water-saving measures and initiatives. At our Thai operations, water is sourced
from the local water operator, Provincial Waterworks Authority. At the Group’s
headquarters in Malaysia, we rely on water sourced from the local water
company, Air Selangor. Bai Li and Keymall currently rent their warehouse and
office premises from SW Enterprise Co.,Ltd. The monthly water charges incurred
by Bai Li and Keymall are integrated into the monthly rental fees payable to SW
Enterprise.
As at 31 December 2023, the Group consumed a total of 3,178,000 cubic
metres (m3) of water across its operations.
UNIT FYE 2023
Total Water
Consumption
m3 3,178,000
Note: For this reporting year, Wellspire
recorded its water consumption mainly
from its Thai operations.
WASTE MANAGEMENT
CLIMATE CHANGE AND EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT
We recognise that waste generated
by our operations may have adverse
environmental impacts. Such
consequences could harm the Group’s
reputation and lead to regulatory non-
compliance and associated penalties.
The Environmental Policy outlines
the Group’s commitment to adopt
proper waste management practices
including waste segregation and
recycling activities with the aim of
reducing waste sent to landfill.
The waste generated from our
Thai operations are categorised by
obsolete goods (food waste that are
damaged or expired) or packaging
waste which include plastic wrap,
paper and cardboard carton boxes.
The obsolete inventory is stored in
a designated area and is annually
collected and sent to a landfill by an
authorised waste collector. Packaging
waste such as plastic wrap and
paper and carton boxes are stored
separately and later disposed through
waste collector. For Keymall, which
is an online retailer, the main waste
generated are derived from the
packaging materials such as plastic,
cardboard boxes and paper.
In FYE 2023, we did not actively
monitor the waste generated from our
operations. However, we are currently
in the process of reviewing how best
to monitor the waste generated from
our operations to improve our future
disclosures on waste management.
The Group is committed to improve the efficiency of the Group’s businesses and operations to minimise pollution and
GHG emissions. The Group recognises the need to be relevant and develop a transition plan towards a low carbon
economy through its operations and across its value chain. The Group will work towards identification, assessment and
management of climate change impacts and determine the potential opportunities for the Group in the coming years.
The Board has overall oversight on all sustainability-related matters and will be supported by the senior management to
oversee and execute the transition plan.
Annual Report 2023
46
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
ENVIRONMENTAL (CONT’D)
CLIMATE CHANGE AND EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
Emissions Management
For this Statement, we have collated
data from the Group’s electricity
consumption in FYE 2023, which
will enable Wellspire to report on its
indirect Scope 2 GHG emissions.
Scope 2 GHG emissions are mainly
contributed from the consumption
of purchased electricity from the
warehouse facility, the offices in
Thailand and the head office in
Malaysia.
We will continue to review other
activities in our operations and value
chain to assess the impacts of GHG
emissions. This will help us disclose
on the direct Scope 1 (such as use
of diesel to operate our forklifts) and
indirect Scope 3 GHG emissions (such
as business travel and employee
commute) more accurately.
The table below provides the indirect Scope 2 GHG emissions generated by the
Group in FYE 2023:
BREAKDOWN UNIT FYE 2023
Amount
Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions(1) CO
2
e
(tonnes)
106.34
Notes:
1. Our calculation methodology is based on the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting
and Reporting Standard using the operational control and consolidation approach.
The emissions factor for electricity grids in Thailand as reported by the Energy
Policy and Planning Office, Ministry of Energy is 0.407kgCO2e/kWh in 2022 and
for Peninsular Malaysia, sourced from the latest published grid emission factor by
the Malaysian Energy Commission is 0.758 kgCO2e/kWh.
KEY MESSAGES 47
SOCIAL
LABOUR PRACTICES AND STANDARDS
Our employees are our biggest assets to drive business growth across the Group’s operations, for now and in the future.
The Group’s has internal processes to monitor the manpower requirements of its workforce. This includes among others,
procedures to handle recruitment, onboarding action and resignation, disciplinary action and termination. The Human
Resources (“HR”) department in each of our entities is responsible to monitor and oversee their respective HR data
records.
Recruitment and Onboarding
The Group does not have a formalised orientation programme for new employees. However, there are basic onboarding
processes and practices to ensure a smooth transition for new employees to assimilate into their roles upon joining any
of the entities within the Group.
Performance Management and Appraisals
We conduct an annual performance appraisal for our employees to evaluate their performance during the year.
Employee Engagement Activities
In FYE 2023, Bai Li’s employees participated in several employee engagement activities in Thailand, which include:
• Festive celebrations – Chinese New Year gathering
• Sporting Event – Football matches held in June and a Sports Day held in September involving Bai Li’s and Keymall’s
employees
These activities were aimed to foster closer relationship among the teams and departments.
The Group mainly communicates with their employees through emails or instant messaging platforms commonly used in
Thailand.
Human Rights
The Group does not engage in any form of child or forced labour across in its employment practices. In FYE 2023, the
Group did not receive any substantiated complaints concerning human rights violations.
Below are the details of the employment data for the Group:
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Total Number of Employee Turnover by Employee Category
EMPLOYEE CATEGORY FYE 2023
Management -
Executive 31
Non-executive/Technical Staff -
Total 31
EMPLOYEE MANAGEMENT
Annual Report 2023
48
LABOUR PRACTICES AND STANDARDS (CONT’D)
Upskilling and reskilling
To date, there is no planned training programmes in place for the employees
within the Group. However, in FYE 2023, we have provided safety and traffic
training for our truck and forklift drivers.
Bai Li and Keymall offers internship programmes twice a year to undergraduate
students from Thai universities, each lasting approximately 3 to 4 months
per cycle. These internship programme covers different functions including
logistics, marketing and administration departments.
In FYE 2023, employees from the Group participated in 876 hours of training, in
internal and external learning and development programmes.
Below is an overview of the Group’s
training performance in FYE 2023:
Total Number of Training Hours by Employee Category
EMPLOYEE CATEGORY FYE 2023
Management 12
Executive 208
Non-executive/Technical Staff 656
Total 876
FYE 2023
Overall average training hours per employee (hours) 9
Members of the Board also attended training in FYE 2023 to continue their
professional development and enhance their knowledge on the latest
developments including training on sustainability practices. Further information
of the Directors’ training is outlined in the Corporate Governance Overview
Statement in this Annual Report 2023.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
SOCIAL (CONT’D)
876
TRAINING
HOURS
FYE 2023
Total number of hours of training
received by employees
KEY MESSAGES 49
DIVERSITY
The Group is committed to promote a diverse and inclusive workplace. Having a diverse workforce empowers a work
culture that attracts and retains talent to bring diverse views across the organisation.
The total workforce for the Group as at 31 December 2023 is 100 employees, which is a slight increase from the number
of employees reported for the Thai (90) and Malaysian (5) employees in FYE 2022. As at 31 December 2023, the Group
recorded 98% permanent employees and 2% contractual employees.
Age Diversity
Gender Diversity
FYE 2023
Management Executive Non-executive/
Technical Staff
Male 83 30 66
Female 17 70 34
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
SOCIAL (CONT’D)
% OF EMPLOYEE BY GENDER
% OF EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP EACH EMPLOYEE CATEGORY
% OF EMPLOYEES BY GENDER FOR EACH EMPLOYEE CATEGORY
60% 40%
Male Female
Male Female
FYE 2023
Management Executive Non-executive/Technical Staff
FYE 2023
Management Executive Non-executive/
Technical Staff
Under 30 - 45 55
30-50 100 50 38
Above 50 - 5 7
Under 30
30-50
Above 50
Management Executive Non-executive/Technical Staff
Annual Report 2023
50
DIVERSITY (CONT’D)
Age Diversity (Cont’d)
The current Board diversity representation in FYE 2023 is summarised as follows:
For further details on the Board, please refer to pages 60 to 61 of the Corporate Governance Overview Statement in this
Annual Report 2023.
FYE 2023
By Gender
Male 57
Female 43
By Age Group
Under 30 -
30-50 71
Above 50 29
% OF BOARD DIVERSITY BY GENDER AND AGE GROUP
57
43
By Gender
By Age
Group
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
SOCIAL (CONT’D)
HEALTH AND SAFETY
As a responsible employer, we must ensure a safe working space for our
employees to prevent any injuries or illnesses from our operations. In line with
the Sustainability Policy, the Group has established a Health and Safety Policy
to outline the high standards or health and safety practices for the Group. The
Group is committed to provide a healthy, safe and conducive workplace for
our employees, contractors, customers, visitors and other stakeholders. Bai Li’s
Head of Department of Warehouse, currently oversees all the health and safety
measures for both Bai Li and Keymall in Thailand.
There are several measures in place to ensure that our employees prioritise
safety in their day-to-day activities in our Thai operations. We have placed
signages around the warehouses to remind employees to wear protective
gears, stay within the speed limit when driving within the facility compounds
and be reminded of where the fire exits are located. Every morning, safety
briefings are held to reinforce the importance of safety among our drivers and
employees. As part of Bai Li’s and Keymall’s emergency readiness at site, we
annually conduct 1 fire safety training for our employees to ensure adherence to
fire safety regulations in Thailand.
In FYE 2023, the Thai operations team carried out a safety campaign to reward
drivers who did not receive any warning, penalty or fines during the financial
year under review. This initiative aimed to advocate responsible driving practices
among the truck drivers, prioritising safety on the road.
There is no medical facility on site at our Thailand operations. However, we are
prepared to send our employees who require immediate medical assistance to
the nearest medical facility.
Health and Safety Trainings
In FYE 2023, a total of 72 participants
were given various training on health
and safety standards.
72
Participants
UNDERGO
HEALTH
AND SAFETY
TRAINING
FYE 2023
Number of employees trained on
health and safety standards
Under 30
30-50
Above 50
KEY MESSAGES 51
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
SOCIAL (CONT’D)
HEALTH AND SAFETY (CONT’D)
COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS
We believe that the Group’s success can be further enhanced through active community engagement and collaboration
in the regions where it operates. The operations team in Thailand engaged in various corporate social responsibility
initiatives during the FYE 2023. Their efforts included donations, both in kind and in cash to advance educational causes
through an education fund and to local schools in remote areas in Thailand. Additionally, the Thai team provided donations
to a local hospital for their medical needs.
Work-related Injuries
We strive to continuously improve the delivery of health and safety standards
and processes to eliminate hazards and reduce risk of work-related injuries at
site. The Group remains committed in maintaining zero fatalities year on year
by preventing and minimising any workplace related incidents.
HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS FYE 2023
Total Hours Worked 200,000
Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) -
Number work-related fatalities -
Number of lost-time injuries -
In FYE 2023, the Group recorded zero work-
related injuries that occurred during working
hours.
Photo Image : Donations to a school
in a remote location in Thailand
Photo image : Sponsoring gifts during
Children’s Day for children located in
remote areas of Thailand.
Photo image : Provision of food
donations to the local communities
surrounding the Thai operations
Annual Report 2023
52
SOCIAL (CONT’D)
COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS (CONT’D)
In the coming years, the Group aims to continue to carry out initiatives, which
include providing food and essential items to children, as well as offering
scholarships to eligible students in schools located in remote locations in
Thailand. Bai Li team engage with the local authorities to identify groups who
are in need of assistance.
Currently, Wellspire does not set any budget on its community investment
programmes. However, the Group will review its current initiatives and consider
ways to streamline the Group’s efforts through a structured programme to
create a positive impact in the regions where the Group operates. We will then
also have more clarity on the number of beneficiaries that we have supported
through the Group’s community investments.
In FYE 2023, the Group contributed a total of RM30,503 or equivalent to Thai
Baht 232,721, as part of its community investment initiatives.
RM
30,503
COMMUNITY
INVESTMENTS
FYE 2023
Total amount invested in the
community where the target
beneficiaries are external
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ANTI-CORRUPTION
We are committed to act in the best interests of our stakeholders, by adhering to
the highest standards of corporate governance and implementing best practices
that reflect our commitment towards transparent and accountable practices.
More details on Wellspire’s corporate governance practices are set out in the
Corporate Governance Overview Statement in this Annual Report 2023.
The Group adheres to the relevant laws and regulations in the respective
jurisdictions where it carries on business. Failing to do so, will subject the Group
to potential fines, penalties or sanctions, resulting in reputational damage. As
at 31 December 2023, there were no significant incidences of non-compliance
with any laws or regulations involving the Group.
Combating corruption must be prioritised to promote sustainable development. The Group is committed to prohibit
bribery and corruption practices that may occur in the business conduct within the Group. Wellspire’s Anti-Bribery and
Anti-Corruption (“ABAC”) Policy and Guidelines (“ABAC Policy”) outlines the policies and procedures that apply to the
directors, employees, suppliers and other stakeholders on Wellspire’s stance and strict adherence to the ABAC Policy
and Guidelines, which is in line with the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (“MACC”) Act 2009. The Audit Committee
provides the oversight on the anti-corruption risk assessment for Wellspire.
The Group does not have any formal training programmes on the ABAC Policy. However, in December 2023, the Group
organised an online anti-corruption workshop conducted by a MACC officer in Malaysia for all the employees of the
Group to attend. Wellspire aims to make available more training for all employees to attend on a regular basis for a better
understanding of the ABAC Policy. Wellspire did not undertake any anti-corruption risk assessment that covers all our
operations within the Group in FYE 2023.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
GOVERNANCE
KEY MESSAGES 53
ANTI-CORRUPTION (CONT’D)
DATA SECURITY AND PRIVACY
Whistleblowing Channels
We encourage our employees, directors and associates to commit to the highest possible standards of ethical, moral and
legal conduct. Consistent with this commitment, the Whistleblowing Policy aims to support good management practices
and sound corporate governance practices within Wellspire.
The Whistleblowing Policy aims to provide a structured mechanism for its employees, directors and associates to raise
any suspected or known misconduct, wrongdoings, corruption and instances of fraud, waste or abuse involving the
resources of Wellspire to provide reassurance that they will be protected from reprisals or victimisation for whistleblowing
in good faith.
For the purposes of this Policy, the wrongful activities or wrongdoings refer to any potential violations or concerns relating
to any laws, rules, regulations, acts, ethics, integrity and business conduct, including any violations or concerns relating to
malpractice, illegal, immoral, embezzlement and fraudulent activities which will affect the business and image of Wellspire.
Both the Group’s ABAC Policy and Whistleblowing Policy are available on Wellspire’s website.
As at 31 December 2023, there were no reports made via the whistleblowing channels.
With cyber threats becoming more prevalent in this business environment, it
is vital for the Group to ensure a robust information technology framework to
strengthen and manage its data security and privacy practices. Security lapses
may lead to data breaches that may result in damage to our reputation and non-
compliance to regulatory matters in relation to personal data or data privacy in
Malaysia or Thailand. The Group recognises that there is still a lot for us to do
under this material matter and aim as a first step, to enhance our policies on our
cyber security practices.
As at 31 December 2023, there were zero substantiated complaints concerning
breaches of customer privacy or loses of customer data.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
GOVERNANCE (CONT’D)
0
COMPLAINTS
FYE 2023
Number of substantiated complaints
concerning breaches in customers
privacy or data loss
Corruption incidences
As at 31 December 2023, there were
zero incidents of corruption recorded
across the Group.
0
CORRUPTION
FYE 2023
Number of confirmed incidents of
corruption and action taken
Anti-corruption-related training
As at 31 December 2023, the following is the breakdown by employee category
of the training received by the Group’s employees on anti-corruption:
% OF EMPLOYEES WHO HAVE RECEIVED TRAINING ON
ANTI-CORRUPTION BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY
FYE 2023
(i) Management 6
(ii) Executive 20
(iii) Non-executive/Technical 68
Annual Report 2023
54
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of Wellspire Holdings Berhad (“Company” or “Wellspire”) presents this statement to
provide shareholders and investors with an overview of the corporate governance practices of the Company under
the leadership of the Board during the financial year ended 31 December 2023 (“FYE 2023”) and up to the date of this
statement. This overview takes guidance from the key corporate governance principles as set out in the Malaysian Code
on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”).
Wellspire adheres and reports based on the following statutory requirements, best practices and guidelines:-
i. Companies Act 2016 (“CA 2016”)
ii. Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) ACE Market Listing Requirements (“AMLR”)
iii. Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”)
iv. Corporate Governance Guide: Moving from Aspiration to Actualisation (“CG Guide”).
This Statement gives an overview of how the Company complies with the three (3) main corporate governance principles
in MCCG:
(a) Principle A: Board leadership and effectiveness;
(b) Principle B: Effective audit and risk management; and
(c) Principle C: Integrity in corporate reporting and meaningful relationship with stakeholders
The detailed application for each practice as set out in the MCCG is disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report (“CG
Report”) which is available on the Company’s website at www.wellspireholdings.com.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
THE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD
The Board is determined to fulfill its duty of overseeing, guiding, and monitoring the Company’s direction with the aim of
increasing sustainable value over the long term, in line with shareholders’ interests. This includes considering the long-
term welfare of all stakeholders, such as shareholders, employees, customers, business partners, and local communities
where the Company operates.
The Board’s primary commitment is to oversee the Company’s business and to ensure it operates in a way that supports
sustainability, integrity, and complies with all the necessary laws and regulations. Hence, the Board examines the
Company’s strategy during the annual budget meeting. It also ensures that good corporate governance policies and
practices are implemented within the Group. The specific responsibilities of the Board are outlined in the Board Charter,
which you can find on the Company’s website at https://www.wellspireholdings.com
A framework of delegated authority is in place consistent with the structure of delegation below the Board level.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Stakeholders
Board of Directors
Board Committees
Nominating & Remuneration Committee Audit Committee Risk Management Committee
Chief Executive Officer
Senior Management
Policies and
Procedures
OUR GOVERNANCE 55
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
THE ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE BOARD (CONT’D)
The Board delegates responsibility for the day-to-day operation of the businesses to Mr. Mo Guopiao, the Chief Executive
Officer (“CEO”) who is assisted by Senior Management.
SEPARATION ROLES OF THE BOARD CHAIRMAN AND CEO
YHM Tengku Dato’ Seri Abu Bakar Ahmad Bin Tengku Tan Sri Abdullah, leads the Board as the Independent Non-
Executive Chairman. The Chairman provides leadership and is responsible for promoting good corporate governance
practices, as well as ensuring the Board operates efficiently in order to achieve the corporate goals of the Company and
Group.
There is a clear division of responsibilities at the helm of the Company to ensure a balance of authority and power. The
roles of Chairman and the CEO are kept separate and distinct, with different individuals holding each position. This is to
ensure accountability and maintain a balance of power and authority, preventing any one person from having unchecked
decision-making authority. The primary role of Chairman is to ensure the Board’s effectiveness by promoting constructive
and open discussion and exchange of views between Board and the Management, as well as to lead discussions on
strategies and policies, and to spearhead the Board on its collective oversight responsibilities. The Chairman is not
Chairman of any board committee.
The CEO is responsible for implementing the Group’s strategies, policies and undertake the day-to-day management of
business and operations with the view of achieving its corporate objectives, performance targets and long-term goals. He
is currently assisted by Saranjit Wang and Kua Chin Teck, the Executive Directors and Tin Jiing Soon, the Chief Financial
Officer (“CFO”).
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF INDEPENDENT AND NON-INDEPENDENT DIRECTORS
The Independent Non-Executive Directors role is to review the progress of the Management in delivering the performance
targets of the Company within the risk appetite set by the Board. They have free and open contact with Management at
all levels, and they engage with the external and internal auditors to address the matters concerning the management and
oversight of the Company’s business and operations.
Meanwhile, the Executive Directors are responsible for providing leadership in terms of management of the Group and
overseeing the day-to-day operations within their specific areas of expertise or assigned responsibilities.
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMPANY SECRETARIES
The Board is assisted by two (2) qualified company secretaries who are members of the Malaysian Institute of Chartered
Secretaries and Administrators. The Company Secretaries support the Board in carrying out its fiduciary duties and
stewardship role and play an advisory role to the Board.
The Company Secretaries develop Board and Board Committees’ agendas and collate and distribute papers, ensure
compliance with Board procedures and advise on regulatory compliance and corporate governance. The Chairman
and committee chairs work alongside the Company Secretaries to set the agendas for upcoming meetings, ensuring
that information shared with the Board is timely, comprehensive, and conducive to deliberate without being excessively
unwieldy. All papers are required to be presented in a clear and concise format, with supporting material.
Further, they facilitate induction programmes for Directors, assist with their training and development as required and are
responsible for communications with shareholders and the organisation of the Annual General Meeting. They also ensure
all Board meetings are accurately minuted and records are kept.
All Directors have unrestricted access to the advice and services of the Company Secretaries. The Board is regularly
updated and apprised by the Company Secretaries on the laws and regulations (or any amendments thereto), as well as
directives issued by the regulatory authorities.
56 Annual Report 2023
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE COMPANY SECRETARIES (CONT’D)
Access to Information and Advice
All Directors are entitled to unrestricted access to Group-related information, including the ability to consult with the
Company’s auditors, consultants, and Company Secretaries. This access is to ensure that directors can fulfil their duties with
comprehensive knowledge on the matters under consideration, and all associated expenses will be covered by the Company.
Board Charter
The Board Charter is a comprehensive reference document for Directors on matters relating to the Board, its structure,
and its processes. The roles and responsibilities of the Board, the individual Directors, the Chairman, the CEO and
the Company Secretary are also detailed in the same. In addition, the processes for on boarding of new directors and
guidance on training and development and assessment of the Board are also prescribed in the Board Charter.
CORPORATE INTEGRITY
Directors’ Code of Conduct and Business Ethics and Whistle-Blowing Policy
Building an ethical culture is one of the primary objectives of the Board and the tone has to be set at the top. The Company
has a Directors’ Code of Conduct and Business Ethics (“Code”) which provides guidance for Directors regarding ethical
and behavioural considerations and/or actions as they address their duties and obligation during their appointment.
Additionally, the Company has implemented a comprehensive Whistleblowing Policy (“WBP”) that enables all employees
and stakeholders to report suspected wrongdoing, inappropriate behaviour or misconduct relating to fraud, corrupt
practices, or abuse in a timely manner. The objective of this policy and procedure is to provide a mechanism for employees
and stakeholders of the Group to report concerns, without fear of retaliation, for Management to take appropriate action.
To encourage disclosure of any improper conduct, any whistleblower can either email/post his/her complaint letter to
Audit Committee Chairman at an email or postal address specified in the policy.
As at the date of this Statement, the Company has not received any complaint under this procedure.
The Code and WBP are available for reference on the Company’s website at https://www.wellspireholdings.com.
Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy
The Group holds a zero-tolerance policy towards all forms of bribery and corrupt practices. Hence, the Company
has implemented its own Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and Guidelines (“ABAC Policy”) to regulate how the
Company, its subsidiaries, directors, employees, contractors, subcontractors, consultants, agents and representatives
conduct themselves in their dealings with the Company, at work and with the Company’s stakeholders. The Company
is dedicated to ensuring that its subsidiaries and employees behave with honesty and ethics, upholding the utmost
standards of integrity, and complying with all pertinent laws and regulations, as well as relevant legislation. A copy of the
ABAC Policy (which should be read in conjunction with the Code and WBP) is available on the Company’s website at
https://www.wellspireholdings.com.
Financial Reporting
The Board aims to provide a balance and meaningful assessment of the Company’s financial performance and prospects
through the annual financial statements,quarterly announcements of results to shareholders and the Management
Discussion and Analysis in the Annual Report. This is led by the Audit Committee. Details of the Audit Committee efforts
are as stated in the Audit Committee Report on page 67 of this Annual Report. The Directors’ Responsibility Statement in
Relation to the Financial Statements by Directors in respect of the preparation of the annual audited financial statements
of the Group and the Company is set out on page 76 of this Annual Report.
OUR GOVERNANCE 57
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
SUSTAINABILITY AND THE BOARD
The Company has taken steps to strengthen the Group’s sustainability endeavours by identifying gaps and formulating
policies in key areas. The Company established a Sustainability Policy in FYE 2023 to provide a framework to address the
sustainability practices for the Group. The Policy aims to, among others, promote sustainable practices and integrate the
sustainability risks and opportunities into the Group’s strategies to ensure Group’s activities and businesses are aligned
to create long-term sustainable value for the business, shareholders and other stakeholders.
The Board has delegated to the CEO, to assist the Board with the strategic direction on sustainability matters while
being supported by the Group’s key management team. The Board will consider formalising the establishment of a
Sustainability Committee in the near future.
BOARD COMPOSITION
The Board presently consists of seven (7) members, consisting of three (3) Executive Directors and four (4) Independent
Non-Executive Directors. Hence, this is in line with Rule 15.02 of the AMLR with regards to Board’s composition that at
least one-third (1/3) of the Board shall consist of Independent Directors. The current board composition is illustrated as
below:
Current Directors Designation Date of Appointment Age Gender Nationality
Yang Hormat Mulia (“YHM”) Tengku
Dato’ Seri Abu Bakar Ahmad Bin
Tengku Tan Sri Abdullah
Independent Non-
Executive Chairman
15 March 2022 39 Male Malaysian
Mo Guopiao CEO/ Executive
Director
6 August 2021 43 Male Singaporean
Saranjit Wang Executive Director 1 March 2022 44 Female Thai
Kua Chin Teck Executive Director 1 March 2022 42 Male Malaysian
Tang Yuen Kin Independent Non-
Executive Director
15 March 2022 53 Male Malaysian
Fazidah Bt Zakaria Independent Non-
Executive Director
15 March 2022 56 Female Malaysian
Yang Shing Sing Independent Non-
Executive Director
15 March 2022 36 Female Malaysian
Brief profile of each Directors is detailed under Profile of Directors in this Annual Report.
All the Directors of the Company do not hold more than five (5) directorships in listed issuers as required under Rule 15.06
of the AMLR. The profile of each Director is set out in pages 12 to 22 of this Annual Report.
The Board acknowledges the recommended limit of nine (9) years for the tenure of an Independent Director, as advised
by the MCGG. Additionally, it recognises that an Independent Director may only remain on the Board beyond this tenure
if they are reclassified as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director upon completing the nine (9) years. This policy is
prescribed in the Board Charter. None of the Directors have exceeded the nine (9) years tenure.
BOARD MEETINGS
There were five (5) board meetings held for the FYE 31 December 2023.
During the FYE 31 December 2023, the following activities took place at the Board Meetings: -
Financial Reporting The Board reviewed the quarterly financial results tabled by the Audit Committee
for the board to review and approve. Material variances were discussed.
58 Annual Report 2023
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
BOARD MEETINGS (CONT’D)
During the FYE 31 December 2023, the following activities took place at the Board Meetings: - (cont’d)
External Auditors The Board reviewed the Audit Completion Report presented by the external
auditors, BDO PLT.
Having considered the Audit Committee’s assessment of the independence
and suitability of the External Auditors and as recommended by the Audit
Committee, the Board resolved to recommend the re-appointment of BDO PLT
as External Auditors of the Company for the financial year ending 2023 to the
shareholders for approval at the 1st AGM of the Company.
Internal Auditors As recommended by the Audit Committee, the Board had appointed ShineWing
TY Teoh Risk & Governance Sdn. Bhd. as the internal auditor (“IA”) of the
Company. The Board also approved the Internal Audit Plan presented by the
IA.
Related Party Transaction The Board took note of the related party transactions and recurrent related
party transactions (“RRPTs”) presented by management.
Enhanced Sustainability Reporting The Board was briefed on the sustainability reporting plan for FYE 2023 and
the updates of sustainability reporting by Bursa Securities. The Board was
informed that the Company was in the midst of evaluating which consultant to
appoint to assist the Group in establishing their sustainability framework.
Re-election of Directors The Board discussed the re-election of Directors who are retiring by rotation
in accordance with Clause 77(3) of the Constitution of the Company at the 1st
Annual General Meeting. All directors are being re-assessed pursuant to the Fit
and Proper Policy adopted by the Company.
Based on the result, the Board noted that all the Retiring Directors meet the
criteria prescribed by Rule 2.20A of the AMLR on character, experience,
integrity, competence and commitment to effectively discharge their roles as
Directors.
Training for Directors and Senior
Management
The Board took note of the latest training available and will further discuss
with Management on the training courses for the Board members and senior
management of the Company.
Risk Pn Fazidah, the Chairperson of the Risk Management Committee (“RMC”)
updated the Board on the Enterprise Risk Management Framework, Policies
and Process. The Board approved the Risk Management Policy and the same
has been uploaded to the Company’s website.
OUR GOVERNANCE 59
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
BOARD MEETINGS (CONT’D)
Attendance at Board meetings as at 31 December 2023
Directors Attendance
YHM Tengku Dato’ Seri Abu Bakar Ahmad Bin Tengku Tan Sri Abdullah 5/5
Mo Guopiao 5/5
Saranjit Wang 5/5
Kua Chin Teck 5/5
Tang Yuen Kin 5/5
Fazidah Bt Zakaria 5/5
Yang Shing Sing 5/5
Date of Board Meetings:
22nd Feb 2023, 19th April 2023, 30th May 2023, 28th August 2023, 28th November 2023
BOARD COMMITTEES
Several Board Committees are set up to aid the Board in fulfilling its fiduciary obligations and responsibilities. The Board
delegates specific duties to its Committees, ensuring they operate according to predefined terms of reference. The
Board Committees include the Audit Committee (“AC”), Nominating and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”), and Risk
Management Committee (“RMC”). The respective committees report to the Board on matters considered and their
recommendation thereon for decision-making and approval. The Terms of Reference of the respective Board Committees
can be found at the Company’s website: https://www.wellspireholdings.com.
Name Audit Committee (“AC”) Risk Management
Committee (“RMC”)
Nominating &
Remuneration Committee
(“NRC”)
Tang Yuen Kin Chairman Member Member
Fazidah Bt Zakaria Member Chairperson Member
Yang Shing Sing Member Member Chairperson
BOARDROOM DIVERSITY
The Board is committed to promoting diversity in its membership, including gender, ethnicity, age, skill sets and experience.
It strives to maintain the right balance for the effective functioning of the Board. The Company have upheld a 30 percent
representation of women directors, valuing their fresh perspectives and contributions thus meeting the target of 30%
women Directors in line with Practice 5.9 of the MCCG.
60 Annual Report 2023
Age Diversity Gender Diversity Skills & Experience Nationality
� 30 - 40 years
� 41 - 50 years
� 51 - 60 years
� Male
� Female
� Business
� Entrepreneur
� Science
� Accounting
� Malaysian
� Thai
� Singaporean
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
BOARDROOM DIVERSITY (CONT’D)
INDUCTION AND TRAINING FOR BOARD MEMBERS
The Company believes that it is essential that its Executive and Independent Directors are equipped with the knowledge
and skills required to navigate the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead. To achieve this, the Company encourages
initiatives such as training sessions, knowledge-sharing sessions, and briefings from subject matter experts.
The following are attendance records of Directors participation in conferences, courses, seminars and training programmes
during the FYE 31 December 2023:
Name Courses/ Training Programmes
YHM Tengku Dato’ Seri Abu
Bakar Ahmad Bin Tengku Tan Sri
Abdullah
1. MACC of Pn Tan Li Chu - Kesedaran Undang-Undang Pencegahan Rasuah
(Akta SPRM 2009)
Mo Guopiao 1. MACC of Pn Tan Li Chu - Kesedaran Undang-Undang Pencegahan Rasuah
(Akta SPRM 2009)
Saranjit Wang 1. MACC of Pn Tan Li Chu - Kesedaran Undang-Undang Pencegahan Rasuah
(Akta SPRM 2009)
Kua Chin Teck 1. MACC of Pn Tan Li Chu - Kesedaran Undang-Undang Pencegahan Rasuah
(Akta SPRM 2009)
Tang Yuen Kin 1. IMBA Program, University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign, United States of
America
2. Post Graduate Program in Data Science and Business Analytics by the
McCombs School of Business, University of Texas at Austin, United States of
America
3. BDO Tax Seminar on Budget 2024
4. MACC of Pn Tan Li Chu - Kesedaran Undang-Undang Pencegahan Rasuah
(Akta SPRM 2009)
Fazidah Bt Zakaria 1. ISSB Corporate Reporting Webinar - Better information for better decisions
2. Consultant Content Program
3. Sustainability Reporting by MIA
4. JC3 Journey to Zero Conference 2023
5. JRC Webinar with Jonathan Labrey - Are You Ready for the Future of
Corporate Reporting
6. MACC of Pn Tan Li Chu - Kesedaran Undang-Undang Pencegahan Rasuah
(Akta SPRM 2009)
Yang Shing Sing 1. MACC of Pn Tan Li Chu - Kesedaran Undang-Undang Pencegahan Rasuah
(Akta SPRM 2009)
OUR GOVERNANCE 61
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
NOMINATING AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (“NRC”)
The NRC comprises three (3) members, all of whom are independent non-executive directors which are as follows:
Name of members Membership Attendance at Meetings %
Yang Shing Sing Chairperson 1/1 100
Fazidah Bt Zakaria Member 1/1 100
Tang Yuen Kin Member 1/1 100
Date of Meetings: 19th April 2023
The NRC is responsible for reviewing the composition, size and diversity of the Board. It ensures that the Board comprises
Directors with appropriate skills, knowledge, expertise and experience as well as ensuring a proper balance between
Executive Directors and Independent Non-Executive Directors. This is in accordance with the Board Charter.
The NRC’s nominating functional also involves conducting an annual evaluation of the necessary blend of skills, experience,
and core competencies that Non-Executive Directors should contribute to the Board.
The NRC also advises the Board on matters relating to the remuneration of the Board and senior management in order
to retain and attract the best talents.
For the appointment or re-election of directors, the NRC assesses the candidate’s independence in accordance with
AMLR, his/her time commitment, potential contribution as well as meeting the criteria of the Directors’s Fit and Proper
Policy which is made available on the Company’s website at https://www.wellspireholdings.com.
The NRC will propose to the Board the re-election of directors who retire by rotation according to the Article 77(3) of the
Company’s Constitution, as well as the re-appointment of directors who retire in accordance with relevant sections of the
Companies Act 2016. The NRC shall ensure that the annual re-election of a Director is based on satisfactory evaluation
of the Director’s performance and contribution to the Board.
Annual Board Assessment
Additionally, the NRC conducts an annual assessment of the Board effectiveness as a whole, Board Committees’
effectiveness, contribution of each Director, contribution of each Audit committee member, independence of each
Independent Director and Skills-Set Requirements of the Board, in respect of the FYE 31 December 2023.
This annual evaluation process was conducted by external consultant. The evaluation was carried out by the Company
Secretary who had circulated to the Board the evaluation forms.
The assessment criteria and outcome are as summarised below:
Evaluation Summary of Findings
Board effectiveness as a whole The rating was average and require improvement in time spent on
moving sustainability forward and on training.
Individual Director Self & Peer Evaluations Overall, the directors had performed satisfactory.
Board Committee effectiveness All Board Committees received an outstanding rating.
Audit Committee Members’ Self and Peer
Evaluation
The AC members had performed satisfactory with the appropriate
level of knowledge, skills, experience and commitment to discharge
their responsibilities effectively.
62 Annual Report 2023
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
NOMINATING AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE (“NRC”) (CONT’D)
Annual Board Assessment (cont’d)
The assessment criteria and outcome are as summarised below: (cont’d)
Evaluation Summary of Findings
Independent Directors’ Self-Assessment All Independent Directors have met the criteria under the definition of
“Independent Director”.
Further details on duties and responsibilities of the NRC may be found in its Terms of Reference which is made available
on the Company’s website at https://www.wellspireholdings.com.
Summary of NRC Activities
During the FYE 31 December 2023, the following activities took place at the NRC Meetings:-
Re-election of Directors The Committee discussed the re-election of Directors who are retiring by
rotation in accordance with Clause 77(3) of the Constitution of the Company at
the 1st Annual General Meeting. All directors are being re-assessed pursuant to
the Fit and Proper Policy adopted by the Company.
Based on the result, the Board noted that all the Retiring Directors meet the
criteria prescribed by Rule 2.20A of the AMLR on character, experience,
integrity, competence and commitment to effectively discharge their roles as
Directors.
Training for Directors and Senior
Management
The Committee took note of the latest training available and will further discuss
with Management on the training courses for the Board members and senior
management of the Company.
Remuneration Package of
Executive Directors and Key Senior
Management
The committee noted the remuneration package of Executive Directors and
Key Senior Management is similar to financial year 31 December 2022.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The Company’s Remuneration Policies and Procedures sets out the remuneration principles and guidelines for the Board
of Directors and Senior Management (comprising personnel from the Deputy General Manager level and above) of the
Group. The said policy can be found on the Company’s website: www.wellspireholdings.com.
Remuneration for Executive Directors (“EDs”) and Senior Management
The Group recognises that in order to attract and retain the EDs and senior management, it is important to have a fair
and competitive remuneration package that commensurate with their qualification, experience, skills, responsibilities,
performance, contribution as well as benchmarking industry peers. It is structured on the basis of linking rewards to
corporate and individual performance. The performance and remuneration package of the ED’s and Senior Management
are subject to evaluation of the NRC. The ED’s shall abstain from deliberation and/or voting on their own remuneration at
Board meetings.
OUR GOVERNANCE 63
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
Remuneration for Executive Directors (“EDs”) and Senior Management (cont’d)
The Remuneration components of the ED’s are as follows:
Fixed Remuneration
• Salary
• Allowances
• Benefits
+ Variable
Remuneration
• Bonuses based
on annual
performance
Remuneration for Non-Executive Directors (“NED”)
For NED’s, the level of remuneration reflects their knowledge, experience and level of responsibilities. In addition, the
remuneration is benchmarked against industry peers of similar size as well as complexity of the Group’s businesses.
The remuneration of NED consists of fixed annual Directors’ fees, Board Committees’ fees and meeting allowances
for each Board or Board Committee meeting attended. The NED also has benefit of a directors’ indemnity insurance.
The Board determines the fees for the NEDs and individual Directors shall abstain from decisions in respect of their
individual remuneration. The fees and allowances payable to Non-Executive Directors are subject to the prior approval of
shareholders at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company.
The details of the Directors’ remuneration received and receivable by Executive and Non-Executive Directors during the
financial year under review is as follows:
FYE 2023 Directors’
fees
RM’000
Salaries
RM’000
Bonuses
RM’000
Benefits-
in-kind and
Allowances
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Executive Directors
Mo Guopiao - 240.0 80.0 40.0 360.0
Saranjit Wang - 236.0 20.0 - 256.0
Kua Chin Teck - 660.0 55.0 263.5 978.5
Non-Executive Directors
YHM Tengku Dato’ Seri Abu
Bakar Ahmad Bin Tengku Tan
Sri Abdullah
54.0 - - 10.0 64.0
Tang Yuen Kin 42.0 - - 15.5 57.5
Fazidah Bt Zakaria 42.0 - - 15.5 57.5
Yang Shing Sing 42.0 - - 15.5 57.5
64 Annual Report 2023
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS (CONT’D)
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION (CONT’D)
Key Senior Management Personnel’s remuneration and benefits
The Board has decided not to disclose the remuneration components of key senior management members on an
individual basis. This decision is based on considerations of confidentiality and sensitivity surrounding each individual’s
remuneration package, as well as concerns regarding privacy, competition, and the risk of staff poaching.
Range of Remuneration No of Key Senior Management
RM 50,000 – RM 100,000 1
RM 200,000 – RM 250,000 1
RM 350,000 – RM 400,000 1
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee (“AC”) comprises three (3) members who are Independent Non-Executive Directors. The AC is
chaired by Tang Yuen Kin. None of the AC members were former audit partners who are required to observe a cooling-off
period of at least three (3) years before being appointed in accordance with the terms of reference of the AC. The AC
assists the Board to review, assess and make recommendations on matters relating to financial and accounting records,
internal controls, related party transactions (“RPT”), potential conflict of interest and financial reporting practices of the
Group.
II. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
The Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) comprises three (3) members who are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The RMC is chaired by Fazidah Binti Zakaria. The RMC together with the AC have been entrusted by the Board in providing
guidance to the management in identifying and managing the risks of the Group which includes the establishment of the
internal controls system and processes of the Group to manage and mitigate risks. The Board is of the view that the system
of internal control and risk management in place during 2023, is sound and sufficient to safeguard the Group’s assets,
as well as shareholders’ investments, and the interests of customers, regulators, employees and other stakeholders. In
this respect, the details of the Risk Management and Internal Control Framework are set out in the Statement on Internal
Control and Risk Management on pages 70 to 73 of this report.
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP
WITH STAKEHOLDERS
I. Communication with Stakeholders
Transparent and efficient communication with its shareholders, potential investors, and the general public is of paramount
concern to the Board. The Board is dedicated to upholding the utmost standards of transparency and accountability in
disclosing relevant information concerning the Group. In the financial year under review, the Company had disseminated
material business and financial information to its stakeholders via its periodic announcements, investor relations
eventsand annual general meeting and this information can also be found on its website at www.wellspireholdings.com.
The Company issued its first annual report on 28th April 2023.
OUR GOVERNANCE 65
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP
WITH STAKEHOLDERS (CONT’D)
II. Conduct of General Meetings
Annual General Meeting (AGM)
The Annual General Meeting (AGM) serves as a platform for shareholders to have an open dialogue and interact with the
Board. The AGM of the Company provides the principal forum for shareholders to share their views.
The Board encourages shareholders’ participation in general meetings. Hence, in providing a more efficient and wide-
spread shareholders’ participation, the Company had conducted its 1st AGM virtually through live streaming and online
remote voting. The AGM was held on 9 June 2023 and streamed live from the Broadcast Venue at Tricor Business Centre,
Gemilang Room, Unit 29-01, Level 29, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. Six members of the Board save for the Chairman who was away overseas were physically
present at the Broadcast Venue. The Chairman of the Board and the Company Secretaries had participated via video
conferencing. The virtual AGM had enabled shareholders to participate remotely from wherever they were. A shareholder
who was not able to participate in the AGM was given the option of appointing a proxy to participate remotely and vote
online on his/her behalf.
The Company had served more than 28 days’ notice for its 1st AGM scheduled on 9 June 2023. The shareholders were
given sufficient time to read and analyse the Annual Report and Circular to Shareholders and to make the necessary
arrangements to participate in the meeting.
The Poll Administrator, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd verified the poll results for each resolution,
which include votes in favour and against, upon which the Chairman of the 1st AGM declared that all the resolutions were
carried. The poll results were also announced by Bursa Malaysia via Bursa LINK on the same day for the benefit of all
shareholders. The minutes of the 1st AGM were also made available on the Company’s website: www.wellspireholdings.
com.
66 Annual Report 2023
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
The Audit Committee (“AC”) assists the Board to review, assess and make recommendations on matters relating to
financial and accounting records, internal controls, related party transactions (“RPT”), potential conflict of interest and
financial reporting practices of the Group.
As of FYE 2023, the AC of the Company comprises three (3) Independent Non-Executive Directors:
Name of members Membership Attendance at Meetings %
Tang Yuen Kin Chairperson 5/5 100
Fazidah Bt Zakaria Member 5/5 100
Yang Shing Sing Member 5/5 100
Date of Meetings: 22nd February 2023, 19th April 2023, 30th May 2023, 28th August 2023, 28th
November 2023
All members of the AC possess financial literacy, competence, and the ability to comprehend matters falling within the
AC’s jurisdiction, including the financial reporting process. None of them are former key audit partners of the Company’s
existing External Auditors.
The AC also meets the AMLR which requires that at least one member of the Committee must fulfil the financial expertise
requisite of Rule 15.09(c) of the AMLR of Bursa Securities. The Chairman of the AC, Mr Tang Yuen Kin, is a member of the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants and the Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
Chairman
To ensure the independence of the AC, the Chairman of the AC is not the Chairman of the Board. The role of the AC
Chairman is to provide the Board a summary of significant matters discussed at any AC meeting. When presenting any
recommendation to the Board for approval, the Committee will provide such background and supporting information as
may be necessary for the Board to make an informed decision.
Roles and Responsibilities
The roles and responsibilities of the AC are described in the terms of reference of the AC and they are as follows: -
(a) Financial Reporting - Review the annual report, quarterly results and the year-end financial statements of the
Group, before submission to the Board for approval. Implementing new or amended major accounting policy
changes. Reviewing significant adjustment arising from the audit and monitoring the going concern assumption
and compliance with legal requirements;
(b) External Auditor – Evaluating the independence and capabilities of external auditors and recommending their
appointment to the Board. The AC will also review together with the external auditor, the annual audit plan, audit
report and the evaluation of the system of internal controls;
(c) Internal Audit – Review the adequacy of the scope, competency and resources of the internal audit function including
the annual internal audit plan, programme, processes, and the results of the internal auditor’s assessments. The AC
will also review the appraisal or assessment of the performance of the internal audit function on an annual basis;
and
(d) Related Party Transactions (“RPT”) and Recurrent RPT (“RRPT”) – Monitor, review and report to the Board any RPT,
RRPT and conflict of interest situation that may arise within the Company or Group.
The terms of reference of the AC can be found on the Company’s website at www.wellspireholdings.com.
Independence of External Auditors
The AC assesses the independence of the external auditors on an annual basis. This exercise is carried out when
determining the appointment and re-appointment of the external auditor. In carrying this out, the AC will not only assess
the competence, audit quality, efficiency and resources of the external auditor in relation to the audit but also consider
information presented in the Annual Transparency Report of the audit firm. In the absence of Annual Transparency Report,
the AC will review the audit firm’s governance and leadership structure as well as measures undertaken by the firm to
uphold audit quality and manage risks. The external auditor is required to give a written assurance to the Company
confirming that they are, and have been, independent throughout the conduct of the audit engagement in accordance
with the terms of all relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
OUR GOVERNANCE 67
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
Internal Audit
For FYE 2023, the internal audit was carried out by ShineWing TY Teoh Risk & Governance Sdn Bhd who is tasked to
carry out the internal audit activity for the Group. The internal auditor was appointed in February 2023 and reports to the
AC.
The internal auditor presented its FYE 2023 internal audit plan to the AC for approval on 22 February 2023. The areas of
audit were on “Sales and Receivable” and “Procurement and Payables”.
The costs incurred for the Internal Audit function in respect of the FYE 31 December 2023 amounted to RM51,591.
During the FYE 31 December 2023, and as at the date of this report, the internal audit carried out the following activities: -
(a) Prepared and presented the risk-based annual internal audit plan encompassing key business segments within the
Group for the approval of the AC.
(b) Performed reviews of internal control systems, risk management and governance practices.
(c) Issued internal audit reports to the AC and Management providing results of the assessments of internal controls,
identifying key areas of concerns as well as highlighting recommendations for improvements and carried out follow-
up audits.
Summary of AC Activities
During the FYE 31 December 2023, the following activities took place at the AC Meetings: -
Financial Reporting TheACscrutinised and reviewed the quarterly financial results with Management
to ensure the appropriateness of the accounting treatment and the accuracy
of the reported figures. The CFO highlighted the material transactions, and
provisions made. Explanations to material variances or movements during
the relevant quarters were highlighted and explained. Having reviewed the
unaudited quarterly financial results, the AC subsequently recommended the
same be presented to the Board for approval for release to Bursa Securities.
The AC had also together with the External Auditors and Management,
deliberated on the audited financial statements for the financial year ended 31
December 2022. The AC was briefed on the significant audit findings, key audit
matters and the adoption of new accounting standards in the audited financial
statements.
External Auditors The AC reviewed the independence, performance, resources and services of
the External Auditors, BDO PLT and recommended their re-appointment for
FYE 2023. The AC also had private meetings with the External Auditors to
discuss any issues and reservations arising from their annual audit without the
presence of management and the Executive Board members.
The External Auditors had also presented its annual Audit Plan for FYE 2023 to
the AC for approval.
Internal Auditors The AC had appointed the Internal Auditor and approved its annual Internal
Audit plan. The Internal Auditor had also presented its findings on “Sales and
Receivables” and “Procurement and Payables” to the AC.
Related Party Transaction The AC had reviewed and deliberated on any potential conflict of interest,
related party transactions and recurrent related party transactions (“RRPTs”).
The AC had found that there were no conflict of interest or potential conflict
of interest pursuant to Rule15.12(1)(h) of the AMLR (excluding related party
transaction).
68 Annual Report 2023
As of FYE 2023, the Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) of the Company comprises three (3) Independent Non-
Executive Directors:
Name of members Membership Attendance at Meetings %
Fazidah Bt Zakaria Chairman 2/2 100
Tang Yuen Kin Member 2/2 100
Yang Shing Sing Member 2/2 100
Date of Meetings: 19th April 2023, 28th November 2023
The RMC is assisted by the Risk Management Team (“RMT”) comprising Tin Jiing Soon and Samart Singphuak. The RMT
is responsible for the overall risk management activities of the Group, whilst direct responsibility for managing risk lies
with the respective risk owners.
Roles and Responsibilities
The RMC is responsible for, amongst others, reviewing and overseeing the risk management function of the Group, on
behalf of the Board, which includes, amongst others, the following:
a) to review the risk management policies of the Group which addresses key elements of the enterprise wide risk
management framework, risk appetite, strategy, processes and methodology and recommend any necessary
changes relating thereto to the Board in line with the changing operating and economic environment, prevailing
best practices in risk management and any relevant regulatory requirements.
b) to oversee, evaluate and monitor the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management framework and
the risk management system put in place by the Management in tandem with the changing business circumstances
to safeguard shareholders’ interests and the Group’s assets.
c) to report to the Board on the Group’s major risk exposures, including the review on the risk assessment framework
used to monitor the risk exposures and the Management’s views on the acceptable and appropriate level of risks
faced by respective business units/division of the Group.
d) to review the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, as well as other disclosure concerning the risk
management activities of the Group, for inclusion in the Company’s Annual Report and recommend the same for
approval by the Board.
e) to identify corporate liability risks including specific bribery risks, corruption risks and compliance risks with the
Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009.
The terms of reference of the RMC is found on the Company’s website at www.wellspireholdings.com.
The Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control as set out in pages 70 to 73 of this Annual Report provides an
overview of the state of risk management and internal controls within the Group.
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE REPORT
OUR GOVERNANCE 69
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board is pleased to present the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control pursuant to Chapter 15, Rule
15.26(b), Rule 15.23 and Guidance Note 11 of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad ACE Market Listing Requirements
(“AMLR”) and Principle B of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”) with guidance from the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers. Wellspire Holdings
Berhad (“Company”) and its subsidiaries (collectively “Group”) are within the scope of this statement, excluding the
Group’s associate and joint venture entities.
BOARD RESPONSIBILITY
The Board affirms its overall responsibility and oversight of the Group’s risk management and internal controls. The Board
is assisted by the Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) and Audit Committee (“AC”) which have been delegated with
primary oversight responsibilities on the Group’s risk management and internal control systems, respectively.
The Board ensures that risk management practices and internal control systems are embedded in the strategies, activities
and operations of the Company and the Group. The risk management framework is designed to assist the Group to
identify, assess, manage or mitigate, monitor and report risks or events with significant adverse impact on the achievement
of the Group’s objectives.
The risk management and internal control framework is designed to mitigate risks or events with significant adverse
impact on the achievement of the Group’s objectives. Hence, it provides reasonable, but not absolute assurance, against
material financial misstatement or against financial losses or fraud.
The Board through the RMC and AC will review the effectiveness, adequacy and integrity of the Group’s risk management
practices and internal controls annually. As the business environment constantly undergoes challenges and changes, the
Group’s risk management and internal control framework will be constantly tested and reviewed to ensure the systems’
adequacy to address new challenges and changes.
RISK MANAGEMENT TEAM
The RMC role is to oversee the Group’s overall risk management framework and policies.
The RMC is assisted by a Risk Management Team (“RM Team”) which is responsible for the overall risk management
activities of the Group whilst direct responsibility for managing risk lies with the respective risk owners. The RM Team is
led by the Chief Executive Officer and assisted by other members namely Mr. Tin Jiing Soon and Mr. Samart Singphuak.
RISK APPROACH
The Group has in place a Risk Management Policy which sets out the framework for the effective identification, evaluation,
management and reporting of the Group’s risks.
70 Annual Report 2023
RISK APPROACH (CONT’D)
The Group’s risk management framework is premised on the following approach:
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS
The Risk Management Process entails the following processes:
a) Risk Identification – the risk owner will identify risks through discussion with relevant stakeholders and review of
financial statements to help identify risk categories such as strategic, financial, operational and compliance risks.
b) Risk Assessment – risk is to be assessed by considering estimates of both likelihood and impact. Risk is to be
further assessed by considering the Group’s vulnerability to the risk after taking into consideration the efficiency of
treatments identified, proposed and/or currently implemented.
c) Identify Controls – risk owners must identify the key controls or risk treatment methodology that have been put in
place to address or mitigate the risk and to review the effectiveness of the existing key controls to manage these
risks.
d) Risk Treatment – risk treatment involves identifying the range of options for treating risk, assessing those options,
preparing risk treatment plans and implementing those plans. The options include avoidance, reduction, transfer,
retention or sharing.
e) Risk Monitoring – risks and risk response activities will be monitored by the respective Head of Departments in
the Group to ensure that significant risks remain within acceptable risk levels. Further, the respective Head of
Departments in the Group need to ensure emerging risks and gaps are identified and that risk response and control
activities are adequate and appropriate.
The Group will carry out an annual risk analysis of the Group which includes reviewing the process in identifying, evaluating
and putting up necessary action to assess, manage and monitor the impacts of risks on the operations and business. The
findings will be reviewed by the RMC and the Board at the respective RMC and Board meetings, with the assistance of
the internal audit team.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks is up to date for the year under review and up
to the date of approval of this statement.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Risk
Identification
Risk
Assessment
Identify
Controls
Risk
Treatment
Risk
Monitoring /
Reporting
OUR GOVERNANCE 71
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS (CONT’D)
For the financial year under review, the following risks were most prevalent among business units in the Group. These
were presented to the RMC where controls, mitigating plans and monitoring mechanisms were highlighted.
Key Risks
Increase of Costs The current geo political tensions and climate changes may affect the costs
of the products purchased. Hence need to monitor closely the movement in
prices.
Customer Concentration Need to diversify customer portfolio. Sales team is constantly looking out for
new wholesale or retail customers.
Need to diversify products The Group need to increase the number of products offered. Procurement
team is actively sourcing for new products.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Board had outsourced its internal audit function to ShineWing TY Teoh Risk and Governance Sdn Bhd (“the Internal
Auditor”), an independent professional accounting and consulting firm. The Internal Auditor functions independently and
reports directly to the AC.
The internal audit adopts a risk-based approach in developing its audit plan which addresses the core auditable areas of
the Group based on the risk profile developed by the Company. The Internal Auditor carries out internal audits on divisions
and operating units of the Group based on a risk-based audit plan approved annually by the AC. Reports are submitted to
the AC highlighting observations, recommendations, and action plans to improve the Group’s internal control system. The
Internal Auditor also follows up with the management on the implementation of action plans recommended to improve
areas where control deficiencies identified during the internal audits. The AC, with the assistance of the Internal Auditor
reviews the Group’s system of internal control to address the related control weaknesses.
The Internal Auditor had prepared an annual internal audit plan based on the risk profile of the Group for the FYE 31
December 2023 and the annual internal audit plan had been reviewed and approved by the AC on 22 February 2023. The
internal audit plan covers areas such as sales and receivables and procurement and account payables.
INTERNAL CONTROL STRUCTURES
The Group’s risk management is supported by an integrated internal controls system which is applicable to the whole
Group. Apart from the risk management framework and internal audit, the system of internal controls also consists of the
following:
a) Policies & Procedures
The Group’s internal control system includes formalised and documented internal policies, standards and
procedures to ensure compliance with internal controls and relevant laws and regulations. It provides guidance to
all divisions and operating subsidiaries to operate effectively and efficiently. These standard operating procedures
will not only create a uniformity in operations of the Group but also allow the management to respond proactively
to potential business, operational, financial, compliance and other risks in achieving the Group’s objectives.
b) Ethics & Integrity
To build an ethical business culture in the Group, it starts with leadership hence the Group has in place a code
known as Directors’ Code of Conduct and Business Ethics. Further, the Group has also an Anti-Bribery and Anti-
Corruption Policy and a Whistleblowing Policy. These policies can be found on the Company’s website, www.
wellspireholdings.com.
72 Annual Report 2023
REVIEW OF THIS STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS
As required by AMLR, the External Auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control. Their
limited assurance review was performed in accordance with Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3 issued by
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. AAPG 3 does not require the External Auditors to consider whether the Directors’
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the adequacy
and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control system including the assessment and opinion by
the Board of Directors and management thereon.
THE BOARD’S CONCLUSION
The Board is pleased to report that the state of the Group’s risk management and internal control framework is able to
meet the Group’s objective to ensure good corporate governance. There was no potential or present failure or weakness
that would have material adverse effect on the results of the Group for the year under review. The Board has also received
assurance from the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer that the Group’s risk management and internal
control system is operating adequately and effectively, in all material aspects, based on on the framework adopted by the
Group. Continuous focus on measures to protect and enhance shareholder value and business sustainability will remain
a core focus for the Group.
This Statement is made in accordance with the resolution of the Board dated 16 April 2024.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
OUR GOVERNANCE 73
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURE
REQUIREMENTS
1. UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS
The Company was listed on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 16 January 2023 (“Listing”).
In conjunction with the Listing, the Company undertook a public issue of 124.60 million new ordinary shares at an
issue price of RM0.23 per ordinary share, raising gross proceeds of RM28.66 million.
As at 31 December 2023, the gross proceeds from the public issue amounting to RM28.66 million has been utilised
in the following manner:-
				
Estimated
				
timeframe for				
Balance
				
the utilisation Proposed Actual		
to be
Details of utilisation			 upon listing(1) Utilisation Utilisation Reallocation utilised
					RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Acquire/ construct a warehouse		 Within 18
and operational facility in Thailand		 months 16,000 - - 16,000
Working capital			 Within 18
				
months(3) 5,958 (3,212) 912 3,658
Estimated listing expenses		 Within 3
				
months 6,700 (5,788) (912)(2) -
Total					
28,658 (9,000) - 19,658
Notes:
1. From the date of listing of the Company on the ACE Market of Bursa Securities.
2. The actual utilisation of listing expenses amounted to RM5.79 million. The surplus of RM0.91 million from the
estimated listing expenses was re-allocated to the Group’s general working capital requirements.
3. On 28 August 2023, the Company announced that the timeframe for the utilisation of the IPO proceeds
allocated for working capital was extended for an additional 12 months, up to 18 months from date of listing
of the Company.
2. AUDIT AND NON-AUDIT FEES
During the year under review, the amount of statutory audit and non-statutory audit fees payable by the Company
and its subsidiaries were RM255,865 and RM8,573 respectively.
The non-audit fees paid or payable to the external auditors, or a firm or corporation affiliated to the auditors’ firm by
the Company and its subsidiaries during the financial year ended 31 December 2023 were RM11,323. The nature
of services rendered for non-statutory audit fees were mainly review of Statement on Risk Management & Internal
Control and taxation services.
3. MATERIAL CONTRACTS
There were no other material contracts entered into by the Company and / or its subsidiaries involving the interest
of the Directors and chief executive, either still subsisting at the end of the financial year ended 31 December 2023,
or if not then subsisting, entered into since the end of the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
74 Annual Report 2023
4. MATERIAL CONTRACTS RELATING TO LOANS
During the financial year ended 31 December 2023, there was no material contracts relating to loans entered into
by the Company or its subsidiaries involving the interest of Directors and substantial shareholders.
5. RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
At the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company held on 9 June 2023, Wellspire had obtained a mandate
from its shareholders of Wellspire and/or its subsidiaries to enter into recurrent related party transactions (“RRPTs”)
of a revenue or trading nature.
Pursuant to Rule 10.09(2)(b) and paragraph 3.1.5 of Guidance Note 8 of the ACE Market Listing Requirements,
details of the RRPTs of a revenue or trading nature entered into during the financial period from 1.1.2023 to
31.3.2024 are as follows:-
Transacting
Party
Transacting
Party within the
Group
Interested
Directors/Major
Shareholder
and/or person
connected to
them
Nature of
relationship
Nature of
Transaction
Actual value
(RM)
(i) Bai Li
Enterprise
Wellspire Global
Trading
Saranjit Wang Saranjit Wang is
a Director and
shareholder of
Bai Li Enterprise.
She is also
the Executive
Director and
shareholder of
Wellspire.
Sales of
goods to Bai
Li Enterprise –
goods consist
of snack foods
only
1,154
6. EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTION SCHEME
During the financial year ended 31 December 2023, there was no issuance of any Employee Share Scheme.
7. LIST OF PROPERTIES
During the financial year ended 31 December 2023, there was no list of properties.
ADDITIONAL DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS
OUR GOVERNANCE 75
In preparing the annual financial statements of the Group and the Company, the Directors are collectively responsible
to ensure that these financial statements have been properly drawn up in accordance with the applicable approved
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standard issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board and the provisions of the
Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”) so as to give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and of the Company
at the end of the financial year and of the financial results and the cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year ended on that date.
In preparing the financial statements for the year ended 31 December 2023, the Directors have:
1) adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
2) made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent;
3) prepared financial statements on the going concern basis; and
4) ensure the adoption of and compliance with applicable approved accounting standards.
The Directors have responsibility for ensuring that the proper accounting records are kept which disclose with reasonable
accuracy at any time the financial position of the Group and the Company and which enable them to ensure that the
financial statements comply with the Act.
The Directors are also responsible for taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company and
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT IN
RELATION TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
76 Annual Report 2023
78 Directors’ Report
84 Statement by Directors
84 Statutory Declaration
85 Independent Auditors’ Report
89 Statements of Financial Position
90 Statements of Profit or Loss and
Other Comprehensive Income
91 Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
93 Statement of Changes in Equity
94 Statements of Cash Flows
98 Notes to the Financial Statements
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
The Directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year ended 31 December 2023.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding activities. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are mainly
investment holding, provision of management consultancy services, distribution and online retailer of consumer packaged
foods, trading of food products and biomass fuel products. Further details of the subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to
the financial statements. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities of the Company and its
subsidiaries during the financial year other than trading of food products and biomass fuel products, which arose from
the newly incorporated subsidiary.
RESULTS
								
Group Company
								
RM RM
			
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year						 4,453,732 (2,719,886)
		
Attributable to:			
			
Owners of the parent						 2,637,125 (2,719,886)
Non-controlling interests						 1,816,607 -
			
								
4,453,732 (2,719,886)
DIVIDEND
No dividend has been paid, declared or proposed by the Company since the end of the previous financial year. The
Directors do not recommend the payment of any dividend in respect of the current financial year.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
On 16 January 2023, the Company issued 124,600,000 new ordinary shares at an issue price of RM0.23 per ordinary
share for a total consideration of RM28,658,000 in conjunction with the initial public offering and listing of the Company
on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The new ordinary shares issued rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the Company. There
was no other issuance of shares during the financial year.
The Company did not issue any debentures during the financial year.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued ordinary shares of the Company during the financial year. 
78 Annual Report 2023
DIRECTORS
The Directors who have held office during the financial year and up to the date of this report are as follows:
Wellspire Holdings Berhad
YHM Tengku Dato’ Seri Abu Bakar Ahmad Bin Tengku Tan Sri Abdullah
Mo Guopiao ^
Saranjit Wang ^
Kua Chin Teck ^
Tang Yuen Kin
Fazidah Binti Zakaria
Yang Shing Sing
Subsidiaries of Wellspire Holdings Berhad, excluding those who are already Directors of the Company
Ittiwat Rattakun
Waraporn Rattakun
^ These Directors of the Company are also the Directors of certain subsidiaries of the Company.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The Directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company
and of its related corporations during the financial year ended 31 December 2023 as recorded in the Register of Directors’
Shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia were as follows:
------------- Number of ordinary shares -------------
						
Balance as at 			
Balance as at
The Company					
1.1.2023 Acquired Sold 31.12.2023
				
Direct interests:				
YHM Tengku Dato’ Seri Abu Bakar Ahmad
Bin Tengku Tan Sri Abdullah			 - 700,000 - 700,000
Mo Guopiao 					
294,162,500 - (93,600,000) 200,562,500
Saranjit Wang					
5,750,000 - - 5,750,000
Kua Chin Teck 					 - 700,000 - 700,000
Tang Yuen Kin					
- 350,000 (350,000) -
Fazidah Binti Zakaria				 - 480,000 (100,000) 380,000
Yang Shing Sing					
- 700,000 - 700,000
				
Deemed interests:				
Mo Guopiao *					
121,250,000 - - 121,250,000
Saranjit Wang #					
- 1,000,000 - 1,000,000
* Deemed interested by virtue of his interest in Silver Line Capital Sdn. Bhd., applying Section 8(4) of the Companies
Act 2016.
# Deemed interested by virtue of the shares held by her spouse, applying Section 59(11)(c) of the Companies Act
2016.
By virtue of Section 8(4) of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, Mo Guopiao is also deemed to be interested in the
shares of all the subsidiaries of the Company to the extent that the Company has an interest. 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 79
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
During the financial year, none of the Directors have received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other than a
benefit included in the aggregate amount of remuneration received or due and receivable by the Directors) by reason of a
contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member,
or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest other than:
(i) the transactions entered into in the ordinary course of business with companies in which certain Directors have
substantial financial interests as disclosed in Note 23 (b) to the financial statements; and
(ii) remuneration received by certain Directors from subsidiaries as Directors of the subsidiaries.
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year, to which the Company is a party, which had the
object of enabling the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company
or any other body corporate.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The remuneration of Directors of the Group and of the Company during the financial year ended 31 December 2023 are
as follows:
							 Group Company
								
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2023 to
								
31.12.2023 31.12.2023
								
RM RM
			
Directors of the Company:			
Fees							
180,000 180,000
Salaries and bonus						 1,290,584 1,035,000
Contributions to defined contribution plan					 112,450 112,450
Other employee benefits						 247,906 247,906
			
								
1,830,940 1,575,356
No benefit-in-kind was provided to Directors of the Company during the financial year.
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND AUDITORS
The Group and the Company effected Directors’ and officers’ liability insurance during the financial year to protect the
Directors and officers of the Group and of the Company against potential costs and liabilities arising from claims brought
against the Directors and officers.
The total amount of insurance premium effected for any Director and officer of the Group and of the Company was
RM10,000.
No indemnity was given to or insurance effected for the auditors of the Group and of the Company.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
80 Annual Report 2023
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION REGARDING THE GROUP AND THE COMPANY
(I) AS AT THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the Directors took
reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making
of provision for doubtful debts and have satisfied themselves that there are no known bad debts to be
written off and that adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets other than debts, which were unlikely to realise their book values in
the ordinary course of business had been written down to their estimated realisable values.
(b) In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the
financial year have not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual
nature.
(II) FROM THE END OF THE FINANCIAL YEAR TO THE DATE OF THIS REPORT
(c) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would necessitate the writing off of bad debts or render the amount of the provision for doubtful
debts in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any material extent;
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company misleading; and
(iii) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or
liabilities of the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) there has not arisen any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect
substantially the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in
which this report is made; and
(ii) no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within the
period of twelve (12) months after the end of the financial yerar which would or may affect the ability
of the Group or of the Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due.
(III) AS AT THE DATE OF THIS REPORT
(e) There are no charges on the assets of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the
financial year to secure the liabilities of any other person.
(f) There are no contingent liabilities of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the
financial year.
(g) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial
statements which would render any amount stated in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company misleading.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 81
SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
(a) Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) and listing of the Company on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
In conjunction with the Company’s listing on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, the Company
issued its Prospectus for its IPO entailing the following:
(i) Public issue of 124,600,000 new ordinary shares (“Public Issue Shares”) at an IPO price of RM0.23 per
ordinary share in the following manner:
(a) 36,000,000 Public Issue Shares for application by the Malaysia Public;
(b) 10,000,000 Public Issue Shares for application by the Company’s eligible Directors, employees and
persons who have contributed to the success of the Group; and
(c) 78,600,000 Public Issue Shares by way of private placement to selected investors.
(ii) Offer for sale of 124,600,000 existing ordinary shares by way of private placement to selected investors.
Upon completion of the IPO, the Company was admitted to the Official List of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
and the Company’s entire enlarged issued share capital of 712,125,000 ordinary shares were listed and quoted on
the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 16 January 2023.
(b) Incorporation of a subsidiary
On 21 March 2023, the Company incorporated a subsidiary known as Wellspire Global Trading Sdn. Bhd. with a
paid-up share capital of RM100,000 comprising 100,000 ordinary shares of RM1 each. The principal activities of
the subsidiary are trading of food products and biomass fuel products. Subsequently, the Company subscribed an
additional 900,000 ordinary shares for a cash consideration of RM900,000. The equity interest of the Company in
the subsidiary remained unchanged as at end of the reporting period.
AUDITORS
The auditors, BDO PLT (201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206), have expressed their willingness to continue in
office.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
82 Annual Report 2023
AUDITORS (CONT’D)
Auditors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 were as follows:
							 Group Company
								
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2023 to
								
31.12.2023 31.12.2023
								
RM RM
			
Statutory audit			
- BDO PLT							
103,000 98,000
- Member firm of BDO PLT						 129,758 -
- Other auditors							
23,107 -
			
								
255,865 98,000
			
Other assurance services			
- BDO PLT							
7,000 7,000
- Member firm of BDO PLT						 1,573 -
										
								
8,573 7,000
			
								
264,438 105,000
Signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.
……………………. ………………….……
Mo Guopiao Kua Chin Teck
Director Director
Kuala Lumpur
16 April 2024
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 83
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS &
STATUTORY DECLARATION
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 89 to 137 have been drawn up in accordance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016
in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December
2023 and of the financial performance and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended.
On behalf of the Board,
……………………. ………………….……
Mo Guopiao Kua Chin Teck
Director Director
Kuala Lumpur
16 April 2024
STATUTORY DECLARATION
I, Tin Jiing Soon, being the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Wellspire Holdings Berhad, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 89 to 137 are, to the best of my knowledge
and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the
provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly )
declared by the abovenamed at )
Kuala Lumpur this )
16 April 2024 ) ………………….…………..
		 Tin Jiing Soon
Before me:
Mardhiyyah Abdul Wahab
No. W729
Commissioner for Oath
84 Annual Report 2023
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
(INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Wellspire Holdings Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial
position as at 31 December 2023 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other
comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company
for the financial year then ended and notes to the financial statements, including material accounting policy information,
as set out on pages 89 to 137.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and
of the Company as at 31 December 2023, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year
then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), IFRS Accounting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing (“ISAs”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the
Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct
and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for
Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards)
(“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA
Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in
the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, in forming our opinion
thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Recoverability of trade receivables
The net carrying amount of trade receivables of the Group as at 31 December 2023 were RM19,101,612 as disclosed in
Note 9 to the financial statements.
We determined this to be a key audit matter because it requires management to exercise significant judgement in
determining the probability of default by trade receivables and appropriate forward-looking information.
Audit response
Our audit procedures, with the involvement of component auditors, included the following:
(a) Recomputed the probability of default using historical data and forward-looking information adjustment applied by
the Group;
(b) Recomputed the correlation coefficient between the macroeconomic indicators used by the Group and historical
credit losses to determine the appropriateness of the forward-looking information used by the Group; and
(c) Inquiries of management to assess the rationale underlying the relationship between the forward-looking information
and expected credit losses.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 85
Key Audit Matters (Cont’d)
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to be communicated in our auditors’ report of the audit of the
separate financial statements of the Company.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information
included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our
auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we
do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read
the other information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially
misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we
are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company
that give a true and fair view in accordance with MFRSs, IFRS Accounting Standards, and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine
is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the
ability of the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to
going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group
or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
 
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’
report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an
audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and ISAs will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or
in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of
these financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
(INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
86 Annual Report 2023
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (Cont’d)
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and ISAs, we exercise professional
judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit
evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material
misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery,
intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
internal control of the Group and of the Company.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the Directors.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that
a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in
the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our
opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However,
future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company,
including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the
underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities
within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the
direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
 
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the
key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure
about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in
our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest
benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we
have not acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
(INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 87
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of
this report.
BDO PLT Lu Yan Fen
201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206 03803/11/2025 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
16 April 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
(INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
88 Annual Report 2023
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023
Group Company
						31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					
Note RM RM RM RM
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment			 5 813,544 913,252 151,932 226,040
Right-of-use assets				 6 986,186 1,059,663 546,456 376,592
Investments in subsidiaries			 7 - - 12,501,000 11,501,000
						
1,799,730 1,972,915 13,199,388 12,103,632
Current assets
Inventories				 8 6,130,711 7,817,444 - -
Trade and other receivables			 9 21,582,119 20,365,111 6,926,175 656,907
Cash and bank balances			 10 41,805,484 10,469,837 22,437,829 6,246,996
						
69,518,314 38,652,392 29,364,004 6,903,903
TOTAL ASSETS					71,318,044 40,625,307 42,563,392 19,007,535
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital				 11 50,528,836 23,501,000 50,528,836 23,501,000
Merger reserve				
12 (10,721,287) (10,721,287) - -
Reserves				
13 804,395 (361,352) - -
Retained earnings/(Accumulated losses)			 12,086,760 9,449,635 (8,832,976) (6,113,090)
						52,698,704 21,867,996 41,695,860 17,387,910
Non-controlling interests				8,148,321 5,842,607 - -
TOTAL EQUITY					60,847,025 27,710,603 41,695,860 17,387,910
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Borrowings				 14 129,363 221,363 - -
Lease liabilities				 6 519,771 339,198 387,977 209,581
Deferred tax liabilities			 15 3,145,558 2,333,901 - -
						
3,794,692 2,894,462 387,977 209,581
Current liabilities
Borrowings				 14 2,792,825 5,076,858 - -
Lease liabilities				 6 308,362 470,314 171,852 181,498
Trade and other payables			 16 2,550,920 3,916,687 307,703 1,228,546
Current tax liabilities				 1,024,220 556,383 - -
						
6,676,327 10,020,242 479,555 1,410,044
TOTAL LIABILITIES 			10,471,019 12,914,704 867,532 1,619,625
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES			71,318,044 40,625,307 42,563,392 19,007,535
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 89
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
Group Company
									
6.8.2021
									
(date of
									
incorporation)
						
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to 1.1.2023 to to
						31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					
Note RM RM RM RM
Revenue				 17 124,879,773 123,366,764 - -
Cost of sales					
(99,969,523) (97,411,283) - -
Gross profit					
24,910,250 25,955,481 - -
Other operating income				 1,242,785 744,936 1,048,750 504,510
Reversal of impairment losses of financial assets 9(d) 12,898 66,072 - -
Selling and distribution expenses				 (8,324,618) (9,458,028) - -
Administrative expenses				
(10,237,120) (11,112,856) (3,755,993) (6,600,609)
Finance costs					
(163,293) (293,709) (12,643) (16,991)
Profit/(Loss) before tax			 18 7,440,902 5,901,896 (2,719,886) (6,113,090)
Tax expense				
19 (2,987,170) (2,946,834) - -
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year				 4,453,732 2,955,062 (2,719,886) (6,113,090)
Other comprehensive income/(loss)						
Items that may be reclassified subsequently
to profit or loss:
Foreign currency translation, net of tax		 19(d) 1,554,122 264,513 - -
Total comprehensive income/(loss)			 6,007,854 3,219,575 (2,719,886) (6,113,090)
Attributable to:
Profit/(Loss) for the financial year
Owners of the Company				 2,637,125 1,138,432 (2,719,886) (6,113,090)
Non-controlling interests				 1,816,607 1,816,630 - -
						
4,453,732 2,955,062 (2,719,886) (6,113,090)
Total other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax
Owners of the Company				 3,802,872 1,336,843 (2,719,886) (6,113,090)
Non-controlling interests				 2,204,982 1,882,732 - -
						
6,007,854 3,219,575 (2,719,886) (6,113,090)
Earnings per ordinary shares attributable to
equity holders of the Company:		
Basic and diluted (sen)			 22 0.37 0.19
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
90 Annual Report 2023
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
					
Foreign					
					
currency				
Non-
		 Share Invested Merger translation Legal Retained		controlling Total
		 capital equity reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
Group Note RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
										
Balance as at 1 January 2022		 2,000,000 11,501,000 (10,721,287) (612,506) 52,743 8,311,203 10,531,153 3,940,560 14,471,713
										
										
Profit for the financial year		- - - - - 1,138,432 1,138,432 1,816,630 2,955,062
Other comprehensive income, 										
net of tax		 - - - 198,411 - - 198,411 66,102 264,513
										
Total comprehensive income		 - - - 198,411 - 1,138,432 1,336,843 1,882,732 3,219,575
										
Transactions with owners										
										
Issuance of ordinary shares 11 10,000,000 - - - - - 10,000,000 - 10,000,000
Issuance of ordinary shares for										
the acquisition of subsidiary 11 11,501,000 (11,501,000) - - - - - - -
Issuance of ordinary shares
to non-controlling interests
by a subsidiary		- - - - - - - 19,315 19,315
										
Total transactions with owners		 21,501,000 (11,501,000) - - - - 10,000,000 19,315 10,019,315
										
Balance as at 31 December 2022		 23,501,000 - (10,721,287) (414,095) 52,743 9,449,635 21,867,996 5,842,607 27,710,603
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 91
					
Foreign					
					
currency				
Non-
			
Share Merger translation Legal Retained		
controlling Total
			 capital reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
Group		
Note RM RM RM RM RM RM RM RM
										
Balance as at 1 January 2023			 23,501,000 (10,721,287) (414,095) 52,743 9,449,635 21,867,996 5,842,607 27,710,603
Profit for the financial year			 - - - - 2,637,125 2,637,125 1,816,607 4,453,732
Other comprehensive income, net of tax		 - - 1,165,747 - - 1,165,747 388,375 1,554,122
Total comprehensive income			 - - 1,165,747 - 2,637,125 3,802,872 2,204,982 6,007,854
Transactions with owners
Issuance of ordinary shares		
11 28,658,000 - - - - 28,658,000 - 28,658,000
Listing expenses attributable									
to the initial public offering		 11 (1,630,164) - - - - (1,630,164) - (1,630,164)
Issuance of ordinary shares to
non-controlling interests by a subsidiary		 - - - - - - 100,732 100,732
Total transactions with owners			
27,027,836 - - - - 27,027,836 100,732 27,128,568
Balance as at 31 December 2023			 50,528,836 (10,721,287) 751,652 52,743 12,086,760 52,698,704 8,148,321 60,847,025
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONT’D)
92 Annual Report 2023
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
						
Share Accumulated Total
						
capital losses equity
Company				
Note RM RM RM
Balance as at 6 August 2021 (date of incorporation)			 10,000 - 10,000
Loss for the financial period				 - (6,113,090) (6,113,090)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax				 - - -
Total comprehensive loss					
- (6,113,090) (6,113,090)
Transactions with owners
Issuance of ordinary shares			 11 11,990,000 - 11,990,000
Issuance of ordinary shares for the acquisition of subsidiary 11 11,501,000 - 11,501,000
Total transactions with owners				 23,491,000 - 23,491,000
Balance as at 31 December 2022				 23,501,000 (6,113,090) 17,387,910
Balance as at 1 January 2023				 23,501,000 (6,113,090) 17,387,910
Loss for the financial year				 - (2,719,886) (2,719,886)
Other comprehensive income, net of tax				 - - -
Total comprehensive loss					
- (2,719,886) (2,719,886)
Transactions with owners
Issuance of ordinary shares			 11 28,658,000 - 28,658,000
Listing expenses attributable to the initial public offering		 11 (1,630,164) - (1,630,164)
Total transactions with owners				 27,027,836 - 27,027,836
Balance as at 31 December 2023				 50,528,836 (8,832,976) 41,695,860
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 93
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
Group Company
									
6.8.2021
									
(date of
									
incorporation)
						
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to 1.1.2023 to to
						31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					
Note RM RM RM RM
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit/(Loss) before tax				 7,440,902 5,901,896 (2,719,886) (6,113,090)
Adjustments for:								
Depreciation of:								
- property, plant and equipment			 5 346,195 253,967 89,508 52,465
- right-of-use assets			 6 604,088 1,310,105 195,828 165,702
Interest expense on:
- borrowings				 18 136,964 240,194 - -
- lease liabilities				 6 26,329 110,018 12,643 16,991
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 18 - (7,216) - -
Interest income				
18 (778,884) (2,408) (718,899) -
Inventories written down			 8 156,606 291,987 - -
Net unrealised gain on foreign exchange		 18 (266,153) (505,429) (283,382) (504,510)
Reversal of impairment losses on trade receivables 9(d) (12,898) (66,072) - -
Operating profit/(loss) before changes in working capital		 7,653,149 7,527,042 (3,424,188) (6,382,442)
Changes in working capital:
Inventories					
1,915,946 (1,859,015) - -
Trade and other receivables				 (92,644) (1,450,567) 248,796 (656,907)
Trade and other payables				 (1,505,952) 1,112,339 (884,159) 1,228,546
Cash generated from/(used in) operations			 7,970,499 5,329,799 (4,059,551) (5,810,803)
Interest received 					
18,177 2,408 - -
Tax paid					
(1,749,643) (3,262,877) - -
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities			 6,239,033 2,069,330 (4,059,551) (5,810,803)
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Advances and repayments to subsidiaries			 - - (6,552,491) -
Interest received from short term deposits			 760,707 - 718,899 -
Placements of short term deposits with
maturity period more than three (3) months		 10(f) (25,000,000) - (20,000,000) -
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 		 5 (209,623) (702,093) (15,400) (278,505)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment		 - 58,925 - -
Subscription of ordinary shares in a subsidiary		 7(e) - - (1,000,000) -
Net cash used in investing activities			 (24,448,916) (643,168) (26,848,992) (278,505)
94 Annual Report 2023
Group Company
									
6.8.2021
									
(date of
									
incorporation)
						
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to 1.1.2023 to to
						31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					
Note RM RM RM RM
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Drawdowns of borrowings				 17,008,950 55,180,591 - -
Repayments of:								
- borrowings					
(19,616,631) (60,150,052) - -
- lease liabilities					
(499,803) (2,134,328) (196,942) (151,215)
Interest expense paid on:							
- borrowings					
(136,964) (240,194) - -
- lease liabilities					
(26,329) (110,018) (12,643) (16,991)
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares 		 11 28,658,000 10,000,000 28,658,000 12,000,000
Payments of listing expenses attributable
to the initial public offering				 (1,630,164) - (1,630,164) -
Proceeds from issuance of ordinary shares to
non-controlling interests by a subsidiary			 100,732 19,315 - -
								
Net cash from financing activities				 23,857,791 2,565,314 26,818,251 11,831,794
								
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents		 5,647,908 3,991,476 (4,090,292) 5,742,486
								
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and
cash equivalents					 687,739 596,751 281,125 504,510
								
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year		 10,469,837 5,881,610 6,246,996 -
								
Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 10(f) 16,805,484 10,469,837 2,437,829 6,246,996
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONT’D)
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 95
RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Group
								
Lease
								
liabilities Borrowings
								
(Note 6) (Note 14)
								
RM RM
As at 1 January 2022						 2,377,652 10,123,679
Cash flows:
- Drawdowns of borrowings						
- 55,180,591
- Repayments of principal						
(2,134,328) (60,150,052)
- Repayments of interest						
(110,018) (240,194)
								
(2,244,346) (5,209,655)
Non-cash flows:
- Addition							
542,294 -
- Interest expense							
110,018 240,194
- Exchange differences						
23,894 144,003
								
676,206 384,197
			
As at 31 December 2022						 809,512 5,298,221
As at 1 January 2023						 809,512 5,298,221
Cash flows:
- Drawdowns of borrowings						
- 17,008,950
- Repayments of principal						
(499,803) (19,616,631)
- Repayments of interest						
(26,329) (136,964)
								
(526,132) (2,744,645)
Non-cash flows:
- Addition							
133,534 -
- Lease modification						
365,692 -
- Interest expense							
26,329 136,964
- Exchange differences						
19,198 231,648
								
544,753 368,612
As at 31 December 2023						 828,133 2,922,188
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONT’D)
96 Annual Report 2023
RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (CONT’D)
									
Company
									
Lease
									
liabilities
									
(Note 6)
									
RM
As at 6 August 2021 (date of incorporation)						 -
Cash flows:
- Repayments of principal							
(151,215)
- Repayments of interest							
(16,991)
									
(168,206)
			
Non-cash flows:
- Addition								
542,294
- Interest expense								
16,991
									
559,285
As at 31 December 2022							
391,079
As at 1 January 2023							
391,079
Cash flows:
- Repayments of principal							
(196,942)
- Repayments of interest							
(12,643)
									
(209,585)
Non-cash flows:
- Lease modification							
365,692
- Interest expense								
12,643
									
378,335
As at 31 December 2023							
559,829
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023 (CONT’D)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 97
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
1. CORPORATE INFORMATION
The Company is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia, and is listed on the ACE
Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The registered office of the Company is located at Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue
3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
The principal place of business of the Company is located at Lot D/E, Level 12, Tower 1, Etiqa Twins, 11, Jalan
Pinang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
The principal place of business of the Group is located at 220/3, Moo 4 Tambon Rangsit, Thanyaburi District,
Pathum Thani Province 12110, Thailand.
The Company is principally engaged in investment holding activities. The principal activities of the subsidiaries
are mainly investment holding, provision of management consultancy services, distribution and online retailer of
consumer packaged foods, trading of food products and biomass fuel products. Further details of the subsidiaries
are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these
activities of the Company and its subsidiaries during the financial year other than trading of food products and
biomass fuel products, which arose from the newly incorporated subsidiary.
The consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 comprise the Company and
its subsidiaries. The functional currency of the Company is Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”). The financial statements of the
Group and of the Company are presented in RM.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on 16
April 2024.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), IFRS Accounting Standards and the provisions of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the effects of
adoption of new MFRSs during the financial year. The new MFRS and Amendments to MFRSs adopted during the
financial year are disclosed in Note 3.1 to the financial statements.
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention
except as otherwise stated in the financial statements.
The acquisitions of Vine Growth Holdings Pte. Ltd. and its subsidiaries have been accounted for as a business
combination amongst entities under common control. Accordingly, the financial statements of Wellspire Holdings
Berhad have been consolidated using the merger method of accounting.
Under merger method of accounting, the results of the subsidiaries are presented as if the merger had been
effected throughout the current and previous financial years. The assets and liabilities combined are accounted for
based on the carrying amounts from the perspective of the common control shareholder at the date of transfer. 
98 Annual Report 2023
3. ADOPTION OF NEW MFRSs AND AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs
3.1 New MFRSs adopted during the financial year
The Group and the Company adopted the following Standard and Amendments of the MFRS Framework
that were issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) during the financial year:
Title Effective Date
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 17 Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 - Comparative
Information
1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 101 Disclosure of Accounting Policies 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 108 Definition of Accounting Estimates 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 112 Deferred tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from
a Single Transaction
1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 112 International Tax Reform - Pillar Two Model Rules Refer paragraph
98M of MFRS 112
Adoption of the above Standard and Amendments did not have any material effect on the financial
performance or position of the Group and of the Company except for the following:
Amendments to MFRS 101 Disclosure of Accounting Policies
The Amendments require the disclosures of ‘material’, rather than ‘significant’, accounting policies. The
Amendments also provide guidance on the application of materiality to disclosure of accounting policies,
assisting entities to provide useful, entity-specific accounting policy information that users need to understand
other information in the financial statements.
The Amendments had an impact on the Group’s and Company’s disclosures of accounting policies, but
not on the measurement, recognition or presentation of any items in the Group’s and Company’s financial
statements.
3.2 New MFRSs that have been issued, but only effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1
January 2024
Title Effective Date
Amendments to MFRS 16 Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 101 Non-current Liabilities with Covenants 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 107 and MFRS 7 Supplier Finance Arrangements 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 121 Lack of Exchangeability 1 January 2025
Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an
Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
Deferred
The Group and the Company are still in the process of assessing the impact of implementing these
Amendments, since the effects would only be observable in future financial years.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 99
4. OPERATING SEGMENTS
(a) Business segment
The primary activities of the Group are in a single industry segment of distribution of consumer packaged
foods. Other reporting segments include online retailer of consumer packaged foods, investment holding
and trading of biomass fuel products, which are not of a sufficient size to be reported separately.
Management monitors the operating results of the Group as a whole for the purpose of making decisions about
resource allocation and performance assessment. Accordingly, the Group has only one (1) reportable segment.
(b) The Group evaluates performance on the basis of profit or loss for the financial year.
(c) Major customer
The following are major customers with revenue equal to or more than ten per centum (10%) of Group revenue:
		 Group
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					
RM % RM %
							
Customer A				55,374,209 44 54,274,601 44
Customer B				30,384,711 24 32,001,112 26
Customer C				18,020,106 15 17,101,582 14
					
103,779,026 83 103,377,295 84
(d) Geographical information
In determining the geographical segment of the Group, revenue is based on the geographical location of
customers.
		 Revenue
							
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
							
Malaysia						
1,294,518 -
Thailand						
123,585,255 123,366,764
							
124,879,773 123,366,764
Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets. The amounts of non-current assets do
not include financial instruments and deferred tax assets.
Segment assets Non-current assets
					
31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					RM RM RM RM
							
Malaysia				
30,634,068 7,506,535 698,388 602,632
Thailand				40,503,141 32,880,577 1,101,342 1,370,283
Singapore				180,835 238,195 - -
					
71,318,044 40,625,307 1,799,730 1,972,915
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
100 Annual Report 2023
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
					
Balance			
Balance
					
as at		
Exchange as at
Group					
1.1.2023 Additions differences 31.12.2023
31.12.2023					RM RM RM RM
Cost
Renovation					
235,179 32,466 2,497 270,142
Office equipment				122,681 17,511 7,290 147,482
Office computers				178,955 34,338 9,103 222,396
Furniture and fittings				 201,978 4,708 8,653 215,339
Machinery and tools				 312,380 9,191 17,685 339,256
Motor vehicles				604,725 111,409 36,551 752,685
				
					
1,655,898 209,623 81,779 1,947,300
					
Balance Depreciation		 Balance
					
as at charge for the Exchange as at
					
1.1.2023 financial year differences 31.12.2023
					
RM RM RM RM
Accumulated depreciation
Renovation					
59,191 75,764 948 135,903
Office equipment				63,537 21,264 4,076 88,877
Office computers				
73,507 55,979 5,097 134,583
Furniture and fittings				 59,657 39,848 3,800 103,305
Machinery and tools				 90,708 56,370 6,463 153,541
Motor vehicles				396,046 96,970 24,531 517,547
				
					
742,646 346,195 44,915 1,133,756
				
Balance				
Balance
				
as at			
Exchange as at
Group				
1.1.2022 Additions Disposal differences 31.12.2022
31.12.2022				RM RM RM RM RM
Cost
Renovation				 29,725 204,854 - 600 235,179
Office equipment			80,622 39,945 - 2,114 122,681
Office computers			106,079 70,201 - 2,675 178,955
Furniture and fittings			 137,856 61,168 - 2,954 201,978
Machinery and tools			 89,413 218,504 - 4,463 312,380
Motor vehicles			539,466 107,421 (53,710) 11,548 604,725
					
				983,161 702,093 (53,710) 24,354 1,655,898
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 101
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
				
Balance Depreciation			
Balance
				 as at charge for the		 Exchange as at
Group				
1.1.2022 financial year Disposal differences 31.12.2022
31.12.2022				RM RM RM RM RM
Accumulated depreciation
Renovation				
7,455 51,515 - 221 59,191
Office equipment			45,095 17,320 - 1,122 63,537
Office computers			33,685 38,695 - 1,127 73,507
Furniture and fittings			 26,139 32,653 - 865 59,657
Machinery and tools			 59,275 29,873 - 1,560 90,708
Motor vehicles			306,938 83,911 (2,001) 7,198 396,046
					
				478,587 253,967 (2,001) 12,093 742,646
						
Balance		Balance
						
as at		
as at
Company						
1.1.2023 Additions 31.12.2023
31.12.2023						
RM RM RM
Cost
Renovation						
204,854 - 204,854
Office computers					26,429 10,850 37,279
Furniture and fittings					
47,222 4,550 51,772
			
						
278,505 15,400 293,905
						
Balance Depreciation Balance
						 as at charge for the as at
						
1.1.2023 financial year 31.12.2023
						
RM RM RM
Accumulated depreciation
Renovation						
45,523 68,284 113,807
Office computers					
1,947 11,552 13,499
Furniture and fittings					
4,995 9,672 14,667
						
52,465 89,508 141,973
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
102 Annual Report 2023
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
						
Balance
						
as at
						
6.8.2021		Balance
						
(date of 		
as at
Company						
incorporation) Additions 31.12.2022
31.12.2022						
RM RM RM
Cost
Renovation						
- 204,854 204,854
Office computers					
- 26,429 26,429
Furniture and fittings					
- 47,222 47,222
						
- 278,505 278,505
						
Balance
						
as at Depreciation
						
6.8.2021 charge for Balance
						
(date of the financial as at
						
incorporation) period 31.12.2022
						
RM RM RM
Accumulated depreciation
Renovation						
- 45,523 45,523
Office computers					
- 1,947 1,947
Furniture and fittings					
- 4,995 4,995
						
- 52,465 52,465
Group Company
					31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					RM RM RM RM
							
Carrying amounts
Renovation					134,239 175,988 91,047 159,331
Office equipment				58,605 59,144 - -
Office computers				87,813 105,448 23,780 24,482
Furniture and fittings				 112,034 142,321 37,105 42,227
Machinery and tools				 185,715 221,672 - -
Motor vehicles				235,138 208,679 - -
							
					813,544 913,252 151,932 226,040
(a) All items of property, plant and equipment are initially measured at cost. Cost includes expenditure that is
directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. After initial recognition, property, plant and equipment are
stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 103
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONT’D)
(b) Depreciation on property, plant and equipment is calculated to write off the cost of the assets to their residual
values on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. The principal annual depreciation rates are as
follows:
Renovation 20% - 33%
Office equipment 20%
Office computers 20% - 33%
Furniture and fittings 20%
Machinery and tools 20%
Motor vehicles 20%
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES
The Group as lessee
Right-of-use assets
					
Distribution Motor
					
facility vehicles Offices Total
31.12.2023					RM RM RM RM
				
Cost				
				
As at 1 January 2023				 3,724,045 1,575,720 542,294 5,842,059
Addition					
- - 133,534 133,534
Lease modification 				 - - 365,692 365,692
Termination					
(3,786,826) - - (3,786,826)
Exchange differences				62,781 88,065 3,300 154,146
				
As at 31 December 2023				 - 1,663,785 1,044,820 2,708,605
Accumulated depreciation				
				
As at 1 January 2023				 3,653,780 962,914 165,702 4,782,396
Depreciation charged for the financial year		 72,402 324,730 206,956 604,088
Termination					
(3,786,826) - - (3,786,826)
Exchange differences				60,644 61,842 275 122,761
				
As at 31 December 2023				 - 1,349,486 372,933 1,722,419
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
104 Annual Report 2023
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
The Group as lessee (Cont’d)
Right-of-use assets (Cont’d)
					
Distribution Motor
					
facility vehicles Offices Total
31.12.2022					RM RM RM RM
				
Cost
As at 1 January 2022				 3,650,325 1,544,528 - 5,194,853
Addition					
- - 542,294 542,294
Exchange differences				73,720 31,192 - 104,912
				
As at 31 December 2022				 3,724,045 1,575,720 542,294 5,842,059
Accumulated depreciation
As at 1 January 2022 			 2,754,963 634,946 - 3,389,909
Depreciation charged for the financial year		 833,047 311,356 165,702 1,310,105
Exchange differences				65,770 16,612 - 82,382
				
As at 31 December 2022				 3,653,780 962,914 165,702 4,782,396
The Company as lessee
Right-of-use assets
							
Office Total
31.12.2023							
RM RM
Cost
As at 1 January 2023						 542,294 542,294
Lease modification						
365,692 365,692
As at 31 December 2023						 907,986 907,986
Accumulated depreciation
As at 1 January 2023						 165,702 165,702
Depreciation charged for the financial year				 195,828 195,828
As at 31 December 2023						 361,530 361,530
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 105
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
The Company as lessee (Cont’d)
Right-of-use assets (Cont’d)
							
Office Total
31.12.2022							
RM RM
Cost
As at 6 August 2021 (date of incorporation)				 - -
Addition							
542,294 542,294
As at 31 December 2022						 542,294 542,294
Accumulated depreciation
As at 6 August 2021 (date of incorporation)				 - -
Depreciation charged for the financial period				 165,702 165,702
As at 31 December 2022						 165,702 165,702
Group Company
					31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					RM RM RM RM
Carrying amounts
Distribution facility				- 70,265 - -
Motor vehicles				314,299 612,806 - -
Offices					671,887 376,592 546,456 376,592
					986,186 1,059,663 546,456 376,592
Lease liabilities
					
Distribution Motor
					
facility vehicles Offices Total
Group					RM RM RM RM
31.12.2023
As at 1 January 2023				 - 418,433 391,079 809,512
Addition					
- - 133,534 133,534
Lease modification				 - - 365,692 365,692
Payments of:				
- Principal					
- (292,055) (207,748) (499,803)
- Interest expense				 - (12,190) (14,139) (26,329)
Interest charged for the financial year			 - 12,190 14,139 26,329
Exchange differences				 - 16,166 3,032 19,198
As at 31 December 2023				 - 142,544 685,589 828,133
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
106 Annual Report 2023
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
Lease liabilities (Cont’d)
					
Distribution Motor
					
facility vehicles Offices Total
Group					RM RM RM RM
31.12.2022
As at 1 January 2022				 1,621,905 755,747 - 2,377,652
Addition					
- - 542,294 542,294
Payments of:				
- Principal					
(1,634,774) (348,339) (151,215) (2,134,328)
- Interest expense				 (56,503) (36,524) (16,991) (110,018)
Interest charged for the financial year			 56,503 36,524 16,991 110,018
Exchange differences				12,869 11,025 - 23,894
As at 31 December 2022				 - 418,433 391,079 809,512
							
Office Total
Company							
RM RM
31.12.2023
As at 1 January 2023						 391,079 391,079
Lease modification						
365,692 365,692
Payments of:		
- Principal							
(196,942) (196,942)
- Interest expense						
(12,643) (12,643)
Interest charged for the financial year					 12,643 12,643
		
As at 31 December 2023						 559,829 559,829
31.12.2022
As at 6 August 2021 (date of incorporation)				 - -
Addition							
542,294 542,294
Payments of:		
- Principal							
(151,215) (151,215)
- Interest expense						
(16,991) (16,991)
Interest charged for the financial year					 16,991 16,991
		
As at 31 December 2022						 391,079 391,079
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 107
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
Group Company
					31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					RM RM RM RM
Represented by:							
							
Non-current liabilities				519,771 339,198 387,977 209,581
Current liabilities				308,362 470,314 171,852 181,498
					828,133 809,512 559,829 391,079
Lease liabilities owing to:							
							
Financial institutions 							
- motor vehicles				 31,223 67,345 - -
							
Non-financial institutions							
- motor vehicles				 111,321 351,088 - -
- offices					685,589 391,079 559,829 391,079
							
					828,133 809,512 559,829 391,079
(a) The Group leases an office in Malaysia, as well as motor vehicles and properties in Thailand. These leases
comprise only fixed payments over the lease terms.
(b) Right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, which comprise the initial amount of the lease liabilities
adjusted for any lease payments made at or before the commencement date of the leases.
After initial recognition, right-of-use assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated
impairment losses, if any, and adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liabilities.
(c) Right-of-use assets are depreciated on the straight-line basis over the earlier of the estimated useful lives of
the right-of-use assets or the end of the lease term. The lease terms of right-of-use assets are as follows:
Distribution facility 53 months
Motor vehicles 36 - 60 months
Offices 36 months
(d) The Group has certain leases of office equipment with lease term of 12 months or less and low value leases
of office equipment of RM20,000 and below. The Group applies the “short-term lease” and “lease of low-
value assets” exemptions for these leases.
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
108 Annual Report 2023
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
(e) The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
Group Company
								
6.8.2021
								
(date of
								
incorporation)
					 1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to 1.1.2023 to to
					
31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					
RM RM RM RM
Included in cost of sales:
Interest expense on lease liabilities			 - 56,503 - -
Depreciation of right-of-use assets			 72,402 833,047 - -
Expenses relating to short-term lease		 1,797,959 - - -
Included in finance costs:
Interest expense on lease liabilities			 26,329 53,515 12,643 16,991
Included in administrative expenses:
Depreciation of right-of-use assets			 531,686 477,058 195,828 165,702
Expenses relating to short-term lease		 80,919 73,469 - -
Expenses relating to leases of low-value assets		 21,272 17,742 6,089 -
					
2,530,567 1,511,334 214,560 182,693
(f) At the end of the financial year, the Group and the Company had total cash outflow for leases of RM2,426,282
(31.12.2022: RM2,335,557) and RM215,674 (31.12.2022: RM168,206) respectively.
(g) The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average incremental borrowing rates and the
remaining maturities of the lease liabilities:
					
Incremental Within 1 1 - 5
					
borrowing rate year years Total
Group					 % RM RM RM
				
31.12.2023
Lease liabilities				 2.68% - 11.83% 308,362 519,771 828,133
31.12.2022
Lease liabilities				 2.68% - 11.83% 470,314 339,198 809,512
					
Incremental Within 1 1 - 5
					
borrowing rate year years Total
Company				 % RM RM RM
				
31.12.2023
Lease liabilities				 5.10% 171,852 387,977 559,829
31.12.2022
Lease liabilities				 3.88% 181,498 209,581 391,079
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 109
6. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS AND LEASE LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
(h) The table below summarises the maturity profile of the lease liabilities of the Group and of the Company at
the end of the reporting period based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations as follows:
					 Within 1 1 - 5
						
year years Total
						RM RM RM
				
Group
31.12.2023
Lease liabilities					321,908 544,068 865,976
			
31.12.2022
Lease liabilities					488,728 350,809 839,537
Company			
31.12.2023			
Lease liabilities					180,298 409,768 590,066
31.12.2022
Lease liabilities					193,464 214,362 407,826
(i) Sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk for lease liabilities as at the end of the reporting period is not presented
as fixed rate instruments are not affected by change in interest rates.
(j) Management exercises significant judgement in determining the incremental borrowing rates whenever the
implicit rates of interest in a lease are not readily determinable as well as the lease terms. The incremental
borrowing rates used are based on prevailing market borrowing rates over similar lease terms, of similar
value as the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment. Lease terms are based on management
expectations driven by prevailing market conditions and past experience in exercising similar renewal and
termination options.
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
		Company
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
			
Unquoted equity shares, at cost					 12,501,000 11,501,000
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
110 Annual Report 2023
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of Company Country of
incorporation/ Principal
place of business
Effective interest in equity Principal activities
31.12.2023
%
31.12.2022
%
Vine Growth Holdings Pte.
Ltd. @
Singapore 100.00 100.00 Investment holding
company and provision
of management
consultancy services
Wellspire Global Trading
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100.00 - Trading of food products
and biomass fuel
products
Subsidiaries of Vine Growth Holdings Pte. Ltd.
Bai Li Holdings Co., Ltd.# Thailand 51.00* 51.00* Investment holding
company
Subsidiaries of Bai Li Holdings Co., Ltd.
Bai Li Enterprise Co.,
Ltd. #
Thailand 75.01 75.01 Distribution of consumer
packaged foods
Subsidiary of Bai Li Enterprise Co., Ltd.
Keymall Retail Co., Ltd. # Thailand 56.26 56.26 Online retailer of
consumer packaged
foods
@ Not audited by BDO PLT or BDO Member Firms
# Subsidiaries audited by BDO Member Firms
* The effective interest in equity held is based on voting rights.
(a) Investments in subsidiaries, which are eliminated on consolidation, are stated in the separate financial
statements of the Company at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. On disposal of such investments,
the difference between net disposal proceeds and their carrying amounts is included in profit or loss.
All components of non-controlling interests shall be initially measured at fair value on the acquisition date,
unless another measurement basis is required by MFRS. The choice of the measurement basis is made on
a combination-by-combination basis. Subsequent to initial recognition, the carrying amount of the non-
controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non-controlling interests’
share of subsequent changes in equity.
(b) By a conditional share sale agreement dated 11 March 2022, the Company acquired the entire issued
share capital of Vine Growth Holdings Pte. Ltd. (“Vine Growth Holdings”) from the vendors of Vine Growth
Holdings, namely Saranjit Wang, Mo Guopiao, He Haibin and Capital Pairing Pte. Ltd. for a total purchase
consideration of RM11,501,000 satisfied entirely by the issuance of 11,501,000 new ordinary shares of the
Company, credited as fully paid-up at an issue price of RM1.00 per ordinary share to the abovementioned
vendors in the manner as set out in the Prospectus, pursuant to the listing of and quotation for the entire
ordinary shares in the Company on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
(c) The purchase consideration was arrived at on a “willing-buyer willing-seller” basis after taking into
consideration the 75.01% effective interest of the combined net asset value of Vine Growth Holdings
and its combining entities based on the management accounts as at 31 December 2021, equivalent to
approximately RM11,501,000 (based on the exchange rate of THB100: RM12.5540).The Company acquired
the entire issued share capital of Vine Growth Holdings on 29 November 2022. Thereafter, the subsidiaries of
Vine Growth Holdings, namely Bai Li Holdings Co., Ltd., Bai Li Enterprise Co., Ltd. and Keymall Retail Co.,
Ltd. became indirect subsidiaries of the Company.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 111
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
(d) The acquisitions of Vine Growth Holdings and its subsidiaries have been accounted for as a business
combination amongst entities under common control. Accordingly, the financial statements of Wellspire
Holdings Berhad have been consolidated using the merger method of accounting.
Under merger method of accounting, the results of the subsidiaries are presented as if the merger had
been effected throughout the current and previous financial years. The assets and liabilities combined are
accounted for based on the carrying amounts from the perspective of the common control shareholder at
the date of transfer.
(e) On 21 March 2023, the Company incorporated a subsidiary known as Wellspire Global Trading Sdn. Bhd.
with a paid-up share capital of RM100,000 comprising 100,000 ordinary shares of RM1 each. The principal
activities of the subsidiary are trading of food products and biomass fuel products. Subsequently, the
Company subscribed an additional 900,000 ordinary shares for a cash consideration of RM900,000. The
equity interest of the Company in the subsidiary remained unchanged as at end of the reporting period.
(f) During the financial year, an indirect subsidiary of the Company, Bai Li Enterprise Co., Ltd subscribed an
additional 30,000 ordinary shares in Keymall Retail Co., Ltd. for a cash consideration of THB3,000,000,
equivalent to approximately RM402,927. The equity interest of the Company in Keymall Retail Co., Ltd.
remained unchanged as at end of the reporting period.
(g) Summarised information of companies with non-controlling interests (“NCI”) that are material to the Group is
set out below. The summarised financial information presented below are the amounts before inter-company
elimination.
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
Bai Li Holdings Co., Ltd. Group
NCI percentage of ownership interest and voting interest (%)			 49.00% 49.00%
Carrying amount of NCI					 8,148,321 5,842,607
Profit allocated to NCI					 1,816,607 1,816,630
Other comprehensive income allocated to NCI				 388,375 66,102
Total comprehensive income allocated to NCI				 2,204,982 1,882,732
Assets and liabilities
Non-current assets						
1,101,188 1,370,283
Current assets						
39,409,643 31,545,847
Total assets						
40,510,831 32,916,130
Non-current liabilities					
(261,158) (362,894)
Current liabilities						
(6,429,483) (8,606,942)
Total liabilities						
(6,690,641) (8,969,836)
Net assets						
33,820,190 23,946,294
Equity attributable to owners of the parent				 33,787,235 23,968,786
Non-controlling interests					
32,955 (22,492)
Total equity						
33,820,190 23,946,294
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
112 Annual Report 2023
7. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONT’D)
(g) Summarised information of companies with non-controlling interests (“NCI”) that are material to the Group is
set out below. The summarised financial information presented below are the amounts before inter-company
elimination. (Cont’d)
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
Results
Revenue						
123,633,654 123,366,764
Profit for the financial year/Total comprehensive income			 8,231,370 8,071,130
Profit/Total comprehensive income/(loss) attributable to:
- owners of the parent					 8,276,655 8,110,206
- non-controlling interests					
(45,285) (39,076)
Cash flows from operating activities				 10,862,891 6,795,649
Cash flows used in investing activities				 (194,222) (364,663)
Cash flows used in financing activities				 (2,960,459) (7,266,481)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents			 7,708,210 (835,495)
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the financial year			 4,020,198 4,847,400
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents			 412,734 8,293
Cash and cash equivalents at end of the financial year			 12,141,142 4,020,198
8. INVENTORIES
		Group
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
			
At cost
Finished goods						
6,130,711 7,817,444
(a) Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
(b) Cost is determined on a first-in, first-out basis and comprises all costs of purchase, cost of conversion plus
other costs incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition.
(c) During the financial year, inventories of the Group recognised as cost of sales amounted to RM97,392,173
(31.12.2022: RM95,226,331). The Group has also written down its obsolete inventories by RM156,606
(31.12.2022: RM291,987) during the financial year based on assessment of their estimated recoverable
amounts.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 113
9. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
					31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					RM RM RM RM
Trade receivables
Third parties					
19,228,087 18,780,558 - -
Less: Impairment losses				 (126,475) (132,298) - -
Total trade receivables				19,101,612 18,648,260 - -
Other receivables
Amounts due from subsidiaries			 - - 6,515,807 -
Other receivables				
1,367,898 866,179 238,356 -
Deposits					
173,982 76,351 135,018 67,282
Total other receivables				1,541,880 942,530 6,889,181 67,282
Prepayments					938,627 774,321 36,994 589,625
Total trade and other receivables			21,582,119 20,365,111 6,926,175 656,907
(a) Trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments are classified as financial assets and measured at
amortised cost.
(b) Trade receivables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted by the Group to retail
customers ranges from 30 days to 60 days (31.12.2022: 30 days to 60 days) and wholesale customers are
dealt on cash terms. They are recognised at their original invoice amounts, which represent their fair values
on initial recognition. The Group did not renegotiate the terms of any trade receivables during the financial
year.
(c) Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
Impairment for trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are recognised based
on the simplified approach using the lifetime expected credit losses.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over
the expected life of the asset. The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses is
the maximum contractual period over which the Group is exposed to credit risk.
The Group assesses the expected credit losses of trade receivables using the flow-rate methods based on
customer segments, historical information on payment patterns, terms of payment, and information about
the general economic situation in the country where customer operates. Individual assessment of impairment
of trade receivables are separately assessed when it is probable that cash due will not be received in full.
During this process, the probability of non-payment by the trade receivables is adjusted by forward-looking
information based on macroeconomic factors such as Gross Domestic Product, unemployment rate and
inflation rate of Thailand, and multiplied by the amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine
the lifetime expected credit loss for the trade receivables. For trade receivables, which are reported net, such
impairments are recorded in a separate impairment account with the loss being recognised in the statements
of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. On confirmation that the trade receivable would not be
collectable, the gross carrying value of the asset would be written off against the associated impairment.
Significant judgement is required in determining the probability of default by trade receivables, and the
appropriate forward looking information.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
114 Annual Report 2023
9. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
(c) Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (Cont’d)
Lifetime expected loss provision for trade receivables at the end of the reporting period are as follows:
						
Gross Lifetime Net
						
carrying expected carrying
Group						
amount loss amount
31.12.2023					RM RM RM
					
Collective assessment					
Not past due					
17,921,378 (37) 17,921,341
					
Past due					
1 - 30 days					 1,145,368 (40) 1,145,328
31 - 120 days					 34,716 (62) 34,654
More than 120 days				 3,992 (3,703) 289
					
						
1,184,076 (3,805) 1,180,271
					
Individual assessment				
122,633 (122,633) -
					
						
19,228,087 (126,475) 19,101,612
						
Gross Lifetime Net
						
carrying expected carrying
Group						
amount loss amount
31.12.2022					RM RM RM
					
Collective assessment					
Not past due					
17,426,907 (2,393) 17,424,514
					
Past due					
1 - 30 days					 1,217,415 (2,576) 1,214,839
31 - 120 days					 20,293 (16,239) 4,054
More than 120 days				 115,943 (111,090) 4,853
					
					 18,780,558 (132,298) 18,648,260
Impairment for other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries are recognised based on the general
approach within MFRS 9 using the forward-looking expected credit loss model. The methodology used to
determine the amount of the impairment is based on whether there has been a significant increase in credit
risk since initial recognition of the financial asset by comparing the risk of default occurring over the expected
life with the risk of default since initial recognition. For those in which the credit risk has not increased
significantly since initial recognition of the financial asset, twelve month expected credit losses along with
gross interest income are recognised. For those in which credit risk has increased significantly, lifetime
expected credit losses along with the gross interest income are recognised. For those that are determined to
be credit impaired, lifetime expected credit losses along with interest income on a net basis are recognised.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over
the expected life of the asset, while twelve-month expected credit losses are the portion of expected credit
losses that result from default events that are possible within the twelve (12) months after the reporting date.
The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period
over which the Group is exposed to credit risk.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 115
9. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
(c) Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (Cont’d)
The Group determined significant increase in credit risk based on operating performance of the receivables,
changes to contractual terms, payment delays and past due information, with a significant increase in credit
risk indicator of 120 days past due.
The probabilities of non-payment by other receivables and amounts owing by subsidiaries are adjusted
by forward looking information and multiplied by the amount of the expected loss arising from default to
determine the twelve-month or lifetime expected credit loss.
No expected credit losses were recognised arising from other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries
as the probability of default by other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries were negligible.
(d) The reconciliation of movements in the impairment losses for trade receivables is as follows:
								
12-month
								
expected
								
credit losses
								
allowance
								
RM
		
At 1 January 2023							
132,298
Reversal of impairment losses						
(12,898)
Exchange differences						
7,075
		
At 31 December 2023						
126,475
		
At 1 January 2022							
195,230
Reversal of impairment losses						
(66,072)
Exchange differences						
3,140
At 31 December 2022						
132,298
(e) The credit risk concentration profile of the trade receivables of the Group at the end of each reporting period
is as follows:
		 Group
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					
RM % RM %
							
Customer A				10,580,743 55 10,631,373 57
Customer C				4,875,031 25 4,416,109 24
							
					
15,455,774 80 15,047,482 81
(f) Included in the other receivables of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 are
reimbursement of promotional expenses receivable from a supplier of the Group amounted to RM1,048,017
(31.12.2022: RM837,351).
(g) Amounts due from subsidiaries represent advances and payments on behalf, which are unsecured, interest-
free and receivable within next twelve (12) months in cash and cash equivalents.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
116 Annual Report 2023
9. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (CONT’D)
(h) The currency exposure profile of trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments are as follows:
Group Company
					31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					RM RM RM RM
Ringgit Malaysia				
356,949 67,282 6,830,948 67,282
Thai Baht				20,228,310 19,523,508 - -
Singapore Dollar				58,233 - 58,233 -
							
					
20,643,492 19,590,790 6,889,181 67,282
 
(i) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all
other variables remain constant, are as follows:
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					
Profit/(Loss) Equity Profit/(Loss) Equity
					RM RM RM RM
							
Effects of 5% changes to RM against
foreign currencies
Group
Singapore Dollar				
2,912 - - -
Thai Baht				- 1,011,416 - 976,175
Company
Singapore Dollar				
(2,912) - - -
10. CASH AND BANK BALANCES
Group Company
					31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					RM RM RM RM
							
Cash and bank balances				 16,805,484 10,469,837 2,437,829 6,246,996
Short term deposits with a licensed bank			 25,000,000 - 20,000,000 -
					41,805,484 10,469,837 22,437,829 6,246,996
(a) Cash and bank balances are classified as financial assets and measured at amortised cost.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 117
10. CASH AND BANK BALANCES (CONT’D)
(b) The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average effective interest rates and the
remaining maturities of the short term deposits with a licensed bank:
		 Weighted average Within 1 year/
31.12.2023 effective interest rate Total
		 % RM
Group		
		
Short term deposits with a licensed bank 3.56% 25,000,000
Company		
		
Short term deposit with a licensed bank 3.75% 20,000,000
(c) Sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk for short term deposits with a licensed bank as at the end of reporting
period is not presented as fixed rate instruments are not affected by change in interest rates.
(d) The currency exposure profile of the cash and bank balances are as follows:
Group Company
					
31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					RM RM RM RM
							
Ringgit Malaysia				26,859,753 316,354 20,138,671 316,354
Thai Baht				
12,131,110 4,010,586 - -
United States Dollar				2,653,777 5,962,708 2,297,029 5,928,555
Singapore Dollar				160,844 180,189 2,129 2,087
					41,805,484 10,469,837 22,437,829 6,246,996
(e) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all
other variables remain constant, are as follows:
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					
Profit/(Loss) Equity Profit/(Loss) Equity
					RM RM RM RM
Effects of 5% changes to RM against
foreign currencies
Group
United States Dollar				 132,689 - 298,135 -
Singapore Dollar				8,042 - 9,009 -
Thai Baht				 - 606,556 - 200,529
Company
United States Dollar				 (114,851) - (296,428) -
Singapore Dollar				(106) - (104) -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
118 Annual Report 2023
10. CASH AND BANK BALANCES (CONT’D)
(f) For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following as at the
end of each reporting period:
Group Company
					
31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					RM RM RM RM
							
Cash and bank balances			 41,805,484 10,469,837 22,437,829 6,246,996
Less:
Short term deposits with maturity period
more than three (3) months			 (25,000,000) - (20,000,000) -
Reported in statements of cash flows		 16,805,484 10,469,837 2,437,829 6,246,996
(g) No expected credit losses were recognised arising from the bank balances and deposits with financial
institutions because the probability of default by these financial institutions were negligible.
11. SHARE CAPITAL
		 Group and Company
							
Number of Amount
							
shares RM
Issued and fully paid with no par value
Balance as at 6 August 2021 (date of incorporation)				 10,000 10,000
Issued during the financial period					 1,990,000 1,990,000
			
Balance as at 1 January 2022					 2,000,000 2,000,000
Issued during the financial year					 10,000,000 10,000,000
Issued for the acquisition of a subsidiary					 11,501,000 11,501,000
Subdivision of existing ordinary shares					 564,024,000 -
			
Balance as at 31 December 2022/1 January 2023				 587,525,000 23,501,000
			
Issued during the financial year					 124,600,000 28,658,000
Listing expenses attributable to the initial public offering 			 - (1,630,164)
			
Balance as at 31 December 2023					 712,125,000 50,528,836
(a) On 9 March 2022, the Company allotted 10,000,000 ordinary shares at an issue price of RM1.00 per ordinary
share for a total cash consideration of RM10,000,000.
(b) On 29 November 2022, the Company increased its issued and paid up share capital from RM12,000,000
to RM23,501,000 by way of issuance of 11,501,000 new ordinary shares for a total consideration of
RM11,501,000 as full payment for the acquisition of the aggregate net assets of Vine Growth Holdings and
its subsidiaries.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 119
11. SHARE CAPITAL (CONT’D)
(c) On 30 November 2022, the Company carried out a subdivision of one (1) existing ordinary share in the
Company to twenty five (25) new ordinary shares in the Company (“subdivision”). Upon completion of the
subdivision, the total number of ordinary shares increased to 587,525,000 shares.
(d) On 16 January 2023, the Company issued 124,600,000 new ordinary shares at an issue price of RM0.23 per
ordinary share for a total consideration of RM28,658,000 in conjunction with the initial public offering and
listing of the Company on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The new ordinary shares issued rank pari passu in all respects with the existing ordinary shares of the
Company. There was no other issuance of shares during the financial year.
(e) The owners of the parent are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company and are
entitled to one (1) vote per ordinary share at general meeting of the Company. All ordinary shares rank pari
passu with regard to the Company’s residual assets.
12. MERGER RESERVE
The merger reserve arose as a result of the excess of the consideration paid over the share capital of the subsidiaries
pursuant to the internal reorganisation exercise for the purpose of the Company’s listing on ACE Market of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad.
13. RESERVES
		Group
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
Non-distributable:
Foreign currency translation reserve					 751,652 (414,095)
Legal reserve							
52,743 52,743
							
804,395 (361,352)
(a) Foreign currency translation reserve
Foreign currency translation reserve is used to record foreign currency exchange differences arising from
the translation of the consolidated financial statements of foreign operations whose functional currencies
are different from that of the presentation currency of the Group. It is also used to record the exchange
differences arising from monetary items, which form part of the net investment in foreign operations of the
Group, where the monetary item is denominated in either the functional currency of the reporting entity or the
foreign operation.
(b) Legal reserve
In accordance with the Civil and Commercial Code of Thailand, the Group’s subsidiaries operating in Thailand
must appropriate a reserve fund at each distribution of dividend, being at least 5% of the profit or more until
such legal reserve reaches 10% of the registered capital.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
120 Annual Report 2023
14. BORROWINGS
Group Company
					
31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					RM RM RM RM
Non-current liabilities
Term loans					
129,363 221,363 - -
Current liabilities
Term loans					
106,645 97,190 - -
Invoice financing				- 2,435,668 - -
Revolving credit				2,686,180 2,544,000 - -
Financial guarantee contracts			- - * -
					
2,792,825 5,076,858 * -
Total borrowings				2,922,188 5,298,221 * -
* Amounts are negligible
(a) Details of the borrowings of the Group are as follows:
		Group
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
Non-current
Unsecured term loan I from financial institution of THB3,500,000 repayable
by 84 equal monthly instalments commencing on 23 January 2020.
The borrowing bears a fixed interest rate of 3% per annum in Year 1
to Year 3 and variable interest rate in Year 4 to Year 7 at Minimum
Retail Rate (“MRR”) minus 1% per annum.				 95,326 157,114
			
Secured term loan II from financial institution of THB726,400 repayable
by 60 equal monthly instalments commencing on 30 November 2024.
The borrowing bears a variable interest rate of Minimum Loan Rate (“MLR”)
minus 2.00% per annum and guaranteed by the Company.			 9,651 28,347
			
Secured term loan III from financial institution of THB531,000 repayable
by 60 equal monthly instalments commencing on 31 July 2021.
The borrowing bears a variable interest rate of MLR minus
1.00% per annum and guaranteed by the Company.			 24,386 35,902
							
129,363 221,363
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 121
14. BORROWINGS (CONT’D)
(a) Details of the borrowings of the Group are as follows (Cont’d):
		Group
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
Current
Unsecured term loan I 					 72,048 65,143
			
Secured term loan II 						 20,653 19,070
			
Secured term loan III 					 13,944 12,977
			
Secured invoice financing IV from financial institution of THB80,000,000
was repayable within 90 days from drawdown. The borrowing bore a variable
interest rate of Minimum Loan Rate (“MLR”) minus 1.50% per annum.
The borrowing was guaranteed by the Company.			 - 2,435,668
			
Unsecured revolving credit V from financial institution of THB20,000,000
repayable 3 months after drawdown. The revolving credit bears a
fixed interest rate of 4% per annum.				 2,686,180 2,544,000
							
2,792,825 5,076,858
(b) Borrowings are classified as financial liabilities and measured at amortised cost.
(c) Financial guarantee contracts issued are initially measured at fair value. Subsequently, they are measured at
higher of:
(i) the amount of the loss allowance; and
(ii) the amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, the cumulative amount of income recognised
in accordance to the principles of MFRS 15, Revenue from Contracts with Customers.
The financial guarantee contracts have not been recognised since the fair value on initial recognition was not
material as the guarantee is provided as credit enhancement to a subsidiary’s secured borrowings.
(d) Borrowings of the Group are dominated in THB.
(e) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currency at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other
variables remain constant, are as follows:
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					
Profit/(Loss) Equity Profit/(Loss) Equity
					RM RM RM RM
Effects of 5% changes to RM against
foreign currencies
Group
Thai Baht				 - (146,109) - (264,911)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
122 Annual Report 2023
14. BORROWINGS (CONT’D)
(f) The carrying amounts of the current portion of borrowings are reasonable approximation of fair value due to
the insignificant impact of discounting.
The fair values of non-current borrowings that carry floating interest rates approximate their carrying amounts
as they are repriced to market interest rates on or near the reporting date.
Fair value of the borrowings of the Group are categorised as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. There is no
transfer between levels in the hierarchy during the financial year.
(g) At the end of reporting period, the interest rate profile of the borrowings were:
		Group
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
Non-current liabilities:
Floating rates						
129,363 221,363
Current liabilities:
Floating rates						
106,645 2,527,620
Fixed rates						
2,686,180 2,549,238
							
2,922,188 5,298,221
(h) At the end of reporting period, the weighted average effective interest rates for the borrowings were as
follows:
		Group
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
Term loans						
7.23% 6.06%
Invoice financing						
- 4.47%
Revolving credit						
4.00% 2.00%
(i) The following table sets out the remaining maturities of the borrowings of the Group:
					 Within One to five Over five
					
one year years years Total
					RM RM RM RM
Group
31.12.2023
Fixed rate
Revolving credit				2,686,180 - - 2,686,180
Floating rates
Term loans				106,645 129,363 - 236,008
					
2,792,825 129,363 - 2,922,188
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 123
14. BORROWINGS (CONT’D)
(i) The following table sets out the remaining maturities of the borrowings of the Group (Cont’d):
					 Within One to five Over five
					
one year years years Total
					RM RM RM RM
Group
31.12.2022
Fixed rates
Term loan				5,238 - - 5,238
Revolving credit				2,544,000 - - 2,544,000
					
2,549,238 - - 2,549,238
Floating rates
Term loans				 91,952 221,363 - 313,315
Invoice financing				2,435,668 - - 2,435,668
				 2,527,620 221,363 - 2,748,983
					
5,076,858 221,363 - 5,298,221
(j) The table below summarises the maturity profile of the borrowings of the Group and of the Company at the
end of each reporting period based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations as follows:
					
On demand
					 or within One to five Over five
					
one year years years Total
					RM RM RM RM
Group
31.12.2023
Term loans				120,233 135,654 - 255,887
Revolving credit				2,695,011 - - 2,695,011
				 2,815,244 135,654 - 2,950,898
Group
31.12.2022
Term loans				113,869 236,832 - 350,701
Invoice financing				2,437,159 - - 2,437,159
Revolving credit				2,560,728 - - 2,560,728
					
5,111,756 236,832 - 5,348,588
Company
31.12.2023
Financial guarantee contracts			 73,189 - - 73,189
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
124 Annual Report 2023
14. BORROWINGS (CONT’D)
(k) Sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk for the floating rate instruments at the end of each reporting period,
assuming all other variables remain constant, are as follows:
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					
Profit/(Loss) Equity Profit/(Loss) Equity
					RM RM RM RM
Effects of 5% changes to interest rate
Group
Floating instruments				
(682) - (5,113) -
Sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk for fixed rate borrowings as at the end of each reporting period is not
presented as fixed rate instruments are not affected by changes in interest rates.
15. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
(a) The deferred tax liabilities are made up of the following:
		Group
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
As at beginning of the financial year				 2,333,901 1,296,745
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 19)				 811,291 1,038,625
Exchange differences					
366 (1,469)
			
As at end of the financial year					 3,145,558 2,333,901
Presented after appropriate offsetting:
Deferred tax liabilities, net					 3,145,558 2,333,901
(b) The component of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities during the financial year prior to offsetting
are as follows:
							
Other
						
Right-of- deductible
						
use temporary
						
assets differences Total
						
RM RM RM
Deferred tax assets of the Group
		
As at 1 January 2023					 (40,935) 29,021 (11,914)
Recognised in profit or loss				 15,070 (2,944) 12,126
Exchange differences				(1,916) 1,550 (366)
			
As at 31 December 2023 prior to off-setting			 (27,781) 27,627 (154)
Off-setting					
27,781 (27,627) 154
			
As at 31 December 2023 after off-setting			 - - -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 125
15. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
(b) The component of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities during the financial year prior to offsetting
are as follows (Cont’d):
							
Other
						
Right-of- deductible
						
use temporary
						
assets differences Total
						
RM RM RM
Deferred tax assets of the Group
		
As at 1 January 2022					 127,711 75,452 203,163
Recognised in profit or loss				 (169,168) (47,378) (216,546)
Exchange differences				522 947 1,469
As at 31 December 2022 prior to off-setting			 (40,935) 29,021 (11,914)
Off-setting					
40,935 (29,021) 11,914
As at 31 December 2022 after off-setting			 - - -
								
Group
								
Withholding tax
								
on undistributed
								
profits/Total
								
RM
Deferred tax liabilities of the Group
As at 1 January 2023							
2,321,987
Recognised in profit or loss						 823,417
As at 31 December 2023 prior to off-setting					 3,145,404
Off-setting							
154
As at 31 December 2023 after off-setting					 3,145,558
As at 1 January 2022							
1,499,908
Recognised in profit or loss						 822,079
As at 31 December 2022 prior to off-setting					 2,321,987
Off-setting							
11,914
As at 31 December 2022 after off-setting					 2,333,901
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
126 Annual Report 2023
15. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES (CONT’D)
(c) The amounts of temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the
statements of financial position are as follows:
		Group
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
Unabsorbed tax losses, gross
-Expires by 31 December 2025					 47,215 44,716
-Expires by 31 December 2027					 19,000 12,237
-Expires by 31 December 2028					 167,049 158,207
-Expires by 31 December 2029					 185,619 -
							
418,883 215,160
Deferred tax assets of a subsidiary have not been recognised in respect of unabsorbed tax losses as it is not
probable that taxable profit of the subsidiary would be available against which the unabsorbed tax losses
could be utilised.
The amount and availability of the unabsorbed tax losses to be carried forward up to the periods as disclosed
above are subject to the agreement of the Revenue Department of Thailand.
16. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
					31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					RM RM RM RM
							
Trade payables
Third parties					
86,477 871,010 - -
Other payables
Other payables				
1,374,020 166,425 153,453 59,473
Amount due to a subsidiary 			 - - - 36,684
Accruals					1,090,423 2,879,252 154,250 1,132,389
					2,464,443 3,045,677 307,703 1,228,546
Total trade and other payables			2,550,920 3,916,687 307,703 1,228,546
(a) Trade and other payables are classified as financial liabilities and measured at amortised cost.
(b) Trade payables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted to the Group range from
30 to 120 days (31.12.2022: 30 to 120 days).
(c) In the previous financial year, amount due to a subsidiary represented payments made on behalf, which
were interest-free, unsecured and payable within next twelve (12) months or upon demand in cash and cash
equivalents.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 127
16. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (CONT’D)
(d) The currency exposure profile of the trade and other payables are as follows:
Group Company
					31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
					RM RM RM RM
							
Ringgit Malaysia				 317,026 1,228,546 307,703 1,191,862
Thai Baht				2,121,198 1,817,131 - -
United States Dollar				 86,477 871,010 - -
Singapore Dollar				26,219 - - 36,684
					2,550,920 3,916,687 307,703 1,228,546
(e) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all
other variables remain constant, are as follows:
31.12.2023		31.12.2022
					
Profit/(Loss) Equity Profit/(Loss) Equity
					RM RM RM RM
							
Effects of 5% changes to RM against
foreign currencies
Group
United States Dollar				 (4,324) - (43,550) -
Singapore Dollar				- (1,311) - -
Thai Baht				
- (106,060) - (90,857)
							
Company							
							
Singapore Dollar				- - 1,834 -
(f) The maturity profile of the trade and other payables of the Company at the end of the reporting period based
on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations are repayable on demand or within one (1) year.
17. REVENUE
		Group
							
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
Revenue from contracts with customers:
- Distribution of consumer packaged foods				 123,585,255 123,366,764
- Trading of biomass fuel products					 1,294,518 -
			
							
124,879,773 123,366,764
 
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
128 Annual Report 2023
17. REVENUE (CONT’D)
		Group
							
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
			
Timing of revenue recognition:
Transferred at a point in time					 124,879,773 123,366,764
(a) Revenue from distribution of consumer packaged foods and trading of biomass fuel products are recognised
at a point in time when the products have been transferred and coincide with the delivery of products and
acceptance by customers.
There is no material right of return and warranty provided to the customers on the sale of the products
rendered.
There is no significant financing component in the revenue as the revenue is made on the normal credit terms
not exceeding twelve (12) months.
(b) Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers are set out in Note 4 to the financial statements,
which has been presented based on geographical location from which the sales transactions originated.
18. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX
Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, profit/(loss) before tax is arrived at:
Group Company
									
6.8.2021
									
(date of
									
incorporation)
						
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to 1.1.2023 to to
						31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
						RM RM RM RM
After charging:
Auditors’ remuneration:
Statutory audit
- Current year
- BDO PLT				 103,000 93,000 98,000 93,000
- Member firm of BDO PLT			 129,758 113,104 - -
- Other auditors				 23,107 70,733 - -
- Over-provision in prior year
- Other auditors				 (3,170) - - -
Non-statutory audit							
- BDO PLT				 7,000 934,000 7,000 1,519,000
- Member firm of BDO PLT			 1,573 1,508 - -
Depreciation of:							
- property, plant and equipment			 346,195 253,967 89,508 52,465
- right-of-use assets				 604,088 1,310,105 195,828 165,702
Interest expense on:							
- borrowings					
136,964 240,194 - -
- lease liabilities				26,329 110,018 12,643 16,991
Inventories written down				 156,606 291,987 - -
Listing expenses				 60,697 3,931,907 60,697 2,658,115
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 129
18. PROFIT/(LOSS) BEFORE TAX (CONT’D)
Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, profit/(loss) before tax is arrived at (cont’d):
Group Company
									
6.8.2021
									
(date of
									
incorporation)
						
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to 1.1.2023 to to
						31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
						RM RM RM RM
And crediting:
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment		 - (7,216) - -
Interest income
- short term deposits			 (760,707) - (718,899) -
- others					
(18,177) (2,408) - -
Realised gain on foreign exchange			 (94,574) (193,188) (46,469) -
Reversal of impairment losses on trade receivables		 (12,898) (66,072) - -
Net unrealised gain on foreign exchange			 (266,153) (505,429) (283,382) (504,510)
(a) Interest income
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method.
19. TAX EXPENSE
Group Company
									
6.8.2021
									
(date of
									
incorporation)
						
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to 1.1.2023 to to
						31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
						RM RM RM RM
Current tax expense based on profit for the
financial year				 2,175,879 1,908,209 - -
							
Deferred tax (Note 15):							
Relating to origination and reversal of
temporary differences				 801,414 1,034,116 - -
Under-provision in prior years			 9,877 4,509 - -
					
811,291 1,038,625 - -
					
2,987,170 2,946,834 - -
(a) Malaysian corporate income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 24% (31.12.2022: 24%) of the
estimated taxable profits for the fiscal year.
(b) Thai corporate income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 20% (31.12.2022: 20%) of the estimated
taxable profits for the fiscal year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
130 Annual Report 2023
19. TAX EXPENSE (CONT’D)
(c) Numerical reconciliation between the tax expense and the product of accounting profit/(loss) before tax
multiplied by the applicable tax rates of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group Company
									
6.8.2021
									
(date of
									
incorporation)
						
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to 1.1.2023 to to
						31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
						RM RM RM RM
Profit/(Loss) before tax			 7,440,902 5,901,896 (2,719,886) (6,113,090)
							
Tax at the Malaysian statutory tax rate of 24%
(31.12.2022: 24%)				 1,785,816 1,416,455 (652,773) (1,467,142)
							
Tax effects in respect of:						
Non-allowable expenses			 745,303 1,124,777 652,773 1,467,142
Deferred tax assets not recognised			 48,894 38,240 - -
Origination of temporary differences on
undistributed retained earnings of subsidiaries*		 823,417 822,079 - -
Different tax rate in foreign jurisdiction		 (411,758) (424,049) - -
Exchange differences			 (14,379) (35,177) - -
					
2,977,293 2,942,325 - -
Under-provision in prior years						
- Deferred tax				 9,877 4,509 - -
					
2,987,170 2,946,834 - -
* In accordance with Section 70 of Thai Revenue Code, dividends paid to holding companies
incorporated under foreign laws and not carrying on business in Thailand are subject to a withholding
tax at the rate of 10% of the distributed amount.
(d) Tax on each component of other comprehensive income is as follows:
						
Before tax Tax effect After tax
						
RM RM RM
Group
31.12.2023
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Foreign currency translations				 1,554,122 - 1,554,122
31.12.2022
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss
Foreign currency translations				 264,513 - 264,513
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 131
20. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Group Company
									
6.8.2021
									
(date of
									
incorporation)
						
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to 1.1.2023 to to
						31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
						RM RM RM RM
Short term employees benefits			6,400,276 5,035,591 2,030,707 1,695,230
Contributions to defined contribution plan		 278,954 209,351 181,844 195,015
					6,679,230 5,244,942 2,212,551 1,890,245
Included in employee benefits of the Group and of the Company are Directors’ remuneration amounting to
RM1,830,940 (31.12.2022: RM1,312,167) and RM1,575,356 (31.12.2022: RM1,315,073) respectively as disclosed
in Note 21 to the financial statements.
21. DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Group Company
									
6.8.2021
									
(date of
									
incorporation)
						
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to 1.1.2023 to to
						31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
						RM RM RM RM
Directors of the Company:
Fees					180,000 150,000 180,000 150,000
Salaries and bonus				 1,290,584 886,208 1,035,000 825,000
Contributions to defined contribution plan		 112,450 105,300 112,450 131,625
Other employee benefits				247,906 170,659 247,906 208,448
					1,830,940 1,312,167 1,575,356 1,315,073
22. EARNINGS PER SHARE
(a) Basic
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the consolidated profit for
the financial year attributable to owners of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares
outstanding during the financial year.
		Group
							
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
Profit for the financial year attributable to ordinary equity holders of
the parent (RM)						 2,637,125 1,138,432
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue			 707,004,452 587,525,000
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen)				 0.37 0.19
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
132 Annual Report 2023
22. EARNINGS PER SHARE (CONT’D)
(b) Diluted
The diluted earnings per share equal basic earnings per ordinary share because there are no potential dilutive
instruments in existence as at the end of the reporting period.
23. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
(a) Identities of related parties
Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control
the party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice
versa, or where the Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence.
Related parties could be individuals or other parties.
The Company has related party relationship with its subsidiaries, and companies which Directors have
substantial direct/indirect financial interests.
(b) In addition to the related party information disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group had
the following transactions with related parties during the financial year:
		Group
							
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
Companies which Directors have substantial direct/indirect financial interests
Purchase of goods 						
- 684,657
Lease paid						
1,763,920 1,691,277
The related party transactions described above have been entered into the normal course of business and
have been established at terms agreed between the parties during the financial year.
Information regarding outstanding balances with related parties of the Group at end of the financial years are
disclosed in Note 9 and Note 16 to the financial statements respectively.
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel are those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling the activities of the entity, directly or indirectly.
Group Company
									
6.8.2021
									
(date of
									
incorporation)
						
1.1.2023 to 1.1.2022 to 1.1.2023 to to
						31.12.2023 31.12.2022 31.12.2023 31.12.2022
						RM RM RM RM
Short term employees benefits			650,727 589,786 322,400 372,000
Contributions to defined contribution plan		 44,271 41,387 41,912 49,657
					694,998 631,173 364,312 421,657
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 133
24. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
(a) Capital management
The primary objective of the capital management of the Group is to ensure that entities of the Group would
be able to continue as going concerns whilst maximising return to shareholders through the optimisation of
the debt and equity ratios. The overall strategy of the Group remains unchanged throughout the reporting
periods.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in response to changes in economic
conditions. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payment to
shareholders, return capital to shareholders or issue new shares. No changes were made in the objectives,
policies or processes during the financial years ended 31 December 2023 and 31 December 2022.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is total borrowings, including lease liabilities on
motor vehicles divided by total equity.
		Group
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
Borrowings (Note 14)						
2,922,188 5,298,221
Lease liabilities on motor vehicles (Note 6)
- owing to financial institutions					 31,223 67,345
- owing to non-financial institutions 				 111,321 351,088
Total debt						
3,064,732 5,716,654
Total equity						
60,847,025 27,710,603
Gearing ratio						
0.05 0.21
The gearing ratio for the Company is not presented as the Company does not have borrowings as at the end
of the reporting period.
(b) Financial risk management
The Group is exposed to financial risks arising from its operations and the use of financial instruments. The
key financial risks include credit risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk and foreign currency risk.
The following sections provide details regarding the Group’s exposure to the above-mentioned financial risks
and the objectives, policies and processes for the management of these risks.
(i) Credit risk
Cash deposits, receivables and financial guarantee given to bank for banking facilities granted to a
subsidiary could give rise to credit risk, which requires the loss to be recognised if a counter party fails
to perform as contracted. The counter parties are reputable institutions and organisations. It is the
policy of the Group to monitor the financial standing of these counter parties on an ongoing basis to
ensure that the Group is exposed to minimal credit risk.
The primary exposure of the Group to credit risk arises through its trade and other receivables. The
credit period is generally 30 days, extending up to 60 days for major customers. Each customer has
a maximum credit limit and the Group seek to maintain strict control over its outstanding receivables
via a credit control section to minimise credit risk. In addition, receivable balances are monitored on
an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure to bad debts is not significant.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
134 Annual Report 2023
24. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management (Cont’d)
(i) Credit risk (Cont’d)
The risk concentration profile has been disclosed in Note 9 to the financial statements.
The maximum exposure to credit risk in relation to financial guarantee contract provided as credit
enhancement to a subsidiary amounted to RM68,634 represents the outstanding banking facilities of
the subsidiary as at the end of the reporting period.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss of financial guarantee contract
The Company assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when the financial position of
the subsidiary deteriorates significantly. The Company considers a financial guarantee to be credit
impaired when:
(a) the subsidiary is unlikely to repay its credit obligation to the bank in full; or
(b) the subsidiary is continuously loss making and are having a deficit shareholders’ fund.
The Company determines the probability of default of the subsidiary using internal and external
information available. No impairment loss is recognised arising from financial guarantee as it is
negligible.
(ii) Liquidity risk
The Group actively manages its debt maturity profile, operating cash flows and the availability of
funding so as to ensure that all operating, investing and financing needs are met. In executing its
liquidity risk management strategy, the Group measures and forecasts its cash commitments and
maintains a level of cash and cash equivalents deemed adequate to finance the activities of the Group.
Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the
availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to
close out market positions. The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of
funding and flexibility through the use of stand-by credit facilities.
The analysis of financial instruments by remaining contractual maturities has been disclosed in Note
6, Note 14 and Note 16 to the financial statements.
(iii) Interest rate risk
The primary interest rate risk of the Group relates to interest-earning deposits and interest-bearing
borrowings from financial institutions. The fixed-rate deposits and borrowings of the Group are
exposed to a risk of changes in their fair values due to changes in interest rates. The floating rate
borrowings of the Group are exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to changes in interest rates.
The Group borrows in the desired currencies at both fixed and floating rates of interest.
The Group actively reviews its debt portfolio, taking into account the investment holding period and
nature of their assets. This strategy allows the Group to capitalise on cheaper funding in a low interest
rate environment and achieve a certain level of protection against rate hikes.
The interest rate profile and sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk have been disclosed in Note 6, Note
10 and Note 14 to the financial statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 135
24. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONT’D)
(b) Financial risk management (Cont’d)
(iv) Foreign currency risk
Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument would
fluctuate because of changes in foreign currency rate.
The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on transactions that are denominated
in currencies other than the functional currencies of the operating entities. The Group is exposed to
foreign currency risk in respect of assets and liabilities of its foreign operations, which are denominated
in Thai Baht and Singapore Dollar. Exposure in foreign currency is monitored on an ongoing basis and
the Group and the Company endeavour to keep the net exposure at an acceptable level.
The foreign currency profile and sensitivity analysis have been disclosed in Note 9, Note 10, Note 14
and Note 16 to the financial statements.
25. CAPITAL COMMITMENT
The Group’s and the Company’s capital commitment at the end of each reporting period are as follows:
		 Group and Company
							
31.12.2023 31.12.2022
							
RM RM
			
Approved but not contracted for:			
			
Acquisition of a warehouse and operational facility in Thailand			 16,000,000 16,000,000
26. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
(a) Initial Public Offering (“IPO”) and listing of the Company on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
In conjunction with the Company’s listing on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, the
Company issued its Prospectus for its IPO entailing the following:
(i) Public issue of 124,600,000 new ordinary shares (“Public Issue Shares”) at an IPO price of RM0.23 per
ordinary share in the following manner:
a) 36,000,000 Public Issue Shares for application by the Malaysia Public;
b) 10,000,000 Public Issue Shares for application the Company’s eligible Directors, employees
and persons who have contributed to the success of the Group; and
c) 78,600,000 Public Issue Shares by way of private placement to selected investors;
(ii) Offer for sale of 124,600,000 existing ordinary shares by way of private placement to selected investors.
Upon completion of the IPO, the Company was admitted to the Official List of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad and the Company’s entire enlarged issued share capital of 712,125,000 ordinary shares were
listed and quoted on the ACE Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on 16 January 2023.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
136 Annual Report 2023
26. SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR (CONT’D)
(b) Incorporation of a subsidiary
On 21 March 2023, the Company incorporated a subsidiary known as Wellspire Global Trading Sdn. Bhd.
with a paid-up share capital of RM100,000 comprising 100,000 ordinary shares of RM1 each. The principal
activities of the subsidiary are trading of food products and biomass fuel products. Subsequently, the
Company subscribed an additional 900,000 ordinary shares for a cash consideration of RM900,000. The
equity interest of the Company in the subsidiary remained unchanged as at end of the reporting period.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
31 DECEMBER 2023
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 137
Class of Share		 : Ordinary shares
Voting Rights		 : One vote per share
Issued Shares		 : 712,125,000
Size of Holdings No. of Holders % of Holders No. of Issued
Shares
% of Issued
Shares
1 - 99 3 0.690 100 0.000
100 - 1,000 77 17.701 30,700 0.004
1,001 - 10,000 183 42.069 1,034,400 0.145
10,001 - 100,000 107 24.598 3,555,700 0.500
100,001 - less than 5% of issued shares 60 13.793 98,052,881 13.769
5% and above of issues shares 5 1.149 609,451,219 85.582
TOTAL 435 100.000 712,125,000 100.000
LIST OF SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
(As per Register of Substantial Shareholders)
No Name of Substantial Holders
No. of Shares Held
Direct % Indirect %
1 MO GUOPIAO 200,562,500 28.163 121,250,000(1) 17.026
2 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR KENANGA INVESTORS BHD
146,165,752 20.525 - -
3 SILVER LINE CAPITAL SDN BHD 121,250,000 17.026 - -
4 HE HAIBIN 84,412,500 11.853 - -
Note:
(1) Deemed interested by virtue of his shareholdings in Silver Line Capital Sdn Bhd persuant to Section 8(4) of the
Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”)
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
(As per Register of Directors’ Shareholdings)
No Name of Directors
No. of Shares Held
Direct % Indirect %
1 YANG HORMAT MULIA TENGKU DATO’ SERI
ABU BAKAR AHMAD BIN TENGKU TAN SRI
ABDULLAH
700,000 0.098 - -
2 FAZIDAH BT ZAKARIA 380,000 0.053 - -
3 KUA CHIN TECK 700,000 0.098 - -
4 MO GUOPIAO 200,562,500 28.163 121,250,000(1) 17.026
5 SARANJIT WANG 5,750,000 0.807 1,000,000(2) 0.14
6 TANG YUEN KIN - - - -
7 YANG SHING SING 700,000 0.098 - -
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested by virtue of his shareholdings in Silver Line Capital Sdn Bhd persuant to Section 8(4) of the Act.
(2) Deemed interested by virtue of her spouse, Mr. Wang Zheng’s shareholdings in the Company persuant to Section
59(11)(c) of the Act.
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 9 APRIL 2024
138 Annual Report 2023
LIST OF TOP 30 SHAREHOLDERS
(Without aggregating the securities from different securities accounts belonging to the same Registered Holder)
No. Name of Substantial Holders
No. of Issued
Shares
% of Issued
Shares
1 MO GUOPIAO 200,562,500 28.163
2 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR KENANGA INVESTORS BHD
146,165,752 20.525
3 SILVER LINE CAPITAL SDN BHD 121,250,000 17.026
4 HE HAIBIN 84,412,500 11.853
5 CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
RHB TRUSTEES BERHAD FOR KENANGA ISLAMIC ABSOLUTE RETURN
FUND
57,060,467 8.012
6 AFFIN HWANG NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR YEO HOCK CHEONG
20,620,000 2.895
7 MIDF AMANAH INVESTMENT NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR YEO HOCK CHEONG (MGN -
YHC0003M)
13,388,000 1.880
8 LIM SENG GEE 6,425,000 0.902
9 SARANJIT WANG 5,750,000 0.807
10 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR KENANGA INVESTORS BHD
5,323,781 0.747
11 XIE, XIAOPAN 4,500,000 0.631
12 KENANGA NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR PHILLIP SECURITIES PTE LTD (CLIENT ACCOUNT)
3,115,000 0.437
13 MRS. RONGRONG BHURIDEJ 3,000,000 0.421
14 SUN, ZHILIN 3,000,000 0.421
15 MIKRO SDN BHD 2,400,000 0.337
16 MOHAMED AZAM SHAH BIN AZIZ MOHAMMED 1,873,800 0.263
17 CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON FOR ACADIAN EMERGING
MARKETS SMALL CAP EQUITY FUND, LLC
1,793,400 0.251
18 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
UBS AG
1,701,200 0.238
19 CHOO MUN CHEN 1,353,600 0.190
20 MY QALAM (M) SDN BHD 1,200,000 0.168
21 CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR BARCLAYS CAPITAL SECURITIES LTD (SBL/PB)
1,174,100 0.164
22 HSBC NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
J.P. MORGAN SECURITIES PLC
1,156,600 0.162
23 ALLIANCEGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TIN JIING SOON (7004317)
1,070,000 0.150
24 MOHAMED AZAM SHAH BIN AZIZ MOHAMMED 1,000,000 0.140
25 TA NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR YEO HOCK CHEONG
1,000,000 0.140
26 WANG, ZHENG 1,000,000 0.140
27 LEE SET KUAN 980,000 0.137
28 JOSEPHINE WONG CHAI YEIN 942,400 0.132
29 CGS INTERNATIONAL NOMINEES MALAYSIA (TEMPATAN) SDN. BHD.
PLEDGED SECURITIES ACCOUNT FOR TAN SEW CHING (MY1749)
800,000 0.112
30 MAYBANK NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
YANG HORMAT MULIA TENGKU DATO’ SERI ABU BAKAR AHMAD BIN
TENGKU TAN SRI ABDULLAH (12021385)
700,000 0.098
TOTAL 694,718,100 97.542
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 9 APRIL 2024
139
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Second Annual General Meeting (“2nd AGM”) of the Company will be held virtually
through live streaming and online remote voting from the Broadcast Venue at Boardroom, Lot D/E, Level 12, Tower 1,
Etiqa Twins, 11, Jalan Pinang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (“Broadcast Venue”) on Friday, 7 June 2024, at 10.00 a.m.
to transact the following businesses:
A G E N D A
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December
2023 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 1)
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of up to RM300,000 for the period from 8
June 2024 until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2025.
Ordinary Resolution 1
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 2)
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits of up to RM100,000 for the period from
8 June 2024 until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2025.
Ordinary Resolution 2
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 2)
4. To re-elect the following Directors who are retiring by rotation in accordance with Clause
77(3) of the Constitution of the Company and, who being eligible, offer themselves for
re-election:
(a) Mr Mo Guopiao
(b) Madam Saranjit Wang
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 3)
Ordinary Resolution 3
Ordinary Resolution 4
5. To re-appoint Messrs BDO PLT as External Auditors of the Company for the financial
year ending 31 December 2024 and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Ordinary Resolution 5
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 4)
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and if thought fit, to pass the following resolutions, with or without modifications:
6. ORDINARY RESOLUTION
AUTHORITY TO ISSUE AND ALLOT SHARES PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 75 AND
76 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
“THAT subject always to the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), the Constitution of the
Company, the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Securities”) and the approvals of the relevant governmental/regulatory
authorities, the Directors of the Company be and are hereby empowered, pursuant to
Sections 75 and 76 of the Act, to issue and allot shares in the capital of the Company
from time to time at such price, upon such terms and conditions, and for such
purposes as the Directors may in their absolute discretion deem fit, provided that the
aggregate number of shares to be issued pursuant to this Ordinary Resolution does
not exceed 10% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) of the
Company for the time being AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are also
empowered to obtain the approval from Bursa Securities for the listing of and quotation
for the additional shares so issued on the Bursa Securities AND FURTHER THAT such
authority shall continue to be in force until the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company, or at the expiry of the period within which the next
AGM is required to be held after the approval was given, whichever is earlier, unless
revoked or varied by an ordinary resolution of the Company at a general meeting.”
Ordinary Resolution 6
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 5)
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
140 Annual Report 2023
7. ORDINARY RESOLUTION
PROPOSED RENEWAL OF SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE AND PROPOSED
NEW SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR RECURRENT RELATED PARTY
TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE
“THAT pursuant to Rule 10.09 of the ACE Market Listing Requirements of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“ACE Listing Requirements”), approval be and is hereby
given to the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) to enter into recurrent related
party transactions of a revenue or trading nature with the related party(ies) as set out
in Section 2.5 of the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April 2024 provided that such
transactions and/or arrangements are:
(a) necessary for the day-to-day operations for the Group;
(b) undertaken in the ordinary course of business at arm’s length basis and on
normal commercial terms which are not more favourable to the related party(ies)
than those generally available to the public; and
(c) not detrimental to the minority shareholders of the Company,
(collectively known as the “Shareholders’ Mandate”).
THAT authority conferred by this Shareholders’ Mandate shall commence upon
passing of this resolution and continue to be in force until:
(a) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company, at
which this Shareholders’ Mandate was passed, at which time it will lapse, unless
by a resolution passed at such AGM, the authority is renewed; or
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company after
that date is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Companies
Act 2016 (“the Act”) (but must not extend to such extension as may be allowed
pursuant to Section 340(4) of the Act); or
(c) revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by the shareholders of the
Company in general meeting,
whichever is the earlier.
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to complete
and do all such acts and things (including executing all such documents as may
be required) as they may consider expedient or necessary to give effect to the
Shareholders’ Mandate.”
Ordinary Resolution 7
(Please refer to
Explanatory Note 6)
8. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given in accordance
with the Companies Act 2016 and the Constitution of the Company.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
TAN BEE HWEE (SSM PC NO. 202008001497) (MAICSA 7021024)
LIM YOU JING (SSM PC NO. 202108000369) (MAICSA 7075638)
Company Secretaries
Kuala Lumpur
30 April 2024
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
141
AGM NOTICE
NOTES:-
1. IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR VIRTUAL MEETING
The Broadcast Venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016,
which requires the Chairman of the meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting. Shareholders WILL
NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the 2nd AGM in person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the meeting.
Shareholders are to attend, speak (including posing questions to the Board via real time submission of typed texts)
and vote (collectively, “participate”) remotely at the 2nd AGM using the Digital Ballot Form (“DBF”) provided by
Mega Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd. Shareholders who wish to participate at the 2nd AGM will therefore have to
register via the link at https://vps.megacorp.com.my/Zo4HtE.
Please read these Notes carefully and follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Notes for the 2nd
AGM in order to participate remotely via DBF.
2. APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
(a) For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to attend this General Meeting, the Company shall be
requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the Company, a Record of Depositors
as at 30 May 2024. Only a member whose name appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to
attend this General Meeting or appoint a proxy to attend, speak and vote on his/her/its behalf.
(b) A member entitled to attend and vote at this General Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in
the case of a corporation, to appoint a duly authorised representative to attend, participate, speak and vote
in his place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
(c) A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at a General Meeting of the Company may
appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend, participate, speak and vote instead of the member at the
General Meeting.
(d) If two (2) proxies are appointed, the entitlement of those proxies to vote on a show of hands shall be in
accordance with the listing requirements of the stock exchange.
(e) Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined in the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act 1991 (“Central Depositories Act”), it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies in respect
of each securities account it holds in ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said
securities account.
(f) Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the
Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit
to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus
account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Central
Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central
Depositories Act.
(g) Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of shareholdings to be represented by
each proxy must be specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
142 Annual Report 2023
2. APPOINTMENT OF PROXY (CONT’D)
(h) The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following manner
and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for
holding the General Meeting or adjourned General Meeting at which the person named in the appointment
proposes to vote:
(i) In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the proxy form must be deposited at the office
of the Poll Administrator, Mega Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd. at Level 15-2, Bangunan Faber Imperial
Court, Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50250 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(ii) By electronic means via email
In the case of an appointment made via email transmission, the proxy form must be emailed to AGM-
support.Wellspire@megacorp.com.my.
		
(i) Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited at
the registered office of the Company situated at Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A, The Vertical Business Suite,
Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur not less than forty-eight (48) hours
before the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned General Meeting at which the person
named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that
it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction
in which it is executed.
		
(j) Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in this proxy form are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
		
(k) Last date and time for lodging this proxy form is on Wednesday, 5 June 2024 at 10.00 a.m.
(l) A corporate member who has appointed a representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL or DULY CERTIFIED
certificate of appointment with the Poll Administrator, Mega Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd. at Level 15-
2, Bangunan Faber Imperial Court, Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50250 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The certificate of
appointment should be executed in the following manner:
(i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised representative
should be executed under seal in accordance with the constitution of the corporate member.
(ii) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised
representative should be affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed
by:-
(a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(b) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which
the corporate member is incorporated.
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
143
AGM NOTICE
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. Item 1 of the Agenda – Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2023
The Audited Financial Statements is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies
Act 2016 (“the Act”) does not require a formal approval from the shareholders. Hence, this item on the Agenda is
not put forward for voting by shareholders of the Company.
2. Ordinary Resolutions 1 to 2 – Payment of Directors’ Fees and Benefits
Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Act, the fees of the directors and any benefits payable to the directors shall be
approved at a general meeting.
On 27 February 2024, the Nominating and Remuneration Committee had reviewed the Directors’ fees and benefits
for the Independent Non-Executive Directors for the following period, taking into consideration the market trends
for similar positions, time commitment and responsibilities of the respective Directors.
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 1, if passed, will give authority to the Company to pay the Directors’ fees for the
period from 8 June 2024 until the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company to be held in 2025 as and
when their services are rendered. The Directors’ fees for the period from 8 June 2024 until the next AGM remains
unchanged, based on the following fee structure:
Type of Fees Amount
Independent Non-Executive Chairman RM4,500.00 per month
Independent Non-Executive Director RM3,500.00 per month
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 2 is to facilitate the payment of Directors’ benefits for the period from 8 June
2024 until the next AGM of the Company to be held in 2025.
The proposed structure of the Directors’ benefits for the period from 8 June 2024 until the next AGM of the
Company to be held in 2025 are as follows:
Type of Benefits Description Amount
Meeting Attendance Allowance
Board Meeting Allowances Chairman of the Board
Members of the Board
RM2,000.00 per meeting
RM1,500.00 per meeting
Board Committee Meeting Allowance Members of the Committee RM1,000.00 per meeting
Directors’ & Officers’ Liability Insurance - RM10,000.00
Payment of the Directors’ benefits will be made by the Company to the respective Directors as and when incurred
if the proposed Ordinary Resolution 2 is passed by the shareholders at the 2nd AGM.
In the event the Directors’ fees and benefits proposed are insufficient, approval will be sought at the next AGM for
additional fees to meet the shortfall.
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
144 Annual Report 2023
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON ORDINARY BUSINESS (CONT’D)
3. Ordinary Resolutions 3 to 4 – Re-election of Directors who retire in accordance with Clause 77(3) of the
Constitution of the Company
Mr Mo Guopiao and Madam Saranjit Wang who are standing for re-election as Directors of the Company and being
eligible, have offered themselves for re-election at the 2nd AGM.
Pursuant to Practice 5.7 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”), the profiles of the
aforementioned Directors are set out in the Directors’ profile on pages 13 to 15 of the Annual Report 2023. For
the purpose of determining the eligibility of the Directors to stand for re-election at the 2nd AGM, the Board has,
through the Nominating and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”), considered the assessment on the fit and proper
of the retiring Directors and agreed that they meet the criteria as prescribed by Rule 2.20A of the ACE Market
Listing Requirements (“ACE Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) on
character, experience, integrity, competence and time commitment to effectively discharge their roles as Directors.
Based on the recommendation of NRC, the Board supports the re-election of the abovementioned Directors with
the following justifications:
Ordinary Resolution 3: Re-election of Mr Mo Guopiao as Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director
Mr Mo Guopiao has over 14 years of experience in business management and investment, his exceptional business
experience, expertise and network enable him to oversee the Group’s operation effectively and strategically.
He actively leads the Group’s e-commerce and online sales initiatives and monitors trends in the distribution
of consumer-packaged foods to enhance the presence of the Group’s brands. He has guided the Company in
expanding the Group’s products offerings and boosting the Group’s revenue streams.
The Board is satisfied with his performance and contribution, as he has carried out his duties diligently and
effectively and demonstrated his commitment to his roles, as well as his adherence to the fit and proper criteria as
set out in the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy.
Ordinary Resolution 4: Re-election of Madam Saranjit Wang as Executive Director
Madam Saranjit Wang has more than 22 years of experience in the consumer-packaged goods industry. With her
unwavering guidance, she can strengthen the Group’s overall management and business growth in Thailand. She
has the competency in delivering the corporate strategy of the Group.
The Board is satisfied with her performance and contribution, as she has carried out her duties diligently and
effectively and demonstrated her commitment to her roles, as well as her adherence to the fit and proper criteria as
set out in the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy.
Based on the above, the Board collectively agreed and recommended the said Directors be re-elected as Directors
of the Company at the 2nd AGM of the Company.
4. Ordinary Resolution 5 – Re-appointment of Auditors
The Audit Committee (“AC”) had at its meeting held on 27 February 2024 assessed the suitability and independence
of the External Auditors and recommended the re-appointment of BDO PLT as External Auditors of the Company
for the financial year ending 31 December 2024.
The Board has reviewed the recommendation of the AC and recommended the same to be tabled to the shareholders
for approval at the 2nd AGM of the Company.
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
145
AGM NOTICE
EXPLANATORY NOTES ON SPECIAL BUSINESS
5. Ordinary Resolution 6 – Authority to issue and allot shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 6, if passed, would renew the mandate granted to the Directors of the Company
at the 1st Annual General Meeting of the Company held on 9 June 2023 (“1st AGM”), to empower the Directors to
issue and allot ordinary shares of the Company from time to time and to grant rights to subscribe for shares in the
Company, convert any securities into shares in the Company, or allot shares under an agreement or option or offer,
provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed ten per centum
(10%) of the total number of the issued shares of the Company for the time being (“Proposed General Mandate”).
The authority for the Proposed General Mandate will, unless revoked or varied by the Company in a general
meeting, expire at the conclusion of the next AGM or the expiration of the period within which the next AGM is
required by law to be held, whichever is earlier.
The mandate is to provide flexibility to the Company to issue new securities without the need to convene a separate
general meeting to obtain its shareholders’ approval so as to avoid incurring additional costs and time.
The purpose of this general mandate, if passed, will enable the Directors to take swift action in case of a need to
issue and allot new shares in the Company for fund raising exercise including but not limited to further placement
of shares for the purpose of funding current and/or future investment projects, working capital, acquisitions and/or
for issuance of shares as settlement of purchase consideration, or other circumstances arise which involve grant of
rights to subscribe for shares, conversion of any securities into shares, or allotment of shares under an agreement
or option or offer, or such other application as the Directors may deem fit in the best interest of the Company.
As at the date of this Notice, there is no decision to issue new shares and the Company did not implement its
proposal for new allotment of shares under the general mandate granted by the shareholders at the 1st AGM.
Should there be a decision to issue new shares after the general mandate is sought, the Company will make an
announcement of the actual purpose and utilisation of proceeds arising from such issuance of shares.
6. Ordinary Resolution 7 – Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate and Proposed New Shareholders’
Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 7, if passed, will allow the Company and/or its subsidiaries renew its shareholders
mandate for the recurrent related party transactions (“RRPT”) granted by the shareholders at the 1st AGM and
to enter into a new shareholders mandate for the RRPTs involving the interest of Related Party(ies), which are
necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations and undertaken at arm’s length, subject to the transactions being
carried out in the ordinary course of business and on terms not to the detriment of minority shareholders of the
Company.
Please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 30 April 2024 for further information.
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
146 Annual Report 2023
[Ordinary Resolution 3 to 4]
The Directors who retire in accordance with Clause 77(3) of the Constitution of the Company and being eligible to offer
themselves for re-election at the 2nd AGM are Mr Mo Guopiao and Madam Saranjit Wang (“Retiring Directors”).
The profile of the Retiring Directors who are standing for re-election as per Agenda item 4 of the Notice of 2nd AGM are
as follows:
A. Mr Mo Guopiao
(Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director)
Nationality : Singaporean
Age : 43
Gender : Male
Date of Appointment : 6 August 2021
Length of Tenure (as at 31 December 2023) : 2 year and 4 months
QUALIFICATION AND EXPERIENCE HIGHLIGHTS
• Bachelor of Science (major in Applied Chemistry – Modern Merchandise Testing Technology, Urban
Environmental Testing) degree, Shantou University, China
• Marketing Management Programme, NUS Business School, Singapore
• Master of Science in Technopreneurship & Innovation, Nanyang Technological University, Singapore
• Chief Executive Officer and Executive Director, Wellspire (2021 – present)
• Has more than 14 years of experience in business management and investment field
• Involves in the operations of Wellspire Group by providing strategic, financial and operational leadership to
Wellspire Group
• Providing strategic input on major corporate decision-making matters, including, but not limited to, potential
mergers and acquisitions, or joint venture partnerships
• Providing oversight and management on the overall operational and finance and performance of Wellspire
Group
OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS IN PUBLIC COMPANIES AND LISTED ISSUERS (OTHER THAN WELLSPIRE
HOLDINGS BERHAD)
• Nil
NUMBER OF SHARES HELD IN THE COMPANY
• 200,562,500 Ordinary Shares (direct interest)
• 121,250,000 Ordinary Shares (indirect interest by virtue of his shareholdings in Silver Line Capital Sdn. Bhd.)
He has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and does not have any
conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business with the Company
or its subsidiaries. He has acted in the best interest of the Company.
The Board hereby supports and recommends the re-election of Mr Mo Guopiao as the Chief Executive Officer and
Executive Director of the Company for the shareholders’ approval.
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF
2ND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(PURSUANT TO RULE 8.29 OF ACE MARKET LISTING REQUIREMENTS
OF BURSA MALAYSIA SECURITIES BERHAD)
147
AGM NOTICE
B. Madam Saranjit Wang
(Executive Director)
Nationality : Thailand
Age : 44
Gender : Female
Date of Appointment : 1 March 2022
Length of Tenure (as at 31 December 2023) : 1 year 10 months
QUALIFICATION AND EXPERIENCE HIGHLIGHTS
• Secondary education at Bangkok Non-Formal Education Center 4, Thailand
• Higher Vocational Certificate (major in Accounting) from the Inter Asia Technologies College, Thailand
• Started her career as an entrepreneur where she was involved in food service by selling food seasoning and
food paste to the local restaurants, retail business of fashion garments and local trading of dried fruits and
dried fish businesses in March 2001
• Has approximately 22 years of experience in the consumer-packaged goods industry
• Founder and Managing Director, Bai Li Enterprise (2017 – present)
• Executive Director, Wellspire (2022 – present)
OTHER DIRECTORSHIPS IN PUBLIC COMPANIES AND LISTED ISSUERS (OTHER THAN WELLSPIRE
HOLDINGS BERHAD)
• Nil
NUMBER OF SHARES HELD IN THE COMPANY
• 5,750,000 Ordinary Shares (direct interest)
• 1,000,000 Ordinary Shares (indirect interest through the subscription of shares by her spouse, Mr Wang
Zheng, the Group’s Chief Operation Officer)
She has no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and does not have any
conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business with the Company
or its subsidiaries. She has acted in the best interest of the Company.
The Board hereby supports and recommends the re-election of Madam Saranjit Wang as Executive Director of the
Company for the shareholders’ approval.
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF
2ND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(PURSUANT TO RULE 8.29 OF ACE MARKET LISTING REQUIREMENTS
OF BURSA MALAYSIA SECURITIES BERHAD)
148 Annual Report 2023
PROXY FORM
CDS Account No.
No. of shares held
I/We _______________________________________________________________________________________ Tel: ____________________________
[Full name in block, NRIC/Passport/Company No.]
of _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
____________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
being member(s) of Wellspire Holdings Berhad, hereby appoint:
Full Name (in Block and as per NRIC/Passport) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
Email Address
and
Full Name (in Block and as per NRIC/Passport) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Address
Email Address
or failing him/her, the Chairman of the Meeting, as *my/our proxy/proxies to attend and vote for *me/us and on *my/our behalf at the 2nd
Annual General Meeting (“2nd AGM”) of the Company to be held virtually through live streaming and online remote voting from the Broadcast
Venue at Boardroom, Lot D/E, Level 12, Tower 1, Etiqa Twins, 11, Jalan Pinang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (“Broadcast Venue”) on
Friday, 7 June 2024 at 10.00 a.m. or any adjournment thereof, and to vote as indicated below:
Item Agenda
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31
December 2023 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
Ordinary Resolution
(“OR”)
For Against
2. Approval of the payment of Directors’ fees of up to RM300,000 for the period from
8 June 2024 until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in
2025
OR 1
3. Approval of the payment of Directors’ benefits of up to RM100,000 for the period
from 8 June 2024 until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be
held in 2025
OR 2
4. (a) To re-elect Mr Mo Guopiao as Director OR 3
(b) To re-elect Madam Saranjit Wang as Director OR 4
5. Re-appointment of Messrs BDO PLT as External Auditors of the Company and to
authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
OR 5
Special Business
6. Authority to Issue and Allot Shares pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the
Companies Act 2016
OR 6
7. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate and Proposed New Shareholders’
Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
OR 7
Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions. In the absence of
specific direction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he thinks fit.
Signed this _______________ day of _______________ 2024
______________________________
Signature*
Member
* Manner of execution:
(a) If you are an individual member, please sign where indicated.
(b) If you are a corporate member which has a common seal, this proxy form should be executed under seal in accordance with
the constitution of your corporation.
(c) If you are a corporate member which does not have a common seal, this proxy form should be affixed with the rubber stamp
of your company (if any) and executed by:
(i) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which your corporation is
incorporated.
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
REGISTRATION NO. 202101026155 (1426455-A)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
AFFIX
STAMP
The Poll Administrator
WELLSPIRE HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Registration No. 202101026155 (1426455-A))
c/o Mega Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd.
(Registration No. 198901010682 (187984-H))
Level 15-2, Bangunan Faber Imperial Court
Jalan Sultan Ismail
50250 Kuala Lumpur
Then fold here
1st fold here
NOTES:-
1. IMPORTANT NOTICE FOR VIRTUAL MEETING
The Broadcast Venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies
Act 2016, which requires the Chairman of the meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting.
Shareholders WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the 2nd AGM in person at the Broadcast Venue on
the day of the meeting.
Shareholders are to attend, speak (including posing questions to the Board via real time submission of
typed texts) and vote (collectively, “participate”) remotely at the 2nd AGM using the Digital Ballot Form
(“DBF”) provided by Mega Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd. Shareholders who wish to participate at the
2nd AGM will therefore have to register via the link at https://vps.megacorp.com.my/Zo4HtE.
Please read these Notes carefully and follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Notes
for the 2nd AGM in order to participate remotely via DBF.
2. APPOINTMENT OF PROXY
(a) For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to attend this General Meeting, the
Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to make available to the
Company, a Record of Depositors as at 30 May 2024. Only a member whose name appears on
this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to attend this General Meeting or appoint a proxy to
attend, speak and vote on his/her/its behalf.
(b) A member entitled to attend and vote at this General Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or
attorney or in the case of a corporation, to appoint a duly authorised representative to attend,
participate, speak and vote in his place. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
(c) A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at a General Meeting of the
Company may appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend, participate, speak and vote
instead of the member at the General Meeting.
(d) If two (2) proxies are appointed, the entitlement of those proxies to vote on a show of hands shall
be in accordance with the listing requirements of the stock exchange.
(e) Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined in the Securities Industry
(Central Depositories) Act 1991 (“Central Depositories Act”), it may appoint not more than
two (2) proxies in respect of each securities account it holds in ordinary shares of the Company
standing to the credit of the said securities account.
(f) Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares
in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”),
there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in
respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised
nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with
the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
(g) Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of shareholdings to be
represented by each proxy must be specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
(h) The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the
following manner and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours
before the time appointed for holding the General Meeting or adjourned General Meeting at
which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote:
(i) In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the proxy form must be deposited
at the office of the Poll Administrator, Mega Corporate Services Sdn. Bhd. at Level 15-2,
Bangunan Faber Imperial Court, Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50250 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
(ii) By electronic means via email
In the case of an appointment made via email transmission, this proxy form must be
emailed to AGM-support.Wellspire@megacorp.com.my.
(i) Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be
deposited at the registered office of the Company situated at Unit 30-01, Level 30, Tower A, The
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur
not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the General Meeting
or adjourned General Meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified notarially and/or
in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is
executed.
(j) Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in this proxy form are completed, signed and dated
accordingly.
(k) Last date and time for lodging this proxy form is on Wednesday, 5 June 2024 at 10.00 a.m.
(l) A corporate member who has appointed a representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL or
DULY CERTIFIED certificate of appointment with the Poll Administrator, Mega Corporate
Services Sdn. Bhd. at Level 15-2, Bangunan Faber Imperial Court, Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50250
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. The certificate of appointment should be executed in the following
manner:
(i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment of authorised
representative should be executed under seal in accordance with the constitution of the
corporate member.
(ii) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment
of authorised representative should be affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate
member (if any) and executed by:-
(a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(b) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country
under which the corporate member is incorporated.
