Growing Strength
to Strength
Annual Report 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
This design, utilising a dynamic interplay of flow and glow
in a spectrum of colours that move and merge seamlessly,
embodies the concept of collaborative growth and the
ever-growing strength of the Group. It captures the essence
of unity and progress, illustrating the coming together of the
Group’s employees, business partners, and communities in
achieving continuous success.
Cover Rationale
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 3197801000889 (37918-A)
Growing Strength to Strength
18-A)
ANN UA L REPO RT 20 24
Growing Strength
to Strength
Annual Report 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
1
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
Corporate Information
Profile of Directors
Profile of Group Management Team
Management Discussion and Analysis
Sustainability Statement
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
Audit, Risk Management and Sustainability Committee Report
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
Directors‘ Responsibility Statement
02
04
10
12
19
43
52
55
58
CORPORATE
CONTENTS
Directors’ Report and Audited Financial Statements
List of Properties
Analysis of Shareholdings
Additional Compliance Information
Notice of Forty-Sixth Annual General Meeting
Administrative Guide
Form of Proxy
59
120
122
125
126
130
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
2
CORPORATE INFORMATION
Board Of
Directors
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
(Redesignated on 12 December 2023)
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Non-Independent Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
Mohammad Bin Alwi
Group Managing Director
Amir Nashrin Bin Johari
Executive Director
(Appointed on 6 March 2024)
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director		
Sharina Binti Saidon
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
(Resigned on 12 December 2023)
Lee Cheang Mei
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 27 October 2023)
Audit, Risk Management and
Sustainability Committee
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
Sharina Binti Saidon
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam
Independent Non-Executive Director
Nomination and
Remuneration Committee
Sharina Binti Saidon
Chairperson, Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 31 January 2024)
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Group Management Team
Mohammad Bin Alwi 		
Group Managing Director
Amir Nashrin Bin Johari
Executive Director
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Executive Chairman-Palmtop Sdn Bhd
Chaw Pei Yee 			
Senior Manager-Finance & Administration
Mohd Aizat Bin Mohd Yusoff
Chief Executive Officer-Continental Resources Sdn Bhd
Foo Loke Yean 			
Chief Executive Officer-Doe Industries Sdn Bhd
3
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
CORPORATE INFORMATION
(continued)
Company Secretaries
On Pooi Fong
MAICSA 7018189/
SSM PC No. 202208000204
Tai Yuen Ling
LS 0008513 / SSM PC No. 202008001075
Lim Lee Tze
MAICSA 7065751/
SSM PC No. 201908002274
Share Registrar
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd
[Registration No.199601006647 (378993-D)]
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Tel: 603-7890 4700
Fax: 603-7890 4670
www.boardroomlimited.com
Registered Office
Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office
157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari
50450 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: 603-2182 7333
Fax: 603-2166 7208
www.cih.com.my
Auditors
BDO PLT
201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206
Level 8
BDO @ Menara CenTARa
360 Jalan Tunku Abdul Rahman
50100 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: 603-2616 2888
Fax: 603-2616 3190
Principal Bankers
Affin Bank Berhad
CIMB Bank Berhad
Malayan Banking Berhad
RHB Bank Berhad
RHB Islamic Bank Berhad
Listing
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
Stock Name : CIHLDG
Stock Code : 2828
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
4
Encik Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman (“Encik Megat Joha”), male, aged 61, a Malaysian, was appointed
to the Board on 18 April 2013 as an Executive Director. He was later offered the position of Group Managing
Director of the Company on 29 July 2015. He then retired as Group Managing Director on 3 January 2023
and held the position of Non-Independent Non-Executive Director. Subsequently, Encik Megat Joha was re-
designated as Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman of the Company on 12 December 2023.
He is a USA trained and qualified accountant who graduated from
Boston University, Massachusetts with a Degree in Accounting &
Finance in 1986 and started his career with Peat Marwick Mitchell,
Chicago, USA. Having passed the USA CPA examination in 1987 in
Chicago he returned to join the KPMG Kuala Lumpur office in 1988.
In 1991, he joined Kumpulan FIMA Berhad where he served in
various capacities as Vice President for the Agro-based group and
Business development and as Executive Director/ Chief Executive
Officer for Percetakan Keselamatan Nasional and Security Printers
(M) Sdn Bhd, of FIMA Corporation Berhad.
In 1998, Encik Megat Joha joined the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange
(“KLSE”) (now known as Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad) as
Investigations Senior Manager for Market Supervision. In 1999,
he led the project team in establishing the Labuan International
Financial Exchange (“LFX”) for the KLSE, and held the post of
Assistant General Manager at LFX till 2002.
In early 2002, he assumed the post of Chief Operating Officer/
Executive Director (Operations) at Mayban Securities Sdn Bhd until
late 2005.
His various other stints included being the Group CEO of Majuperak
Holdings Berhad and General Manager of Boustead Sissons Paints
Sdn Bhd.
He is currently a Board member of KUB Malaysia Berhad and
Marine & General Berhad. He does not have any family relationship
with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company.
Encik Megat Joha has no conflict of interest or potential conflict
of interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Company or its subsidiaries.
Encik Megat Joha has not been convicted for any offences within
the past five (5) years or imposed with any public sanctions or
penalties by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
period other than traffic offences, if any.
He attended all five (5) Board meetings held during the financial
year ended 30 June 2024.
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
Encik Megat Joha Bin
Megat Abdul Rahman
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Chairman
5
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy (“Dato’ Kumar”), male, aged 67, a Malaysian was appointed to the Board
on 10 June 2015 as Non-Independent Non-Executive Director. He was re-designated as Deputy Chairman of
the Company on 28 October 2022.
After completing his secondary education, Dato’ Kumar began
his career in 1981 as a Plant Manager in Ngo Chew Hong
Edible Oil Pte Ltd (subsidiary of Mewah International, a listed
company in the Singapore Stock Exchange) and advanced in
several positions in the company before becoming the Chief
Executive Officer of the company. This equipped him with
extensive knowledge on the daily operations of the company
including production, finance and consumer marketing.
Dato’ Kumar left the company in 2011 and was appointed
Managing Director of Saber Pte Ltd. Dato’ Kumar has 42 years of
experience in the palm oil industries, specifically in the consumer
pack segment. He is now the Executive Chairman of Palmtop Sdn
Bhd (FKA Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn Bhd). He is a well-known
and respected figure in the industry with good relationships built
with edible oil producers and suppliers.
Dato’ Kumar possesses vast knowledge in the palm oil industry
which he had successfully distributed edible oils and fats in
retail packings to over 120 countries in Asia, Middle East,
Australasia and Pacific Islands, Indian sub-continents, Africa,
Caribbean Islands, Commonwealth of Independent States
region and Europe.
He has no directorship in other public companies and listed
issuers. He does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company.
Dato’ Kumar has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Company or its subsidiaries.
Dato’ Kumar has not been convicted for any offences within
the past five (5) years or imposed with any public sanctions or
penalties by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
period other than traffic offences, if any.
He attended all five (5) Board meetings held during the financial
year ended 30 June 2024.
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(continued)
Dato’ Sukumaran
s/o Ramasamy
Deputy Chairman,
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
6
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(continued)
Encik Mohammad Bin Alwi (“Encik Mohammad”), male, aged 60, a Malaysian, was appointed to the Board
on 3 January 2023 as the Group Managing Director of the Company.
Encik Mohammad is a qualified Chartered Accountant and is a
fellow member of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants
(ACCA), United Kingdom. He is also a member of the Malaysian
Institute of Accountants (MIA).
Encik Mohammad has more than 30 years of extensive experience
in the area of finance, accounting, strategic management and
corporate governance.
He has held various senior positions during his tenure in Johor
Corporation (“JCorp”) from 1992 to 2013 which include Finance
Director of KFC Holdings (Malaysia) Berhad/QSR Brands Berhad
and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) of KFCH Restaurants Pvt Ltd
(KFC Mumbai). During his tenure in JCorp, he has served on various
Boards including public listed companies such as Sindora Berhad,
Pica Malaysia Berhad, Wonderful Wire & Cable Berhad and
Damansara Realty Berhad. Previously, he has also served as the
CEO of Malaysian Kuwaiti Investment Co. Sdn Bhd and the Chief
Financial Officer of Tradewinds Plantation Berhad.
He has no directorship in other public companies and listed issuers.
He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or
major shareholder of the Company.
Encik Mohammad has no conflict of interest or potential conflict
of interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Company or its subsidiaries.
Encik Mohammad has not been convicted for any offences within
the past five (5) years or imposed with any public sanctions or
penalties by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
period other than traffic offences, if any.
He attended all five (5) Board meetings held during the financial
year ended 30 June 2024.
Encik Mohammad Bin Alwi
Group Managing Director
7
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
Encik Amir Nashrin Bin Johari (“Encik Amir Nashrin”), aged 30, male, a Malaysian, was
appointed to the Board on 6 March 2024 as an Executive Director. He holds a 1st Class
(Hons) Bachelor of Science in Accounting and Finance from Oxford Brookes University, Oxford,
United Kingdom.
He has worked in financial assurance departments of EY Malaysia and KPMG Malaysia, between
2014 to 2017
, where he was involved in the provision of external financial audit for a diverse range
of industries including a large national non-profit organisation, trading enterprises, manufacturing,
hospitality, banking and real estate management companies.
During his time at KPMG, Encik Amir Nashrin had also worked as a management consultant under
KPMG’s Strategy & Operations advisory division. In this capacity, he participated in a variety of
engagements, encompassing economic planning, policy review, assessments of corporate governance,
as well as reviews of financial and commercial strategies for both public and private sector clients.
He joined the Company as a Manager on 1 December 2017
. Subsequently, he was redesignated as
General Manager of the Company on 3 January 2023. Following from his appointment to the Board,
he stepped down from his position as General Manager. He currently serves as a director of Continental
Resources Sdn Bhd and Palmtop Sdn Bhd (FKA Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn Bhd), both of which are
subsidiaries of the Company.
He has spent the past nine (9) years in various management and executive roles in different industries
and companies, including audit and management consulting, various technology-based startups, private
investment companies, and a public cable manufacturing company in Melaka. His roles covered
corporate finance, strategy management, asset management, credit control, business development,
accounting, treasury, and information systems.
In his personal capacity, Encik Amir Nashrin was also involved with various non-profit movements and
organisations such as a special needs care centre, a refugee care centre, a digital non-profit directory,
community gardens, and youth development programmes.
Encik Amir Nashrin is currently a Board member of KUB Malaysia Berhad and Central Cable Berhad.
He is the son of Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani, a major shareholder of the Company. Save as
disclosed, he does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or other major shareholder
of the Company. He does not have any conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including
interest in any competing business with the Company or its subsidiaries. He does not have any interest
in the securities of the Company and its subsidiaries.
He has not been convicted for any offences within the past five (5) years or imposed with any public
sanctions or penalties by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial period other than traffic
offences, if any.
He attended one (1) Board meeting held during the financial year ended 30 June 2024 since his
appointment to the Board on 6 March 2024.
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(continued)
Encik Amir Nashrin Bin Johari
Executive Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
8
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(continued)
Cik Sharina Binti Saidon (“Cik Sharina”), female, aged
64, a Malaysian, was appointed to the Board on 28
October 2022 as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
She was redesignated as Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director on 1 March 2023. She is currently
the Chairperson of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, and a member of the Audit, Risk Management
and Sustainability Committee.
She graduated with a Degree in Business Law from London
Metropolitan University. Besides, she also has a Diploma in Law
from MARA University of Technology.
Cik Sharina has vast experience in law, company secretarial
and corporate governance. She was admitted to the Malaysian
Bar as an Advocate and Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya
in 1991 and spent six (6) years in private legal practice before
joining a public listed company in 1996.
She has no directorships in other public companies and listed
issuers. She does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company.
Cik Sharina has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Company or its subsidiaries.
She has not been convicted for any offences within the past five
(5) years or imposed with any public sanctions or penalties by
the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial period other
than traffic offences, if any.
She attended all five (5) Board meetings held during the financial
year ended 30 June 2024
Cik
Sharina Binti
Saidon
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director
Datin Mariam
Prudence
Binti Yusof
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof (“Datin Mariam
Prudence Yusof”), female, aged 71, a Malaysian was
appointed to the Board on 27 July 2005 as Non-
Independent Non-Executive Director. She has been
appointed as a member of the Nomination and
Remuneration Committee on 31 January 2024.
She graduated with BA (Honours), University of Malaya in
1974. She started her career in the field of human resource
and organisational development with multinational companies,
namely Motorola (M) Sdn Bhd, Intel (M) Sdn Bhd, Shell Malaysia
Sdn Bhd and Nestle (M) Sdn Bhd. In 1984, she entered the field
of stockbroking and was the Executive Director of Equity Market
of MIDF Amanah Investment Bank Bhd, until her retirement.
Datin Mariam Prudence Yusof other previous appointments
include being a Member of the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange
Committee (“KLSE”), a Director of Labuan International Financial
Exchange Inc. (LFX), a Director of Securities Clearing Automated
Network Services Sdn Bhd (SCANS) and a Director of Research
Institute & Investment Analyst Malaysia (RIIAM) and Trustee of the
Bumiputera Training Fund of the Securities Commission. She was
also the Chairman of the Membership Committee of the KLSE.
She retired from the Board of KLSE and its subsidiaries on 10
April 2004.
In year 2002, she was elected as Chairman of the Association
of Stockbroking Companies of Malaysia (ASCM) with the
primary role of spearheading the demutualisation of KLSE to its
new entity, Bursa Malaysia Berhad.
In 2017
, Datin Mariam Prudence Yusof was appointed as a Board
member of Bursa Malaysia Berhad, Bursa Malaysia Derivatives
Berhad and Bursa Malaysia Derivatives Clearing Berhad (“Bursa
Group”) and subsequently resigned from the Board of the Bursa
Group on 1 May 2020.
She is currently a board member of RAM Holdings Berhad and
also serves on the Board of iFast Capital Sdn Bhd. She does
not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of the Company.
Datin Mariam Prudence Yusof has no conflict of interest or
potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing
business with the Company or its subsidiaries.
She has not been convicted for any offences within the past five
(5) years or imposed with any public sanctions or penalties by
the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial period other
than traffic offences, if any.
She attended all five (5) Board meetings held during the financial
year ended 30 June 2024.
9
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam (“Dato’ Siva”), male,
aged 56, a Malaysian, was appointed to the Board on 3
January 2023 as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Currently, he is the member of the Audit, Risk Management
and Sustainability Committee.
Dato’ Siva holds a Bachelor’s Degree of Arts from the University
of Malaya.
He was the Managing Director of Malaysia, Sri Lanka and
Maldives for Nokia, a role in which he oversees the operations
of the three Asian markets. An experienced veteran of over three
decades within the IT and Telecommunications field, Dato’ Siva
throughout his career had developed a deep understanding of
technologies i.e Industry IR 4.0 and IR 5.0, namely the internet
of things (IoT), managed services, cloud technology, artificial
intelligence (AI), digital transformation, e-commerce, automation
and 5G.
Prior to his role at Nokia, Dato’ Siva was the Chairman and
Country Vice President of Tech Mahindra and before that he held
senior leadership roles at major IT firms such as IBM Malaysia
and Sapura as well as at leading telco firms including Swedtel
Southeast Asia, Alcatel Network and Maxis. From 2017 he
has been a Committee Member of Outsourcing Malaysia, an
outsourcing initiative coordinated by Malaysia’s national ICT
industry association, PIKOM.
Dato’ Siva areas of expertise are in technology, business
management, startup, leadership, strategic planning, digital
transformation and corporate turnaround.
He is currently a Board member of Media Prima Berhad
and Watta Holdings Berhad. He does not have any family
relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of
the Company.
Dato’ Siva has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Company or its subsidiaries.
He has not been convicted for any offences within the past five
(5) years or imposed with any public sanctions or penalties by
the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial period other
than traffic offences, if any.
He attended all five (5) Board meetings held during the financial
year ended 30 June 2024.
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(continued)
Dato’
Sivananthan
a/l Shanmugam
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Encik Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman (“Encik
Mohammad Farish”), male, aged 52, a Malaysian,
was appointed to the Board on 3 January 2023 as an
Independent Non-Executive Director. He is the Chairman of
the Audit, Risk Management and Sustainability Committee
and a member of the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee.
A Chartered Accountant, he graduated in 1995 with Bachelor of
Accounting from International Islamic University Malaysia and is
a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. He is also a
member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Encik Mohammad Farish began his career from 1995
to 2003 with PricewaterhouseCoopers Kuala Lumpur
and subsequently with KPMG Kuala Lumpur, both in the
Assurance and Business Advisory practice, covering multiple
assignments on various industries.
He then joined Malaysian Technology Development Corporation
(“MTDC’) for 6 years before moving on to Scomi Engineering
Berhad as General Manager, Business Development and
Tender Coordination.
Encik Mohammad Farish is currently the Executive Vice President,
Group Corporate Services of MTDC having re-joined MTDC in
2014 and has held various position prior to being appointed
to his current position. He also holds directorship on TT Vision
Holdings Berhad.
He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company.
Encik Mohammad Farish has no conflict of interest or potential
conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business
with the Company or its subsidiaries.
He has not been convicted for any offences within the past five
(5) years or imposed with any public sanctions or penalties
by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial period
other than traffic offences, if any.
He attended all five (5) Board meetings held during the
financial year ended 30 June 2024.
Encik Mohammad
Farish Nizar
Bin Othman
Independent
Non-Executive Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
10
Encik Mohammad Bin Alwi
Group Managing Director
(Please refer to page 6 of Profile of Directors)
Encik Amir Nashrin Bin Johari
Executive Director
(Please refer to page 7 of Profile of Directors)
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Executive Chairman – Palmtop Sdn Bhd (FKA Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn Bhd)
(Please refer to page 5 of Profile of Directors)
Ms. Chaw Pei Yee
Senior Manager – Finance and Administration
Ms. Chaw Pei Yee, aged 59, female, a Malaysian, holds a Master’s Degree in Business from the Victory University of
Technology, Australia. She is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants, the Certified Practising Accountant
Australia and Asean Chartered Professional Accountant.
She has more than nine (9) years of experience in the external audit field covering a wide range of industries including
property development, manufacturing, construction, hotel, plantations and investment holdings. Prior to joining the
Company, she was an Accountant of a Public Listed Company in the Property Development sector.
She joined the Company as an Accountant and was appointed as Senior Manager, Finance and Administration on 16
April 2007
. She oversees the finance, tax, administration and human resources of the Company.
She has no directorships in other public companies and listed issuers. She does not have any family relationship with
any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company. She has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
including interest in any competing business with the Company or its subsidiaries.
Ms. Chaw has not been convicted for any offences within the past five (5) years or imposed with any public sanctions
or penalties by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial period other than traffic offences, if any.
PROFILE OF GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM
11
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
Encik Mohd Aizat Bin Mohd Yusoff
Chief Executive Officer of Continental Resources Sdn Bhd
Encik Mohd Aizat Bin Mohd Yusoff (“Encik Aizat”), aged 36, male, a Malaysian, was appointed as the Chief Executive
Officer (“CEO”) of Continental Resources Sdn Bhd (“CRSB”) on 1 August 2024. He holds a Bachelor Degree in Civil
Engineering (Structural), University of South Australia.
Encik Aizat began his career in 2014 as a Subsea Installation Engineer at TechnipFMC, where he worked on EPCIC
(Engineering, Procurement, Construction, Installation, and Commissioning) projects. His role involved overseeing the
mobilization of vessels, diving operations, and the installation of flexible pipelines and umbilicals across both local
and international waters. In total, Encik Aizat was involved in six (6) projects for engineering works and installation
throughout his tenure. Additionally, he was also involved in numerous tenders for TechnipFMC, bidding for both local
and international projects.
After TechnipFMC, Encik Aizat joined Central Cables Berhad in 2018 as a Special Officer (Corporate & Strategy) in the
CEO’s office. In this role, his main focus was on process improvements in the operations. Additionally, he was also tasked
to lead the corporate communication team. He was promoted to General Manager (Corporate & Strategy) in 2019,
where he took on additional responsibilities overseeing human resources and was also managing the plant operations,
including production, maintenance & improvement, and quality control. In 2021, he was promoted to Chief Operating
Officer, a role he held until his appointment as CEO of CRSB.
Encik Aizat is currently a Board member of Central Cable Berhad. He is the son in law of Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul
Ghani, a major shareholder of the Company. Save as disclosed, He does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company.
Encik Aizat has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Company or its subsidiaries.
Encik Aizat has not been convicted for any offences within the past five (5) years or imposed with any public sanctions
or penalties by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial period other than traffic offences, if any.
Mr. Foo Loke Yean
Chief Executive Officer of Doe Industries Sdn Bhd
Mr. Foo Loke Yean (“Mr. Robert Foo”), aged 59, male, a Malaysian, is a Graduate Member of The Chartered Institute of
Marketing and Institute of Commercial Management, United Kingdom. After graduating he continued to pursue Advance
Diploma in Business and Management from West Glamorgan Institute of Higher Education, Wales, United Kingdom.
Prior to joining Doe Industries Sdn Bhd [197701005750 (36788-T)] (“Doe”) in July 2001, he was with Hume
Industries Berhad – Concrete Division as Sales Manager from 1990 to 2001. He has 26 years’ experience in
Building Material Industry.
He joined Doe in 2001 as Sales Manager later promoted in 2007 to General Manager – Sales and Marketing and
subsequently in 1 August 2009 was promoted to Chief Executive Officer of Doe Group of Companies. He is overall in
charge of the Operation and Business Development of Tap ware and Sanitary Ware Division.
He has no directorships in other public companies and listed issuers. He does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company.
He has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Company or its subsidiaries. He has not been convicted of any offences within the past five (5) years and particulars
of any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year, other than traffic
offences, if any.
PROFILE OF GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
12
C.I. Holdings Berhad (“CIH” or “the Group”) continued to strengthen its position in the respective operating industries
despite the challenging environment throughout the financial year ended 30 June 2024. Our commitment to quality and
service excellence remains the cornerstone of our success. This report offers a concise overview of our financial results,
strategic initiatives and market conditions, highlighting how the Group is positioning itself for continued growth and long-term
value creation.
OVERVIEW OF GROUP’S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
Company Profile
The Group is structured into two (2) main divisions: the Edible Oil Division and Tap and Sanitary Ware Division. The Edible Oil
Division focuses on exporting vegetable-based edible oil and fat products in various consumer pack forms. The Tap and Sanitary
Ware Division is primarily involved in the trading and distribution of sanitary ware and tap fittings to the property development
and retail markets.
1. Edible Oil Division
The Edible Oil Division comprises of Continental Resources Sdn Bhd [198801006186 (173543-U)] (“CRSB”) and Palmtop Sdn
Bhd (FKA Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn Bhd) [199301012218 (266956-P)] (“Palmtop” or “Palmtop Group””).
CRSB
CRSB operates three (3) plants located in Banting, Klang, equipped with 23 packing lines, boasting a rated packing capacity of
360,000 metric tonnes (“MTs”) of edible oils per annum. Additionally, CRSB manages 37 oil tanks with a total storage capacity
of 4,000 MTs. CRSB also runs 17 Jerrycan (“JC”) blow moulding machines, with a total maximum monthly production capacity of
1.3 million units in various sizes (3L, 5L, 10L, 18L, 20L, and 25L). Plant 2 houses 12 JC machines, while Plant 3 operates five (5)
JC machines.
By manufacturing its own JC packaging materials, CRSB achieves significant cost savings and maintains strict quality control
over its products. The superior quality of the JCs results in minimal rejections and complaints from customers, making them highly
competitive in the market.
Palmtop
Palmtop operates two (2) packing plants located in Pasir Gudang, Johor, under Palmtop and PNC Oil Factory (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd
[199501042433 (371637-V)]. Palmtop also operates through the Group’s sales and marketing office, Continental Palms Pte Ltd,
based in Singapore. Palmtop is equipped with 15 packing lines, with a rated packing capacity of 316,000 MTs of edible oils
per annum, and operates 37 oil tanks with a total storage capacity of 4,500 MTs.
Both CRSB and Palmtop are undergoing expansion exercises to increase their internal production capacity for JC packaging and
enhance their oil filling capacities. The total production capacity is expected to increase to 3,000 full container load (FCL) per
month starting from the third (3rd) Quarter of FY2025 to further capitalise on its economies of scale, operational efficiencies and
market demand.
2. Tap And Sanitary Ware Division
Since its establishment in 1977, the Tap and Sanitary Ware Division, comprising DOE Industries Sdn Bhd and its subsidiaries
(“DOE Group”) has been a strong and reliable brand in the construction industry. The Division operates an efficient and
effective Assembly and Quality Assurance plant in Senawang, Negeri Sembilan. DOE Group also operates through its
strategically located sales and marketing headquarters, which acts as a distribution centre.
In our continuous commitment to cultivate robust business partnerships, the Division actively collaborates with retail outlets
across the nation, international distributors, local and global brands, inclusive of major developers and government agencies
to secure substantial orders.
Prioritising the trading of fixtures and fittings to drive revenue growth, the Division ensures stringent quality control across its
diverse product offerings, which include tap wares, sanitary wares, electrical and electronic appliances, amongst others —all
marketed under its established brands such as DOE and POTEX. With a steadfast focus on exceptional service quality and
reliable products, the Division continues to be a trusted partner in the industry, dedicated to delivering excellence in every
aspect of its operations and partnerships.
Vision
CIH strives to develop and enhance a comprehensive portfolio of consumer brands to enable the generation of sustainable profit
growth and extraordinary investment returns for our shareholders. We aim to be a leader in the consumer industry by establishing
the standards for sustainable success through strategic innovation and operational excellence.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
13
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
Mission
Our mission is to develop sustainable products with innovative fulfilment processes that minimise environmental impact while
delivering significant value to all stakeholders. We are dedicated to creating long-term benefits for our shareholders, employees,
customers, and the communities we serve, fostering a future where business success and sustainability go hand in hand.
Principal Activities Of Our Group
• Blending and packing vegetable-based edible oils.
• Marketing, branding, and merchandising consumer-packaged products in domestic and international markets.
• Trading and manufacturing tap and sanitary ware products.
Key Markets
• Asia (including Oceania)
• Africa
• Middle East
Strategies In Creating Value
• Leveraging Core Competencies: Capitalising on our core strengths and strategic advantages to maintain a competitive edge.
• Identifying Market Opportunities: Keeping informed on market developments and evolving customer needs to seize emerging
opportunities.
• Offering a Diverse Product Range: Providing a broad and appealing selection of products and brands that meet the varied
preferences of our customers.
• Optimising Business Processes: Refining and optimising business processes to enhance efficiency and performance.
• Supporting Stakeholders: Fostering growth and enrichment opportunities for our employees, business partners, and the communities
where we operate, ensuring mutual success and sustainability.
Highlights of the Group’s Financial Information for the Past Five (5) Financial Years
Financial (in RM’000)
2024 2023 2022 2021 2020
Revenue 3,895,568 5,347,165 4,046,102 3,144,549 2,572,493
Earnings Before Interest and Tax 139,106 190,140 128,897 127,873 63,584
Finance Costs (15,713) (17,079) (5,132) (6,796) (10,517)
Profit After Tax 117,170 166,514 119,360 116,090 45,311
Shareholders’ Funds 454,805 410,320 328,793 281,328 227,663
Total Assets 1,045,634 1,216,783 1,149,474 849,942 805,076
Cash and Bank Balances 368,483 250,517 241,868 187,309 165,422
Borrowings 318,479 420,973 403,899 300,176 375,136
Debt/Equity (%) -11 42 49 40 92
Earnings Per Share (sen) 42.38 62.00 41.04 43.19 18.59
Net Assets Per Share (RM) 2.81 2.53 2.03 1.74 1.41
Dividend Per Share (sen) 20 15 12 12 10
Share Performance (RM)
All in Figures in RM 2024 2023 2022 2021 2020
Year High 3.49 3.78 4.28 3.70 1.55
Year Low 2.75 2.60 2.69 1.09 0.82
Year Close 2.98 3.10 2.84 3.23 1.20
Market Capitalisation
(as at financial year end)
482.76 million 502.2 million 460.0 million 523.3 million 194.4 million
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
14
REVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Revenue
The Group recorded a decrease in revenue to RM3.90 billion for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 (“FY2024”) as against
RM5.35 billion recorded in the preceding financial year ended 30 June 2023 (“FY2023”).
This decrease of 27% was driven by lower demand from Africa region, mainly West Africa, and Middle East region. In Africa, this
was due to the Coup d’état that occurred in Niger in July 2023 which escalated into a political crisis affecting neighbouring countries
in West Africa. Demand from the Middle East weakened as a result of the crisis in the Red Sea region which led to a sharp increase
in freight costs affecting shipments to Middle East and East Africa ports.
As our primary operations is the export of fast moving consumer goods, the weakened MYR relative to USD throughout FY2024 resulted
in favourable average foreign exchange rates to cushion the demand challenges in the financial year under review. The opening of
MYR/USD commenced the financial year at MYR 4.60 per 1 USD and peaked at MYR 4.77 in April 2024, ending at MYR 4.71 for
June 2024. The overall average for the year stood at RM4.70/USD. This is a 4.47% increase as against the previous financial year
average of MYR 4.495 to 1 USD.
The Group has successfully navigated global challenges by expanding its product range and diversifying its sales mix, which has
minimised revenue losses and reduced reliance on a single product, showcasing the team’s adaptability and strategic thinking.
Profit After Tax (“PAT”) And Expenses
The Group’s PAT decrease of 30% to RM 117.17 million for the current year from RM166.51 million in the previous year is in line
with the decrease in revenue due to market challenges mentioned above. While absolute PAT saw a decrease during the year, the
overall PAT and Gross Profit margin still remain strong at 3.01% and 6.49%, respectively for the Group compared to 6.66% and
3.11% in FY2023.
Operating expenses decreased from RM165.78 million to RM 113.71 million during the year, a 31% decrease compared to the
previous year. The decrease was due to lower realised/unrealised gain from derivatives arising from hedged foreign exchange
contracts of our sales proceeds. This is consistent with the more stable currency fluctuation and lower overall volume throughout the year
under review compared to the previous financial year.
Finance costs decreased by 8% from RM17.08 million to RM15.71 million in the reporting period. This is mainly due to lower utilisation
of trade facilities aimed at funding the necessary working capital to fulfil sales orders. As a result, the finance cost also increased to
0.4% compared to 0.32% in the previous year due to the lower revenue.
Assets: Trade Receivables
Trade receivables decreased by 46% from RM706.23 million to RM383.62 million, with the average outstanding period shortening
from 48 days in FY2023 to 36 days in FY2024. The drop in revenue resulted in a RM322 million reduction in receivables.
Although this may not be seen as entirely favourable, the receivable turnover days have improved significantly, reducing by 12
days due to the lower overall receivables from customers compared to the previous reporting period.
Assets: Inventories
There was an increase in inventories by 4%, from RM71.68 million in the previous financial year to RM74.56 million. This
increase is mainly a result of higher average commodity prices recorded at the balance sheet date under review. For reference,
average crude palm oil (“CPO”) prices in June 2023 were at RM3,525/MT and RM3,957/MT in the current reporting period,
a 12% variance.
Assets: Cash And Bank Balances
The Group’s bank balances and deposits placed with financial institutions increased by 47%, from RM250.52 million to RM368.48
million. This was primarily due to improved collection during FY2024, correlating with the lower receivables at year end.
Liabilities: Trade and Other Payables
The Group’s trade and other payables decreased 36% to RM148.01 million from RM229.59 million in FY2023. This is in line with
the lower average commodity prices recorded at the balance sheet date under review and lower sales over the period.
Capital Structure and Capital Resources
The Group remains prudent in maintaining a sound financial position to enable the execution of strategic objectives in creating
value over the coming years. The Group’s borrowings decreased by 24.35%, from RM420.97 million to RM318.48 million during
the year. The net debt to equity ratio of 103% reported as at 30 June 2023 decreased to a negative position as at 30 June 2024.
The lower level of borrowings has also resulted in our shareholders’ funds being higher by RM136.3 million than our borrowings.
This is unlike the previous year where our borrowings were RM10.6 million more than our shareholders’ funds.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(continued)
15
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
REVIEW OF OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Operating Activities
Despite these challenging times, the Group is satisfied with the current period’s performance. The Group’s Earnings Before Interest
and Taxation (EBIT) of RM139.11 million a 26.84% decrease from the RM190.14 million recorded in the previous period. This is
in line with the decrease in sales throughout the year.
Overall, the Group’s cash conversion cycle has also seen impressive improvements. Total cash conversion cycle days have gone
from 36 days in FY2023 to 43 days in FY2024.
Besides the Group’s product diversification and margin improvement strategies, there were no further significant developments in
the operating activities during the financial year.
The Group takes pride in its commitment to safeguarding employees’ well-being by consistently maintaining full take-home salaries,
annual bonuses and timely salary increments throughout the challenging past years. This dedication remains resolute even in
anticipation of future challenges and uncertainties.
ANTICIPATED OR KNOWN RISKS
Foreign Exchange Risk
The Group faces significant foreign exchange risks due to its extensive international operations, with approximately 95% of its
products exported globally each year. This high level of exposure to currency fluctuations poses a potential impact on the Group’s
financial performance. To mitigate this risk, the Group actively manages its foreign exchange exposure by utilising forward
currency contracts wherever feasible. These contracts manage exchange rate risks and reduce the uncertainty associated with
currency movements, safeguarding the Group’s profitability and ensuring more stable financial outcomes.
Country Risk
The financial performance of the Group is heavily influenced by the political, economic, and regulatory conditions in the countries
where its products are imported. Adverse developments in these areas, such as political instability, economic downturns, or
sudden regulatory changes, could lead to significant challenges including contract defaults, difficulties in collection, bad debts,
and potential loss of market share.
To mitigate these risks, the Group not only closely monitors the situation in importing countries on a weekly or even daily basis
but also relies on strong, long-standing relationships and an extensive market network within these regions. These deep-rooted
connections provide valuable insights into local conditions and foster trust, which help navigate challenges and reduce the
likelihood of adverse outcomes. By leveraging these established relationships and networks, the Group is better positioned to
anticipate and respond to potential risks, ensuring more stable and secure operations in its international markets.
FUTURE PROSPECTS, POSSIBLE TRENDS AND OUTLOOK
EDIBLE OIL DIVISION
Palm Oil Supply Pressures - Impact of Climate Crisis on Palm Oil
i) Weather
In 2024, CPO supply will be heavily influenced by weather conditions linked to the climate crisis. Malaysia’s palm oil production
is expected to enter a high-output phase starting in March, which could potentially lower prices. Should a strong La Niña event
occur, production might increase further, with estimates suggesting Malaysia’s output could reach up to 19 million tonnes.
Fresh fruit bunches (FFB) are anticipated to experience optimal growth in 2024, driven by higher yields and minimal disruptions
from El Niño. Production costs are likely to decrease due to increase output and lower fertiliser prices. The Malaysian Palm Oil
Board (MPOB) and analysts are predicting higher palm oil production this year, supported by favourable weather conditions.
As labour shortages ease and favourable weather continue, production is expected to improve in the second half of 2024. A potential
transition from El Niño-neutral conditions to La Niña could bring above-normal rainfall to Malaysia, boosting palm oil production but
also increasing price volatility. However, global palm oil supply growth is projected to slow to 1.8% in 2024, influenced by factors
such as El Niño’s impact, replanting activities, and ageing plantations. While favourable weather could result in a bumper crop next
year, excessive rainfall from La Niña could disrupt harvesting and transportation, posing challenges to the industry.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
16
ii) Labour
CPO prices are expected to remain volatile due to ongoing market and weather uncertainties. However, an anticipated increase
in palm oil production in the coming months could lead to higher inventories, potentially exerting downward pressure on prices. A
significant factor driving this potential production increase is the easing of labour shortages in the Malaysian palm oil sector.
The Malaysian government has made crucial efforts to address these labour shortages, particularly by allowing the hiring of foreign
workers. With the industry facing a shortfall of around 40,000 workers, the influx of foreign labour is expected to greatly enhance
productivity, potentially boosting palm oil output by up to one (1) million MTs this year.
As labour constraints ease, worker productivity at palm oil estates has already improved, supporting higher levels of harvesting and
processing, especially in the second half of 2024. Combined with favourable weather conditions, these improvements are likely to
increase overall production efficiency, contributing to a rise in palm oil output. As production picks up, the additional supply could
lead to increased inventories, placing downward pressure on CPO prices, although the sector’s enhanced capacity will help mitigate
some of the previous supply-side challenges.
Palm Oil Demand Pressures
a) Indonesia B50 Biodiesel Programme
Indonesian Agriculture Minister Andi Amran Sulaiman recently launched the B50 Biodiesel programme in South Kalimantan, marking
a significant milestone in Indonesia’s pursuit of national energy independence over the next 5-10 years. The domestic demand for
palm oil-based biodiesel is expected to be particularly strong, playing a crucial role in enhancing national energy security.
As part of Indonesia’s national priority energy programme, the government aims to boost biofuel usage through the implementation
of B50 biodiesel and E10 bioethanol programmes, which will help reduce the country’s reliance on crude oil and fuel imports.
This strategy is considered a vital economic policy tool for addressing global food and energy crises.
Since 2019, Indonesia has been advancing its biodiesel programme, starting with the development of B100, a biodiesel made
entirely from palm oil. Under President Joko Widodo’s administration, the palm oil blend in biodiesel has progressively increased,
moving from B15 in 2015 to B35 in 2023. The B50 mandate is expected to further reduce palm oil exports, tightening global
supply and supporting CPO prices. As the government plans to increase the biodiesel blend further, this will likely boost domestic
palm oil consumption, impacting the global availability of CPO and exerting upward pressure on prices.
b) Palm Oil against Alternative Vegetable Oils
The demand for palm oil is under increasing strain as the price gap between CPO and alternative vegetable oils like soybean
and canola oil continues to narrow. This tightening price spread reduces palm oil’s competitive edge, especially against these
substitutes, limiting the potential for significant price hikes. Additionally, heightened competition from other edible oils and large
stockpiles in key destination markets are likely to keep CPO prices from rising substantially.
Even with these challenges, palm oil continues to hold a dominant position in the global oils and fats market, accounting for 32% of
global production and 53% of exports. This means that palm oil represents more than half of the vegetable oil exports worldwide,
highlighting its substantial role in the market. However, this dominance is being challenged by the abundant supply of soybean oil
from North America, CPO’s closest competitor for food and fuel uses. With a record global soybean harvest expected to reach
421.6 million tonnes in the 2024/25 season, the resulting increase in soybean oil supply is likely to put additional downward
pressure on palm oil prices due to the substitution effect.
Despite these pressures, palm oil remains attractive, particularly among buyers outside the United States (“US”) and European
Union (“EU”), such as those in India, China, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Turkiye, Africa, and the Middle East. These markets are
drawn to palm oil’s cost advantage, which stems from the high yield efficiency and sustainability of palm trees, leading to more
competitive pricing. Additionally, the rapid shipping times cater to the needs of price-sensitive Asian buyers, further enhancing
palm oil’s appeal. While the price gap between palm oil and soybean oil is becoming more balanced, palm oil continues to be
a compelling alternative, maintaining its significance in the global market despite the challenging environment.
c) Geopolitical Tensions and its Impact on Freight Costs
Geopolitical tensions are having a significant impact on global freight costs, reducing the price competitiveness of palm oil
compared to alternative vegetable oils like soybean and canola. As freight costs rise, palm oil’s cost advantage diminishes,
particularly for lower-income nations, which may lead to a decrease in demand for palm-based cooking oils.
The situation is further exacerbated by US sanctions on Chinese imports, which disrupt trade flows and force companies to seek
alternative sources and routes. This adds complexity and cost to maritime logistics, contributing to the volatility of shipping rates.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(continued)
17
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
Broader economic factors, such as inflation and shifts in consumer behaviour, are also driving up operational costs across the
logistics sector, further increasing freight rates and affecting global transportation strategies.
Geopolitical instability, particularly in the Red Sea region, is causing additional challenges for global shipping. Attacks by Houthi
militias have led to higher freight costs and increased insurance premiums, as shipowners reroute vessels around the Cape of Good
Hope to avoid the Suez Canal. This rerouting results in longer transit times, higher fuel consumption and greater environmental impact,
all of which contribute to a significant rise in shipping costs. The resurgence of piracy around the Horn of Africa further adds to the
risks and expenses associated with global shipping, underscoring the need for adaptive strategies to navigate these turbulent times.
d) Continued Demonisation of Palm Oil to Protect Domestic Oilseed Oils
The ongoing negative perception of palm oil by Western governments is viewed as a protective measure for other oilseed
producers. The EU’s newly enacted regulations, which ban the import of commodities linked to deforestation, are seen as a
strategic effort to limit palm oil access to the EU market.
While this ban might not significantly reduce Europe’s palm oil imports, it could harm the overall reputation of palm oil products,
potentially creating misconceptions among consumers. The Group mainly targets markets in Africa, the Middle East and the Indian
Subcontinent. The Malaysian Palm Oil Council (MPOC) has urged the EU to provide clearer definitions of ‘high-risk’ countries under
the new Deforestation Regulation, arguing that scientific evidence justifies Malaysia’s exclusion from this category. There is also
concern that regulations related to forced labour could create additional trade barriers.
Palm oil demand is anticipated to remain steady in the second half of 2024, provided there are no unfavourable implementations
of government and/or regional policies like the EU Deforestation Regulation. This regulation will require companies importing
products made from wood, cattle, cocoa, coffee, palm oil and soy to submit a “due diligence” statement confirming that the goods
were not sourced from deforested areas or linked to forest degradation.
Preparing for Future Opportunities by the Edible Oil Division
The Edible Oil Division is committed to expanding its customer base across diverse markets while optimising costs and operational
efficiency. The Group is focused on making critical enhancements and expanding its subsidiaries, Palmtop and CRSB, to support
anticipated business growth, including increasing in-house production capacities to meet rising demand.
Currently, the construction and development of new facilities, as well as the expansion of existing ones, are underway and
progressing well. These developments are crucial in ensuring that the Group is well-equipped to handle future demand and
capitalise on growth opportunities.
Despite the challenges posed by unpredictable weather patterns and escalating geopolitical tensions, the Group remains optimistic
about its future prospects, given its position in the nondiscretionary segment of the consumer market. With a presence in over
100 countries and a product portfolio that includes essential household staples such as vegetable cooking oil, rice, noodles, milk
products and tomato paste, the Group is confident that demand will remain robust.
TAP AND SANITARY WARE DIVISION
In FY2024, CIH’s Tap and Sanitary Ware Division has successfully rebounded from the operational slowdown caused by the
pandemic-induced downturn in the construction sector. With construction projects advancing and nearing completion, there has been
a noticeable increase in demand for essential fixtures, including toilet bowls, taps and bidets. The resumption of normal activities
post-pandemic means that many completed projects are now entering the crucial phase of installing these fixtures, driving up order
volumes for our division.
a) Special Purpose Product Range
Our specially designed product range, which includes toilet bowls, taps and bidets tailored for medical facilities, high-risk buildings
and environments exposed to seawater, continues to see strong demand. These products, developed for specific needs such as
hospitals, prisons and oil rigs, play a vital role in maintaining the division’s market presence in these specialised sectors.
b) Mega Transport Projects
Transport infrastructure remains a significant revenue driver for the division. Ongoing and planned projects, including the East
Coast Rail Link, West Coast Expressway, light rail transit (“LRT”) 3 and the Penang Mutiara LRT with its 22 stations, ensure continued
demand for our range of sanitary ware products. The division is well-prepared to support both the development and maintenance
phases of these large-scale projects.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
18
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(continued)
c) Mixed Development Schemes
The Malaysian Government’s push for medium-scale development alongside affordable housing is expected to lead to increased
demand for a wider range of products. This initiative will likely result in a more balanced sales mix across our product lines,
including toilet bowls, taps and bidets, enhancing our market reach and overall profitability.
d) Mandatory Product Certifications by Suruhanjaya Perkhidmatan Air Negara (“SPAN”)
SPAN has recently enforced mandatory certifications for all sanitary ware suppliers and manufacturers. CIH’s commitment to high-
quality standards and certified products positions us to benefit from this regulatory change. By championing quality, we not only
meet regulatory requirements but also improve the overall market by reducing the prevalence of sub-standard products. This focus
on quality enhances customer satisfaction, lowers maintenance costs and reduces the total cost of ownership for our end-users.
Strong Brand in Quality and Service
CIH’s Tap and Sanitary Ware Division is widely recognised for its strong brand, synonymous with quality and reputable product
standards. Our commitment to deliver high-quality products and exceptional service continues to build trust and loyalty among our
customers, ensuring our competitive edge in the market.
In summary, the Tap and Sanitary Ware Division is poised for continued growth in FY2024, supported by a strategic product
range, ongoing mega transport projects and favourable regulatory changes. With a strong brand reputation for quality and
service, along with a diverse product mix, including our toilet bowls, taps, and bidets, the division is well-positioned to remain a
leader in the market.
Despite the opportunities and value presented by the DOE Group, CIH Group plans to divest this division to interested parties. This
strategic decision allows the Group to concentrate its efforts and resources on the Edible Oil Division, aiming to enhance growth
through more synergistic investments in this core business area.
Appreciation
CIH would like to take this opportunity to express our deepest gratitude to Encik Azril Akmar Bin Attan Akmar, our former Chief
Executive Officer of CRSB, and previously the Chief Financial Officer at Palmtop, for his invaluable contributions and dedicated
service during his tenure. His leadership and commitment have been instrumental in guiding the Company through various
milestones, and we wish him all the best in his future endeavours.
The Group also extends heartfelt thanks to our shareholders for their unwavering trust and support. Your continued faith in our
vision and strategy is a cornerstone of our success. We are equally grateful to our employees, whose hard work, dedication
and commitment to sustainability drive our achievements daily. Your relentless pursuit of excellence is the engine that powers
our growth.
Additionally, CIH sincerely appreciates our customers, whose support and confidence in our offerings have been pivotal to
our sustained success. Your belief in CIH inspires us to continuously innovate, improve and integrate sustainability into every
aspect of our operations.
As we move forward, energised by our collective commitment to nurturing long-term value and sustainability, the Group is
well-positioned to build a stronger, more sustainable future. We eagerly anticipate the next steps on this journey, confident that
together, we will achieve outcomes that generate shared value for all stakeholders involved in our business. CIH will continue
to strive towards excellence, growth and sustainability, creating a lasting impact for the communities and markets we serve.
Dividend Policy
The Group does not have a formal dividend policy in place due to the potential future requirements of funds for expansions and
growth. However, notwithstanding this, the Group has consistently declared dividends annually, reflecting our commitment to
delivering value to our shareholders. This balanced approach allows CIH to reward its shareholders for their support while also
retain sufficient capital to reinvest in the business, ensuring that we are well-positioned to capitalise on growth opportunities and
maintain our competitive edge in the market. By managing our resources prudently, the Group aims to achieve sustainable growth
and long-term success.
19
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
Sustainability is at the core of the C.I. Holdings Berhad (“CIH”)’s and its subsidiaries’ (“the Group”) business practices, guiding our
decisions and development. The Board of Directors sets the sustainability strategy and oversees corporate performance, while the Group
Managing Director ensures targets are achieved.
The Sustainability Statement details our practices and performance for the financial year ended 30 June 2024. This encompasses
corporate governance, stakeholder engagement, safe and healthy workspaces, environmental impact and community contributions.
By embedding sustainability into our core strategy, we gain a competitive edge by mitigating risks and capitalising on opportunities.
Promoting sustainability fosters economic and social growth while reducing environmental impact. Our framework aligns with the Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Malaysia”)’s Sustainability Reporting Guide, addressing economic, environmental and social risks
and opportunities.
This Statement adheres to transparent reporting standards, demonstrating the Group’s commitment to sustainable business operations.
CIH releases this statement annually, alongside the Annual Report. It covers progress and performance in the context of economic,
environmental, social and governance (“EESG”) activities from 1 July 2023 to 30 June 2024 (“FY2024”), unless otherwise specified.
Scope and Basis of Scope
The scope of this report includes the Group’s principal business divisions:
• Edible Oil Division (Packaging Manufacturing, Filling and Distribution)
• Tap and Sanitary Ware Division (Manufacturing and Distribution)
• Investment Holding
This Statement excludes our offices in Dubai, Uganda and Nigeria due to their minimal operations.
For the purpose of Sustainability Statement 2024, the Group disclosed three (3) financial years’ data where specified.
References to CIH, ”the Company”, ”the Group” and ”the Organisation” refer to CIH and its business divisions.
Reporting Framework
Reporting Framework CIH adhered to the following local and international guidelines when preparing this Sustainability Statement:
• Bursa Malaysia’s Sustainability Reporting Guide (3rd Edition) including the latest amendments and enhanced requirements.
• Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Universal Standards.
• Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) Recommendations.
• Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (“SASB”) Standards.
• International Sustainability Standards Boards (“ISSB”) Standards.
Principles applied in preparing this Statement:
• Principles for defining report content
- Stakeholder Inclusiveness
- Sustainability Context
- Materiality
- Completeness
• Principles for defining report quality
- Balance
- Timeliness
- Comparability
- Clarity
- Accuracy
- Reliability
Alignment with United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (“UNSDGs”) and TCFD
CIH supports the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and the 17 UNSDGs and will continue mapping its materiality matters
against these goals.
The Group is formalising its climate-related strategies and targets reporting them in future reports, including:
• Setting baselines and targets
• Disclosing our progress towards complete alignment with the TCFD
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
20
Feedback
We welcome and encourage our stakeholders to provide feedback pertaining to this Statement and the issues covered to our
sustainability department at info@cih.com.my.
Sustainability at CIH
The Board of Directors leads the Group’s sustainability approach, setting a strong tone for embedding sustainability throughout the
organisation and managing EESG risks and opportunities. Supported by the Audit, Risk Management and Sustainability (“ARMS”)
Committee, the Board ensures that sustainability efforts and policies align with the Group’s core principles and strategic goals.
The Group’s sustainability governance is integrated into its broader corporate governance framework, with expanded responsibilities for
the Board and its committees to include sustainability elements, as reflected in their respective terms of reference. This comprehensive
approach underscores the Group’s dedication to sustainable practices and positions the organisation to effectively address challenges
and leverage opportunities for long-term growth and impact.
Stakeholder Engagement
CIH is committed to responsible business practices, regularly engaging with a diverse range of internal and external stakeholders to
better understand and manage its sustainability impacts. Management employed various engagement methods, such as direct dialogue,
surveys, participation in industry forums and information sharing, to ensure ongoing communication on key issues. These interactions
enabled the Group to address material concerns and stay informed about emerging opportunities and risks.
The Group’s key stakeholders, identified based on their influence on and dependence on the business, include shareholders, investors,
government agencies, regulators, customers, employees, communities, NGOs, suppliers, contractors and media. CIH prioritises
maintaining open and constructive communication with these stakeholders through regular formal and informal engagements, which
helps the Group to respond more effectively to their needs and align its practices with sustainability objectives.
Stakeholder
Group
Areas of Interest Methods of Engagement Monthly Quarterly
Twice a
Year
Annually
Every
Two (2)
Years
As and
When
Required
Employees
• Career
opportunities
• Work-life
balance
• Skills 		
development
• Benefits and
rewards
• Equity
Employee performance and
key performance indicator
(“KPI”) review
/
Briefing sessions on good ethics
and our Whistleblowing Policy
/
Periodical medical
check-up reviews
/
Induction, training and
competency development
/
Discussions on work planning /
Occupational safety and health /
Committee meetings /
Safety briefings to employees and
workers
/
Safety and competency training /
Regular business communication /
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
21
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
Stakeholder
Group
Areas of Interest Methods of Engagement Monthly Quarterly
Twice a
Year
Annually
Every
Two (2)
Years
As and
When
Required
Employees
• Career
opportunities
• Work-life
balance
• Skills 		
development
• Benefits and
rewards
• Equity
Periodic inspections /
Briefings on good labour
practices and awareness
/
Materiality surveys /
Employee commuting surveys /
Employee satisfaction surveys /
Employee engagement
programmes
(Town Hall/Employee
Appreciation Programmes
eg. Long Service/Festive
Celebrations/Family Day)
/
Employee Social Clubs /
Customers
• Local Buyers
• Foreign Buyers
Customer Feedback Management /
Customer support centre /
Market research /
Events, dialogue sessions,
roadshows and
engagement sessions
/
Suppliers
• Local 		
partnerships
• Business
relationships
• Operational
efficiency
Periodical reporting /
Interviews/meetings for
participation in the procurement
as a contractor/vendor
/
Safety briefings /
Vendor performance
appraisal processes
/ /
Due diligence activities /
Periodic inspections of compliance
with legal requirements
/
Discussions with contractor/vendor
on relevant laws and regulations
/
Digital/manual platform for
submission of complaints/
feedback by respective
stakeholders
/
Materiality surveys /
Vendor Development Programme
(VDP)
/
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
22
Stakeholder
Group
Areas of Interest Methods of Engagement Monthly Quarterly
Twice a
Year
Annually
Every
Two (2)
Years
As and
When
Required
Government
and
Regulators
• Compliance
• Nation-
building
agenda
• Partnerships
and
collaborations
Audit reports /
Issuance of employment permit for
foreign workers
/
Annual fire drills /
Construction Industry Development
Board (CIDB) and National Institute
of Occupational Safety and Health
(NIOSH) briefings
/
Quarterly updates on
financial results
/
Materiality surveys /
Formal meetings /
Performance reports /
Discussions on
Government initiatives
/
Shareholders,
Investors,
and Business
Partners
• Investment
opportunities
• Long-term
sustainability
• Business
outlook
• Market
positioning
• Return on
Investment
• Dividends
• Governance
of EESG
risks and
opportunities
Evaluations of the Group scorecard /
Directors’ Circular Resolutions
(DCR)
/
External Audit reports /
Bursa Malaysia announcements
and share price movement
updates on the Investor
Relations section of the CIH
corporate website
/
Meetings with Management
and the Board
/
Feedback from respective
shareholders
/
Annual General Meeting (AGM) /
Extraordinary General Meeting
(EGM)
/
Press releases and statements
to the media
/
Materiality surveys /
Social contributions and
community outreach programme
/
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
23
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
Material Matters
CIH is adapting its sustainability strategies in response to rapid business changes and shifting stakeholder priorities. The Group regularly
updates its materiality assessment to stay relevant, recognising that addressing key issues is essential for creating long-term value. To
ensure ongoing success, CIH focuses on understanding its impact on society and the environment, assessing EESG-related risks and
opportunities, and aligning with stakeholder expectations.
Materiality Assessment Process
In FY2024, a moderate-scale materiality assessment involving internal stakeholders was conducted to address their concerns and
interests. The assessment influences business strategy and resource allocation for material sustainability issues.
Although a comprehensive assessment is planned every three (3) years, an annual review is conducted to ensure the relevance of
previously prioritised EESG impacts.
An issue is deemed material if it affects business aspects like growth, costs, risks, and trust and is significant to stakeholders such as
customers, employees, governments and investors.
These issues were also benchmarked against local and regional peers, considering emerging risks and relevant frameworks like Bursa
Malaysia’s Sustainability Reporting Guide, GRI Standards and SASB Standards.
CIH Materiality Assessment Framework
1. IDENTIFICATION
A list of potential issues was categorised into four areas: economic, environmental, social and governance. These issues were
identified through desk research, including peer reviews, media analysis and reviews of sustainability thought leadership from
industry experts and key sustainability guides.
2. PRIORITISATION
Stakeholder representatives were asked to rate the importance they placed on 17 areas of sustainability.
A total of 629 responses were recorded through an online survey.
Eight (8) Board Members were asked to complete a similar survey, the results of which represented the strategic importance to CIH.
3. REVIEW
The results were reviewed internally by CIH’s Sustainability Team. The review ensured that the process and material matters were
complete, well understood, included stakeholders’ perspectives and that all feedback was appropriately reflected.
Areas Covered by Materiality Assessment
The following 17 topics were included in our materiality assessment survey:
CIH Sustainability
Pillars
Areas Description
Related
GRI Topic
Related UNSDGs
Excellence in
Action
(ECONOMIC)
Supply Chain
Management
Integrating environmentally and
socially viable practices into the
complete supply chain
• Procurement
Practices
UNSDG#12
(Responsible Consumption
and Production)
Industrial
Advancement &
Nation Building
Advancing the industry by delivering
innovative solutions
• Indirect
Economic
Impacts
UNSDG#09
(Industry, Innovation and
Infrastructure)
UNSDG#11
(Sustainable Cities and
Communities)
UNSDG#17
(Partnerships for the Goals)
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
24
CIH Sustainability
Pillars
Areas Description
Related
GRI Topic
Related UNSDGs
Planet
Guardianship
(ENVIRONMENT)
Energy
Management
Management Managing energy
effectively to reduce consumption
whenever possible
• Energy
UNSDG#07
(Affordable and Clean Energy)
UNSDG#12
(Responsible Consumption
and Production)
GHG Emissions
Actively managing greenhouse gas
(“GHG”) emissions with the ultimate
target of achieving carbon neutrality
• Emissions
UNSDG#13
(Climate Action)
Waste
Management
Minimising all types of waste and
recycling whenever possible
• Effluents
and Waste
UNSDG#15
(Life on Land)
Water
Management
Using water efficiently at all
business operations
• Water
UNSDG#06
(Clean Water and Sanitation)
UNSDG#12
(Responsible Consumption
and Production)
Biodiversity &
Conservation
Protecting local flora and fauna • Biodiversity
UNSDG#14
(Life Below Water)
UNSDG#15
(Life on Land)
Empowering
People and
Communities
(SOCIAL)
Diversity
and Equal
Opportunity
Promoting fair employment practices
in the workplace, such as promoting
equal opportunities and eliminating
all forms of discrimination
• Diversity
and Equal
Opportunity
• Non-
discrimination
UNSDG#05
(Gender Equality)
UNSDG#08
(Decent Work and
Economic Growth)
UNSDG#10
(Reduced Inequalities)
Labour Practices
and Standards
Attracting and retaining talents
through competitive benefits and
compensation packages
• Employment
UNSDG#08
(Decent Work and
Economic Growth)
Respecting employees’ rights
to joint representation and
consultative practices
• Labour/
Management
Relations
• Freedom of
Association
and
Collective
Bargaining
UNSDG#08
(Decent Work and
Economic Growth)
UNSDG#17
(Partnerships for the Goals)
Providing training and education
to employees to expand their
knowledge base for career
development
• Training
and 		
Education
UNSDG#08
(Decent Work and
Economic Growth)
Protecting all aspects of human
rights, including protecting the
indigenous population, staff welfare
and security and ensuring there is no
child or forced labour
• Human
Rights
Assessment
• Rights of
Indigenous
Peoples
• Security
Practices
• Child 		
Labour
• Forced
Labour
UNSDG#16
(Peace, Justice, and Strong
Institutions)
UNSDG#17
(Partnerships for the Goals)
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
25
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
CIH Sustainability
Pillars
Areas Description
Related
GRI Topic
Related UNSDGs
Empowering
People and
Communities
(SOCIAL)
Local
Communities
Having a positive influence on local
communities through charitable
contributions and Corporate Social
Responsibility (CSR) initiatives
• Local 		
Communities
UNSDG#01
(No Poverty)
UNSDG#02
(Zero Hunger)
UNSDG#03
(Good Health and
Well-Being)
UNSDG#04
(Quality Education)
UNSDG#11
(Sustainable Cities and
Communities)
Occupational
Health and
Safety
Safeguarding employees’ physical
and mental health and keeping all
stakeholders safe and free from
injury, noncommunicable and
infectious diseases and noise
• Occupational
Health and
Safety
• Customer
Health and
Safety
UNSDG#03
(Good Health and
Well-Being)
Quality &
Customer
Satisfaction
Promoting quality throughout all
aspects of operations to ensure high
levels of customer satisfaction
• Not 		
Applicable
(”N/A”)
UNSDG#12
(Responsible Consumption
and Production)
Integrity
Compass
(GOVERNANCE)
Ethical
Conduct and
Compliance
Preventing anti-competitive behaviour
and corruption while complying with
all other economic, environmental
and social legislation
• Anti-		
competitive
Behaviour
• Environmental
Compliance
• Socio-		
economic
Compliance
UNSDG#16
(Peace, Justice and
Strong Institutions)
UNSDG#17
(Partnerships for the Goals)
Data Privacy
and Security
Protecting all information, including
confidential business data, employee
information and customers data privacy
• Customer
Privacy
Corporate
Governance
Delivering good and transparent
corporate governance systems such
as a balanced Board composition,
stringent internal controls and a
structured organisational framework
• N/A
Anti-Corruption
Encouraging stakeholders to report
improper conduct and protecting
those making a report in good faith
from retaliation
• Anti-
corruption
Sustainability
Risks
Management
Managing product, supplier,
business, brand and sustainability
risks across the value chain
• N/A
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
26
Materiality Assessment Results
This year, the material topics were updated from nine (9) in FY2023 to 16, aligning with CIH’s strategic priorities and
stakeholder expectations.
CIH’s sustainability materiality assessment forms the cornerstone of the Group’s sustainability strategy, guiding the Group to concentrate
on areas where it can make the most meaningful impact and provide relevant reporting to stakeholders.
The updated Materiality Matrix sharpens our focus on key material matters, which are the foundation of this report, while the associated
indicators enable us to monitor and measure our sustainability practices and performance.
Risk Management
CIH aligns its risk management process with sustainability concerns to enhance preparedness and resilience by identifying and managing
potential risks faced by the organisation.
Our Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) framework incorporates sustainability and climate-related risks alongside corporate, financial
and operational risks. We maintain all identified risks within our risk appetite through regular review and monitoring by designated risk
owners and the Risk and Sustainability Team, with further oversight by the ARMS Committee.
For further information on our risk management framework please refer to our Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
27
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
Sustainability Framework
CIH’s sustainability framework has been enhanced to seamlessly integrate with our business strategy, reflecting the Group’s vision and
mission. This framework is designed to meet the expectations of our stakeholders, minimise our environmental footprint, and make a
meaningful contribution to the communities where we operate.
The framework highlights our key focus areas: “Excellence in Action,” “Empowering People and Communities,” “Planet Guardianship,”
and “Integrity Compass.”
Our goal is to achieve the objectives within each focus area by effectively addressing the issues associated with our material matters.
VISION
MISSION
Excellence
in Action
(ECONOMIC)
Economic
Performance
Supply Chain
Management
Customer
Satisfaction
To develop and enhance a comprehensive
portfolio of consumer brands to enable the generation of
sustainable profit growth and extraordinary investment returns for our shareholders.
To develop sustainable products with innovative fulfillment processes that minimises impact
on our environment and benefiting all stakeholders.
Driving sustainable growth
through an ethical
supply chain to deliver
customer expectations
and satisfaction.
Cultivating an inclusive and
diverse culture, prioritising
employee well-being,
and contributing to
local communities.
Actively managing carbon
footprint and minimising
environmental impact while
promoting responsible
resource management.
Unwaving governance,
crystal-clear transparency,
steadfast accountability,
and a commitment to
ethical excellence.
Empowering People
and Communities
(SOCIAL)
Health & Safety
Employee
Management
Community
Investment
Planet
Guardianship
(ENVIRONMENT)
Carbon Emissions
Management
Waste & Eﬄuent
Management
Water
Management
Integrity
Compass
(GOVERNANCE)
Ethical Conduct,
Anti-Corruption
& Compliance
Cybersecurity &
Date Protection
Risk
Management
In Alignment with: UNSDG, Bursa Sustainability Guidelines, GRI Standards, MCCG, SASB, ISSB, TCFD
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
28
Management Approach for Material Matters
Economic
CIH understands that sustaining our operations begins with strong economic performance, enabling us to pursue growth initiatives
and create lasting value. Committed to building businesses that generate sustainable profits and deliver premium returns to
shareholders, CIH recognises that success in today’s global economy—defined by the dynamic flow of products, services,
people, ideas and capital—requires a focus on sustainable innovation.
Economic Performance
Our financial performance is crucial to creating long-term value and advancing the Group’s sustainability goals. We are committed
to create meaningful employment opportunities and foster economic development in local communities. Our ultimate aim is to ensure
long-term resilience by leveraging our assets and sharing the wealth generated with our stakeholders. By fostering strong relationships
with business partners, suppliers and authorities, we ensure smooth operations and secure essential financing.
At CIH we monitor the following metrics in respect of our Economic Performance component of our Sustainability Framework:
i. Economic Generation
CIH’s method for ensuring sustained and solid economic performance involves implementing our business strategy by staying
aligned with market trends, maintaining a strong balance sheet and cash flow, advancing technology, mitigating key business risks
and exploring market expansion through geographical diversification.
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Economic value generated (i.e., revenue) MYR '000 4,046,102 5,347,165 3,895,568
Economic value retained MYR '000 119,360 166,514 117
,170
CIH generates an average revenue of RM4.4 billion, with the majority stemming from export sales. We are mindful of our modest
impact on the Malaysian ringgit and our contribution to the local economy, even as we observe a reduction in overall economic
value due to tough market conditions.
The financial results presented in the table are derived from the audited financial statement and our Management Discussion and
Analysis in our Annual Reports. For further commentary on our performance, please refer to the respective sections.
ii. Economic Ripple
CIH is committed to responsible procurement and strengthening supply chain resilience by integrating sustainability into our
procurement processes. We prioritise sourcing from local suppliers and supporting SMEs to drive economic growth in our
communities. We also extend our sustainability expectations to all suppliers, including contractors, service providers and consultants.
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Economic value distributed (i.e., operating
costs, employee wages and benefits,
payments to providers of capital, payments
to government and community investments)
MYR '000 3,926,742 5,187,010 3,778,398
Total Number of EXISTING Suppliers Number 490 632 708
Local suppliers Number 384 500 551
Foreign suppliers Number 106 132 157
Proportion of local suppliers by number % 78.37 79.11 77
.82
Proportion of spending on local suppliers by
MYR Value
% 98.31 96.35 92.85
Despite challenging economic and market conditions, the Group has successfully distributed RM 3.78 billion through our operations.
Over the past three (3) years, more than 90% of the economic value we have shared has directly benefited local stakeholders.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
29
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Our focus remains on improving economic performance by generating and distributing value to stakeholders, driving industrial progress
and contributing to nation-building, while prioritising local suppliers to foster sustainable development and long-term community benefits.
Supply Chain Management
CIH is working towards responsible procurement by integrating sustainability into our processes, from supplier registration to annual
assessments. While still in progress, we aim to require all suppliers to meet standards in ethics, health and safety, environmental
management and human rights. We plan to categorise suppliers, conduct annual reviews and implement programs to support sustainable
sourcing over time.
We are actively monitoring the following metrics as part of our Sustainable Supply Chain Management in our Sustainability Framework:
i. Existing Supplier Social & Environmental Assessment
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Total Number of EXISTING Suppliers Number 490 632 708
Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts Number 6 5 4
Number of suppliers assessed for
environmental impacts
Number 199 219 235
iI. New Supplier Social & Environmental Assessment
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Total Number of NEW Suppliers Number 2 12 14
Percentage of new suppliers that were screened
using environmental criteria
% – – –
Percentage of new suppliers that were screened
using social criteria
% 100 – –
Customer Satisfaction & Product Responsibility
Customer satisfaction is the Group’s top priority, we are committed to deliver products that meet all regulatory, safety and quality
standards, ensuring they fulfil our customers’ requirements. We aim to enhance customer satisfaction by considering their feedback,
collaborating with suppliers who share our dedication to excellence and maintaining high-quality standards across all our products
and services.
To achieve this, we plan to increase the frequency of our Customer Satisfaction Survey (CSS) to better understand areas for improvement
and refine our offerings. Quality management systems are in place to oversee processes from planning and development to production
and after-sales services, ensuring strict adherence to all standards.
The Group is dedicated to complying with the quality standards set by government agencies, licensing bodies in Malaysia, importing
countries and our customers. Additionally, we intend to offer customer support platforms, such as a hotline and live chat, for feedback
and complaints, with plans to address any identified areas of dissatisfaction through targeted solutions.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
30 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The Group has been endorsed with the following certifications and accreditations that aim to guarantee the quality of the products for
consumption and use:
Edible Oil Division Tap and Sanitary Ware Division
ISO 22000 : 2018 by AJA Europe
HACCP by SIRIM QAS & by Ministry of Health Malaysia
HALAL by JAKIM
KOSHER by Orthodox Jewish Community of Singapore
GMP by Ministry of Health Malaysia
MeSTI by Ministry of Health Malaysia
RSPO by SIRIM QAS
MSPO by SIRIM QAS
Malaysian Standard (“MS”) 1184 : 2014
British Standard (“BS”) EN 200 : 2008
MS 795
MS 1522 : 2021
MS 147
MS 2578
BS EN 1213 : 2000
MS 2545 : 2014 /2022
Malaysian Water Efficiency Product Labelling Scheme
SPAN TS 3005 : 2021
SPAN TS 3004 : 2021
MS 1799 : 2020
BS 817 : 2008
The Group continues to support Malaysia’s growth and adoption of sustainable oil palm products by being an active member of the
Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO).
At CIH, we track the following metrics related to our Customer Satisfaction & Product Responsibility component within our
Sustainability Framework:
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Total significant product and service categories
for which health and safety impacts are assessed
for improvement
Number 18 20 20
Number of recalls issued and total units recalled for
health and safety reasons
Number – – –
Recalls issued and total units recalled for health and
safety reasons
Number – – –
We take pride in our track record of maintaining zero product recalls over the past few years and are committed to upholding this
standard to ensure the highest levels of health and safety.
Environment
CIH places environmental stewardship as an important pillar of our business growth, establishing environmental policies and operational
guidelines that align with its vision and social responsibilities. This includes fostering a green culture within and beyond the organisation
by increasing employee awareness.
CIH actively reduces environmental impact by managing key areas such as raw material usage, energy consumption, waste management
and supply chain optimisation. The Group has an ongoing program to minimise product wastage through optimised product and
packaging design, prioritising recycled materials and conserving energy by refining production processes.
Furthermore, CIH plans to develop new initiatives and to formalise a Climate Transition Strategy.
We frame the environmental pillar of our Sustainability Framework with three (3) main components, namely, Climate Change, Water
Management and Waste & Effluent Management.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
31
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Climate Change
CIH recognises its responsibility to reduce its carbon footprint and contribute to combating climate change, aiming to transition toward
a low-carbon economy. The Group is committed to minimising environmental impact and building operational resilience to create long-
term value for stakeholders and communities.
Additionally, CIH is focused on minimising our environmental footprint by optimising energy use, utilising recycled materials and
embracing technological innovations to further enhance energy efficiency and reduce emissions.
i. Energy Management
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Grid Electricity kWh 8,332,008 9,811,071 9,509,728
Petrol and Diesel Megawatt (“GJ”) 2,939 3,951 3,709
Electricity GJ 29,995 35,320 34,235
Total Renewable Energy GJ – – –
Total Non-Renewable Energy GJ 32,934 39,270 37
,944
Total Energy GJ 32,934 39,270 37
,944
CIH is committed to reduce its environmental impact by improving energy efficiency and actively managing greenhouse gas
emissions with the goal of achieving carbon neutrality. To decrease reliance on fossil fuels, we plan to explore the use of renewable
energy and gradually install solar panels on our factories and buildings.
The Group has already taken steps to conserve energy by using LED lighting in our facilities and installing energy-efficient air-
conditioning units. With a strong commitment to addressing climate change, CIH aims to become a low-carbon company through
continuous improvements in operational energy efficiency.
ii. GHG Emissions Management
CIH is committed to address climate change by improving operational efficiency, adopting green technologies, and implementing
energy-saving measures. The Group recognises that its energy consumption and GHG emissions contribute to climate change and
is dedicated to reducing its carbon footprint across all operations.
CIH is working towards managing and measuring its carbon emissions using the internationally recognised GHG Protocol,
established by the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) and the World Resources Institute (WRI). This
ensures accurate emissions accounting, covering both direct and indirect emissions.
Additionally, CIH has started tracking and monitoring Scope 3 emissions related to business travel and employee commuting and
has improved its disclosure of GHG emissions as part of its commitment to transparency.
CIH understands the significant risks and opportunities that climate change presents and works closely with regulators to address
these challenges. The Group acknowledges that climate change can impact both operating costs (OPEX) and capital expenditure
(CAPEX), potentially affecting the efficiency and performance of facilities.
To mitigate these risks, CIH is exploring various programs aimed at reducing GHG emissions throughout its value chain and is focused
on developing energy-efficient processes in collaboration with employees and supply chain partners. The Group also recognises the
need to comply with environmental regulations, which may require additional CAPEX for upgrading facilities to manage increased
pollution risks, further underscoring CIH’s commitment to environmental stewardship and responsible business practices.
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Scope 1: Petrol and diesel tCO2e 303 372 355
Scope 2: Electricity tCO2e 4,874 5,739 5,563
Scope 3: Business Travel tCO2e 2 1,169 514
Scope 3: Employee Commuting tCO2e – – 538
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
32 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Scope 1: Direct GHG Emissions
Scope 1 emissions are direct GHG emissions that occur from sources owned or controlled by the company, including emissions
resulting from the burning of fossil fuels in boilers, furnaces, company vehicles and other equipment operated by the Group.
Scope 2: Indirect GHG Emissions
Scope 2 emissions (indirect GHG emissions) account for GHG emissions generated from the consumption of purchased electricity
or other external energy sources used by The Group.
Scope 3: Other Indirect GHG Emissions
Scope 3 emissions are all other indirect emissions not covered under Scope 1 and Scope 2. Scope 3 emissions are a consequence
of the activities of the company but occur from sources not owned or controlled by the company.
Notes:
• Scope 1 and Scope 3 emissions factors are sourced from the GHG Protocol version 4.1.
• Scope 2 emissions factors for electricity grids are sourced from Malaysian Green Technology and Climate Change Corporation
(“MGTC”), published in 2021.
iii. Responsible Material Consumption
CIH’s waste minimisation strategy focuses on recovering both solid and liquid waste for reuse and recycling wherever possible. The
company responsibly disposes of downstream waste through municipal landfills or incinerators, while hazardous waste is collected
and properly managed by authorised third-party contractors.
To further reduce our environmental impact, we have initiated efforts to minimise the use of virgin materials by incorporating recycled
materials into our processes. Recyclable items such as rejected jerry cans, PET bottles, plastics, shrink wraps, caps, inserts, carton
boxes and wooden pallets are collected and sent to designated disposal areas, where they are sold as scrap to approved buyers,
promoting a circular approach to resource management.
The Group’s Edible Oil Division implements procedures to minimise production wastage. Oil leakages from dented tins, jerry cans
and spoiled PET bottles are rejected and sent to the rework area. Salvaged oil spillage is transferred to a dedicated bullet tank
and then filtered into a storage tank. Any remaining spillage flows into the drain and is collected by the oil trap system, eventually
sold as sludge oil to approved buyers.
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and package products and services
Vegetable Oil Metric Tonnes 391,906 548,330 497
,208
Packaging Pieces 67
,673,768 94,158,522 68,788,326
Flexibag Packaging Sets 567 935 1,097
Additives Kg 10,840 19,285 18,029
Resin Kg 20,930,000 24,542,300 28,682,550
Calcium Carbonate Kg 3,834,200 4,944,400 5,623,560
Colour Kg 1,229,280 2,075,658 958,206
The type and quantity of materials the company uses can indicate its dependence on natural resources and the impact of its
operations on their availability. Conversely, the company’s contribution to resource conservation can be shown by its approach to
recycling, reusing and reclaiming materials, products and packaging.
Water Management
Water Consumption
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Municipal water consumption Megalitres (“m3”) 39,490 59,218 41,275
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
33
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
CIH is committed to promoting water conservation and efficient resource management across its operations and supply chain. The
Group offers a wide range of water conservation products that help customers save water and energy, all of which comply with
Malaysia’s Green Building Index (GBI) and Singapore’s Water Efficiency Labelling Scheme (WELS). In supply chain management,
CIH prioritises working with suppliers who are ISO 14000 (Environmental Management System; EMS) certified, reinforcing our
dedication to environmental stewardship.
Although CIH does not operate in water-stressed regions, the Group is deeply committed to managing water resources efficiently
and minimising usage at all sites to address the global issue of water scarcity. By reporting the volume of water consumption, CIH
aims to better understand and mitigate its impact on downstream water availability, ensuring that water remains accessible for
ecosystems and local communities. Our water conservation efforts focus on reducing water use and improving efficiency across all
our operations.
Waste and Effluent Management
Waste Generation and Effluent Discharge
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Total scheduled waste Kg 15,506 14,947 13,368
Total solid waste generated Kg 744,626 1,248,960 1,482,550
Total waste Kg 760,132 1,263,907 1,495,918
Total waste diverted from disposal (recycled or
repurposed)
Kg 235,660 454,912 451,660
Total waste directed to disposal Kg 508,966 794,048 1,030,890
Total volume of water (effluent) discharge over the
reporting period
m3 55 – –
The Group’s Edible Oil Division implements procedures to minimise production wastage. Oil leakages from dented tins, jerry cans
and spoilt PET bottles are rejected and sent to the rework area. Salvaged oil spillage is then transferred to a dedicated bullet tank,
subsequently filtered into a storage tank. Any remaining spillage that flows into the drain and is eventually collected by the oil trap
system and sold as sludge oil to approved buyers.
Recyclable items like rejected jerry cans, PET bottles, plastics, shrink wraps, caps, inserts, carton boxes and wooden pallets are
collected and sent to the disposal area for approved buyers to purchase them as scrap items.
We have also undertaken initiatives to reduce our consumption of virgin materials by using recycled materials wherever possible.
Moving forward we aim to progressively increase the percentage of recycled materials used as we move towards our journey of
embracing a circular economy.
Social
Community and Society
Corporate responsibility is at the heart of CIH’s corporate culture, reflecting our commitment to being a responsible and socially
conscious organisation. We are dedicated to creating shared value and fostering a culture of giving that positively impacts the
communities we serve. This commitment is deeply embedded in our core values, identity and culture, driving us to contribute to a
stronger, more equitable society.
CIH aligns its community investment principles with its business strategy to achieve meaningful outcomes for both the company and the
local communities. Our efforts focus on building thriving communities through charitable work, donations and social support. We actively
support organisations that make a difference, contributing to various charities and foundations and providing essential products, such as
edible oil, to underprivileged communities to help alleviate the rising cost of living.
Our dedication to local communities is demonstrated through sustainable initiatives that support essential services and empower
individuals, ensuring that our impact is both lasting and positive. We believe that fostering strong relationships between businesses
and communities promotes social inclusion and leads to long-term, tangible benefits. At CIH, we strive to be a responsible corporate
citizen by investing in education and social welfare, nurturing local talent and preparing future leaders who will contribute to the
broader society.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
34 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Looking ahead, CIH plans to further encourage community service and volunteering among our employees, aligning these activities with
the development of both soft and technical skills. We are confident that these efforts will not only benefit the communities we serve but
also enhance the personal and professional growth of our talent pool, creating a virtuous cycle of empowerment and support.
Community Contributions
Categories
FY2022 FY2023 FY2024 3-Year Total
(MYR) (Pax) (MYR) (Pax) (MYR) (Pax) (MYR) (Pax)
Food & Economic 396,700 21,737 70,380 10,200 399,040 24,100 866,120 56,037
Education – – 190,000 1,900 10,000 100 200,000 2,000
Differently Abled – – 5,000 50 – – 5,000 50
Community 1,000 10 1,000 10 – – 2,000 20
TOTAL 397,700 21,747 266,380 12,160 409,040 24,200 1,073,120 58,107
Notes:
• Beneficiaries are estimated at RM100/head for lump sum contributions..
• RM value of in-kind donations are calculated at RM6.90/kg.
Health and Safety
At CIH, the health, safety and well-being of our workers are paramount. We are committed to integrating safe practices into our daily
operations and actively work to eliminate hazards. When elimination is not feasible, we take all reasonable steps to minimise risks to
our employees and others affected by our work. Our approach includes comprehensive occupational safety and health training to equip
workers with the knowledge needed to identify and manage workplace hazards, ensuring a safe working environment.
Our dedication to safety is demonstrated through regular inspections, maintenance, and the organisation of annual fire department
assessments and other safety awareness initiatives. The Group is also adequately insured to mitigate any economic losses from unforeseen
events. We continuously improve our safety management system to comply with relevant legislation and regulatory requirements, and we
strive to eliminate or minimise workplace risks while fostering a culture that values health, safety and well-being.
i. Fatalities
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Fatalities (employees) Number – – –
ii. Lost Time Incidents
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Incidents Number – 3 11
Working Hours Hours 1,102,079 1,218,444 1,355,660
Lost Time Incident Ratio – 0.49 1.62
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
35
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
iii. Occupational Health and Safety Training
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Employees trained on health and
safety standards
Number – 3 47
Employees receiving general training,
which includes safety
Number – 16 235
The Health and Safety Committee, led by a certified officer from the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH),
ensures the effectiveness of our safety policies. The committee conducts assessments, including Chemical Health Risk Assessments
(CHRA), Noise Mapping, Medical Exposure Monitoring, and audiometric tests, in accordance with the Occupational Safety and
Health Act (OSHA) 1994 to maintain compliance. The Group also prioritises clear communication of Standard Operating Procedures
(SOP) and best practices, as recommended by the Ministry of Health and the World Health Organization.
We are proud to report that in the current reporting year, the Group received no penalties related to occupational health and safety,
and there were no workplace fatalities. Our Occupational Health and Safety Policy applies to all employees, contractors, and
business partners, and is aligned with OSHA 1994, the Environmental Quality Act 1974, and other relevant regulations. Although we
acknowledge a lack of formal training over the past three years, our regular briefings, notices, and operational design measures have
effectively minimised health and safety risks, as evidenced by our zero fatality rate.
CIH’s unwavering commitment to health and safety ensures that the well-being of everyone in our work environment remains a top
priority, with continuous efforts to improve and comply with all applicable safety standards and regulations.
Talent Management
i. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (Staff)
CIH is committed to fostering a diverse, equitable and inclusive workplace that offers a competitive edge through a wide range of
perspectives and ideas. We actively promote equal employment opportunities and non-discrimination, ensuring that all employees,
regardless of gender, race, religion, age, or nationality are treated fairly. Competitive wages are provided without gender
discrimination and career advancement decisions are based solely on performance and merit.
Recognising employees as our most valuable assets, CIH aims to attract, develop and retain diverse talent across all levels. We
strive to create an inclusive environment where differences are celebrated and all employees feel valued and empowered to
be their authentic selves. The Group is committed to a zero-tolerance approach toward any form of discrimination, bullying, or
harassment, ensuring a workplace rooted in dignity, respect and compliance with the Employment Act 1955.
CIH consistently supports employees by maintaining full salaries, bonuses and timely increments, even during challenging times.
Inclusion is seen as essential for future success, driving innovation through diverse perspectives. The Group’s Code of Conduct
enforces fair employment standards and all employees undergo compliance training during onboarding. CIH also engages in
industry collaborations to improve labour standards and regularly reviews the practices of business partners to ensure compliance.
There were no breaches of labour standards or regulations in the current reporting period.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
36 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
TOTAL EMPLOYEES Number 560 637 642
Employees by gender
Management
Female % 0.18 0.16 0.16
Male % 1.07 1.26 0.78
Executive
Female % 12.50 13.50 14.64
Male % 11.79 11.15 9.81
Non-Executive
Female % 19.64 19.31 18.69
Male % 54.82 54.63 55.92
TOTAL
Female % 32.32 32.97 33.49
Male % 67
.68 67
.03 66.51
Employees by Age
Management
<30 % – – –
30-50 % – 0.16 0.16
>50 % 1.25 1.26 0.78
Executive
<30 % 6.96 6.28 5.92
30-50 % 13.75 13.50 13.71
>50 % 3.57 4.87 4.83
Non-Executive
<30 % 42.68 37
.36 31.78
30-50 % 31.61 35.32 41.43
>50 % 0.18 1.26 1.40
TOTAL
<30 % 49.64 43.64 37
.69
30-50 % 45.36 48.98 55.30
>50 % 5.00 7
.38 7
.01
Disabilities
Disabled Employees % – – –
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
Notes:
• Management refers to Top Management.
• Executive refers to Senior Management, Middle Management and Executive.
• Non-Executive refers Non-Executive, Technical Staff and General Workers.
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
37
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
ii. Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (Directors)
CIH recognises the importance of board diversity in driving innovation, broadening perspectives and enhancing decision-making
processes. While our current board composition consists of 75% male and 25% female members and 87
.5% of our board members
are above 50 years old, with 12.5% between the ages of 30 and 50, we view this as an opportunity for growth.
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
TOTAL DIRECTORS Number 9 9 8
Directors by gender
Female % 33.33 33.33 25.00
Male % 66.67 66.67 75.00
Directors by age
<30 % – – –
30-50 % – – 12.50
>50 % 100.00 100.00 87
.50
We are committed to evolving our board’s diversity in the coming years, aiming to bring in a wider range of experiences,
backgrounds and perspectives that will further enrich our leadership and align with our long-term strategic goals. This commitment
reflects our broader dedication to fostering diversity and inclusion throughout the organisation, ensuring that we continue to thrive
in an increasingly dynamic business environment.
iii. Workforce Retention and Attrition
CIH recognises that our people are the cornerstone of our success and continued growth. We are committed to attracting,
developing and retaining high-calibre talent, while fostering a work environment that is both supportive and empowering.
To ensure our workforce remains competitive and prepared for future challenges, we invest strategically in comprehensive
development programs.
Ongoing training is integral to maintaining our competitive edge and advancing employee development. The Group offers a robust
suite of training programs, encompassing both mandatory and optional courses, designed to address a wide range of skills from
technical expertise to operational proficiency, tailored to meet the specific needs of various roles within the organisation.
CIH’s talent development initiatives are focused on enhancing both personal and professional growth, providing employees with
the tools and insights necessary to excel in their careers. We also actively encourage our employees to broaden their expertise
by participating in external courses led by industry specialists and thought leaders, thereby ensuring that our team remains at the
forefront of industry advancements.
Attrition
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
TOTAL EMPLOYEE TURNOVER Number 131 150 111
Employee turnover by gender
Female Number 41 60 39
Male Number 90 90 76
Employee turnover by age
<30 Number 83 84 89
30-50 Number 47 58 21
>50 Number 1 8 5
Employee turnover by category
Management Number – 3 –
Executive Number 22 35 26
Non-Executive Number 109 112 89
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
38 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Training and Development
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
TOTAL TRAINING TIME (HOURS) Hours 11,111 17,831 13,468
Management Hours – 24 36
Executive Hours 728 964 1,184
Non-Executive Hours 10,383 16,843 12,248
Total employees trained (number) Number 368 484 456
Fixed Term (Contract)
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Percentage of employees that are contractors
or temporary staff
% 42.14 42.70 37
.23
iv. Human Rights
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Substantiated complaints concerning human
rights violations
Number – – –
CIH is dedicated to upholding human rights throughout our value chain by ensuring the welfare and security of our staff, protecting
indigenous populations and strictly adhering to labour practices that prohibit child or forced labour. We are committed to
embedding strong human rights practices and ethical treatment across all our operations, recognising that these principles enhance
productivity and foster a healthy work culture.
We comply with all relevant laws and regulations, including Malaysia’s Employment Act 1955, and adhere to internationally
recognised human rights principles such as the United Nations (“UN”) Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Guiding
Principles on Business and Human Rights. To reinforce our commitment, CIH has established clear grievance handling and
whistleblowing channels, allowing employees to report violations confidentially and safely, with full protection of their identities.
Our commitment extends to providing fair wages, decent living conditions and adequate training to all workers, including foreign
workers, ensuring they can perform their roles safely and effectively.
We continuously strive to maintain our high standards in human rights, with a focus on preventing any violations and achieving
our goal of zero substantiated complaints. CIH remains steadfast in adhering to the highest standards of conduct in all business
dealings, guided by internationally recognised human rights frameworks and principles.
Governance
Cybersecurity and Data Protection
CIH is dedicated to ensuring the privacy and security of all data under its management, whether it pertains to the Group, customers,
employees or the general public. We manage data with full transparency, adhering to best practices and complying with relevant laws,
including the Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA) 2010.
In light of the increasing reliance on digital technologies due to trends like remote work and e-commerce, CIH has reinforced its
cybersecurity measures to protect against rising threats. Our comprehensive cybersecurity framework is a key component of our
Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) strategy, ensuring we meet regulatory requirements in every region where we operate. Regular audits
of user access, data retention and data destruction practices help us prevent unauthorised access and ensure data is handled securely
from collection to disposal.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
39
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Complaints and Breaches
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Number of substantiated complaints concerning
breaches of customer privacy and losses of
customer data
Number – – –
Between FY2022 and FY2024, CIH successfully maintained a record of zero complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy
or data loss, highlighting our commitment to rigorous data protection. We also prioritise ongoing employee education in data
privacy, with mandatory annual training to keep our teams informed of their critical role in protecting sensitive information. Through
these measures, CIH effectively safeguards all confidential data, including customer, business and employee information, against
cyber threats.
Ethical Conduct, Anti-Corruption and Corporate Governance
CIH is committed to upholding the highest standards of ethics, integrity and transparency. New employees are inducted into the Group’s
Code of Conduct and Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Policy and other key guidelines.
We have a dedicated whistleblowing channel for confidential reporting of any improprieties, accessible via email, telephone or mail.
The Code of Conduct and Ethics, ABC Policy, and Whistleblowing Policy are available on our website for easy access.
Our Board and senior management uphold strong corporate governance, ensuring a balanced Board composition, stringent internal
controls and a structured organisational framework. CIH applies a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption, with any
violations leading to disciplinary action and potential legal consequences. We are pleased to report zero recorded cases of corruption
in the current year.
CIH also emphasises accurate and transparent financial reporting, regularly engaging stakeholders through quarterly announcements
and making all financial information publicly available on our website. Our commitment to ethical practices, legal compliance and the
protection of whistleblowers underscores our dedication to integrity and trust in all business dealings.
Accurate, transparent and timely financial reporting is crucial for efficient decision-making for the Group and stakeholders. We report
our financial performance on a consolidated basis and regularly engage with stakeholders through quarterly result announcements and
investor updates. The Group’s financial and operational information is made public on our website – www.cih.com.my–.
Anti-corruption
Indicators Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Percentage of employees who have
received training on anti corruption by
employee category
% – 54.63 45.33
Confirmed incidents of corruption and
action taken
Number – – –
Percentage of operations assessed for
corruption-related risks
% – – –
Risk Management and Internal Controls
Please refer to our Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control for further details on our risk management framework.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
40 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Performance Data Table
Bursa Indicator
Measurement
Unit
FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Anti-corruption
C1 (a)
Percentage (“%”) of employees who have
received training on anti-corruption by
employee category
Management % – 33.33 50
Executive % – 28.66 26.58
Non-Executive % – 63.69 51.36
C1 (b)
Percentage of operations assessed for corruption-
related risks
% – – –-
C1 (c) Confirmed incidents of corruption and action taken Number – – –
Community/Society
C2 (a)
Total amount invested in the community
where the target beneficiaries are external
to the listed issuer
MYR 397
,700 266,380 409,040
C2 (b)
Total number of beneficiaries of the investment in
communities
Number 21,747 12,160 24,200
Diversity
C3 (a)
Age Group by Employee Category
Management under 30 % – – –
Management Between 30-50 % – 0.16 0.16
Management Above 50 % 1.25 1.26 0.78
Executive under 30 % 6.96 6.28 5.92
Executive Between 30-50 % 13.75 13.50 13.71
Executive Above 50 % 3.57 4.87 4.83
Non-Executive under 30 % 42.68 37
.36 31.78
Non-Executive Between 30-50 % 31.61 35.32 41.43
Non-Executive Above 50 % 0.18 1.26 1.40
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
41
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Bursa Indicator
Measurement
Unit
FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
C3 (a)
Gender Group by Employee Category
Management Male % 1.07 1.26 0.78
Management Female % 0.18 0.16 0.16
Executive Male % 11.79 11.15 9.81
Executive Female % 12.50 13.50 14.64
Non-Executive Male % 54.82 54.63 55.92
Non-Executive Female % 19.64 19.31 18.69
C3 (b)
Percentage of directors by gender and
age group
Male % 66.67 66.67 75.00
Female % 33.33 33.33 25.00
Under 30 % – – –
Between 30-50 % – – 12.50
Above 50 % 100.00 100.00 87
.50
Energy Management
C4 (a) Total Energy Consumption Megawatt 32,934 39,270 37
,944
Health and Safety
C5 (a) Number of work-related fatalities Number – – –
C5 (b) Lost Time Incident rate (LTIR) Rate/Ratio – 0.49 1.62
C5 (c)
Number of employees trained on health and
safety standards
Number – 19 282
Labour Practices and Standards
C6 (a)
Total hours of training time by
employee category
Management Hours – 24 36
Executive Hours 728 964 1,184
Non-Executive Hours 10,383 16,843 12,248
C6 (b)
Percentage of employees that are contractors or
temporary staff
% 42.14 42.70 37
.23
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
42 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Bursa Indicator
Measurement
Unit
FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Turnover
C6 (c)
Total number of employee turnover by
employee category
Management Number – 3 –
Executive Number 22 35 26
Non-Executive Number 109 112 89
C6 (d)
Number of substantiated complaints concerning
human rights violations
Number – – –
Supply Chain Management
C7 (a) Proportion of spending on local suppliers % 78.37 79.11 77
.82
Data Privacy and Security
C8 (a)
Number of substantiated complaints concerning
breaches of customer privacy and losses of
customer data
Number – – –
Water
C9 (a) Total volume of water used Megalitres 39,490 59,218 41,275
Sustainability Assurance Statement
The contents of this Sustainability Statement underwent an internal review by the Company’s internal audit department.
We will continue to improve on our data accuracy and quality to strengthen our disclosures moving forward by ensuring that all
indicators will be subjected to independent assurance in subsequent reports.
Conclusion
Continuous improvement is at the heart of what we do. We are committed to being a sustainable organisation in addressing EESG
issues. From small actions in our teams and communities to large-scale business decisions, we believe sustainability is everyone’s
business. We want to inspire, educate, and lead sustainable business practices both in our markets and in CIH.
By continually aligning our decisions and policies, we equip ourselves better to address present challenges and those that lie ahead.
We have full confidence in our people, processes, and values to meet these demands and exceed expectations in the years to come.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
43
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of C.I. Holdings Berhad (“CIH” or “the Company”) is committed in ensuring that the Company
and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) practice a high standard of corporate governance in discharging its responsibilities to enhance
shareholders’ value and financial position of the Group.
The Board continues to review its existing corporate governance practices and policies throughout the Group in ensuring full application
of key corporate governance principles as set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”).
This statement which is made pursuant to paragraph 15.25 of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”), sets out the manner in which the Group has applied the principles and recommendations
of MCCG. It must be read together with the Corporate Governance Report published on CIH’s website at www.cih.com.my.
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
I. Board Responsibilities
The Board is cognisant of its responsibilities by ensuring proper control of the economics and financial management of the
Company and validates the strategic directions proposed by the Management for implementation.
The Board acts in the best interests of CIH, honestly, fairly and diligently and in accordance with the duties and obligations
imposed by the Constitution of the Company and the law.
The Board also serves as a panel to provide effective guidance on the assessment of principal risks and the appropriate systems
to manage these risks, as well as to review the adequacy and integrity of the Company’s internal control system in safeguarding
shareholders’ interests and the Company’s assets.
The Board’s role and responsibilities include but are not limited to the following:
• Setting and reviewing the objectives, goals and strategic plans for the Group with a view to maximising shareholders’ value.
• Adopting and monitoring progress of the Company’s strategies, budgets, plans and policies.
• Overseeing the conduct of the Group’s businesses to evaluate whether the businesses are properly managed.
• Identifying principal risks of the Group and ensuring the implementation of appropriate systems to mitigate and manage these risks.
• Considering Management’s recommendations on key issues including acquisitions, divestments, restructuring, funding and
significant capital expenditure.
• Implementing succession planning for senior management.
• Reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the Group’s internal control systems and management information systems.
To ensure the effective discharge of its functions and responsibilities, the Board has in place, business authority limits which sets
out relevant matters which the Board has delegated to the Management team led by the Group Managing Director (“GMD”)
and Executive Director. These authority limits are reviewed and revised as and when required, to ensure an optimum structure
for efficient and effective decision-making in the Group.
There is a schedule of matters reserved specifically for the Board’s decision, including the conflict of interest issues relating to
a substantial shareholder or a Director, material acquisitions and disposition of assets not in the ordinary course of business,
investments in Capital projects, authority levels, treasury policies, risk management policies as well as key human resource
issues. The Executive Directors and the Management are tasked to ensure compliance with this. These authority limits are
reviewed and revised as and when required, to ensure an optimum structure for efficient and effective decision-making in the
Group. The Business Authority Limits for all the subsidiaries were last reviewed and updated on 21 September 2016 with the
approval from the Board.
It is also the Directors’ responsibility to declare to the Board whether they have any potential or actual conflict of interest in any
transactions or in any contract or proposed contract with the Company or any of its related companies. Where issues involve
conflict of interest, the Directors will abstain from discussion and voting on the matters as well as abstain from any other decision
making process in relation to these transactions.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Board Committees, all of which operate within defined terms of reference.
The roles of the Chairman and GMD remain separate and distinct. The Chairman plays an important leadership role and is
responsible for:
• Leading the Board in setting the values and standards of the Company;
• Maintaining a relationship of trust with and between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors;
• Ensuring the provision of accurate, timely and clear information to Directors;
• Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and relevant stakeholders;
• Arranging regular evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors; and
• Facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and ensuring constructive relations be maintained between
Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
44 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The Chairman, in consultation with the GMD and the Company Secretaries, sets the agenda for Board meetings and ensures
that all relevant issues are on the agenda. He ensures that all Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings,
sufficient time is allowed for the discussion of complex or contentious issues and, where appropriate, arranging for informal
meetings beforehand to enable thorough preparation for the Board discussion, the issues discussed are forward looking and
concentrates on strategy, every Board resolution is put to vote to ensure the will of the majority prevails and that all Executive
Directors look beyond their executive functions and accept their full share of responsibilities on governance.
The Company is committed to the highest standards of ethics and business conduct and has set in place a Code of Conduct which
governs employees conduct and behaviour in carrying out their duties and responsibilities in the day-to-day business operations.
The Code of Conduct outlines minimum standards expected of employees in dealing with conflicts of interest, supplier relationships,
interests in competitors, external businesses or activities, transactions with the Company, use of the Company’s property or
information, disclosure of information, personal or intimate relationships, laws and regulations, condonation, business records,
illegal or questionable payments and supplier obligations.
The Board Charter was last revised and updated on 23 August 2022 to be in line with the MCCG and Listing Requirements, sets
out inter alia, the roles and responsibilities of the Board and Board Committees, the procedures for convening Board meetings,
financial reporting, investor relations and shareholder communication. The Charter which serves as a source of reference for
Directors, will be reviewed and updated periodically in accordance with the needs of the Company and any new regulations
that may have an impact on the discharge of the Board’s responsibilities. The Charter includes a standalone Fit and Proper Policy
which had been formulated to be in line with the Listing Requirements.
The Board Charter and Fit and Proper Policy are made available for reference at the Company’s website at www.cih.com.my/
about-us/corporate-governance.
An Employee Manual, which was reviewed and updated on 21 November 2022 by the Group includes the Employee’s Code
of Conduct and Whistleblowing Policy, which is intended to cover protection for staff who raise concerns in relation to irregular
and unlawful practices.
In addition to the Code of Conduct, a Whistleblowing Policy has been put in place. The policy provides a mechanism and
offers protection for employees to report matters such as financial malpractice or impropriety or fraud, failure to comply with
legal obligations or statutes, hazardous to health or the environment, criminal activity, improper conduct or unethical behaviour
or any attempts to conceal any of the above. The protection of the employee who reports breaches and non-compliances is
in line with the Public Interest Disclosure Act which came into effect in 1999. The policy is disseminated to subsidiaries and is
available for access by employees.
This policy is designed to enable employees of the Company to raise concerns internally and at a high level and to disclose
information which the individual believes exhibits malpractice or impropriety. This policy is intended to cover concerns which are
in the public interest and may be investigated separately may then lead to the invocation of other procedures e.g. disciplinary.
These concerns may inter-alia include:
• Financial malpractice or impropriety or fraud
• Failure to comply with a legal obligation or Statutes
• Hazardous to health and safety or the environment
• Criminal activity
• Improper conduct or unethical behaviour
• Attempts to conceal any of the above
The employees are guided by the Whistleblowing Policy when relying on information in relation to the abovementioned in
writing to designated persons stated in the said policy. Upon receipt of report made together with available evidence, the
investigator is tasked to investigate and take all reasonable steps to ensure that investigations regarding the report and disclosure
are carried out fairly, unbiased and with due regards to the principles of natural justice. The investigator will report the outcome
of the investigation to the GMD or Chairman.
In addition, subsequent to the introduction of the Corporate Liability Provision for bribery and corruption under Section 17A of
the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 (“MACC Act”), the Board had on 28 May 2020 approved the adoption
of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Policy which sets out the policies and procedures for compliance with the MACC
Act. The ABC Policy will be reviewed periodically to assess its effectiveness, and in any event, at least once every three (3)
years. The ABC Policy was reviewed and updated on 29 May 2023.
The details of the ABC Policy and Whistleblowing Policy are available on the Company’s website at www.cih.com.my.
The Board members have full access to the three (3) professionally qualified Companies Secretaries, who play an advisory role
to the Board in relation to the Company’s constitution, Board’s policies and procedures as well as compliance with the relevant
guidelines, regulatory and statutory requirements, corporate governance and best practices.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
45
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The Company Secretaries are also responsible in organising and attending all Board and Committee Meetings, ensuring
adherence to board policies and procedures and that all statutory records are well maintained at the registered office of the
Company. The Company Secretaries ensure that the deliberations and decisions made at the Board and Committee Meetings
are well captured and minuted.
II. Board Composition
CIH is led and managed by a competent Board comprising members with vast experience in the fields relevant to the
Company. The breadth and depth of the Board skills are vital for the successful stewardship of CIH’s strategic direction and
operations to maximise shareholder value. Besides having an extensive knowledge and expertise in the palm oil industry, real
estate investment and property development, the Board possesses a good mix of skills in business strategies, management,
finance, economics, legal, governance and human resources.
As at 30 June 2024, the Board has eight (8) members, comprising two (2) Executive Directors and six (6) Non-Executive
Directors, of which three (3) are Independent Directors, three (3) are Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors. This complies
with the Listing Requirements of at least two (2) or one-third (1/3) of the Board, whichever is the higher, to be independent.
During the financial year ended 30 June 2024, five (5) Board meetings were held to review the Group’s operations, to approve
the quarterly financial results, year-end financial statements and other matters such as the business plan, the direction of the
Group, new investment and business proposals. A summary of the attendance of each Director at the Board meetings held
during the financial year under review is as follows:
Directors Designation
No. of Board
Meetings Attended
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
(Redesignated from Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director on 12 December 2023)
5/5
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
5/5
Mohammad Bin Alwi Group Managing Director 5/5
Amir Nashrin Bin Johari
Executive Director
(Appointed on 6 March 2024)
1/1
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof Non-Independent Non-Executive Director 5/5
Sharina Binti Saidon Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 5/5
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam
Independent
Non-Executive Director
5/5
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman Independent Non-Executive Director 5/5
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Chairman
(Resigned on 12 December 2023)
3/3
Lee Cheang Mei
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 27 October 2023)
2/2
The Independent Directors provide independent judgement, objectivity and check and balance on the Board. This is to protect
the interests of shareholders, employees, various stakeholders and the communities where the Company operates.
The Board takes cognisant of the recommendation to have gender diversity on the Board. Through its Nomination and
Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) steps are taken to ensure that women candidates are sought as part of its recruitment exercise.
Currently, the Company has two (2) women directors, i.e. 25% of women participation on the Board.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (continued)
46 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
In maintaining the effectiveness of the Board and the independence of Independent Directors, the Board through its NRC
performs annual assessment in order to review that the Board as a whole and to ensure that individual director performed
effectively in discharging his function and duties as well as to mitigate risks arising from conflict of interests or undue influence
affecting his independence. The assessment is conducted via the Assessment Sheet for each of the Board and the Independent
Directors of the Company. The assessment on independence serves as a form of attestation by the Independent Directors that
they are able to exercise independent judgment, impartiality and objectivity in the best interest of the Company.
In determining the succession planning for the members of the Board, the NRC ensures that the nominated candidate has a
comprehensive job description covering experience, qualifications and core competencies required of a director whilst taking
into account the existing skills and expertise of the Board and the anticipated time commitment required before recommending
the appointment as Director to the Board for approval.
Succession planning for the GMD, Executive Directors, Chief Executive Officers of the subsidiaries within the Group and key
management personnel is deliberated by the NRC and thereafter makes necessary recommendations to the Board for its
consideration and approval.
Whilst succession planning for other Senior Management positions is determined by a structured process led by the Human
Resource Department and endorsed by the GMD of the Company, Executive Directors and/or Chief Executive Officers of the
subsidiaries.
The Board would assess the training needs of each director. The Directors of the Company attended and participated in various
trainings, seminars and forums organised either internally or externally by the Company in areas of finance, tax, accounting
and regulatory updates. Members of the Board constantly, on their own initiatives update themselves on the development of the
aforesaid by way of reading related literatures and publications on the same.
Training programmes attended by Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 were as follows:
Directors Training Programme Organiser Date
Megat Joha Bin Megat
Abdul Rahman
Mandatory Accreditation programme
Part II: Leading for Impact (LIP).
Institute of Corporate
Directors Malaysia
29-30 November
2023
Dato’ Sukumaran
s/o Ramasamy
Malaysian Palm Oil Forum
– East Africa 2023 in Nairobi, Kenya.
Malaysia Palm Oil Board 4 July 2023
Knowledge Sharing Session
Cyber Security Awareness.
Cyber Intelligent Sdn Bhd 5 October 2023
Mohammad Bin Alwi Cyber and D & O Insurance.
Boardroom Corporatehouse
Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”)
13 March 2024
Amir Nashrin
Bin Johari
Knowledge Sharing Session
Cyber Security Awareness.
Cyber Intelligent Sdn Bhd 5 October 2023
Mandatory Accreditation Programme (MAP). Bursa Malaysia 29-30 April 2024
Datin Mariam Prudence
Binti Yusof
Market Outlook Mid-Year 2023
Kuala Lumpur.
Julius Baer 13 July 2023
Transaction Based Market Manipulation;
and Information Based Market Manipulation.
Doshu/Symphony Digest 19 August 2023
Financial Statement Fraud. Doshu/Symphony Digest 21 August 2023
How To Create Winning Strategies in ETFs. Doshu/Symphony Digest 15 January 2024
Bursa’s Sustainability Reporting Requirements:
- Recent Developments Affecting Your Business.
Boardroom 4 April 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
47
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Directors Training Programme Organiser Date
Sharina Binti Saidon
Bursa Malaysia’s Enhanced Conflict of
Interest (“COI”).
- Disclosure Requirements Undertaking
and Navigating its Changes.
Boardroom 17 October 2023
Malaysia Budget 2024-Tax Overview.
Implementations on Corporate and
Personal Tax.
Boardroom 9 November 2023
Cyber and D & O Insurance. Boardroom 13 March 2024
Dato’ Sivananthan
a/l Shanmugam
Board’s Role in Value Creation. Asia School of Business 8 August 2023
Digital Strategies for Business Leading
the next Generation Enterprise. Columbia Business School
15 May 2023 to
31 August 2023
Global Entertainment & Media
Outlook 2023-2027
.
PwC Singapore 25 October 2023
Responsible AI.
PwC Malaysia 25 October 2023
Impact of AI on the Media Business.
Google Malaysia 25 October 2023
Directors Training for PLCs Companies
on Sustainability.
Smart Focus
Business Consulting
28 November
2023
Mohammad Farish
Nizar Bin Othman
5th GRCCS International Conference
& Exhibition 2023 on Business
Continuity Management.
GRC Consulting Services
Sdn Bhd
31 July 2023 to
1 August 2023
E-Invoicing Briefing Session.
Association of
Development Finance
Institutions of Malaysia
18 January 2024
Webinar Series: Protecting your
organisation-personal Data and
Protection Act (PDPA) 2010.
MAICSA 23 January 2024
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (continued)
48 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
III. Remuneration
The Board believes in a competitive and transparent remuneration framework that supports the Directors’ and Senior Management’s
responsibilities and fiduciary duties in managing the Group to achieve its long-term objective and enhance stakeholders’ value.
The remuneration of Directors is determined at levels which enable the Company to attract and retain Directors with the relevant
experience and expertise to govern the Group effectively. In the case of Executive Directors, the remuneration is structured to
link rewards to corporate and individual performance based on key performance indicators. For Non-Executive Directors, the
level of remuneration reflects their experience and level of responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors
Name
Salary/
Fees
(RM’000)
Bonus
(RM’000)
Defined
Contribution
Plan – EPF
(RM’000)
Other
Emoluments/
Allowances
(RM’000)
Benefits
In-Kind
(RM’000)
Total
(RM’000)
Megat Joha Bin Megat
Abdul Rahman
75 – – 12 – 87
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof 50 – – 14 – 64
Sharina Binti Saidon 50 – – 31 – 81
Dato’ Sivananthan
a/l Shanmugam
50 – – 22 – 72
Mohammad Farish Nizar
Bin Othman
50 – – 32 – 82
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani – – – 11 – 11
Lee Cheang Mei – – – 4 – 4
Total 275 – – 126 – 401
Executive Directors
Name
Salary/
Fees
(RM’000)
Bonus2
(RM’000)
Defined
Contribution
Plan – EPF1
(RM’000)
Other
Emoluments/
Allowances
(RM’000)
Benefits
In-Kind
(RM’000)
Total
(RM’000)
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy* 3,136 9,234 367 – – 12,737
Mohammad Bin Alwi 1,015 600 160 – 31 1,806
Amir Nashrin Bin Johari 147 36 13 – – 196
Total 4,298 9,870 540 – 31 14,739
1 Inclusive of Company’s contribution to employee provident fund and social security organisation contribution.
² Bonus for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 inclusive of employee provident fund.
* Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy is an executive director of the subsidiary and his remuneration is paid out from such
subsidiary during the financial year under review.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
49
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The remuneration (including salary, bonus, allowances, benefits-in-kind and other emoluments) of top two (2) key Senior
Management personnel on a named basis during the financial year in bands of RM50,000 are set out below:-
Range of Remuneration Key Senior Management
RM550,001 – RM600,000
Chaw Pei Yee
(Senior Manager – Finance and Administration)
RM350,001 – RM400,000
Foo Loke Yean
(Chief Executive Officer of Doe Industries Sdn Bhd)
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. Audit, Risk Management and Sustainability Committee (“ARMSC”)
The ARMCS comprises three (3) members, all of whom are Non-Executive Directors is chaired by an Independent Non-
Executive Director.
Name Designation
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman
Sharina Binti Saidon
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam
Independent Non-Executive Director
Member
The Terms of Reference of the ARMSC sets out its authorities, duties, responsibilities and criteria on the composition of the
ARMSC, which includes former key audit partner of the Group to observe a cooling-off period of at least three (3) years before
being eligible to be appointed as member of ARMSC.
The terms of office and performance of the ARMSC is reviewed by the NRC annually. All members of the ARMSC are
financially literate, competent and able to understand matters under the purview of the ARMSC, including the financial reporting
process, and have carried out their duties in accordance with the Terms of Reference of the ARMSC. All members of the ARMSC
undertake continuous professional development to keep themselves abreast with the relevant developments in accounting and
auditing standards, practices and rules.
The ARMSC oversees the financial reporting, external audit and internal audit functions, any related party transaction and
conflict of interests that arose, may arise or persist, as well as risk management and internal controls of the Company.
The ARMSC has amongst others, assessed the External Auditors in terms of their performance, independence and such other
criteria prescribed under Paragraph 15.21 of the Listing Requirements and recommended to the Board for their re-appointment
at the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”). The External Auditors confirmed that they are and have been independent throughout
the conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with the independence criteria set out by the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants. The Audit partner in-charge of a public listed company would be rotated (within the audit firm) every seven (7)
years to ensure independence of audit.
The Board, with the recommendations of the ARMSC, will ensure that all quarterly announcements and annual report present a
balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s financial position and prospect.
The detailed roles, functions, responsibilities and summary of work undertaken by the ARMSC during the financial year ended
30 June 2024 are as set out in the ARMSC Report of this Annual Report.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (continued)
50 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Board understands that the ultimate responsibility for ensuring a sound internal control systems which provides reasonable
assurance on the effectiveness and efficiency of the systems lies with the Board. The Group’s internal control system is
designed to manage the risks to achieve the Company’s objectives apart from safeguarding the stakeholder’s interest and
the Group’s asset.
The details of the Risk Management and Internal Control Framework are set out in the Statement on Internal Control and Risk
Management of the Annual Report.
III. Internal Audit
The internal audit function is performed in-house whose primary responsibility is to assure the Board, through the ARMSC, that
the internal control systems function as intended.
In providing this assurance, the Internal Audit Department carries out regular audit activities in accordance with its annual audit
plan to review the adequacy and integrity of internal control systems and to identify opportunities for improvement in operational
efficiency. The ARMSC reports to the Board on its activities, significant audit results or findings and necessary recommendations
or actions needed to be taken by management to rectify those issues.
The internal audit function adopts a risk-based approach and prepares its audit plans based on significant risks identified.
The internal audit provides an assessment of the adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of the Group’s existing internal control
policies and procedures and provides recommendations, if any, for the improvement of the control policies and procedures.
The results of the audit reviews are presented and discussed during the ARMSC meetings. The Management is responsible for
ensuring that the necessary corrective actions on reported weaknesses are taken within the required time frame. The action
plans are reviewed and followed up by the internal audit function on a periodical basis to ensure the recommendations are
effectively implemented.
The internal audit plan for each financial year will be approved by the ARMSC and stipulates, amongst others, the internal
auditors’ role, scope and authority, organisation status and reporting structure, independence and objectivity and responsibilities.
The Board acknowledges that risk management is an integral part of good governance. Risk is inherent in all business activities.
It is however, not the Group’s objective to eliminate risk totally but to provide structural means to identify, prioritise and mitigate
the risks involved in all the Group’s activities and to balance between the cost and benefits of managing and treating risks, and
the anticipated returns that will be derived therefrom.
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
I. Engagement with Stakeholders
The Board acknowledges the need for shareholders to be informed of all material business matters of the Company.
Announcements to Bursa Securities are made on significant developments and matters of the Group. Financial results are
released on a quarterly basis to provide shareholders with a regular overview of the Group’s performance. The Corporate
Communications Department of the Company also arranges press interviews and briefings, and releases press announcements
to provide information on the Group’s business activities, performance and major developments, as and when necessary.
In addition to published annual report and quarterly results announced to Bursa Securities, the Company has a website at
www.cih.com.my from which investors and shareholders can access for information about the Group. Any enquiries may be
directed to this email address, info@cih.com.my.
While the Company endeavours to provide as much information as possible to its shareholders and stakeholders, it is mindful
of the legal and regulatory framework governing the release of material and price-sensitive information.
II. Conduct of General Meetings
The Company’s general meetings serve as a forum for dialogue and interaction with shareholders. Notice of the AGM and
Annual Report are dispatch to the shareholders at least 28 days before the date of the AGM. The Board ensured that items
of special businesses included in the notice of meeting are accompanied by explanatory statements on the effects of the
proposed resolution.
Notices of general meetings with sufficient information of business to be dealt with thereat are also published in one national
newspaper to provide for wider dissemination of such notice to encourage shareholder participation. At the general meetings,
shareholders have direct access to the Board and are encouraged to participate in the question and answer session.
Resolutions will be voted by way of poll as required under the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, and the Company
will make an announcement on the detailed results to Bursa Securities.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
51
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The Company had on 27 October 2023 successfully conducted its Forty-Fifth AGM entirely via remote participation and
electronic voting. This is in accordance to Section 327 of the Companies Act 2016 and Clause 66 of the Company’s
Constitution which allow for General Meetings to be held using any technology or electronic means.
In facilitating greater participation by shareholders at AGMs of the Company, CIH will continue to explore possible means
of leveraging the technology such as to conduct general meetings using electronic communication devices and appointment
of proxy via electronic means as stated in the Company’s Constitution.
Focus Areas and Future Priorities
The Board recognises the importance of embedding sustainability practices into strategic priorities of the Group, so as to build
long-term viability and value creation to the shareholders. The Board had on 23 November 2023 adopted the Conflict of Interest
Policy and reviewed the terms of references of the Board Committees during the financial year, as part of its efforts to enhance
the Company’s corporate governance practices and align them with the latest regulatory requirements.
The Board will prioritise the integration of environmental, economic and governance considerations in the strategies and operations
of the Group.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement was approved by the Board of CIH on 28 August 2024.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT (continued)
52 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) is pleased to present the Audit, Risk Management and Sustainability Committee (“ARMSC”)
Report and its activities held throughout the financial year ended 30 June 2024 in compliance with Paragraph 15.15 of the Main
Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”).
1. Members of the ARMSC
The Audit and Risk Management Committee of the Company which was renamed as the ARMSC on 29 May 2024,
comprises Independent Non-Executive Directors. The ARMSC Chairman has the requisite accounting and finance
qualification. A summary of attendances of the ARMSC meetings held during the financial year are as follows:
Members No. of Meetings Attended
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman – Chairman
Independent Non-Executive Director
6/6
Sharina Binti Saidon – Member
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
6/6
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam – Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
6/6
The ARMSC held six (6) meetings during the financial year ended 30 June 2024. The Group Managing Director, Executive
Director and the Head of Internal Audit attended the ARMSC meetings upon invitation. Other senior management personnel of
the Group also attended the meetings upon invitation by the ARMSC, as and when necessary. The Company’s external auditors
attended three (3) meetings during the financial year where they were invited to discuss matters relating to the statutory audit.
They were also given the opportunity to raise areas of concern without the presence of the Management.
The Chairman of the ARMSC undertakes a continuing process of engagement with the senior executives of the Company and
the Group as well as the external auditors so that the ARMSC is kept up-to-date with all important issues affecting the Company
and the Group.
During the year, the ARMSC members attended conferences, seminars and training programmes relevant to their roles
and responsibilities.
The ARMSC has the authority to examine specific issues and report to the Board with its recommendation. The final decision on
all matters, however, lies with the entire Board of the Company.
2. Terms of Reference
The Terms of Reference of the ARMSC are aligned with the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, recommendations of the
Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”) and relevant best practices. Necessary revisions will be made to the
Terms of Reference to be in line with the amendments to the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities.
The Terms of Reference of the ARMSC was last reviewed and updated on 29 May 2024 and is made available on the
Company’s corporate website at http://www.cih.com.my/about-us/corporate-governance.
3. Activities of the ARMSC
In discharging its duties and responsibilities, the ARMSC had undertaken the following activities and work during the year:
Financial And Operations Review
(a) Reviewed the quarterly financial results and annual audited financial statements of the Company.
The ARMSC is delegated with the responsibility to ensure that the Group’s statutory accounts are fairly stated and conform
to the relevant regulations and acceptable accounting standards.
The ARMSC focuses particularly on changes in or implementation of major accounting policies, significant and other legal
requirements before recommending them for approval by the Board for announcement to Bursa Securities.
In reviewing of the annual audited financial statements, the ARMSC had discussed with the Management and the External
Auditors the accounting principles and standards and the judgements of the items that may affect the financial statements
as well as issues and reservation arising from the statutory audits.
(b) The ARMSC reviewed the principal risks identified by the Management and oversee the implementation of appropriate
systems to manage these risks. With regards to the cyber fraud incident of the Group, the ARMSC had discussed with the
AUDIT, RISK MANAGEMENT AND
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
53
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Management on the effect of the incident to the financial statements and other compliance issues before reporting to the
Board with its recommendation.
(c) Pursuant to Sections 131 and 132 of the Companies Act, 2016, a company may only make a distribution to shareholders
out of profits of the company if the company is solvent.
In this regard, the ARMSC considered the quantum and cash flow impact of dividend payment. The ARMSC reviewed
the Statement of Assets and Liabilities as well as Cash Flow Statement to ensure that the Company meets the solvency
requirements before the distribution of profits was recommended to the Board for approval.
(d) The ARMSC took note that the assessment of the competence, audit quality and resource capacity of the external auditors
in relation to the audit and the information presented in the Transparency Report should also be considered in guiding the
decisions on the appointment and re-appointment of the external auditors as set out under Guidance 9.3 of MCCG 2021.
External Audit
(a) Reviewed the independence, objectivity and performance of the External Auditors for the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
The ARMSC carried out an annual assessment on the performance of the External Auditors covering areas such as calibre,
quality processes, audit team, audit scope, audit communication, audit governance and independence as well as the audit
fees of the External Auditors.
The ARMSC also ensured that the Company obtained written assurance from the External Auditors confirming their
independence throughout their term of engagement for the financial year.
Having satisfied with the independence, suitability and performance of Messrs BDO PLT, the ARMSC had at its meeting
held on 22 August 2023 recommended to the Board, to put forward the proposed re-appointment of Messrs BDO PLT as
External Auditors for the ensuing financial year end of 30 June 2024 at the Forty-Fifth AGM held on 27 October 2023.
(b) Discussed and considered the significant accounting adjustments and auditing issues arising from the interim audit as well
as the final audit with the External Auditors.
During the year under review, the ARMSC had two (2) independent meetings with the External Auditors without the presence
of Management to discuss any problems/issues arising from the final audit and the assistance given by the employees
during the course of audit by the External Auditors. The ARMSC was pleased to report that there was no significant matter
of disagreement that arose between the External Auditors and the Management.
(c) Reviewed the External Auditors’ audit plan for the financial year ended 30 June 2024, outlining the audit scope, methodology
and timetable, audit materiality, areas of focus, fraud consideration, audit fees and the risk of management override and
also the new and revised auditors reporting standards.
(d) Reviewed all non-audit services to be performed by the External Auditors to reinforce the independence and objectivity of
the External Auditors.
Internal Audit
(a) Reviewed the Internal Audit Reports and Follow-up Audit Reports on the Group during the financial year under review and
the audit findings and recommendations to improve any weaknesses or non-compliance and the respective Management’s
responses thereto, particularly on the following:
No. Name Particulars
(i)
Palmtop Sdn Bhd (FKA Palmtop Vegeoil
Products Sdn Bhd) (“Palmtop”)
Plant/Machineries maintenance Process Review and Spare-part inventory
(ii) Continental Resources Sdn Bhd (“CRSB”) Plant/Machineries maintenance Process Review and Spare-part inventory
(iii) CRSB Bill of Lading and Account Receivable Review
(iv)
Doe Industries Sdn Bhd and Potex
Industries Sdn Bhd (“Doe Group”)
Cash Sales and Cash Collection Review
(v) CRSB Petty Cash Management and Payment Process Review
(vi) CRSB Staff Claim Payment Process Review
(vii) Palmtop Staff Claim Payment Process Review
(viii) Doe Group Staff Claim Payment Process Review
Through the follow-up reports from the Internal Auditors, the ARMSC was able to ensure that the Management’s action plan
on outstanding issues and all key risks and control weaknesses were properly addressed and implemented.
AUDIT, RISK MANAGEMENT AND
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT (continued)
54 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
(b) Reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Plan for financial year ended 30 June 2024 and financial year ending 30
June 2025 to ensure that the scope and coverage of the internal audit on the operations of the Group is adequate and
comprehensive and that all the risk areas are audited annually.
(c) Reviewed the adequacy of the scope, competency and resources of the Internal Audit Function.
Related Party Transactions
(a) Reviewed all related party transactions entered into by the Company and the Group to ensure that such transactions are
undertaken on normal commercial terms and not detrimental to the interest of the minority shareholders of the Company.
(b) Reviewed the internal control procedures employed to ensure that related parties are appropriately identified and all related
party transactions have been reported.
Others
(a) Reviewed and recommended to the Board the Corporate Governance Report, as well as the Audit Committee Report,
Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control, Corporate Governance Overview Statement for inclusion in the
Annual Report 2023.
(b) Reviewed and recommended the revision to the terms of reference of the ARMSC.
4. Summary of Conflict of Interest Situation
There was no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest that arose, persisted or may arise within the Group, including
any transaction, procedure or course of conduct that raises questions of Management’s integrity, during the financial year under
review. The conflict of interest review encompasses Directors and Key Senior Management of the Company.
5. Internal Audit Function
The internal audit function of the Group is performed in-house and reports to the ARMSC. The internal audit function acts
independently on the activities and operations of other operating units. Its principal role is to undertake independent, regular
and systematic reviews of the internal control system so as to provide reasonable assurance that the system continues to operate
satisfactorily and effectively. The costs incurred for the internal audit function in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2024
was RM506,535 (financial year ended 30 June 2023: RM530,933).
A summary of the internal audit cost is as follows:
Cost Category RM Percentage (%) of Total Cost
Manpower 491,777 97.09%
Travelling (inclusive of accommodation) 14,758 2.91%
Total 506,535 100.00%
During the financial year under review, the internal auditors reviewed and assessed the operational procedures and effectiveness
of internal control on all the subsidiaries of the Group. Compliance tests had also been conducted to ascertain the extent of
compliance with control procedures and guidelines.
The Group Internal Audit undertakes internal audit function based on the internal audit plan. Other than the scheduled reviews,
the Group Internal Audit may undertake special assignments outside the normal scope of its daily activities. Findings and
recommendations for improvement as well as the Management’s responses were presented to the ARMSC and the Board for
further deliberation.
During the year under review, the ARMSC had four (4) meetings with the Internal Auditors to discuss the Internal Audit Reports.
The ARMSC had also met with the Internal Auditors without the presence of Management to discuss on any issues that arose
during the course of internal audit. During the internal audit process, there were no material internal control failures or significant
issues discovered during the financial year under review.
AUDIT, RISK MANAGEMENT AND
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT (continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
55
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
1. Introduction
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control is issued in accordance with paragraph 15.26(b) of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad’s Listing Requirements and the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of
Listed Issuers. These guidelines require that directors of listed companies include a statement on the state of their risk management
and internal controls in their annual reports.
The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of C.I. Holdings Berhad is pleased to present the Group’s Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control for the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
2. The Board’s Responsibility
The Board acknowledges its overarching responsibility to maintain a sound system of internal controls and effective risk
management practices within the Group to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets. The Board ensures the
adequacy and integrity of the Group’s overall internal control system.
To support its risk management and internal control duties, the Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the
following committees:
• Audit Committee (“AC”): Responsible for assessing the risk and internal control environment and overseeing financial
reporting, including internal and external audits.
• Risk Management Committee (“RMC”): Responsible for overseeing the Group’s risk management and compliance aspects.
On 31 October 2023, the Board merged the AC and the RMC into a single entity named the Audit and Risk Management
Committee (“ARMC”). On 28 May 2024, the committee broadened its scope to include Environmental, Social, and
Governance (ESG) referred to as Sustainability, and it was renamed to the Audit, Risk Management and Sustainability
Committee (“ARMS Committee”).
The ARMS Committee operates under clearly defined and approved terms of reference covering the aforementioned
responsibilities. As part of its commitment, the Board aims to develop and maintain an effective risk management framework
and internal control system to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets.
However, the Board recognises the inherent limitations of any risk management framework and internal control system. These
systems are designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of not achieving the Group’s business objectives. Therefore, they
can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against material misstatement, operational failures, loss, or fraud. The
concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of control procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
3. Risk Management
The Group has a formal risk management framework that enables the management and the Board to share a common model
for the effective communication and evaluation of all principal risks and controls. The Risk Framework covers a broad variety of
risks, including but not limited to business continuity, governance, financial and operational issues.
The roles and responsibilities of the ARMS Committee in Risk Management include the following:
(a) Formalise the Group’s Risk Management Policy, including objectives, strategy, and scope of risk management activities,
ensuring the strategy, framework and methodology are implemented and consistently applied.
(b) Ensure a well-structured and systematic process exists for the comprehensive identification, assessment and management of
risks faced by the Group.
(c) Embed the risk management process and culture throughout the Group.
(d) Ensure appropriate reporting and feedback from management and report to the Board on the Group’s risk profile and any
major changes.
A Risk Coordinator, Ms. Susan Ann a/p Stevenson, was appointed on 3 October 2023 to administer the Risk Management
Framework during the financial year under review. Risk identification is a line management responsibility, whereby an employee
recognises and identifies risk to the Risk Owner, who is accountable for all aspects of the risk, including assessment, evaluation,
monitoring and reporting. Each risk is categorised by function after determining the risk source, cause, and consequence.
Identified risks are evaluated to determine an inherent risk rating. Inherent risk refers to the level of risk present before any controls
or mitigation strategies are applied, it is the raw or natural risk, assuming no measures have been taken to reduce its impact or
likelihood. After evaluating existing internal controls and considering any additional measures to manage the risk, the inherent
risk factor is adjusted to reflect the residual risk. Residual risk represents the level of risk that remains after controls or mitigation
strategies have been implemented, indicating the risk that persists despite all reasonable efforts to mitigate the inherent risk.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
56 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Risk assessment involves evaluating risk by considering its likelihood and impact to determine its relevance to the business and
the effectiveness of current controls. Likelihood measures the probability that a particular event will occur, while impact assesses
the potential consequences or effects of that event, particularly in terms of how it might affect the organisation’s objectives, goals
or outcomes.
The Risk Owner is responsible for assessing risk exposure and identifying options for treating risk, including acceptance,
mitigation, transfer or avoidance. Appropriate risk treatment plans are then prepared, implemented and recorded in the Risk
Register, which is used to develop a risk profile for each company.
The Risk Coordinator works with the management of each subsidiary to update the Risk Register. The results are reported to the
ARMS Committee, which meets quarterly to review and discuss the risk profiles of various subsidiaries, noting any changes,
existing controls and necessary action plans. The ARMS Committee, in turn, reports to the Board on a quarterly basis or as
needed if no changes are made to the risk register.
Additionally, the Group Managing Director and/or Executive Director hold monthly meetings with senior management of
subsidiaries to discuss and monitor key risks.
4. Internal Audit Function
The Group has an internal audit function whose primary responsibility is to assure the Board, through the ARMS Committee,
that the internal control systems are functioning as intended. The Internal Audit Department conducts regular audits according
to its annual audit plan to review the adequacy and integrity of internal control systems and identify opportunities for
operational efficiency improvement. A comprehensive Audit Report highlights audit findings and provides recommendations
to Management for comments and action. Follow-up audits are conducted to monitor the completion and compliance with
the agreed action plan. The ARMS Committee reports to the Board on its activities, significant audit results or findings, and
necessary management actions.
The Internal Auditors perform their tasks according to the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal
Auditing issued by The Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia, which uphold the principles of integrity, objectivity, confidentiality
and competency.
5. Other Key Elements of Internal Control
The Board has put in place other internal control measures including:
(a) An organisational structure with clear defined responsibilities for the Board, committees and executive management of the
Group’s business units.
(b) Established authorisation limits to provide a functional framework for approving expenditures.
(c) Monthly reporting on business unit performance.
(d) The Board’s review of quarterly reports on each business unit.
(e) A human resources function that coordinates employee training, development and occupational health and safety
programmes.
(f) An enterprise business application software with in-built system controls and necessary upgrades/updates.
(g) Data and internal technology policies such as the E-mail & Internet Access Policy and System & Data Security Policy, along
with a backup system and disaster recovery plan.
(h) Periodic review of policies and procedures regulating financial and operating activities.
(i) An Employee Handbook and Code of Conduct ensuring employees observe prescribed business ethics standards.
(j) A Whistleblowing Policy enabling employees to raise concerns responsibly and effectively, with outlined safeguards for
whistleblowers, including protection and confidentiality.
(k) Continuous risk assessment and mitigation by subsidiary and business division management.
(l) An Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Policy implemented on 28 May 2020 and last updated on 29 May 2023, based
on the “Guideline on Adequate Procedures” by the Governance, Integrity, and Anti-Corruption Centre (GIACC). The ABC
Policy provides guidance on dealing with improper solicitation, bribery and corrupt activities and acts as a legal defence
against corporate liability charges under the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) Act.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL (continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
57
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
6. Sustainability
The ARMS Committee is responsible for sustainability initiatives, including:
(a) Establishing a sustainability framework and working group for implementing sustainability initiatives and receiving biannual
updates on progress.
(b) Overseeing the management of material economic, environmental and social risks and opportunities, identifying material
sustainability matters and setting strategies, priorities and performance targets.
(c) Reviewing and recommending the sustainability statement for inclusion in the Annual Report.
(d) Reviewing and enhancing the Group’s corporate policies related to sustainability.
(e) Overseeing stakeholder engagement on sustainability matters.
(f) Ensuring sufficient resources for the sustainability working group.
(g) Providing regular updates to the Board on sustainability activities and recommendations.
(i) To review the procedures that the Group has implemented to address allegations made by whistleblowers and to ensure
that proportionate and independent investigation of such allegations and that appropriate follow up action is taken and
brought to the Committee, where necessary
7. Conclusion
Based on observations and reports provided to the Board for the financial year under review, the Board believes that the risk
management and internal control systems in place are adequate and effective in safeguarding shareholders’ interests, their
investments and the Group’s assets.
During the financial year under review, there was no major breakdown in internal controls causing material loss. Management
has taken necessary measures to improve the risk management and internal control system by continuously reviewing,
monitoring and considering all risks faced by the Group to ensure they are within acceptable levels aligned with the Group’s
business objectives.
The Board has received reasonable assurance from the Group Managing Director that the Group’s risk management and
internal control systems are operating adequately and effectively in all material aspects.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL (continued)
58 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The Directors are required by the Companies Act, 2016 (“CA 2016”) to prepare financial statements for each financial year which
have been made out in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, and
the requirements of the CA 2016 in Malaysia and the Main Market Listing Requirements of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The Directors are responsible to ensure that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and
of the Company as at the end of the financial year, and of the results and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have:
• Adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• Made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
• Prepared financial statements on a going concern basis as the Directors have reasonable expectation, having made enquiries,
that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Directors acknowledge the responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy the financial position of the Group and of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements
comply with the CA 2016 and applicable approved accounting standards.
The Directors have overall responsibilities for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group,
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
FOR THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors’ Report
Statement By Directors
Statutory Declaration
Independent Auditors’ Report
Statements Of Financial Position
Statements Of Profit Or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Statement Of Changes In Equity
Statement Of Changes In Equity
Statements Of Cash Flows
Notes To The Financial Statements
60
64
64
65
68
70
71
72
73
75
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
AND AUDITED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
60 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year ended 30 June 2024.
Principal Activities
The principal activities of the Company are that of investment holding and the provision of management services to its subsidiaries.
The principal activities of the subsidiaries are selling, packing and marketing of all types of edible oil, manufacture and trading of
household fittings and appliances and investment holding. Further details of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 8 to the financial
statements. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
Results
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Profit for the financial year 117,170 73,572
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 68,661 73,572
Non-controlling interests 48,509 –
117,170 73,572
Dividends
Dividends paid, declared or proposed since the end of the previous financial year was as follows:
Company
RM’000
In respect of financial year ended 30 June 2023:
Final dividend of 15.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 10 October 2023 24,300
On 28 August 2024, the Board of Directors approved payment of a single tier dividend of 20.0 sen per ordinary share amounting
to RM32,400,000. The financial statements for the current financial year do not reflect this dividend.
Reserves And Provisions
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.
Issue Of Shares And Debentures
The Company did not issue any new shares or debentures during the financial year.
Options Granted Over Unissued Shares
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
61
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Directors
The Directors who have held office during the financial year and up to date of this report are as follows:
C.I. Holdings Berhad
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof
Sharina Binti Saidon
Mohammad Bin Alwi
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman
Amir Nashrin Bin Johari (Appointed on 6 March 2024)
Lee Cheang Mei (Resigned on 27 October 2023)
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani (Resigned on 12 December 2023)
Subsidiaries of C.I. Holdings Berhad (excluding those who are already listed above)
Chaw Pei Yee
Foo Loke Yean
Wong Lip Wai
Muhammad Razid Bin Sawall
Ramkrishna Ramier Sankara Raman
Azlan Bin Ahmad (Resigned on 31 May 2024)
Azril Akmar Bin Attan Akmar (Resigned on 18 June 2024)
Directors’ Interests
The Directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company and of
its related corporations during the financial year ended 30 June 2024 as recorded in the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings kept
by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
Balance at
1.7.2023 Bought Sold
Balance at
30.6.2024
Shares in the Company
Direct interests:
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman 1,000,000 – (1,000,000) –
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy 3,707
,000 11,159,700 – 14,866,700
Indirect interests:
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof 35,094,900 – (750,000) 34,344,900
Mohammad Bin Alwi – 970,000 – 970,000
Shares in a subsidiary
Palmtop Sdn. Bhd.
(Formerly known as: Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn. Bhd.)
Direct interests:
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy 2,475,000 – – 2,475,000
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(continued)
62 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Directors’ Interests (continued)
By virtue of Section 8(4) of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof is also deemed to be
interested in the ordinary shares of all the subsidiaries to the extent that the Company has an interest.
None of the other Directors holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in ordinary shares of the Company
and of its related corporations during the financial year.
Directors’ Benefits
Since the end of the previous financial year, none of the Directors have received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other than
a benefit included in the aggregate amount of remuneration received or due and receivable by the Directors as shown in the financial
statements) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the
Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest other than deemed benefits arising
from related party transactions and remuneration received by certain Directors as Directors and Officers of subsidiaries.
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year, to which the Company is a party, which had the object
of enabling the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other
body corporate.
Directors’ Remuneration
Fees and other benefits of the Directors who held for office during the financial year ended 30 June 2024 are as follows:
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Fees 275 275
Allowances 144 144
Salaries, bonus and other emoluments 14,168 388
Defined contribution plans 540 13
15,127 820
The estimated money value of benefits-in-kind for the Director of the Group and of the Company is amounted to RM31,150.
Indemnity And Insurance For Directors, Officers And Auditors
The Group and the Company effected Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance during the financial year to protect the Directors and
the Officers of the Group and of the Company against potential costs and liabilities arising from claims brought against the Directors
and the Officers.
During the financial year, the total amount of indemnity coverage for the Directors and the Officers of the Group and of the Company
was RM10,000,000. The insurance premium paid by the Group and the Company for the financial year 2024 amounted to RM13,800.
There were no indemnity given to or insurance effected for the Auditors of the Group and of the Company during the financial year.
Other Statutory Information Regarding The Group And The Company
I. As At The End Of The Financial Year
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the Directors took reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of provision
for doubtful debts and had satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that adequate
provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets other than debts, which were unlikely to realise their book values in the ordinary course
of business had been written down to their estimated realisable values.
(b) In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have
		 not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
63
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Other Statutory Information Regarding The Group And The Company (continued)
II. From The End Of The Financial Year To The Date Of This Report
(c) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would render the amounts written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts in the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any material extent;
(ii) which would render the values attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company misleading; and
(iii) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the
Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) there has not arisen any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the
results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made; and
(ii) no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within the period of twelve
(12) months after the end of the financial year which would or may affect the ability of the Group or of the Company
to meet their obligations as and when they fall due.
III. As At The Date Of This Report
(e) There are no charges on the assets of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year
to secure the liabilities of any other person.
(f) There are no contingent liabilities of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year.
(g) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which
would render any amount stated in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
Auditors
The auditors, BDO PLT (201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206), have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Auditors’ Remuneration
Auditors’ remuneration of the Group and the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 were as follows:
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Statutory audit 342 80
Other services 18 13
360 93
Signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.
........................................................................... .............................................................................
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman Mohammad Bin Alwi
Director Director
Kuala Lumpur
25 September 2024
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(continued)
64 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 68 to 119 have been drawn up in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so
as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2024 and of the financial
performance and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended.
On behalf of the Board,
............................................................................ .............................................................................
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman Mohammad Bin Alwi
Director Director
Kuala Lumpur
25 September 2024
STATUTORY DECLARATION
I, Mohammad Bin Alwi (CA 31248), being the Director responsible for the financial management of C.I. Holdings Berhad, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 68 to 119 are, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory
Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly		 )
declared by the abovenamed at )
Kuala Lumpur this			 )
25 September 2024		 )		 Mohammad Bin Alwi
Before me:
Mardhiyyah Abdul Wahab (W729)
(1 Jan 2024 — 31 Dec 2026)
Commissioner for Oaths
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
65
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of C.I. Holdings Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as at
30 June 2024 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statements
of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended, and notes
to the financial statements, including material accounting policy information, as set out on pages 68 to 119.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of
the Company as at 30 June 2024, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then ended in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), IFRS Accounting Standards and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing (“ISAs”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of
the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate
to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and
Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’
International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a
separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment of trade receivables
As at 30 June 2024, the carrying amount of trade receivables of the Group was RM383,616,000 as disclosed in Note 10 to the
ﬁnancial statements.
We determined this to be key audit matter because it requires management to exercise significant judgement in assessing expected
credit losses, including determining the probability of default by trade receivables and appropriate forward-looking information.
Audit response
Our audit procedures performed included the following:
(i)		 understand management’s internal control and assessment process for impairment of trade receivables and assessed the inherent
risk of material misstatement by considering the degree of estimation uncertainty and level of other inherent risk factors associated
with this accounting estimate;
(ii)		 evaluated management’s assessment and explanations on the individually significant trade receivables that were past due as
at 30 June 2024 with reference to supporting evidence such as payment record of the customers; and
(iii)		 evaluated the appropriateness of expected credit loss allowance including examining correlation coefficient between the
macroeconomic indicators applied by the Group in calculating probability of default using historical data and forward-looking
information adjustment.
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our auditors’ report in respect of the audit of the financial
statements of the Company.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in
the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not
express any form of assurance or conclusion thereon.
66 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon (continued)
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of the
Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required
to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that give
a true and fair view in accordance with MFRSs, IFRS Accounting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in
Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation
of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the ability of
the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved
standards on auditing in Malaysia and ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and ISAs, we exercise professional judgement
and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, whether
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or
the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control of the Group
and of the Company.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by the Directors.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the
ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we
are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence
obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company
to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, including
the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the underlying transactions
and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the
Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and
performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence,
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and
where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
67
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
(continued)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe
these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we have not
acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 8 to the financial statements.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act 2016
in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.
BDO PLT Lee Wee Hoong
201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206 03316/07/2025 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
25 September 2024
68 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Note
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment 5 120,969 114,578 373 477
Right-of-use assets 6 19,740 22,346 2,512 378
Intangible assets 7 17,261 17,261 – –
Investments in subsidiaries 8 – – 54,500 54,500
Other investment 9 10 10 10 10
157,980 154,195 57,395 55,365
CURRENT ASSETS
Trade and other receivables 10 437,534 733,744 343 265
Inventories 11 74,556 71,678 – –
Derivative financial assets 12 5,779 5,295 – –
Current tax assets 1,302 1,354 114 350
Cash and bank balances 13 368,483 250,517 201,441 151,922
887,654 1,062,588 201,898 152,537
TOTAL ASSETS 1,045,634 1,216,783 259,293 207,902
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 14 95,147 95,147 95,147 95,147
Reserves 15 359,658 315,173 160,551 111,279
454,805 410,320 255,698 206,426
Non-controlling interests 8(d) 107,103 109,661 – –
TOTAL EQUITY 561,908 519,981 255,698 206,426
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
69
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Note
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
LIABILITIES
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Borrowings 16 539 719 – –
Lease liabilities 6 9,883 9,674 2,160 –
Deferred tax liabilities 19 2,059 1,777 – –
Retirement benefit obligations 20 124 194 – –
12,605 12,364 2,160 –
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Trade and other payables 21 148,011 229,588 1,063 1,081
Derivative financial liabilities 12 186 31,000 – –
Borrowings 16 317,940 420,254 – –
Lease liabilities 6 2,986 2,739 372 395
Current tax liabilities 1,998 857 – –
471,121 684,438 1,435 1,476
TOTAL LIABILITIES 483,726 696,802 3,595 1,476
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,045,634 1,216,783 259,293 207,902
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
70 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Note
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Revenue 23 3,895,568 5,347
,165 73,875 67
,125
Cost of sales 24 (3,642,751) (4,991,249) – –
Gross profit 252,817 355,916 73,875 67
,125
Other operating income 53,624 40,433 5,840 3,891
Selling and distribution costs (26,573) (26,824) – –
Administrative expenses (136,099) (174,669) (5,952) (6,858)
Net reversal/(loss) of impairment losses on financial assets 9,284 (264) (39) (39)
Other operating expenses (13,947) (4,452) – –
Finance costs (15,713) (17
,079) (47) (29)
Profit before tax 25 123,393 173,061 73,677 64,090
Tax expense 26 (6,223) (6,547) (105) (123)
Profit for the financial year 117
,170 166,514 73,572 63,967
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to
profit or loss
Gain on foreign currency translations 207 868 – –
Total comprehensive income 117
,377 167
,382 73,572 63,967
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the parent 68,661 100,447 73,572 63,967
Non-controlling interests 48,509 66,067 – –
117
,170 166,514 73,572 63,967
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the parent 68,785 100,967 73,572 63,967
Non-controlling interests 48,592 66,415 – –
117
,377 167
,382 73,572 63,967
Earnings per ordinary share attributable to equity
holders of the Company (sen):
Basic 27 42.38 62.00
Diluted 27 42.38 62.00
		
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
71
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Group Note
Share capital
RM’000
Exchange
translation
reserve
RM’000
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
attributable
to owners of
the parent
RM’000
Non-
controlling
interests
RM’000
Total
equity
RM’000
As at 1 July 2023 95,147 993 314,180 410,320 109,661 519,981
Profit for the financial year – – 68,661 68,661 48,509 117
,170
Other comperhensive
income, net of tax – 124 – 124 83 207
Total comprehensive income – 124 68,661 68,785 48,592 117
,377
Transactions with owners
Dividend paid 28 – – (24,300) (24,300) – (24,300)
Dividend paid to
non-controlling interest
of a subsidiary 8(e) – – – – (51,150) (51,150)
As at 30 June 2024 95,147 1,117 358,541 454,805 107
,103 561,908
As at 1 July 2022 95,147 473 233,173 328,793 85,596 414,389
Profit for the financial year – – 100,447 100,447 66,067 166,514
Other comperhensive
income, net of tax – 520 – 520 348 868
Total comprehensive income – 520 100,447 100,967 66,415 167
,382
Transactions with owners
Dividend paid 28 – – (19,440) (19,440) – (19,440)
Dividend paid to
non-controlling interest
of a subsidiary 8(e) – – – – (42,350) (42,350)
As at 30 June 2023 95,147 993 314,180 410,320 109,661 519,981
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
72 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Company Note
Share capital
RM’000
Retained earnings
RM’000
Total equity
RM’000
As at 1 July 2023 95,147 111,279 206,426
Profit for the financial year – 73,572 73,572
Other comprehensive income,
net of tax – – –
Total comprehensive income – 73,572 73,572
Transaction with owners
Dividend paid 28 – (24,300) (24,300)
As at 30 June 2024 95,147 160,551 255,698
As at 1 July 2022 95,147 66,752 161,899
Profit for the financial year – 63,967 63,967
Other comprehensive income,
net of tax – – –
Total comprehensive income – 63,967 63,967
Transaction with owners
Dividend paid 28 – (19,440) (19,440)
As at 30 June 2023 95,147 111,279 206,426
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
73
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Note
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Cash Flows From Operating Activities
Profit before tax 123,393 173,061 73,677 64,090
Adjustments for:
Bad debts written off 25 13,926 950 – –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5 8,983 7
,986 109 63
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 6 4,029 3,553 487 563
Dividends from a subsidiary 23 – – (70,275) (63,525)
Fair value adjustments on derivative instruments 12(d) (31,298) 8,399 – –
(Gain)/Loss on disposal of:
– property, plant and equipment 25 (670) (106) – –
– right-of-use assets 25 – (516) – 91
Gain on termination of lease contracts 25 (12) (12) – –
Impairment losses on:
– trade and other receivables 1,439 10,490 – –
– amounts due from subsidiaries 10 – – 39 39
Interest expense 15,713 17
,079 47 29
Interest income (6,865) (4,671) (5,724) (3,879)
Inventories written back 11 (455) (551) – –
Inventories written down 11 21 3,502 – –
Property, plant and equipment written off 5 372 – – –
Provision for retirement benefit obligations 20 12 93 – –
Reversal of impairment loss on trade and other receivables 10 (10,723) (10,226) – –
Unrealised loss/(gain) on foreign exchange, net 25 14,109 (15,884) – –
Operating profit/(loss) before changes in working capital 131,974 193,147 (1,640) (2,529)
Changes in working capital:
Inventories (2,444) 35,006 – –
Trade and other receivables 278,134 (54,464) (77) (8)
Trade and other payables (82,763) (55,724) (18) 25
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 324,901 117
,965 (1,735) (2,512)
Tax paid (5,772) (5,805) (122) (143)
Tax refunded 1,000 4,459 253 –
Contributions paid for retirement benefit 20 (82) (122) – –
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 320,047 116,497 (1,604) (2,655)
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
74 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Note
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Cash Flows From Investing Activities
Advances to subsidiaries – – (10,648) (10,131)
Repayments from subsidiaries – – 10,609 10,370
Dividends received from a subsidiary – – 70,275 63,525
Withdrawal of deposits with maturity periods of
more than 3 months – 500 – 500
Interest received 6,865 4,671 5,724 3,879
Proceeds from disposal of:
– property, plant and equipment 4,347 309 – –
– right-of-use assets – 805 – –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 5 (17
,556) (50,362) (5) (397)
Payments for right-of-use assets 6(c) – (1,947) – –
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (6,344) (46,024) 75,955 67
,746
Cash Flows From Financing Activities
Dividends paid to shareholders 28 (24,300) (19,440) (24,300) (19,440)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests in a subsidiary 8(e) (51,150) (42,350) – –
(Repayments)/Drawdowns of borrowings:
– bankers’ acceptances 16(h) (55,362) (16,551) – –
– Islamic financing facilities 16(h) (45,957) 37
,475 – –
– term loans 16(h) (1,004) (1,940) – –
Interest paid (15,353) (16,899) (1) (11)
Payments of lease liabilities 6(f) (3,286) (2,817) (531) (671)
Net cash used in financing activities (196,412) (62,522) (24,832) (20,122)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 117
,291 7
,951 49,519 44,969
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
and cash equivalents 675 1,198 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 236,017 226,868 137
,422 92,453
Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 13(g) 353,983 236,017 186,941 137
,422
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
75
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
1. Corporate Information
C.I. Holdings Berhad (“the Company”) is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia, and is
listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The registered office and principal place of business of the Company are located at Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place
Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur.
The consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries.
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the functional currency of the Company. All
financial information presented in RM has been rounded to the nearest thousand (“RM’000”), unless otherwise stated.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on 25 September 2024.
2. Principal Activities
The principal activities of the Company are that of investment holding and the provision of management services to its
subsidiaries. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are selling, packing and marketing of all types of edible oil, manufacture
and trading of household fittings and appliances and investment holding. Further details of the subsidiaries are set out in Note
8 to the financial statements. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
3. Basis Of Preparation
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), IFRS Accounting Standards and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the effects of adoption
of new MFRSs and Amendments during the financial year. The new MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs adopted during the
financial year are disclosed in Note 33.1 to the financial statements.
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention except as
otherwise stated in the financial statements.
4. Operating Segments
C.I. Holdings Berhad has arrived at three (3) reportable segments that are organised and managed separately according to the
business segments, which requires different business and marketing strategies. The reportable segments are summarised as follows:
1. Edible oil Selling, packing and marketing of all types of edible oil.
2. Tap-ware and sanitary ware Manufacture and trading of household fittings and appliances such as water taps,
plumbing accessories and sanitary wares.
3. Investment holding Investment activities.
Others mainly comprised subsidiaries that have ceased operations and remained inactive.
The Group evaluates performance on the basis of profit or loss from operations before tax not including non-recurring losses,
such as restructuring costs and goodwill impairment.
The Directors are of the opinion that all inter-segment transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business and
are based on negotiated and mutually agreed terms.
Segment assets exclude tax assets.
Segment liabilities exclude tax liabilities and retirement benefit obligations. Even though loans and borrowings arise from
financing activities rather than operating activities, they are allocated to the segments based on relevant factors (e.g.
funding requirements).
Inter-segment revenue is priced along the same lines as sales to external customers and is eliminated in the consolidated
financial statements. These policies have been applied consistently throughout the current and previous financial years.
Details are provided in the reconciliations from segment assets and liabilities to the position of the Group.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
76 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
4. Operating Segments (continued)
2024
Edible oil
RM’000
Tap-ware and
sanitary ware
RM’000
Investment
holding
RM’000
Others
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Revenue
Total revenue 4,871,063 26,891 73,875 – 4,971,829
Inter-segment revenue (1,001,953) (433) (73,875) – (1,076,261)
Revenue from external customers 3,869,110 26,458 – – 3,895,568
Interest income 1,080 50 5,735 – 6,865
Finance costs (15,571) (95) (47) – (15,713)
Net finance (expense)/income (14,491) (45) 5,688 – (8,848)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 8,721 153 109 – 8,983
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 3,355 187 487 – 4,029
Segment profit/(loss) before tax 122,425 1,016 (29) (19) 123,393
Other material non-cash items:
– Bad debts written off/(recovered) 13,927 (1) – – 13,926
– Fair value adjustment on derivative instruments (31,298) – – – (31,298)
– (Reversal of impairment loss)/Impairment
losses on financial assets, net (9,466) 182 – – (9,284)
– Unrealised loss on foreign exchange 14,109 – – – 14,109
Additions to non-current assets other than
financial instruments and deferred tax assets 17
,513 840 2,626 – 20,979
Segment assets 797
,149 26,657 220,526 – 1,044,332
Segment liabilities 470,248 5,835 3,456 6 479,545
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
77
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
4. Operating Segments (continued)
2023
Edible oil
RM’000
Tap-ware and
sanitary ware
RM’000
Investment
holding
RM’000
Others
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Revenue
Total revenue 6,337
,321 21,155 67
,125 – 6,425,601
Inter-segment revenue (1,011,309) (2) (67
,125) – (1,078,436)
Revenue from external customers 5,326,012 21,153 – – 5,347
,165
Interest income 754 38 3,879 – 4,671
Finance costs (16,977) (73) (29) – (17
,079)
Net finance (expense)/income (16,223) (35) 3,850 – (12,408)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7
,768 155 63 – 7
,986
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 2,773 217 563 – 3,553
Segment profit/(loss) before tax 180,277 (4,180) (3,017) (19) 173,061
Other material non-cash items:
– Fair value adjustment on derivative instruments 8,399 – – – 8,399
– Unrealised (gain)/loss on foreign exchange (15,886) 2 – – (15,884)
Additions to non-current assets other than
financial instruments and deferred tax assets 60,994 9 397 – 61,400
Segment assets 1,027
,411 23,720 164,298 – 1,215,429
Segment liabilities 688,626 3,857 1,485 6 693,974
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
78 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
4. Operating Segments (continued)
Reconciliations of reportable segment profit or loss, assets and liabilities to the corresponding amounts of the Group are
as follows:
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Profit for the year
Total profit for reportable segments 123,393 173,061
Tax expense (6,223) (6,547)
Profit for the financial year of the Group per consolidated statement of profit or loss
and other comprehensive income 117,170 166,514
Assets
Total assets for reportable segments 1,044,332 1,215,429
Current tax assets 1,302 1,354
Assets of the Group 1,045,634 1,216,783
Liabilities
Total liabilities for reportable segments 479,545 693,974
Deferred tax liabilities 2,059 1,777
Current tax liabilities 1,998 857
Retirement benefit obligations 124 194
Liabilities of the Group 483,726 696,802
(a) Geographical information
The manufacturing facilities and sales offices of the Group are based in Malaysia.
In presenting information on the basis of geographical areas, segment revenue is based on the geographical location
of customers.
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Revenue from external customers
Malaysia 371,493 51,780
Africa 2,513,642 4,076,971
Asia 288,986 940,116
Other regions 721,447 278,298
3,895,568 5,347,165
(b) There has been no single customer which contributed to revenue equal or more than 10% of the revenue of the Group.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
79
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
5. Property, Plant And Equipment
Group
2024
Balance
as at
1 July
2023
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Disposals
RM’000
Written
off
RM’000
Reclassifications
RM’000
Reclassification
from right-of-
use asset
(Note 6)
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for
the financial
year
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
movement
RM’000
Balance
as at
30 June
2024
RM’000
Carrying
amount
Buildings 25,323 456 – – 1,624 – (1,172) – 26,231
Freehold land 15,199 – – – – – – – 15,199
Plant and
machinery 14,078 2,166 – (100) 4,110 – (5,929) – 14,325
Office furniture
and
equipment 1,003 340 (43) – 65 – (358) – 1,007
Renovation 6,472 25 – – 75 – (664) 2 5,910
Motor vehicles 1,841 512 (18) – – 1,858 (860) 7 3,340
Construction-in-
progress 50,662 14,057 (3,616) (272) (5,874) – – – 54,957
114,578 17,556 (3,677) (372) – 1,858 (8,983) 9 120,969
At 30 June 2024
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
depreciation
RM’000
Carrying amount
RM’000
Buildings 36,505 (10,274) 26,231
Freehold land 15,199 – 15,199
Plant and machinery 64,836 (50,511) 14,325
Office furniture and equipment 5,265 (4,258) 1,007
Renovation 11,175 (5,265) 5,910
Motor vehicles 5,626 (2,286) 3,340
Construction-in-progress 54,957 – 54,957
193,563 (72,594) 120,969
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
80 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
5. Property, Plant And Equipment (continued)
Group
2023
Balance
as at
1 July
2022
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Disposals
RM’000
Written
off
RM’000
Reclassifications
RM’000
Reclassification
from right-of-
use asset
(Note 6)
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for
the financial
year
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
movement
RM’000
Balance
as at
30 June
2023
RM’000
Carrying amount
Buildings 24,485 1,805 – – – – (967) – 25,323
Freehold land 15,199 – – – – – – – 15,199
Plant and
machinery 17,802 96 – * 2,075 – (5,895) – 14,078
Office furniture
and equipment 1,016 311 – – – – (324) – 1,003
Renovation 6,849 180 – – 67 – (638) 14 6,472
Motor vehicles 761 1,221 (203) – – 224 (162) – 1,841
Construction-in-
progress 6,055 46,749 – – (2,142) – – – 50,662
72,167 50,362 (203) * – 224 (7,986) 14 114,578
At 30 June 2023
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
depreciation
RM’000
Carrying amount
RM’000
Buildings 34,425 (9,102) 25,323
Freehold land 15,199 – 15,199
Plant and machinery 62,834 (48,756) 14,078
Office furniture and equipment 5,136 (4,133) 1,003
Renovation 11,068 (4,596) 6,472
Motor vehicles 3,151 (1,310) 1,841
Construction-in-progress 50,662 – 50,662
182,475 (67,897) 114,578
*Property, plant and equipment written off with carrying amounts less than RM1,000.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
81
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
5. Property, Plant And Equipment (continued)
Company
2024
Balance as at
1 July 2023
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Written
off
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the
financial year
RM’000
Balance as at
30 June 2024
RM’000
Carrying amount
Office furniture and equipment 51 5 * (16) 40
Renovation 72 – – (17) 55
Motor vehicles 354 – – (76) 278
477 5 * (109) 373
*Property, plant and equipment written off with carrying amounts less than RM1,000.
As at 30 June 2024
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
depreciation
RM’000
Carrying amount
RM’000
Office furniture and equipment 892 (852) 40
Renovation 522 (467) 55
Motor vehicles 388 (110) 278
1,802 (1,429) 373
Company
2023
Balance as at
1 July 2022
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Disposal
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the
financial year
RM’000
Balance as at
30 June 2023
RM’000
Carrying amount
Office furniture and equipment 54 17 * (20) 51
Renovation 88 – – (16) 72
Motor vehicles 1 380 – (27) 354
143 397 * (63) 477
As at 30 June 2023
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
depreciation
RM’000
Carrying amount
RM’000
Office furniture and equipment 893 (842) 51
Renovation 522 (450) 72
Motor vehicles 388 (34) 354
1,803 (1,326) 477
*Disposal property, plant and equipment with carrying amounts less than RM1,000.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
82 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
5. Property, Plant And Equipment (continued)
(a) All items of property, plant and equipment are initially recorded at cost. After initial recognition, property, plant and
equipment except for freehold land and construction-in-progress are stated at cost less any accumulated depreciation and
accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Freehold land has unlimited useful life and is not depreciated. Construction-in-progress represents renovation, machinery
and office equipment under installation and is stated at cost. Construction-in-progress is not depreciated until such time
when the asset is ready for use.
Depreciation on other property, plant and equipment is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual
values on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives represent common life
expectancies applied in the various business segments of the Group operates. The principal depreciation annual rates
used are as follows:
Buildings				 2% - 13%
Plant and machinery								 2% - 20%
Office furniture and equipment 8% - 40%
Renovation			 10% - 20%
Motor vehicles			 20%
(b) The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment of the Group charged to licensed banks for banking facilities
granted to certain subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period as disclosed in Note 16, Note 17 and Note 18 to
the financial statements respectively are as follows:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Buildings 17,615 16,651
Freehold land 15,199 15,199
Plant and machinery – 1,079
32,814 32,929
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
83
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
6. Leases
The Group as a lessee
Right-of-use assets
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1 July 2023
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Termination
of lease
contract
RM’000
Reclassification
to property, plant
and equipment
(Note 5)
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the
financial year
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
movement
RM’000
Balance
as at
30 June
2024
RM’000
Land 6,533 – – – (190) – 6,343
Buildings 12,793 3,423 (174) – (3,413) 11 12,640
Machineries 183 – – – (120) – 63
Office equipment 12 – – – (6) – 6
Motor vehicles 2,825 – – (1,858) (300) 21 688
22,346 3,423 (174) (1,858) (4,029) 32 19,740
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1 July
2022
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Termination
of lease
contract
RM’000
Disposals
RM’000
Reclassification
to property,
plant and
equipment
(Note 5)
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the
financial year
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
movement
RM’000
Balance
as at
30 June
2023
RM’000
Land 6,984 – – – – (451) – 6,533
Buildings 6,238 9,067 (257) – – (2,164) (91) 12,793
Machineries 251 165 – – – (233) – 183
Office equipment 17 – – – – (6) 1 12
Motor vehicles 1,960 1,806 – (289) (224) (699) 271 2,825
15,450 11,038 (257) (289) (224) (3,553) 181 22,346
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
84 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
6. Leases (continued)
The Group as a lessee (continued)
Lease liabilities
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1 July 2023
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Termination
of lease
contract
RM’000
Payments of
lease liabilities
RM’000
Accretion
of interest
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
movement
RM’000
Balance
as at
30 June 2024
RM’000
Buildings 11,773 3,423 (186) (2,978) 342 141 12,515
Machineries 185 – – (125) 5 – 65
Office equipment 13 – – (7) 1 1 8
Motor vehicles 442 – – (176) 12 3 281
12,413 3,423 (186) (3,286) 360 145 12,869
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1 July 2022
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Termination
of lease
contract
RM’000
Payments of
lease liabilities
RM’000
Accretion
of interest
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
movement
RM’000
Balance
as at
30 June 2023
RM’000
Buildings 4,548 8,926 (269) (1,597) 112 53 11,773
Machineries 258 165 – (246) 8 – 185
Office equipment 17 – – (6) 1 1 13
Motor vehicles 1,324 – – (968) 59 27 442
6,147 9,091 (269) (2,817) 180 81 12,413
The Company as a lessee
Right-of-use assets
Carrying amount
Balance as at
1 July 2023
RM’000
Addition
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the financial year
RM’000
Balance as at
30 June 2024
RM’000
Buildings 378 2,621 (487) 2,512
Carrying amount
Balance as at
1 July 2022
RM’000
Disposal
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the financial year
RM’000
Balance as at
30 June 2023
RM’000
Buildings 881 – (503) 378
Motor vehicles 151 (91) (60) –
1,032 (91) (563) 378
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
85
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
6. Leases (continued)
The Company as a lessee (continued)
Lease liabilities
Carrying amount
Balance as at
1 July 2023
RM’000
Addition
RM’000
Payments of
lease liabilities
RM’000
Accretion
of interest
RM’000
Balance as at
30 June 2024
RM’000
Buildings 395 2,621 (531) 47 2,532
Carrying amount
Balance as at
1 July 2022
RM’000
Payments of
lease liabilities
RM’000
Accretion
of interest
RM’000
Balance as at
30 June 2023
RM’000
Buildings 912 (531) 14 395
Motor vehicles 136 (140) 4 –
1,048 (671) 18 395
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Represented by:
Non-current liabilities 9,883 9,674 2,160 –
Current liabilities 2,986 2,739 372 395
12,869 12,413 2,532 395
(a) The Group and the Company lease a number of land, buildings, machineries, office equipment and motor vehicles in the
locations, which it operates with fixed periodic rent over the lease term. The Group has certain leases of forklifts and hostels
with lease term of 12 months or less, and low value leases of office equipment of RM20,000 and below. The Group applies
the “short-term lease” and “lease of low-value assets” exemptions for these leases.
(b) The right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, which comprise the initial amount of the lease liabilities adjusted for
any lease payments made at or before the commencement date of the leases.
After initial recognition, right-of-use assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment
losses, if any, and adjusted for any re-measurement of the lease liabilities.
The right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the earlier of the estimated useful lives of the right-of-use
assets or the end of the lease term. The lease terms of right-of-use assets are as follows:
Land up to 99 years
Buildings			 2 to 10 years
Machineries		 2 years
Office equipment 5 years
Motor vehicles 5 years
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
86 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
6. Leases (continued)
(c) During the financial year, the Group made the following cash payments to purchase of right-of-use assets:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Purchase of right-of-use assets 3,423 11,038
Financed by finance lease (3,423) (9,091)
Cash payments on purchase of right-of-use assets – 1,947
(d) Certain land of the Group with a carrying amount of RM1,965,000 (2023: RM1,992,000) have been charged as
securities to banks for loans and borrowings granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 16 and Note 18 to the
financial statements respectively.
(e) The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss of the Group and of the Company:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets
(included in cost of sales and administrative expenses) 4,029 3,553 487 563
Interest expense on lease liabilities
(included in finance costs) 360 180 47 18
Expense relating to short-term leases
(included in administrative expenses) 1,174 823 – –
Expense relating to leases of low-value assets
(included in administrative expenses) 22 25 – –
Gain arising from termination of lease contracts
(included in other income) (12) (12) – –
Gain on disposal of right-of-use assets
(included in other income) – (516) – –
Loss on disposal of right-of-use asset
(included in administrative expenses) – – – 91
5,573 4,053 534 672
(f) The following are total cash outflows for leases as a lessee:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Included in net cash from operating activities:
Payment relating to short-term leases and leases of
low-value assets 1,196 848 – –
Included in net cash used in financing activities:
Payment of lease liabilities 3,286 2,817 531 671
4,482 3,665 531 671
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
87
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
6. Leases (continued)
(g) The following table summarises the incremental borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting date and remaining maturity
profile of the lease liabilities of the Group and of the Company at the end of the reporting period based on contractual
undiscounted repayment obligations as follows:
Weighted
average
incremental
borrowing rate
per annum
%
On demand
or within
one (1)
year
RM’000
One (1) to
five (5) years
RM’000
Over
five (5)
years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Group
30 June 2024
Lease liabilities 2.28% - 6.85% 3,125 10,739 – 13,864
30 June 2023
Lease liabilities 2.28% - 4.10% 3,080 9,396 1,100 13,576
Company
30 June 2024
Lease liabilities 6.85% 531 2,522 – 3,053
30 June 2023
Lease liabilities 2.28% 398 – – 398
(h) Management exercises judgement in determining the incremental borrowing rates whenever the implicit rates of interest in a
lease are not readily determinable as well as the lease terms. The incremental borrowing rates used are based on prevailing
market borrowing rates over similar lease terms, of similar value as the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment.
Lease terms are based on management expectations driven by prevailing market conditions and past experience in exercising
similar renewal and termination options.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
88 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
7. Intangible Assets
Group
2024
Balance as at
1 July 2023/ 30 June 2024
RM’000
Carrying amount
Goodwill 11,242
Trademark 6,019
17
,261
As at 30 June 2024
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
impairment loss
RM’000
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Goodwill 11,242 – 11,242
Trademark 6,019 – 6,019
17
,261 – 17
,261
Group
2023
Balance as at
1 July 2022/ 30 June 2023
RM’000
Carrying amount
Goodwill 11,242
Trademark 6,019
17
,261
As at 30 June 2023
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
impairment loss
RM’000
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Goodwill 11,242 – 11,242
Trademark 6,019 – 6,019
17
,261 – 17
,261
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
89
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
7. Intangible Assets (continued)
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill is initially measured at cost. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment
losses, if any. Goodwill is not amortised but instead tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could be impaired.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill associated with the acquisition of Continental Resources Sdn. Bhd. (the “cash
generating unit” or “CGU”) under edible oil segment has been determined based on value-in-use calculations using a cash
flow forecast and projections from financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period and a terminal
value. Estimating the value-in-use amount requires management to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from
the CGU and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow forecast and projections, the forecasted growth rates used to
extrapolate cash flows for the five-year period, and the calculations of the value-in-use for the CGU are most sensitive to
the following assumptions:
2024 Key assumptions
Revenue growth rate for FY2025 - FY2029
Gross profit margin for FY2025 - FY2029
Pre-tax discount rate
Terminal value
3%
6%
11.00%
Zero growth rate
2023 Key assumptions
Revenue growth rate for FY2024 - FY2028
Gross profit margin for FY2024 - FY2028
Pre-tax discount rate
Terminal value
3%
7%
9.88%
Zero growth rate
Management is not aware of any reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions that would cause the carrying
amount of the CGU to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
(b) Other intangible assets with indefinite useful life
Other intangible assets represent trademark and are recognised only when the identifiability, control and future economic
benefits probability are met. Other intangible assets are initially measured at cost. After initial recognition, other intangible
assets are measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any. The useful life of the trademark is estimated to be
indefinite.
The recoverable amount of the trademark under edible oil segment has been determined based on value-in-use calculations
using a cash flow forecast and projections from financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period.
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow forecast and projections, the forecasted growth rate used to extrapolate
cash flows for the five-year period, and the calculations of value in use for the CGU are most sensitive to the following
assumptions:
2024 Key assumptions
Revenue growth rate for FY2025
Revenue growth rate for FY2026 - FY2029
Gross profit margin for FY2025 - FY2029
Pre-tax discount rate
-46%
2%
3%
11.00%
2023 Key assumptions
Revenue growth rate for FY2024
Revenue growth rate for FY2025 - FY2028
Gross profit margin for FY2024 - FY2028
Pre-tax discount rate
-59%
2%
3%
9.88%
Management is not aware of any reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions that would cause the carrying
amount of trademark to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
90 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
8. Investments In Subsidiaries
Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Unquoted shares, at cost 155,230 155,230
Less: Accumulated impairment losses (100,730) (100,730)
54,500 54,500
(a) Investments in subsidiaries, which are eliminated on consolidation, are stated in the separate financial statements of the
Company at cost less impairment losses, if any.
All components of non-controlling interests shall be measured at their acquisition-date fair values, unless another measurement
basis is required by MFRSs. The choice of measurement basis is made on a combination-by-combination basis. Subsequent
to initial recognition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus
the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity.
(b) Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of company
Country of
incorporation/
Principal place
of business
Effective interest in equity
Principal activities
2024
%
2023
%
Continental Resources Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Selling, manufacturing and
packing of edible oils
Doe Industries Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture and selling of
water taps, showers and
other plumbing fittings
C.I. Building Industries Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
C.I. Engineering Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
C.I. Edible Oils Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
C.I. Construction Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
C.I. Marketing Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
C.I. Halla Environmental Technology
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
Subsidiary of Continental Resources Sdn. Bhd.
Palmtop Sdn. Bhd.
(Formerly known as Palmtop
Vegeoil Products Sdn. Bhd.)
Malaysia 60 60 Selling and packing of
edible oils
Subsidiaries of Palmtop Sdn. Bhd.
PNC Oil Factory (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 60 60 Selling and packing of edible oils
Continental Palms Pte. Ltd.* Singapore 60 60 Selling and marketing of edible oils
Tradekey PT Foods Nigeria Limited* Nigeria 60 60 Inactive
Cebon Pte Ltd* Singapore 60 60 General wholesale trade,
including general importers
and exporters, and trading
on various commodities
Palmtop FZE* Dubai 60 60 Inactive
Palmtop Uganda Limited*# Uganda 51 — General wholesale trade,
including general importers
and exporters, and trading
on various commodities
		 *Subsidiary not audited by BDO PLT or member firms of BDO International.
		 #Consolidated based on its management accounts for the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
91
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
8. Investments In Subsidiaries (continued)
(b) Details of the subsidiaries are as follows (continued):
Name of company
Country of
incorporation/
Principal place
of business
Effective interest in equity
Principal activities
2024
%
2023
%
Subsidiaries of Doe Industries Sdn. Bhd.
Doe Marketing Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Dealership and distribution
of household fittings and
appliances
Potex Industries Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Manufacturing and trading of
ceramic sanitary wares and
related products
Elegant Flow Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Trading of sanitary wares and
related products
Subsidiary of C.I. Building Industries Sdn. Bhd.
C.I. Quarries Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
Subsidiaries of C.I. Quarries Sdn. Bhd.
Capital Aim Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
Subsidiary of Capital Aim Sdn. Bhd.
C.I. Quarries (Nilai) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
(c) Subscription of new ordinary shares in Palmtop Uganda Limited
During the current financial year, Palmtop Sdn. Bhd. subscribed 5,100 ordinary shares, representing 51% equity interest
in Palmtop Uganda Limited, a company newly incorporated on 8 August 2023 in Uganda for a cash consideration of
UGX18,599,700 or equivalent to RM23,371.
Palmtop Uganda Limited is a newly incorporated company during the financial year and the financial result is immaterial
to the Group.
(d) Subsidiaries of the Group that have material non-controlling interests (“NCI”) are as follows:
Palmtop Sdn. Bhd. and its subsidiaries
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
NCI percentage of ownership interest and voting interest (%) 40% 40%
Carrying amount of NCI 107
,103 109,661
Profit allocated to NCI 48,509 66,067
Total comprehensive income allocated to NCI 48,592 66,415
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
92 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
8. Investments In Subsidiaries (continued)
(e) Summarised financial information before intra-group elimination of a subsidiary that has material NCI as at the end of each
reporting period are as follows:
Palmtop Sdn. Bhd. and its subsidiaries
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Assets and liabilities
Non-current assets 66,348 66,365
Current assets 609,268 808,975
Non-current liabilities (718) (1,603)
Current liabilities (406,051) (598,494)
Net assets 268,847 275,243
Results
Revenue 3,771,718 5,168,305
Profit for the financial year 121,272 165,167
Total comprehensive income 121,479 166,035
Cash flows from operating activities 313,513 86,309
Cash flows used in investing activities (4,771) (39,461)
Cash flows used in financing activities (234,780) (81,621)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 73,962 (34,773)
Dividends paid to NCI (51,150) (42,350)
9. Other Investment
Group and Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Non-current
Club membership 10 10
(a) The club membership were classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss pursuant to MFRS 9
Financial Instruments.
(b) The fair value of club membership is determined by reference to comparable market value of similar investments. The fair
value of club membership of the Group and of the Company is categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. There
is no transfer between levels in the hierarchy during the financial year.
(c) The club membership is held by the Company under a subsidiary Director’s name.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
93
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
10. Trade And Other Receivables
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Current
Trade receivables
Trade receivables 410,898 742,695 – –
Less: Impairment losses (27
,282) (36,467) – –
383,616 706,228 – –
Other receivables
Other receivables and deposits 24,891 16,046 258 238
Amounts due from subsidiaries – – 3,998 3,959
24,891 16,046 4,256 4,197
Less: Impairment losses (24) – (3,998) (3,959)
24,867 16,046 258 238
408,483 722,274 258 238
Prepayments 29,051 11,470 85 27
437
,534 733,744 343 265
(a) Trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments, are classified as financial assets measured at amortised cost.
(b) The normal trade credit terms granted by the Group in respect of trade receivables ranged from 14 to 90 days (2023: 14
to 90 days) from the date of invoice. They are recognised at their original invoice amounts which represent their fair values
on initial recognition.
(c) Amounts due from subsidiaries represent advances and payments made on behalf, which are unsecured, interest-free and
payable in cash and cash equivalents.
(d) Impairment for trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are recognised based on the
simplified approach using the lifetime expected credit losses.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the expected
life of the asset. The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period
over which the Group is exposed to credit risk.
The Group uses a provision matrix to measure the expected credit loss of trade receivables based on grouping of customers
sharing the same credit risk characteristics and past due days. Expected loss rates are calculated using the roll rate method
and probability of default method separately for exposure in different segments based on type of products.
The Group has established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted to reflect
current and forward looking information on macroeconomic factors, which the Group has identified the inflation rate
and gross domestic product (“GDP”) of the countries which the Group sells its goods as the most relevant factors for the
edible oil segment and tap-ware and sanitary ware segment respectively, affecting the ability of the consumers to settle
the receivables.
During this process, the probability of non-payment by the trade receivables is adjusted by forward looking information
and multiplied by the amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine the lifetime expected credit loss for the
trade receivables. For trade receivables, which are reported net, such impairments are recorded in a separate impairment
account with the loss being recognised in the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. On confirmation
that the trade receivable would not be collectible, the gross carrying value of the asset would be written off against the
associated impairment.
The Group considers a financial asset to be in default when internal or external information indicates that the Group is
unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual amounts in full before taking into account any credit enhancement held by
the Group.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
94 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
10. Trade And Other Receivables (continued)
(d) (continued)
Individual assessment of impairment of trade receivable are separately assessed when it is probable that cash due will not
be received in full.
It requires management to exercise significant judgement in determining the probability of default by trade receivables and
appropriate forward looking information.
(e) The loss allowance for trade receivables of the Group is determined as follows:
Group
Current
RM’000
1 - 90 days
past due
RM’000
More than
90 days
past due
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2024
Expected loss rate 4.39% 4.09% 74.95%
Gross carrying amount of trade receivables 302,974 94,400 13,524 410,898
Loss allowance (13,286) (3,860) (10,136) (27
,282)
289,688 90,540 3,388 383,616
2023
Expected loss rate 1.24% 8.48% 47
.63%
Gross carrying amount of trade receivables 529,460 183,001 30,234 742,695
Loss allowance (6,548) (15,519) (14,400) (36,467)
522,912 167
,482 15,834 706,228
(f) The movements of the impairment loss for trade and other receivables at the end of each reporting period are as follows:
Group
Lifetime ECL
allowance
RM’000
Credit
impaired
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Trade receivables
As at 1 July 2023 22,344 14,123 36,467
Charge for the financial year 580 835 1,415
Reversal of impairment loss (5,826) (4,897) (10,723)
Written off – (69) (69)
Exchange difference 192 – 192
As at 30 June 2024 17
,290 9,992 27
,282
As at 1 July 2022 28,909 7
,055 35,964
Charge for the financial year 445 10,045 10,490
Reversal of impairment loss (7
,027) (2,977) (10,004)
Exchange difference 17 – 17
As at 30 June 2023 22,344 14,123 36,467
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
95
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
10. Trade And Other Receivables (continued)
(f) The movements of the impairment loss for trade and other receivables at the end of each reporting period are as follows
(continued):
Group
12-month ECL
RM’000
Lifetime ECL -
Credit impaired
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Other receivables and deposits
As at 1 July 2023 – – –
Charge for the financial year 24 – 24
As at 30 June 2024 24 – 24
As at 1 July 2022 – 222 222
Reversal of impairment loss – (222) (222)
As at 30 June 2023 – – –
Company
12-month ECL
RM’000
Lifetime ECL -
Credit impaired
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Other receivables and deposits
As at 1 July 2023 * – *
Charge for the financial year * – *
As at 30 June 2024 * – *
As at 1 July 2022 * – *
Charge for the financial year * – *
As at 30 June 2023 * – *
* The effects of expected credit loss is insignificant.
Company
12-month ECL
RM’000
Lifetime ECL -
Credit impaired
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Amounts due from subsidiaries
As at 1 July 2023 – 3,959 3,959
Charge for the financial year – 39 39
As at 30 June 2024 – 3,998 3,998
As at 1 July 2022 – 3,920 3,920
Charge for the financial year – 39 39
As at 30 June 2023 – 3,959 3,959
Credit impaired refers to receivables who have defaulted on payments and are in significant financial difficulties as at the
end of the reporting period.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
96 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
10. Trade And Other Receivables (continued)
(g) Impairment for other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries are recognised based on the general approach
within MFRS 9 using the forward looking expected credit loss model. The methodology used to determine the amount
of the impairment is based on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of the
financial asset. For those in which the credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition of the financial
asset, twelve-month expected credit losses along with gross interest income are recognised. For those in which credit risk
has increased significantly, lifetime expected credit losses along with the gross interest income are recognised. As at the
end of the reporting period, the Group and the Company assess whether there has been a significant increase in credit
risk for financial assets by comparing the risk for default occurring over the expected life with the risk of default since initial
recognition. For those that are determined to be credit impaired, lifetime expected credit losses along with interest income
on a net basis are recognised.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the expected
life of the asset, while twelve-month expected credit losses are the portion of expected credit losses that result from default
events that are possible within the twelve months after the end of the reporting period. The maximum period considered
when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period over which the Group and the Company is
exposed to credit risk.
The Group defined significant increase in credit risk based on operating performance of the receivables, changes to
contractual terms, payment delays and past due information.
The Group considers a receivable as credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the
estimated cash flow have occurred, which includes debtors who are in significant financial difficulties or have defaulted
on payments.
The probabilities of non-payment by other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries are adjusted by forward looking
information on macroeconomic factors, which the Group has identified the inflation rate of the countries which the Group
sells its goods as the most relevant factor for edible oil segment, whereas GDP of the countries which the Group sells its
goods as the most relevant factor for tap-ware and sanitary ware segment and investment holding segment, and multiplied
by the amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine the twelve (12) months or lifetime expected credit loss
for other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries.
It requires management to exercise judgement in determining the probabilities of default by other receivables and amounts
due from subsidiaries, appropriate forward looking information and significant increase in credit risk.
(h) Included in prepayments of the Group are advance payments to suppliers amounting to RM24,673,000 (2023:
RM5,612,000).
(i) At the end of each reporting period, the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk except for trade receivable
from one (1) customer constituting 21% (2023: 16%) of total receivables of the Group. The Group does not anticipate the
carrying amounts recorded at the end of each reporting period to be significantly different from the values that would
eventually be received.
(j) The currency exposure profile of receivables excluding prepayments of the Group and of the Company is as follows:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
United States Dollar (“USD”) 257,825 407,064 – –
Euro (“EUR”) 134,933 268,325 – –
Arab Emirates Dirham (“AED”) 319 10,473 – –
Singapore Dollar (“SGD”) 539 7,668 – –
Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”) 277 – – –
Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”) 14,590 28,744 258 238
408,483 722,274 258 238
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
97
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
10. Trade And Other Receivables (continued)
(k) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period of the Group and of the Company,
assuming that all other variables remain constant, are as follows:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Effects of 10% (2023: 10%) changes to
RM against foreign currencies
Profit after tax and equity
– USD/RM – strengthen 19,595 30,937 – –
– USD/RM – weaken (19,595) (30,937) – –
– EUR/RM – strengthen 10,255 20,393 – –
– EUR/RM – weaken (10,255) (20,393) – –
The exposure of the Group and of the Company to the other currencies are not significant, hence the effects of the changes
in the exchange rates are not presented.
11. Inventories
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
At cost
Raw materials 21,389 25,969
Work-in-progress – 342
Finished goods 52,185 44,041
73,574 70,352
At net realisable value
Raw materials 6 29
Finished goods 976 1,297
982 1,326
74,556 71,678
(a) Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and cost is determined using the weighted average formula.
(b) Inventories of the Group recognised as cost of sales amounted to RM3,361,939,000 (2023: RM4,586,500,000).
(c) The amounts of inventories written down recognised in the statements of profit or loss are as follows:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Recognised in other operating expenses
Inventories written down 21 3,502
Recognised in other operating income
Inventories written back (455) (551)
(434) 2,951
The Group reversed RM455,000 (2023: RM551,000) in respect of inventories written down in the previous financial
years that were subsequently not required as the Group was able to sell those inventories above their carrying amounts.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
98 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
12. Derivative Financial Instruments
Group
2024 2023
Contract/
Notional
amount
Net long
RM’000
Assets
RM’000
Liabilities
RM’000
Contract/
Notional
amount
Net long
RM’000
Assets
RM’000
Liabilities
RM’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts 618,876 3,724 (9) 1,405,868 – (25,606)
Commodity forward contracts 1,926 2,055 (177) 7,744 5,295 (5,394)
5,779 (186) 5,295 (31,000)
(a) Derivative financial instruments are classified as financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit
or loss.
The fair value of a forward foreign exchange contract is the amount that would be payable or receivable upon termination
of the outstanding position arising and is determined by reference to the difference between the contracted rate and the
forward exchange rate as at the end of each reporting period applied to a contract of similar amount and maturity profile.
The fair values of the above instruments have been estimated using the published market prices or quotes from reputable
financial institutions or valuation techniques supported by observable market data.
Derivative financial instruments are categorised at Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. There is no transfer between levels in
the hierarchy during the financial year.
(b) The forward foreign exchange contracts were entered into with the objective of managing the exposure of the Group to
currency risk for receivables, which are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Group.
(c) The commodity forward contracts and commodity future contracts were entered into with the objective of managing the
exposure of the edible oil segment of the Group to adverse price movements in vegetable oil commodity.
(d) The above derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and are
subsequently re-measured at fair value through profit and loss. The resulting gain from the re-measurement of RM31,298,000
(2023: loss of RM8,399,000) is recognised in profit or loss.
(e) The unexpired foreign currency forward contracts, which have been entered into by the Group for its trade receivables and
trade payables as at end of each reporting period are as follows:
Group
Contractual
amount
in Foreign
Currency
(“FC’000”)
Equivalent
amount
in Ringgit
Malaysia
(“RM’000”)
Average
contractual
rate
RM/FC
Expiry dates
2024
USD 81,670 384,396 4.71 1.7.2024 to 29.8.2024
EUR 45,400 234,480 5.16 15.7.2024 to 6.12.2024
2023
USD 184,075 811,179 4.41 3.7.2023 to 30.10.2023
EUR 116,400 594,689 5.11 3.7.2023 to 27.12.2023
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
99
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
12. Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)
(f) The financial instruments of the Group, which are subject to price risk along with their contract values and mark-to-market
fair value on closing, plus fair value recognised over the financial year are as follows:
Group
Contract and notional value
<1 year
RM’000
Fair value attributed to price
changes at period closing
<1 year
RM’000
2024
Commodity based
Forward sales contracts 115,776 (177)
Forward purchase contracts (113,850) 2,055
1,878
2023
Commodity based
Forward sales contracts 246,744 (5,394)
Forward purchase contracts (239,000) 5,295
(99)
The exposure of the Group to price volatility was solely derived from palm products. If the price of palm products changes
by 5% (2023: 5%), profit after tax and equity for the Group would have equally increased or decreased by approximately
RM73,000 (2023: RM294,000).
13. Cash And Bank Balances
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Cash and bank balances 348,678 230,737 182,941 133,422
Deposits with licensed banks 19,805 19,780 18,500 18,500
368,483 250,517 201,441 151,922
(a) Cash and bank balances are classified as financial assets measured at amortised cost.
(b) Deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company are subject to interest at rates ranging from 1.45% to 3.55%
per annum and 2.30% to 2.80% per annum (2023: 0.7% to 2.9% per annum and 2.5% to 2.9% per annum) respectively.
(c) Deposits with the licensed banks of the Group and of the Company as at the end of the reporting period have maturity
periods ranging from 7 days to 151 days and 29 days to 151 days (2023: 8 days to 150 days and 30 days to 150
days) respectively.
(d) Deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company are fixed rate instruments. Sensitivity analysis at the end
of the reporting period is not presented as fixed rate instrument is not affected by change in interest rates.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
100 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
13. Cash And Bank Balances (continued)
(e) The currency exposure profile of cash and bank balances is as follows:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
RM 292,149 207,653 201,441 151,922
AED 29,866 350 – –
USD 26,915 28,441 – –
EUR 14,077 11,692 – –
SGD 5,438 2,379 – –
Others 38 2 – –
368,483 250,517 201,441 151,922
(f) Sensitivity analysis of RM against AED, USD and EUR at the end of each reporting period, assuming that all other
variables remain constant, are as follows:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Effects of 10% (2023: 10%) changes to RM against foreign currencies
Profit after tax and equity
– AED/RM – strengthen 2,270 27
– AED/RM – weaken (2,270) (27)
– USD/RM – strengthen 2,046 2,162
– USD/RM – weaken (2,046) (2,162)
– EUR/RM – strengthen 1,070 889
– EUR/RM – weaken (1,070) (889)
The exposure of the Group to the other currencies are not significant, hence the effects of the changes in the exchange
rates are not presented.
(g) For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following as at the end of
each reporting period:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Cash and bank balances 348,678 230,737 182,941 133,422
Deposits with licensed banks 19,805 19,780 18,500 18,500
As reported in statements of
financial position 368,483 250,517 201,441 151,922
Less: Deposits with maturity more than
three (3) months (14,500) (14,500) (14,500) (14,500)
As reported in statements of cash flows 353,983 236,017 186,941 137,422
(h) Included in the bank balances of the Group are cash placed in Islamic accounts, which amounted to RM33,731,000
(2023: RM41,997,000).
(i) No expected credit losses were recognised arising from the deposits with licensed banks because the probability of
default by these licensed banks were negligible.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
101
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
14. Share Capital
Group and Company
2024 2023
Number
of shares
’000 RM’000
Number
of shares
’000 RM’000
Issued and fully paid with no par value
As at beginning/end of the financial year 162,000 95,147 162,000 95,147
The owners of the parent are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company and are entitled to one
(1) vote per ordinary share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares rank pari passu with regard to the residual
assets of the Company.
15. Reserves
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Exchange translation reserve 1,117 993 – –
Retained earnings 358,541 314,180 160,551 111,279
359,658 315,173 160,551 111,279
Exchange translation reserve
The exchange translation reserve is used to record foreign currency exchange differences arising from the translation of the
financial statements of foreign operations whose functional currencies are different from that of the presentation currency
of the Group. It is also used to record the exchange differences arising from monetary items which form part of the net
investment of the Group in foreign operations, where the monetary item is denominated in either the functional currency
of the reporting entity or the foreign operation.
16. Borrowings
Note
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Non-current liabilities
Secured:
Islamic financing facilities 539 719
Current liabilities
Secured:
Term loans – 1,004
Bankers’ acceptances 19,985 75,347
Islamic financing facilities 297,955 343,903
317,940 420,254
Total borrowings
Term loans 17 – 1,004
Bankers’ acceptances 19,985 75,347
Islamic financing facilities 18 298,494 344,622
318,479 420,973
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
102 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
16. Borrowings (continued)
(a) Borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(b) The carrying amounts of borrowings are reasonable approximation of their fair values, either due to their short-term nature or
that they are floating rate instruments, which are re-priced to market interest rates on or near the end of the reporting period.
Fair value of the borrowings of the Group for disclosure purpose are categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. There
is no transfer between levels in the hierarchy during the financial year.
(c) Bankers’ acceptances are secured by first legal charges over land and buildings of certain subsidiaries as disclosed in
Note 5 and Note 6 to the financial statements respectively. In addition, bankers’ acceptances are guaranteed by corporate
guarantee and indemnity by the Company and a negative pledge on the assets of certain subsidiaries.
(d) The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average effective interest rates as at the end of each
reporting period and the remaining maturities of the borrowings of the Group and of the Company that are exposed to
interest rate risk:
Group
Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
per annum
%
On
demand
or within
one (1)
year
RM’000
One (1)
to five (5)
years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
30 June 2024
Floating rates
Bankers’ acceptances 3.95% - 5.20% 19,985 – 19,985
Islamic financing facilities 3.81% - 6.40% 297,955 539 298,494
317,940 539 318,479
30 June 2023
Floating rates
Term loans 5.33% 1,004 – 1,004
Bankers’ acceptances 2.11% - 5.10% 75,347 – 75,347
Islamic financing facilities 3.64% - 4.50% 343,903 719 344,622
420,254 719 420,973
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
103
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
16. Borrowings (continued)
(e) The maturity profile of borrowings of the Group and of the Company at the end of each reporting period based on
contractual undiscounted repayment obligations is summarised in the table below:
Group
On
demand
or within
one (1)
year
RM’000
One (1)
to five (5)
years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2024
Financial liabilities
Bankers’ acceptances 19,985 – 19,985
Islamic financing facilities 297,982 589 298,571
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 317,967 589 318,556
2023
Financial liabilities
Term loans 1,017 – 1,017
Bankers’ acceptances 75,347 – 75,347
Islamic financing facilities 344,182 798 344,980
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 420,546 798 421,344
(f) Sensitivity analysis of interest rate at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other variables remain constant, are
as follows:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Profit after tax and equity
– Increased by 1.0% (2023: 1.0%) (2,420) (3,199)
– Decreased by 1.0% (2023: 1.0%) 2,420 3,199
(g) The currency exposure profile of borrowings of the Group is as follows:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
USD 1,124 16,082
RM 317,355 404,891
318,479 420,973
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
104 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
16. Borrowings (continued)
(g) The currency exposure profile of borrowings of the Group is as follows (continued):
Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currency, USD as at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other
variables remain constant, are as follows:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Effects of 10% (2023: 10%) changes to RM against foreign currencies
Profit after tax and equity
– USD/RM - strengthen (85) (1,222)
– USD/RM - weaken 85 1,222
The exposure of the Group to the other currency was not significant, hence the effect of the changes in the exchange rate
was not presented.
(h) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
The table below details changes in the Group’s and in the Company’s liabilities arising from financing activities, including
both cash and non-cash changes. Liabilities arising from financing activities are those for which cash flows were, or
future cash flows will be, classified in the statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company as cash flows from
financing activities.
Group
Term
loans
RM’000
Bankers’
acceptances
RM’000
Islamic
financing
facilities
RM’000
Lease
liabilities
(Note 6)
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2024
As at 1 July 2023 1,004 75,347 344,622 12,413 433,386
Cash flows (1,004) (55,362) (45,957) (3,286) (105,609)
Non-cash flows:
– Additions – – – 3,423 3,423
– Accretion of interest – – – 360 360
– Termination of lease contracts – – – (186) (186)
– Foreign exchange movement – – (171) 145 (26)
As at 30 June 2024 – 19,985 298,494 12,869 331,348
2023
As at 1 July 2022 2,944 91,898 309,057 6,147 410,046
Cash flows (1,940) (16,551) 37,475 (2,817) 16,167
Non-cash flows:
– Additions – – – 9,091 9,091
– Accretion of interest – – – 180 180
– Termination of lease contracts – – – (269) (269)
– Unrealised loss on foreign exchange – – (1,910) – (1,910)
– Foreign exchange movement – – – 81 81
As at 30 June 2023 1,004 75,347 344,622 12,413 433,386
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
105
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
16. Borrowings (continued)
(h) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities (continued)
Lease liabilities
(Note 6)
RM’000
Company
2024
As at 1 July 2023 395
Cash flows (531)
Non-cash flows:
– Addition 2,621
– Accretion of interest 47
As at 30 June 2024 2,532
2023
As at 1 July 2022 1,048
Cash flows (671)
Non-cash flows:
– Accretion of interest 18
As at 30 June 2023 395
17. Term Loans
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Secured
Term loans
– current – 1,004
(a) Term loans of the Group are secured by legal charges over the freehold land, building and plant and machinery of a
subsidiary as disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements. In addition, the term loans of the Group are guaranteed by
the Company and a negative pledge on the assets of a subsidiary.
(b) The Group has fully settled the term loans during the financial year and the pledged properties are in the midst of
discharging as at the date of the reporting period.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
106 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
18. Islamic Financing Facilities
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Secured
Islamic trade facilities
– non-current 539 719
– current 297,955 343,903
298,494 344,622
Islamic trade facilities of the Group are secured by first legal charge over the land and building of subsidiaries as disclosed in
Note 5 and Note 6 to the financial statements respectively and guaranteed by way of a corporate guarantee by the Company
and a negative pledge on the assets of certain subsidiaries.
19. Deferred Tax Liabilities
(a) The deferred tax liabilities are made up of the following:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
As at beginning of the financial year 1,777 781
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 26) 282 996
As at end of the financial year 2,059 1,777
(b) The components and movements of deferred tax liabilities during the financial year prior to offsetting are as follows:
Deferred tax liabilities of the Group
Property, plant
and equipment
and right-of-use
assets
RM’000
Others
RM’000
Total
RM’000
As at 1 July 2022 1,041 (260) 781
Recognised in profit or loss (109) 1,105 996
As at 30 June 2023/1 July 2023 932 845 1,777
Recognised in profit or loss 282 – 282
As at 30 June 2024 1,214 845 2,059
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
107
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
19. Deferred Tax Liabilities (continued)
(c) Amounts of temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the statements of financial
position are as follows:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Unabsorbed capital allowances 1,945 3,340 420 420
Unused tax losses
– Expires by 30 June 2028 4,948 4,948 736 736
– Expires by 30 June 2029 314 314 – –
– Expires by 30 June 2030 2,022 2,022 – –
– Expires by 30 June 2031 332 332 – –
– Expires by 30 June 2032 1,681 1,681 – –
– Expires by 30 June 2033 1,109 – – –
Other temporary differences (77) 33,022 (12) (9)
12,274 45,659 1,144 1,147
Deferred tax assets of the Company have not been recognised in respect of these items as these items were derived from
different business sources and it is not probable that taxable profits of the Company from the same business source would
be available against which the deductible temporary differences could be utilised.
Deferred tax assets of certain subsidiaries have not been recognised in respect of these items as it is not probable that
taxable profits of the subsidiaries would be available against which the deductible temporary differences could be utilised.
The amount and availability of these items to be carried forward up to the periods as disclosed above are subject to the
agreement of the respective local tax authorities.
20. Retirement Benefit Obligations
The Group operates an unfunded defined benefit plan for non-executive staff who are entitled to a payment calculated
by reference to their length of service and earnings. Provision for retirement benefit obligations is calculated based on the
predetermined rate of basic salaries and length of service of the employees.
The amounts recognised in the statements of financial position are determined as follows:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Present value of unfunded retirement benefit obligations 124 194
Analysed as follows:
Non-current liabilities
– later than five (5) years 124 194
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
108 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
20. Retirement Benefit Obligations (continued)
The Group operates an unfunded defined benefit plan for non-executive staff who are entitled to a payment calculated
by reference to their length of service and earnings. Provision for retirement benefit obligations is calculated based on the
predetermined rate of basic salaries and length of service of the employees. (continued)
The total expenses recognised in profit or loss are as follows:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Current service cost 4 41
Past service cost 3 –
Interest cost 5 52
Expenses recognised in the statements of profit or loss and other
comprehensive income included under administrative expenses 12 93
The movements during the financial year in the amounts recognised in the statements of financial position in respect of the
retirement benefit obligations are as follows:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
As at beginning of the financial year 194 223
Recognised in profit or loss 12 93
Contributions paid (82) (122)
As at end of the financial year 124 194
The principal actuarial assumptions used are as follows:
Group
2024
%
2023
%
Discount rates 4.2 4.2
Expected rates of salary increases 5.0 5.0
Price inflation 2.5 2.5
The actuarial valuation dated 31 March 2022 was conducted by a professional actuary, which covered a three years
estimation from 30 June 2022 to 30 June 2024.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
109
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
21. Trade And Other Payables
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Trade payables 63,456 121,658 – –
Other payables 41,970 64,599 5 8
Accrued liabilities 42,585 43,331 1,058 1,073
84,555 107,930 1,063 1,081
148,011 229,588 1,063 1,081
(a) Trade and other payables of the Group and of the Company are classified as financial liabilities measured at
amortised cost.
(b) Trade payables are non-interest bearing and the normal credit terms granted to the Group in respect of trade payables
ranged from 4 to 120 days (2023: 4 to 120 days) from the date of invoice.
(c) Included in other payables of the Group are advance payments from customers amounting to RM28,247,000
(2023: RM45,258,000).
(d) Maturity profile of trade and other payables of the Group and of the Company at the end of the reporting period based
on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations is repayable on demand or within one (1) year.
(e) The currency exposure profile of trade and other payables of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
USD 64,191 142,650 – –
EUR 11,483 3,923 – –
SGD 10,389 3,199 – –
RM 60,490 79,035 1,063 1,081
RMB 945 1 – –
AED 454 780 – –
IDR 59 – – –
148,011 229,588 1,063 1,081
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
110 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
21. Trade And Other Payables (continued)
(f) Sensitivity analysis of RM against USD and EUR at the end of the reporting period of the Group, assuming that all other
variables remain constant, are as follows:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Effects of 10% (2023: 10%) changes to RM against foreign currency
Profit after tax and equity
– USD/RM – strengthen (4,879) (10,841)
– USD/RM – weaken 4,879 10,841
– EUR/RM – strengthen (873) (298)
– EUR/RM – weaken 873 298
The exposure to the other currencies are not significant, hence the effects of the changes in the exchange rates are
not presented.
22. Commitments
Capital commitments
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Capital expenditure in respect of purchase of property, plant and equipment:
– Approved and contracted for 30,562 9,257
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
111
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
23. Revenue
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Revenue from contracts with customers
– Sale of goods 3,895,568 5,347,165 – –
– Management fees from subsidiaries – – 3,600 3,600
3,895,568 5,347,165 3,600 3,600
Revenue from other sources
– Dividend income from a subsidiary – – 70,275 63,525
3,895,568 5,347,165 73,875 67,125
Timing of revenue recognition
Transferred at a point in time 3,895,568 5,347,165 – –
Transferred over time – – 3,600 3,600
Revenue from contracts with customers 3,895,568 5,347,165 3,600 3,600
Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated by primary geographical market, major products and service lines and
timing of revenue recognition as disclosed in Note 4 to the financial statements.
(a) Sale of goods
Revenue from sale of goods are recognised at a point in time when the goods have been transferred to the customer and
coincides with the delivery of goods and acceptance by customers.
There is no material right of return and warranty provided to the customers on the sale of goods.
There is no significant financing component in the revenue arising from sale of goods as the sales are made on the normal
credit terms not exceeding twelve (12) months.
(b) Management fees
		 Management fees is recognised over the period in which the services are rendered.
(c) Dividend income
		 Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
24. Cost Of Sales
Cost of sales of the Group represents cost of inventories sold and other related expenses.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
112 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
25. Profit Before Tax
Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, profit before tax is arrived at:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
After charging:
Auditors’ remuneration to BDO PLT:
– statutory audit 342 325 80 75
– non-statutory audit 18 13 13 13
Other auditors’ remuneration:
– statutory audit 114 84 – –
Bad debts written off 13,926 950 – –
Property, plant and equipment written off 372 – * –
Interest expense on:
– bank overdraft – 9 – 9
– term loans 42 307 – –
– bankers’ acceptances 3,840 3,025 – –
– islamic financing facilities 11,471 13,556 – –
– lease liabilities 360 180 47 18
– others – 2 – 2
Loss on disposal of right-of-use asset – – – 91
Unrealised loss on foreign exchange, net 14,109 – – –
Fair value loss on derivative financial instruments:
– unrealised – 8,399 – –
– realised 26,577 79,475 – –
Rental of forklifts 869 618 – –
Rental of hostels 305 205 – –
Rental of office equipment 22 25 – –
And crediting:
Interest income received from:
– deposits with licensed banks 1,587 1,354 513 562
– short term investments 5,211 3,317 5,211 3,317
– others 67 – – –
Fair value gain on derivative financial instruments:
– unrealised 31,298 – – –
Gain on disposal of:
– property, plant and equipment 670 106 – –
– right-of-use assets – 516 – –
Gain on termination of lease contracts 12 12 – –
Gain on foreign exchange:
– unrealised – 15,884 – –
– realised 1,875 16,987 – –
*Property, plant and equipment written off with carrying amounts less than RM1,000.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
113
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
26. Tax Expense
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Malaysian income tax:
Current tax expense 4,644 5,138 123 138
Under/(Over)-provision in prior years 123 42 (18) (15)
4,767 5,180 105 123
Foreign income tax:
Current tax expense 1,213 363 – –
(Over)/Under-provision in prior years (39) 8 – –
5,941 5,551 105 123
Deferred tax (Note 19):
Relating to origination and reversal of
temporary differences – 1,219 – –
Under/(Over)-provision in prior years 282 (223) – –
282 996 – –
6,223 6,547 105 123
(a) Malaysian income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 24% (2023: 24%) of the estimated taxable profits for the fiscal
year. Tax expense for other taxation authorities are calculated at the rates prevailing in those respective jurisdictions.
(b) A subsidiary of the Group has been granted Principal Hub status, which provides tax incentive to the subsidiary for a period
of ten (10) years. The Principal Hub status commenced in the Year of Assessment 2017 under the Income Tax Act 1967
.
(c) The numerical reconciliations between the tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the applicable tax
rate of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Profit before tax 123,393 173,061 73,677 64,090
Tax at Malaysian statutory income tax rate
of 24% (2023: 24%) 29,614 41,535 17,682 15,382
Tax effects in respect of:
– non-allowable expenses 18,243 2,739 559 796
– non-taxable income (16,438) (1,600) (18,117) (16,042)
– different tax rates in foreign jurisdiction (104) (239) – –
– deferred tax assets not recognised – 632 – 2
– utilisation of deferred tax assets
previously unrecognised (8,012) (7,759) (1) –
– tax incentives (17,446) (28,588) – –
5,857 6,720 123 138
Under/(Over)-provision of income tax in
prior years 84 50 (18) (15)
Under/(Over)-provision of deferred tax in
prior years 282 (223) – –
6,223 6,547 105 123
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
114 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
26. Tax Expense (continued)
(d) Tax on each component of other comprehensive income is as follows:
Group
Before tax
RM’000
Tax effect
RM’000
After tax
RM’000
2024
Foreign currency translations 207 – 207
2023
Foreign currency translations 868 – 868
27. Earnings Per Share
(a) Basic
		
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year attributable
to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year.
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 68,661 100,447
Unit’000 Unit’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 162,000 162,000
Sen Sen
Basic earnings per ordinary share 42.38 62.00
(b) Diluted
The Group has no potential ordinary shares in issue as at reporting date and therefore, the diluted earnings per ordinary
share equals basic earnings per ordinary share.
28. Dividends
Group and Company
2024 2023
Dividend
per share
sen
Amount of
dividend
RM’000
Dividend
per share
sen
Amount of
dividend
RM’000
In respect of the financial year
ended 30 June 2023:
Final single-tier dividend, paid on
10 October 2023 15 24,300 – –
In respect of the financial year ended
30 June 2022:
Final single-tier dividend, paid on
11 November 2022 – – 12 19,440
On 28 August 2024, the Board of Directors approved payment of a single tier dividend of 20.0 sen per ordinary share
amounting to RM32,400,000. The financial statements for the current financial year do not reflect this dividend.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
115
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
29. Employee Benefits
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Salaries and wages 53,043 51,566 2,879 3,470
Social security contributions 340 315 16 16
Contributions to defined contribution plan 3,595 3,478 313 398
Defined benefit plan 12 93 – –
Other employee benefits 712 1,113 276 543
57,702 56,565 3,484 4,427
Included in employee benefits of the Group and of the Company is Executive Directors’ and other key management personnel’s
remuneration as disclosed in Note 30(c) to the financial statements.
30. Related Party Disclosures
(a) Identities of related parties
Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party
or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the
Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related parties could be individuals
or other parties.
Related parties of the Group include the following:
(i) Direct and indirect subsidiaries as disclosed in the Note 8 to the financial statements;
(ii) A corporation in which a Director of the Company has substantial financial interests; and
(iii) Key management personnel are defined as those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling the activities of the Group either directly or indirectly. The key management personnel include the
Executive Directors of the Group.
(b) In addition to the transactions and balances detailed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the Company
had the following transactions with related parties during the financial year:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Subsidiaries
Management fee income – – 3,600 3,600
Dividend income – – 70,275 63,525
Management fee expense – – 240 120
Related party
Management fee expense 480 480 480 480
The related party transactions described above were carried out on agreed contractual terms and conditions and in the
ordinary course of business between the related parties of the Group and of the Company.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
116 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
30. Related Party Disclosures (continued)
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel are those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling
the activities of the entity, directly and indirectly, including Directors (whether Executive or otherwise) of the Group and of
the Company.
The remuneration of key management personnel during the financial year was as follows:
Group Company
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Directors of the Company
Executive Directors:
– Salaries, bonus and allowances 14,168 14,446 388 782
– Defined contribution plan 540 621 13 73
– Other employee benefits – 292 – 292
14,708 15,359 401 1,147
Non-Executive Directors:
– Fees 275 297 275 297
– Allowances 144 171 144 171
419 468 419 468
Total remuneration for Directors
of the Company 15,127 15,827 820 1,615
Directors of Subsidiaries
Executive Directors:
– Salaries, bonus and allowances 1,324 1,219 – –
– Defined contribution plan 124 118 – –
1,448 1,337 – –
Non-Executive Directors:
– Fees — 60 – –
Total remuneration for Directors
of subsidiaries 1,448 1,397 – –
Other key management personnel of
the subsidiaries:
– Salaries, bonus and allowances 2,791 3,013 – –
– Defined contribution plan 312 409 – –
Total other key management
personnel remuneration 3,103 3,422 – –
Total compensation of key
management personnel 19,678 20,646 820 1,615
The estimated monetary value of benefits-in-kind received by the Directors otherwise than in cash from the Group and from
the Company amounted to RM31,150 (2023: RM88,000 and RM39,000) respectively.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
117
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
31. Financial Guarantee Contracts
The Company has provided corporate guarantees up to RM915,878,000 (2023: RM853,964,000) in respect of financial
guarantees given to financial institutions for banking facilities granted to subsidiaries.
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are those contracts that require payments to be made to reimburse the
holders for losses they incur because the specified debtors fail to make payments when due in accordance with the terms of
the debt instruments.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as financial liabilities at the time the guarantees are issued. The liability is initially
measured at fair value and subsequently at the higher of the amount determined in accordance with the expected loss model
under MFRS 9 and the amount initially recognised less amortisation.
The fair value of financial guarantees is classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy and is determined based on the
present value of the difference in cash flows between the contractual payments required under the debt instrument and the
payments that would be required without the guarantee, or the estimated amount that would be payable to a third party for
assuming the obligations.
Financial guarantees have not been recognised since the fair value was not material on initial recognition. As at the end of the
reporting period, there was no indication that any subsidiary would default on repayment.
The maximum credit risk exposure of the financial guarantee issued is limited to the credit amount utilised of RM915,878,000
(2023: RM853,964,000). The financial guarantees have low credit risk at the end of the year as the financial guarantee is
unlikely to be called by the financial institutions.
Maturity profile of financial guarantee contracts of the Company as at the end of each reporting period based on
contractual undiscounted repayment obligations, is repayable upon any default by the subsidiaries in respect of the
guaranteed bank facilities.
32. Capital And Financial Risk Management
(a) Capital management
The primary objective of the capital management of the Group is to ensure that entities of the Group would be able to
continue as a going concern whilst maximising return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity ratios.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in response to changes in economic conditions. In
order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payout to shareholders, issue new
ordinary shares and redeem debts, where necessary. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes
during the financial years ended 30 June 2023 and 30 June 2024.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by equity. The Group includes within net debt,
borrowings, lease liabilities, trade and other payables, other liabilities, less cash and bank balances. Equity represents
equity attributable to the owners of the parent. The net debt-to-equity ratios as at 30 June 2023 and 30 June 2024
are as follows:
Group
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Borrowings 318,479 420,973
Lease liabilities 12,869 12,413
Trade and other payables 148,011 229,588
Other liabilities 4,367 33,828
Total liabilities 483,726 696,802
Less: Cash and bank balances (368,483) (250,517)
Net debt 115,243 446,285
Equity 454,805 410,320
Net debt to equity ratio 0.25 1.09
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
118 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
32. Capital And Financial Risk Management (continued)
(a) Capital management (continued)
Pursuant to the requirements of Practice Note No. 17/2005 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities, the Group is required to
maintain a consolidated shareholders’ equity of more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the issued and paid-up capital
(excluding treasury shares, if any) and such shareholders’ equity is not less than RM40.0 million. The Company has
complied with this requirement for the financial year ended 30 June 2024.
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies
Exposure to credit risk, liquidity and cash flow risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and price fluctuation risk arises
in the normal course of the businesses of the Group. The overall financial risk management objective of the Group is to
minimise potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group.
The overall business strategies of the Group, its tolerance of risk and its general risk management philosophy are determined
by management in accordance with prevailing economic and operating conditions. Financial risk management is carried
out through risk reviews, internal control systems and adherence to the financial risk management policies of the Group.
The management policies of the Group for managing each of its financial risk are summarised below:
(i) Credit risk
		
		 Cash deposits and trade and other receivables could give rise to credit risk which requires the loss to be recognised
if a counterparty fails to perform as contracted. Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty would default on its
contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with
creditworthy counterparties. The exposure and the creditworthiness of the counterparties of the Group are continuously
monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties.
		 The primary exposure of the Group and of the Company to credit risk arises through its trade receivables and other
receivables. The carrying amount of financial assets as recorded in the financial statements, grossed up for any
impairment losses, represents the maximum exposure to credit risk of the Group.
		 The credit risk concentration profiles have been disclosed in Note 10 to the financial statements.
(ii) Liquidity and cash flow risk
		
		 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to service its cash obligations in the future. To mitigate this risk,
management measures and forecasts its cash commitments, monitors and maintains a level of cash and cash equivalents
deemed adequate to finance the operations and development activities of the Group.
		 Based on management’s assessment, it is not probable that the counterparties to financial guarantee contracts will
claim under the contract. The analysis of financial instruments by remaining contractual maturities has been disclosed
in Note 6, Note 16 and Note 21 to the financial statements respectively.
(iii) Foreign currency risk
		
		 Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument would fluctuate because
of changes in foreign exchange rates.
		 The Group is subject to foreign exchange fluctuations through the import of raw materials and packaging materials
and export of finished goods. The Group monitors the movement in foreign currency exchange rates closely to ensure
its foreign currency risk is minimised.
		 The foreign currency profile and sensitivity analysis have been disclosed in Note 10, Note 12, Note 13, Note 16 and
Note 21 to the financial statements respectively.
(iv) Interest rate risk
		
		 Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of the financial instruments of the Group and of the
Company would fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
		 The exposure of the Group to interest rates risk arises primarily from their borrowings. The Group does not use
derivative financial instruments to hedge this risk.
		 The interest rate profile and sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk have been disclosed in Note 6, Note 13 and Note
16 to the financial statements respectively.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
119
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
32. Capital And Financial Risk Management (continued)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued)
(v) Price fluctuation risk
		
		 The edible oil segment of the Group is inversely exposed to price fluctuation risk on sales and purchases of palm oil
commodities. This segment enters into commodity forward contracts with the objective of managing and hedging their
respective exposure to price volatility in the commodity markets.
		 The objective of the Group on price risk management is to limit the exposure of the Group to fluctuations in market
prices and to achieve expected margins on revenue.
		 The Group manages its price fluctuation risk by having policies and procedures governing forward positions.
		 The commodity forward contracts and commodity future contracts profile and sensitivity analysis of price fluctuation risk
have been disclosed in Note 12 to the financial statements.
33. Adoption Of New MFRSs And Amendments To MFRSs
(a) New MFRSs adopted during the financial year
The Group and the Company adopted the following Standards and Amendments of the MFRS Framework that were
issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) during the financial year:
Title Effective Date
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts (Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 –
Comparative Information)
1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 101 Disclosure of Accounting Policies 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 108 Definition of Accounting Estimates 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 112 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a
Single Transaction
1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 112 International Tax Reform – Pillar Two Model Rules Refer paragraph
98M of MFRS 112
The adoption of the above Standards and Amendments did not have any material effect on the financial performance or
position of the Group and of the Company.
(b) New MFRSs that have been issued, but only effective for annual periods beginning on or after
1 January 2024
The following are Standards of the MFRS Framework that have been issued by the MASB but have not been early
adopted by the Group and the Company:
Title Effective Date
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 101 Non-current Liabilities with Covenants 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 16 Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 107 and MFRS 7 Supplier Finance Arrangements 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 121 Lack of Exchangeability 1 January 2025
Amendments to MFRS 9 and MFRS 7 Amendments to the Classification and Measurement
of Financial Instruments
1 January 2026
Amendments to MFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements 1 January 2027
Amendments to MFRS 19 Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures 1 January 2027
Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor
and its Associate or Joint Venture
Deferred
The Group and the Company are in the process of assessing the impact of implementing these Standards and Amendments
since the effects would only be observable in the future financial years.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
120 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Tenure Location
Approximate
land area
(sq ft)
Approximate
age of
buildings
(year) Description
Date of
acquisition
2024
Net Book
Value
RM’000
2023
Net Book
Value
RM’000
Negeri Sembilan Darul Khusus
Leasehold
99 years
expiring
2077
Land with building at
HS(D) 658 PT 1342,
Senawang Industrial Estate,
Seremban, Negeri Sembilan.
130,680
(Built-up Area)
44 Factory for
Manufacturing
Tap wares
10/06/1978 585 619
Freehold
(2 individual
lots)
Land at
HS (D) 14031 PT 3272,
HS (D) 14036 PT 3277,
Mukim Si Rusa,
Daerah Port Dickson,
Negeri Sembilan Darul Khusus.
43,594
48,115
– Bungalow
Land for Future
Development
of Orchard
and Building
03/01/1999 – –
Melaka
Leasehold
99 years
expiring 2101
Land with building at
Lot No. 6672 – 6674
PM No. 567 – 569
Lot No. 6667 – 6669
PM No. 571 – 573
Mukim Sungei Baru Tengah,
Daerah Alor Gajah, Melaka.
93,099
(Built-up Area)
28 Factory for
Manufacturing
Sanitary wares
03/11/1995 4,450 4,555
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Freehold land Land with building at
GM 2514, Lot 2239,
9th Mile Telok,
Lot 2239, Jalan Rajawali,
Batu 9, Kampung Kebun Baru,
42500 Telok Panglima Garang,
Kuala Langat,
Selangor Darul Ehsan.
175,602 19 Industrial land 20/09/2005 14,150 12,911
Freehold land Land with building at
GM 4406, Lot 11202,
Mukim Teluk Panglima Garang,
Lot 11202, Jalan Rajawali,
Batu 9, Kampung Kebun Baru,
42500 Telok Panglima Garang,
Kuala Langat,
Selangor Darul Ehsan.
88,016 11 Industrial land 30/12/2012 11,310 11,472
Freehold land Land with building at
GM6505, Lot 11203,
Mukim Teluk Panglima Garang,
Lot 11203, Jalan Rajawali,
Batu 9, Kampung Kebun Baru,
42500 Telok Panglima Garang,
Kuala Langat,
Selangor Darul Ehsan.
89,984 6 Industrial land 15/03/2019 4,281 4,281
Leasehold Building at
PM 1529, Lot 14595 Seksyen 2,
Mukim Bandar Ulu Kelang,
Daerah Gombak. 			
No.2, Lorong AU 4/19B,
Taman Sri Keramat Tengah,
54200 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur.
– – Property
building
for business
own use
21/03/2023 1,690 1,724
LIST OF PROPERTIES
PROPERTIES HELD BY THE GROUP AS AT 30 JUNE 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
121
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Tenure Location
Approximate
land area
(sq ft)
Approximate
age of
buildings
(year) Description
Date of
acquisition
2024
Net Book
Value
RM’000
2023
Net Book
Value
RM’000
Johor Darul Takzim
Leasehold
60 years
expiring
2055
Land with building at
PTD 115556, HSD 221665,
Mukim of Plentong,
District of Johor Bahru,
Johor Darul Takzim
PLO 470, Jalan Keluli 1,
81700 Pasir Gudang,
Johor Darul Takzim.
87,120 16 Industrial land 20/02/2008 2,746 2,849
Leasehold
60 years
expiring
2052
Land with building at
PTD 110329, HSD 200231,
Mukim Plentong,
Daerah Johor Bahru,
No.18, Jalan Pekeliling,
Taman Perindustrian Pasir
Gudang, 81700 Pasir Gudang,
Johor Darul Takzim.
99,876 5 Industrial land 30/04/2019 8,563 8,644
47,775 47,055
LIST OF PROPERTIES
PROPERTIES HELD BY THE GROUP AS AT 30 JUNE 2024
(continued)
122 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Issued and fully paid-up share capital : 162,000,000 ordinary shares
Class of shares : Ordinary shares
Voting rights by show of hand : One vote for every member
Voting rights by poll : One vote for every share held
Analysis By Size Of Shareholdings
Size of Shareholdings
No. of
Shareholders %
No. of
Shares %
1 - 99 158 6.62 1,521 0.00
100 - 1,000 839 35.15 646,826 0.40
1,001 - 10,000 1,073 44.95 4,162,741 2.57
10,001 - 100,000 256 10.72 7,134,902 4.40
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 58 2.43 68,954,010 42.56
5% and above of issued shares 3 0.13 81,100,000 50.06
Total 2,387 100.00 162,000,000 100.00
Substantial Shareholders As Per The Register Of Substantial Shareholders
No. Name
Direct No. of
Shares Held %
Indirect No. of
Shares Held %
1 JAG Capital Holdings Sdn Bhd 53,400,000 32.96 – –
2 Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy 16,700,000 10.31 – –
3 Continental Theme Sdn Bhd 12,922,100 7.98 – –
4 Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani – – 53,400,000 32.961
5 Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof – – 34,344,900 21.202
Notes:
1 Deemed interest through JAG Capital Holdings Sdn Bhd.
2 Deemed interest through Du Ain Sdn Bhd, Duclos Sdn Bhd, Syed Ibrahim Sdn Bhd, Leasing Corporation Sdn Bhd, Sisma Water Technology Sdn Bhd and Continental
Theme Sdn Bhd.
Directors’ Shareholdings As Per The Register Of Directors’ Shareholdings
No. Name
Direct No. of
Shares Held %
Indirect No. of
Shares Held %
1 Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy 16,700,000 10.31 – –
2 Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof – – 34,344,900 21.201
Note:
1 Deemed interest through Du Ain Sdn Bhd, Duclos Sdn Bhd, Syed Ibrahim Sdn Bhd, Leasing Corporation Sdn Bhd, Sisma Water Technology Sdn Bhd and
Continental Theme Sdn Bhd.
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 30 AUGUST 2024
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
123
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
List Of Thirty (30) Largest Shareholders
No. Name No. of Shares %
1 Cimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB for JAG Capital Holdings Sdn Bhd (PB)
53,400,000 32.96
2 Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy 16,700,000 10.31
3 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
For Continental Theme Sdn Bhd
11,000,000 6.79
4 Maybank Securities Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Money Penny Sdn Bhd for Casa Biz Sdn Bhd
7,182,500 4.43
5 Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Money Penny Sdn Bhd
5,404,810 3.34
6 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
For Duclos Sdn Bhd
5,360,000 3.31
7 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
For Leasing Corporation Sdn Bhd
4,686,400 2.89
8 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
For Syed Ibrahim Sdn Bhd
4,540,000 2.80
9 MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Syarifah Anita Ibrahim (CTS-SAI0004C)
3,669,500 2.27
10 MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Syarifah Aminah Ibrahim binti Syed Ibrahim
(CTS-SAI0005C)
3,646,400 2.25
11 MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Azril Akmar bin Attan Akmar (CTS-AAA0006C)
3,624,400 2.24
12 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
For Sisma Water Technology Sdn Bhd
3,507,400 2.17
13 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
For Du-Ain Sdn Bhd
3,329,000 2.06
14 Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Erwin Selvarajah a/l Peter Selvarajah (7006509)
3,170,000 1.96
15 Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Erwin Selvarajah a/l Peter Selvarajah
3,080,000 1.90
16 Tiger Vest Sdn Bhd 3,009,800 1.86
17 Money Penny Sdn Bhd 2,600,000 1.60
18 Cimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB for Continental Theme Sdn Bhd (PB)
1,922,100 1.19
19 HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt An for Bank Vontobel AG
1,412,700 0.87
20 MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for RDS Network Sdn Bhd (CTS-RDS0001C)
856,600 0.53
21 HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt An for Bank Julius Baer & Co Ltd (Singapore BCH)
618,700 0.38
22 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt An for UOB Kay Hian Pte Ltd (A/C Clients)
430,000 0.27
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 30 AUGUST 2024
(continued)
124 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
No. Name No. of Shares %
23 HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt An for UBS AG (Sg BR-TST-Asing)
417,900 0.26
24 Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Abdul Ghani Bin Abdul Aziz 360,000 0.22
25 Cimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB for RDS Network Sdn Bhd (PB)
339,100 0.21
26 Yap Kiow Chai @ Yap Hon Fah 270,900 0.17
27 Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Su Tiing Uh
258,800 0.16
28 Tong Kin Yoong 256,500 0.16
29 On Yee Woon 251,000 0.15
30 Tan Mee Hua 246,000 0.15
145,550,510 89.85
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 30 AUGUST 2024
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
125
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Utilisation of Proceeds Raised From Corporate Proposals
The Company did not undertake any corporate proposal during the financial year.
Audit and Non-Audit Fees
The total amount of audit and non-audit fees paid/payable to the external auditors and their affiliated firms by the Group and the
Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 were tabulated as follows:
Audit Fees Non-Audit Fees
Group
RM
Company
RM
Group
RM
Company
RM
i) BDO PLT 342,000 80,000 18,000 13,000
ii) BDO Tax Services Sdn Bhd – – 37,700 6,000
342,000 80,000 55,700 19,000
Material Contracts
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’ and major shareholders’
interests, either still subsisting at the end of the financial year ended 30 June 2024 or entered into since the end of the previous
financial year.
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
126 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Agenda
As Ordinary Business
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2024 together
with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors thereon.
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of RM275,000 for the financial year ended
30 June 2024.
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM189,000 for the period from
7 November 2024 until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2025.
4. To re-elect the following Directors who are retiring by rotation pursuant to Clause 100 of the
Constitution of the Company and being eligible offer themselves for re-election:
(i)		 Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
(ii) Sharina Binti Saidon
5. To re-elect Amir Nashrin Bin Johari who is retiring pursuant to Clause 103 of the Constitution of
the Company and being eligible offer himself for re-election.
6. To re-appoint BDO PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their
remuneration for the ensuing year.
As Special Business
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution:
7. Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”) for the
Directors to allot and issue shares
“THAT pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act, the Directors be and are hereby authorised to
allot and issue shares in the Company at any time until the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting and upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes as the Directors may, in their
absolute discretion, deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares to be issued does not
exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time
being, subject always to the Constitution of the Company and approval of all relevant regulatory
bodies being obtained for such allotment and issuance.
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act, read together with Clause 18 of the Constitution of
the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory pre-emptive rights of the
shareholders of the Company to be offered new shares ranking equally to the existing issued
shares arising from issuance of new shares pursuant to this Mandate.
AND THAT the new shares to be issued shall, upon allotment and issuance, rank equally in all
respects with the existing shares of the Company, save and except that they shall not be entitled
to any dividends, rights, allotments and/or any other forms of distribution that which may be
declared, made or paid before the date of allotment of such new shares.”
8. To transact any other business for which due notice shall have been given in accordance with the
Companies Act 2016 and the Constitution of the Company.
Notice Is Hereby Given That the Forty-Sixth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be conducted on a virtual basis
through live streaming from the broadcast venue at the Boardroom, Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire,
No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur on Wednesday, 6 November 2024 at 9:30 a.m. for the purpose of considering
the following:
Please refer to
Explanatory Note 1
Ordinary Resolution 5
Ordinary Resolution 6
Ordinary Resolution 4
Ordinary Resolution 1
Ordinary Resolution 3
Ordinary Resolution 2
Ordinary Resolution 7
NOTICE OF FORTY-SIXTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
127
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
ON POOI FONG (MAICSA 7018189/SSM PC No. 202208000204)
TAI YUEN LING (LS 0008513/SSM PC No. 202008001075)
LIM LEE TZE (MAICSA 7065751/SSM PC No. 201908002274)
Secretaries
Kuala Lumpur
Date: 8 October 2024
Notes:
1. The broadcast venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), which
requires the Chairman of the meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting.
Shareholders will not be allowed to attend the Forty-Sixth Annual General Meeting in person at the broadcast venue on the day
of the meeting.
Shareholders are to attend, speak (including posing questions to the Board via real time submission of typed texts) and vote
remotely via Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd using
the online meeting platform, https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my.
Kindly refer to the Administrative Guide for the Forty-Sixth Annual General Meeting for further information.
2. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to attend this meeting, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company a Record of Depositors as at 30 October 2024. Only a member
whose name appears in such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to attend and vote at this meeting or appoint not more than
two (2) proxies to attend and vote in his stead. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
3. Where a member of the Company appoints two (2) proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless the member specifies the
proportion of his shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple
beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt
authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an
authorised nominee defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991 (“SICDA”) which is exempted from
compliance with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of SICDA.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in
writing or, if the appointor is a corporation, either under the corporation’s seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney
duly authorised.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy, with the power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed or a notarially
certified or office copy of such power or authority, shall be deposited at the Company’s Registered Office at Suite A-11-1, Level
11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur Malaysia or via electronic
means through the Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com (Please follow the
procedures as stipulated in the Administrative Guide) not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting
or adjourned meeting and in default the instrument of proxy shall not be treated as valid. Any notice of termination of person’s
authority to act as a proxy must be forwarded to the Company prior to the commencement of the Annual General Meeting or
Adjourned Annual General Meeting.
7. For any corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of
appointment of authorised representative, executed in the manner as stated in the proxy form at the Registered Office at Suite
A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur.
8. The last date and time for lodging the proxy form is Monday, 4 November 2024 at 9:30 a.m.
9. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions
set out in the notice of any general meeting will be put to vote by way of poll. Independent Scrutineer who is independent of
the person undertaking the polling process, will be appointed to verify the results of the poll.
NOTICE OF FORTY-SIXTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (continued)
128 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
Explanatory Notes:
(i) Agenda No. 1 – Audited Financial Statements
This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as it does not require shareholders’ approval pursuant to the provision of Section
340(1)(a) of the Act. Hence, this item on the Agenda is not put forward for voting.
(ii) Ordinary Resolutions 1 and 2 - Directors’ fees and benefits payable to Directors
Payment of Directors’ fees and benefits under Section 230(1) of the Act provides amongst others, that the Directors’ fees and
any benefits payable to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company shall be approved at a general meeting.
The details of the proposed payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year ended 30 June 2024, are as disclosed in the
Corporate Governance Overview Statement of the Annual Report 2024.
In determining the estimated total amount of Directors’ benefits payable, the Board has considered the anticipated number of
meetings for the Board and Board Committees based on the existing Board composition. The Directors’ benefit payable is also
inclusive of allocation of expenses to be incurred for continuing education programmes for the Directors. Approval will be sought
at the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) for additional Directors’ benefit, should there be any shortfall.
(iii) Ordinary Resolutions 3 to 5 - Re-election of Directors
The profiles of the Directors who are standing for re-election as per Agenda items 4 and 5 are set out in the Profile of Directors
of the Annual Report 2024.
The Board had through the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, carried out the necessary assessment of the retiring
Directors, namely Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy, Sharina Binti Saidon and Amir Nashrin Bin Johari (collectively referred to
as “Retiring Directors”) and concluded that the Retiring Directors have:
(a) met the criteria as prescribed under Paragraph 2.20A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
		 Berhad on character, experience, integrity, competence and time commitment to effectively discharge their roles
		 as Directors;
(b) met the fit and proper criteria pursuant to the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy adopted; and
(c) the Independent Director named above remains independent.
All the Retiring Directors have no conflict of interest with the Company. Save for Amir Nashrin Bin Johari, who is the son of Datuk
Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani, a major shareholder of the Company, the remaining Retiring Directors have no family relationship
with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company.
The Board, save for the Directors named above, who have abstained from the deliberation and decision on the proposed re-
election of themselves at the relevant Nomination and Remuneration Committee Meeting and Board of Directors’ Meeting, is
supportive of re-election of the Retiring Directors.
(iv) Ordinary Resolution 6 – Re-appointment of Auditors
The Board had, through the Audit, Risk Management and Sustainability (“ARMS”) Committee, considered the re-appointment of
BDO PLT as the Auditors of the Company. The factors considered by the ARMS Committee are disclosed in the ARMS Committee
Report of the Annual Report 2024.
(v) Ordinary Resolution 7 - Authority pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act for the Directors to Allot
and Issue Shares
The Ordinary Resolution 7 proposed under item 7 of the Agenda seeks the shareholders’ approval of a general mandate for
issuance of shares by the Company under Section 75 and 76 of the Act. The mandate, if passed, will provide flexibility for the
Company and empower the Directors to allot and issue new shares speedily in the Company up to an amount not exceeding
in total 10% of the issued share capital of the Company for purpose of funding the working capital or strategic development of
the Group. This would eliminate any delay arising from and cost involved in convening a general meeting to obtain approval of
the shareholders for such issuance of shares. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting, will
expire at the next AGM.
NOTICE OF FORTY-SIXTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
129
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
At this juncture, there is no decision to issue new shares but the Directors consider it desirable to have the flexibility permitted
to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place to finance business opportunities without making a
pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders. If there should be a decision to issue new shares after the general mandate is sought,
the Company will make an announcement in respect thereof.
The Company did not allot and issue any shares pursuant to the general mandate granted by the shareholders at the
previous AGM.
Personal data privacy:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at the AGM and/or any
adjournment thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents to the collection, use and disclosure of the member’s personal data
by the Company (or its agents) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or its agents) of proxies and
representatives appointed for the AGM (including any adjournment thereof) and the preparation and compilation of the attendance
lists, minutes and other documents relating to the AGM (including any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its
agents) to comply with any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”), (ii) warrants that
where the member discloses the personal data of the member’s proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents),
the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the collection, use and disclosure by the
Company (or its agents) of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees that the
member will indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and damages as a result of the
member’s breach of warranty.
NOTICE OF FORTY-SIXTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (continued)
130 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
The 46th AGM of the Company will be conducted on a virtual basis through live streaming from the broadcast venue, as below:
Virtual meeting platform : https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my
Broadcast venue : Boardroom, Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan
			 Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur
Day, Date and Time : Wednesday, 6 November 2024 at 9:30 a.m.
1. Virtual Meeting
The Company will continue to leverage on technology to facilitate communication and engagement with shareholders by
conducting the 46th AGM on virtual basis through live streaming and online voting via the Remote Participation and Electronic
Voting (“RPEV”) facilities in accordance with the Guidance Note and FAQs on the Conduct of General Meetings for listed
issuers and all its subsequent revisions issued by the Securities Commission Malaysia. This is also in line with Practice 13.3 of
the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance which recommends that listed companies leverage on technology to facilitate
remote shareholders’ participation at general meetings.
The broadcast venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires
the Chairperson of the Meeting to be present at the main venue of the Meeting. Therefore, NO SHAREHOLDERS/ PROXIES/
CORPORATE REPRESENTATIVES/ ATTORNEYS shall be physically present nor admitted at the broadcast venue on the day of
the Meeting.
Kindly ensure that you are connected to the internet at all times in order to participate and/or vote at the Meeting. Therefore,
it is your responsibility to ensure that connectivity for the duration of the Meeting is maintained. The quality of the live webcast
as well as for electronic voting (“e-Voting”) is dependent on the bandwidth and stability of the internet connection of the remote
participants.
2. Entitlement to Participate and Vote
Only shareholders whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as of 30 October 2024 (“General Meeting Record of
Depositors”) shall be entitled to participate and/or vote at the 46th AGM via RPEV facilities or appoint proxy(ies) or in case of
a corporation to appoint corporate representative(s) to participate and/or vote on his/her/their behalf by returning the duly
executed Form(s) of Proxy.
3. Form(s) of Proxy
If you are unable to attend and participate at the 46th AGM, you are encouraged to appoint a proxy or the Chairman of the
46th AGM as your proxy and indicate the voting instructions in the Form(s) of Proxy in accordance with the notes and instructions
printed therein.
Please ensure that the ORIGINAL Form(s) of Proxy is/are deposited at the Company’s registered office.
Alternatively, you may lodge your Form(s) of Proxy electronically through the Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at https://
investor.boardroomlimited.com (Kindly refer to item 7 below).
The Form(s) of Proxy must be received not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the 46th AGM
i.e. latest by Monday, 4 November 2024 at 9:30 a.m. .
4. Corporate Representative
For corporate shareholder who has appointed a representative(s) or attorney(s) to participate in the 46th AGM, please deposit
the ORIGINAL Form(s) of Proxy, Certificate of Appointment or Power of Attorney, as the case may be, by hand or post to our
registered office not later than Monday, 4 November 2024 at 9:30 a.m.
Upon verification against the General Meeting Record of Depositors, an email containing the username and password will
be sent to the corporate representative(s) or attorney(s) by our Share Registrar. Please note that only one (1) user name will be
provided to each corporate representative(s) or attorney(s).
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE FOR THE
FORTY-SIXTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(“46TH AGM” OR THE “MEETING”)
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
131
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
5. Revocation of Proxy
If you have submitted your Form(s) of Proxy prior to the 46th AGM and subsequently decide to appoint another person as your
proxy(ies) or wish to participate in the 46th AGM yourself, please write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com to revoke
the earlier appointed proxy(ies) not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the 46th AGM. Upon revocation, the proxy(ies)
appointed by you previously will not be allowed to participate in the 46th AGM. In such event, you should notify your previous
proxy(ies) accordingly.
6. Voting Procedure
Pursuant to Clause 82 of the Constitution of the Company and Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, voting at the 46th AGM will be conducted by poll. The Company has appointed our
Share Registrar as the Poll Administrator to conduct the poll by way of e-Voting and Sky Corporate Services Sdn Bhd as the
Independent Scrutineer to verify the results of the poll.
The e-Voting session will commence from the start of the 46th AGM at 9:30 a.m. on Wednesday, 6 November 2024 or
such other time as announced by the Chairman and will continue until the time declared by the Chairman as the end of the
e-Voting session.
7. Registration and procedure for Remote Participation and submission of eProxy Form
The RPEV facilities are available to (i) individual shareholders; (ii) corporate shareholders; (iii) authorised nominees; and (iv)
exempt authorised nominees. You shall use the RPEV facilities to participate and vote remotely at the 46th AGM. You will be able
to view a live webcast of the Meeting, pose questions and submit your votes in real time whilst the Meeting is in progress.
Kindly follow the steps below to register your participation as a shareholder or appoint proxy(ies) for the 46th AGM:
PROCEDURE
Before the day of the 46th AGM Steps
1. Register/Sign-up as Online User
with BSIP
(For first-time registration only)
[Note: If you have previously registered/signed-up with BSIP, you are not required
to register again. You may proceed to Step (2).]
a. Access the website https:/
/investor.boardroomlimited.com.
b. Click ‘Register’ to sign up as an online user.
c. Please select the account type i.e. sign up as ‘Individual Shareholder’ or
‘Corporate Holder’.
d. Complete registration and upload softcopy of MyKad (front and back) or
passport in JPEG, PNG or PDF format. For Corporate Holder, please upload
the authorisation letter (template available) for Corporate Holder.
e. Enter a valid mobile number and email address.
f. You will receive an e-mail from our Share Registrar for e-mail address
verification. Click ‘Verify E-mail Address’ from the e-mail received to
continue with the registration.
g. Once your email address is verified, you will be re-directed to BSIP for
verification of mobile number. Click ‘Request OTP Code’ and an OTP code
will be sent to the registered mobile number. You will need to enter the OTP
Code and click ‘Enter’ to complete the process.
h. Your registration will be verified and approved within one (1) business day
and an email notification will be provided. You can login to BSIP with the
email address and password provided during the registration to proceed with
the next step.
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
(continued)
132 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
PROCEDURE
Before the day of the 46th AGM Steps
2. Submit request for remote
participation
Note: You must be a registered BSIP
user. If not, return to Step (1)
The registration for RPEV facilities will be opened from Tuesday, 8 October 2024
until Monday, 4 November 2024, upon the commencement of the e-Voting
session to be announced by the Chairman of the 46th AGM.
The instrument appointing a proxy must be received latest by Monday,
4 November 2024 at 9:30 a.m.
For Individual Shareholders
a. Log in to https:/
/investor.boardroomlimited.com.
b. Click ‘Meeting Event(s)’ and select from the list of companies - ‘C.I. HOLDINGS
BERHAD 46TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING’ and click ‘Enter’.
c. To attend the virtual 46th AGM remotely.
• Click ‘Register for RPEV’.
• Read and accept the general terms and conditions and enter your CDS
account no. to submit your request.
d. To appoint proxy(ies).
• Click ‘Submit eProxy Form’.
• For Corporate Shareholders, select the company you would like to represent
(if represent more than one company).
• Read and accept the general terms and conditions and enter your CDS
account no. Then, insert your proxy(ies) details and voting instructions.
If you wish your proxy(ies) to act upon his/her discretion, please
indicate “Discretionary”.
For Corporate Shareholders, Authorised Nominees and Exempt Authorised
Nominees
a. write to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com and provide the name of
the shareholder, CDS account no. and the Certificate of Appointment of
Corporate Representative or Form(s) of Proxy or Power of Attorney (as the
case may be).
b. Provide a copy of MyKad (front and back) or passport and a valid mobile
number and email address.
3. Verification and email notification For Individual Shareholders, Corporate Shareholders, Authorised Nominees/
Exempt Authorised Nominees and Attorneys
a. An email notification will be sent by our Share Registrar to notify that your
request for remote participation has been received for system verification.
b. Upon verification against the General Meeting Record of Depositors, you will
receive an email from our Share Registrar on the day prior to the 46th AGM,
i.e. Tuesday, 5 November 2024 either approving or rejecting your request for
remote participation.
c. If your registration is approved, the said email will provide the Meeting ID,
username and password for the 46th AGM.
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
(continued)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
133
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
PROCEDURE
On the day of the 46th AGM Steps
4. Log in a. The RPEV facilities will be accessible for log in on Wednesday, 6 November 2024
at 8:30 a.m., i.e. one (1) hour before the commencement of the 46th AGM.
b. Click the link provided in the email in Step (3)c to join the 46th AGM. Insert
the Meeting ID and sign in with the username and password provided to you
via the same email.
5. Participate a. Please follow the user guides in the email to view the live webcast, submit
question(s) and vote.
b. To view the live webcast, select the broadcast icon
c. To ask a question during the 46th AGM, select the messaging icon .
Type your questions in the chat box and click the send button to submit.
Note:
(1) Questions submitted online will be moderated before being sent to the
Chairman of the 46th AGM to avoid repetition.
(2) All relevant questions and messages will be presented with the full name of
the participant raising the question(s).
6. Vote a. Once voting has commenced, the polling icon will appear with the
resolutions and voting choices until such time that the Chairman declares the
end of the voting session.
b. To vote, select your voting preference from the options provided. A confirmation
message will appear to indicate that your vote has been received.
c. To change your vote, re-select your voting preference.
d. If you wish to cancel your vote, please press ‘Cancel’.
7. End a. After closing of the voting session, the Chairman will wait for polling results
to be furnished by the Independent Scrutineers and thereafter inform the
shareholders/participants whether the resolutions are carried.
b. Upon the announcement by the Chairman on the closure of the 46th AGM,
the live webcast will end.
8. Submission of question(s)
Prior to the 46th AGM
Submit question(s) in relation to the agenda items of the 46th AGM by logging in to the BSIP at https://investor.boardroomlimited.
com using the same user ID and password provided in Step 1 latest by Monday, 4 November 2024 at 9:30 a.m. Click ‘Submit
Questions’ after selecting “C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 46TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING” from ‘Event(s) Meeting’;
During the 46th AGM
Shareholders may also submit question(s) via the chat box at any time during the live streaming of the 46th AGM at https://
meeting.boardroomlimited.my until such time as the Chairman decides.
The Chairman/Board/Management will endeavor to provide responses to the questions submitted/posed during the 46th AGM
session. However, if the responses could not be provided during the 46th AGM due to time constraints, they will be published
in the minutes of the 46th AGM of the Company which will be published on the Company’s website at www.cih.com.my.
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
(continued)
134 C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2024
9. Gift Policy
There will be NO DISTRIBUTION of door gifts or e-vouchers for shareholders/proxies who participate in the Meeting.
10. No Recording or Photography
No recording or photography of the live streaming of the 46th AGM proceedings is allowed without the prior written permission
of the Company.
11. Enquiries relating to the Meeting
If you have any enquiries, please contact our Share Registrar during office hours from Monday to Friday (8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.)
(except weekend and public holidays) as set out below:
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd
Address : 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
					 Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
General line : 603-7890 4700 (Helpdesk)
Fax number : 603-7890 4670
Email : bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
(continued)
FORM OF PROXY
CDS Account No.
No. of Shares Held
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
(197801000889 (37918-A))
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
NOTES:
1. The broadcast venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”), which requires the Chairman of the meeting to be present at
the main venue of the meeting.
Shareholders will not be allowed to attend the Forty-Sixth Annual General Meeting in person at the broadcast venue on the day of the meeting.
Shareholders are to attend, speak (including posing questions to the Board via real time submission of typed texts) and vote remotely via Remote Participation and Electronic Voting
(“RPEV”) facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd using the online meeting platform, https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my.
Kindly refer to the Administrative Guide for the Forty-Sixth Annual General Meeting for further information.
2. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to attend this meeting, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company
a Record of Depositors as at 30 October 2024. Only a member whose name appears in such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to attend and vote at this meeting or appoint not
more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote in his stead. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
3. Where a member of the Company appoints two (2) proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless the member specifies the proportion of his shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus
account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to
an authorised nominee defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991 (“SICDA”) which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of SICDA.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointor is a corporation, either under the
corporation’s seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy, with the power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed or a notarially certified or office copy of such power or authority, shall
be deposited at the Company’s Registered Office at Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or via
electronic means through the Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com (Please follow the procedures as stipulated in the Administrative Guide) not
less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting and in default the instrument of proxy shall not be treated as valid. Any notice of termination
of person’s authority to act as a proxy must be forwarded to the Company prior to the commencement of the Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) or Adjourned AGM.
7. For any corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment of authorised representative, executed in the
manner as stated in the proxy form at the Registered Office at Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur.
8. The last date and time for lodging the proxy form is Monday, 4 November 2024 at 9:30 a.m.
9. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set out in the notice of any general meeting will be put
to vote by way of poll. Independent Scrutineer who is independent of the person undertaking the polling process, will be appointed to verify the results of the poll.
PERSONAL DATA PRIVACY:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at the AGM and/or any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents to the collection, use and disclosure of the member’s
personal data by the Company (or its agents) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or its agents) of proxies and representatives appointed for the AGM (including any adjournment thereof) and the preparation
and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating to the AGM (including any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its agents) to comply with any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/
or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”), (ii) warrants that where the member discloses the personal data of the member’s proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents), the member has obtained the prior consent of such
proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the collection, use and disclosure by the Company (or its agents) of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the Company
in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty.
I/We
(Full name in block letters, NRIC No. / Passport No. / Company No.)
of
(Full address)
Telephone No. Email Address
being a member/members of C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD, hereby appoint:
Full Name (in block letters) NRIC No. / Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Telephone No. Email Address
Address
and/or (delete as appropriate)
Full Name (in block letters) NRIC No. / Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Telephone No. Email Address
Address
or failing him/her, the Chairman as *my/our proxy to vote for *me/ us on *my/ our behalf at the Forty-Sixth Annual General Meeting of the Company, to
be held on a virtual basis at the broadcast venue at the Boardroom, Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang
Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur on Wednesday, 6 November 2024 at 9:30 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof.
RESOLUTION NO. ORDINARY BUSINESS FOR AGAINST
Ordinary Resolution 1 To approve the payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year ended 30 June 2024
Ordinary Resolution 2
To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits for the period from 7 November 2024 until
the next Annual General Meeting of the Company
Ordinary Resolution 3 To re-elect Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy as Director
Ordinary Resolution 4 To re-elect Sharina Binti Saidon as Director
Ordinary Resolution 5 To re-elect Amir Nashrin Bin Johari as Director
Ordinary Resolution 6 To re-appoint BDO PLT as Auditors of the Company
SPECIAL BUSINESS FOR AGAINST
Ordinary Resolution 7
Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 for the Directors to
allot and issue shares
(Please indicate with a (“X”) in the appropriate box whether you wish your vote to be cast for or against the resolution. In the absence of specific direction,
your proxy will vote or abstain as he thinks fit.)
Signed this day of ,2024
Signature(s) of Shareholder/Attorney
(if shareholder is a corporation, this part should be executed under seal)
the Companies Act 2016 ("the Act")
Fold this flap for sealing
Then fold here
1st fold here
The Company Secretary
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Company no. 197801000889 (37918-A))
Suite A-11-1, Level 11,
Hampshire Place Office,
157 Hampshire,
No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari,
50450 Kuala Lumpur
STAMP
Suite A-11-1, Level 11,
Hampshire Place Ofﬁce,
157 Hampshire,
No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari,
50450 Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia.
Tel +603 2182 7333
Fax +603 2166 7208
e-mail info@cih.com.my
www.cih.com.my
197801000889 (37918-A)
C.I. Holdings Berhad
