The high-flying kite is chosen for our cover to reflect the company’s Malaysian
identity as well as to represent the upward trajectory of our financials in these
demanding times. It also brings to mind a quote by Winston Churchill, “Kites
rise highest against the wind, not with it.” Indeed, we are able to soar above
unprecedented challenges to raise revenues for our stakeholders: a local company
with a can-do spirit that has consistently performed well on a global level.
Cover Rationale
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
1
Corporate Information
Profile of Directors
Group Management Team’s Profile
Management Discussion and Analysis
Sustainability Statement
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
Audit Committee Report
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
Directors‘ Responsibility Statement
02
04
10
13
18
24
34
37
40
CORPORATE
CONTENTS
Directors’ Report and Audited Financial Statements
List of Properties
Analysis of Shareholdings
Additional Compliance Information
Notice of Forty-Fifth Annual General Meeting
Administrative Guide
Form of Proxy
42
108
110
113
114
118
STATEMENTS
FINANCIAL
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
2
CORPORATE INFOMATION
Board Of Directors
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Non-Independent Non-Executive Deputy Chairman
(Redesignated on 28 October 2022)
Mohammad Bin Alwi
Group Managing Director
(Appointed on 3 January 2023)
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Lee Cheang Mei
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Redesignated on 3 January 2023)
Sharina Binti Saidon
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 28 October 2022 and redesignated
on 1 March 2023)
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 3 January 2023)
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 3 January 2023)
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 3 January 2023)
Teh Bee Tein
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 3 January 2023)
Kasinathan a/l Tulasi
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 3 January 2023)
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 6 January 2023)
Fung Heen Choon
Alternate Director to Lee Cheang Mei
(Resigned on 28 October 2022)
Audit Committee
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 3 January 2023)
Sharina Binti Saidon
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 28 October 2022)
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 6 January 2023)
Teh Bee Tein
Chairperson, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased to hold office on 3 January 2023)
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased to hold office on 3 January 2023)
Kasinathan a/l Tulasi
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased to hold office on 3 January 2023)
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 3 January 2023, ceased to hold office
on 6 January 2023)
Remuneration Committee
Sharina Binti Saidon
Chairperson, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 28 October 2022 and redesignated
on 3 January 2023)
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
(Appointed on 3 January 2023)
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 6 January 2023)
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin
Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased to hold office on 3 January 2023)
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased to hold office on 6 January 2023)
Teh Bee Tein
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased to hold office on 3 January 2023)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
3
ANNUAL REPORT 2022
CORPORATE INFOMATION
(continued)
Nomination Committee
Sharina Binti Saidon
Chairperson, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 28 October 2022, Redesignated on
6 January 2023)
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 3 January 2023)
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam
(Appointed on 6 January 2023)
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
(Redesignated on 3 January 2023, ceased to hold office on
6 January 2023)
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased to hold office on 3 January 2023)
Teh Bee Tein
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased to hold office on 3 January 2023)
Risk Management Committee
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman Chairman
Mohammad Bin Alwi Member
Sharina Binti Saidon Member
Amir Nashrin Bin Johari Member
Azlan Bin Ahmad Member
Chaw Pei Yee Member
Foo Loke Yean Member
Teoh Kar Hoe Member
Group Management Team
Mohammad Bin Alwi
Group Managing Director
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Executive Chairman – Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn Bhd
Amir Nashrin Bin Johari
General Manager to Chairman’s Office
Azlan Bin Ahmad
Head of Corporate and Legal Affairs
Chaw Pei Yee
Senior Manager – Finance & Administration
Azril Akmar Bin Attan Akmar
Chief Executive Director – Continental Resources Sdn Bhd
Baharuddin Bin Basirun
Chief Operating Officer – Continental Resources Sdn Bhd
Foo Loke Yean
Chief Executive Officer – Doe Industries Sdn Bhd
Company Secretaries
On Pooi Fong
MAICSA 7018189/ SSM PC NO. 202208000204
Tai Yuen Ling
LS 0008513/ SSM PC NO. 202008001075
Share Registrar
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
[Registration No. 199601006647 (378993-D)]
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Tel: 603–7890 4700
Fax: 603–7890 4670
www.boardroomlimited.com
bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com
Registered Office
Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office
157 Hampshire
No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari
50450 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: 603–2182 7333
Fax: 603–2166 7208
www.cih.com.my
pooifong@cih.com.my
Auditors
BDO PLT (AF 0206)
Level 8
BDO @ Menara CenTARa
360 Jalan Tunku Abdul Rahman
50100 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: 603-2616 2888
Fax: 603-2616 3190
Principal Bankers
Affin Bank Berhad
CIMB Bank Berhad
Malayan Banking Berhad
RHB Bank Berhad
RHB Islamic Bank Berhad
Listing
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Stock Name : CIHLDG
Stock Code : 2828
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
4
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani, male, aged 59, a Malaysian, was
appointed to the Board on 6 March 2019. He was re-designated as
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman on 30 May 2019. Datuk Seri
Johari is a substantial shareholder of the Company via JAG Capital
Holdings Sdn Bhd [Company No. 200401007748 (646252-M)].
Currently, he is the member of the Remuneration Committee of
the Company.
He is a qualified Chartered Accountant under the Chartered
Association of Certified Accountants, United Kingdom and
the Malaysian Institule of Accountants. Datuk Seri Johari
was a former Minister of Finance II from 27 July 2016 until
9 May 2018.
Datuk Seri Johari began his career at an international
accounting firm, Peat Marwick & Co. (now known as KPMG).
He has been involved in the corporate world for more than
27 years where he held senior positions in various companies
both listed and unlisted. He is also a substantial shareholder
of several companies listed on the Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad and public companies which are involved in
various industries.
Datuk Seri Johari is currently the Chairman and substantial
shareholder of KUB Malaysia Berhad. Further, he is a
substantial shareholder of Media Prima Berhad and
Mynews Holdings Berhad, both are listed on Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad and Central Cables Berhad,
an unlisted public company.
Datuk Seri Johari previously served on a number of Boards
including amongst others, as the Chairman of Langkawi
Development Authority (LADA), as a Director of Khazanah
Nasional Berhad, a Trustee of Yayasan Pelaburan Bumiputera
and a member of the National Productivity & Export Council.
He does not have any family relationship with any Director
and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is
no business arrangement with the Company in which he has
personal interest.
Datuk Seri Johari has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
including interest in any competing business with the Company or
its subsidiaries.
Other than traffic offences, Datuk Seri Johari does not have any convictions
for offences within the past five (5) years and was not subject of any public
sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the
financial year, if any.
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Chairman
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
5
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Deputy Chairman,
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy (“Dato Kumar”), male, aged
66, a Malaysian was appointed to the Board on 10 June 2015 as
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director. He has re-designated
as Deputy Chairman of the Company on 28 October 2022.
After completing his secondary education, Dato’ Kumar
began his career in 1981 as a Plant Manager in Ngo
Chew Hong Edible Oil Pte Ltd (subsidiary of Mewah
International, a listed company in the Singapore Stock
Exchange) and advanced in several positions in the
company before becoming the Chief Executive Officer
of the company. This equipped him with extensive
knowledge on the daily operations of the company
including production, finance and consumer marketing.
Dato’ Kumar left the company in 2011 and was appointed
Managing Director of Saber Pte Ltd. Dato’ Kumar has 41
years of experience in the palm oil industries, specifically
in the consumer pack segment. He is now the Executive
Chairman of Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn Bhd. He is a
well-known and respected figure in the industry with good
relationships built with edible oil producers and suppliers.
Dato’ Kumar possesses vast knowledge in the palm oil
industry which he had successfully distributed edible oils
and fats in retail packings to over 120 countries in Asia,
Middle East, Australasia and Pacific Islands, Indian sub-
continents, Africa, Caribbean Islands, Commonwealth of
Independent States region and Europe.
He has no directorships in other public companies and listed
issuers. He does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and there
is no business arrangement with the Company in which he has
personal interest.
Dato’ Kumar has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Company or its subsidiaries.
Other than traffic offences, Dato’ Kumar does not have any
convictions for offences within the past five (5) years and particulars
of any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year, if any.
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
6
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(continued)
Encik Mohammad Bin Alwi, male, aged 59, a Malaysian, was
appointed to the Board on 3 January 2023 as Group Managing
Director of the Company. He is currently a member of the Risk
Management Committee.
Encik Mohammad is a qualified Chartered Accountant and is a
fellow member of the Chartered Association of Certified Accountants
(ACCA), United Kingdom. He is also a member of the Malaysian
Institute of Accountants (MIA).
Encik Mohammad has more than 30 years of extensive experience
in the area of finance, accounting, strategic management and
corporate governance.
He has held various senior positions during his tenure in Johor
Corporation (“JCorp”) from 1992 to 2013 which included Finance
Director of KFC Holdings (Malaysia) Berhad/QSR Brands Berhad
and Chief Executive Officer (“CEO”) of KFCH Restaurants Pvt Ltd
(KFC Mumbai). During his tenure in JCorp, he has served on various
Boards including public listed companies such as Sindora Berhad,
Pica Malaysia Berhad, Wonderful Wire & Cable Berhad and
Damansara Realty Berhad. Previously, he has also served as CEO
of Malaysian Kuwaiti Investment Co. Sdn Bhd and Chief Financial
Officer of Tradewinds Plantation Berhad.
He has no directorships in other public companies and listed issuers.
He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business
arrangement with the Company in which he has personal interest.
Encik Mohammad has no conflict of interest or potential conflict
of interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Company or its subsidiaries.
Other than traffic offences, Encik Mohammad does not have any
convictions for offences within the past five (5) years and particulars
of any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year, if any.
Encik Mohammad Bin Alwi
Group Managing Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
7
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof, female, aged 70,
a Malaysian was appointed to the Board on 27 July 2005 as
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director. Currently, she is
the member of the Nomination Committee of the Company.
She graduated with BA (Honours), University of Malaya in
1974. She started her career in the field of human resource
and organisational development with multinational companies,
namely Motorola (M) Sdn Bhd, Intel (M) Sdn Bhd, Shell
Malaysia Sdn Bhd and Nestle (M) Sdn Bhd. In 1984, she
entered the field of stockbroking and was the Executive Director
of Equity Market of MIDF Amanah Investment Bank Bhd, until
her retirement.
Datin Mariam Prudence Yusof other previous appointments
include being a Member of the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange
Committee (KLSE), a Director of Labuan International Financial
Exchange Inc. (LFX), a Director of Securities Clearing Automated
Network Services Sdn Bhd (SCANS) and a Director of Research
Institute & Investment Analyst Malaysia (RIIAM) and Trustee of
the Bumiputera Training Fund of the Securities Commission. She
was also the Chairman of the Membership Committee of the
KLSE. She retired from the Board of KLSE and its subsidiaries
on 10 April 2004.
In year 2002, she was elected as Chairman of the Association
of Stockbroking Companies of Malaysia (ASCM) with the
primary role of spearheading the demutualisation of KLSE to its
new entity, Bursa Malaysia Berhad.
In 2017, Datin Mariam Prudence Yusof was appointed as a
Board member of Bursa Malaysia Berhad, Bursa Malaysia
Derivatives Berhad, Bursa Malaysia Derivatives Clearing
Berhad and resigned from the Board on 1 May 2020. She
also serves on the Board of iFast Capital Sdn Bhd and RAM
Holdings Berhad.
She is the mother of Encik Azril Akmar Bin Attan Akmar. Save
as disclosed, she does not have any family relationship with
any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and
there is no business arrangement with the Company in which
she has personal interest.
Datin Mariam Prudence Yusof has no conflict of interest or
potential conflict of interest, including interest in any competing
business with the Company or its subsidiaries.
She does not have any convictions for offences within the past
five (5) years and particulars of any public sanction or penalty
imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
year, (if any).
Ms. Lee Cheang Mei (“Joyce Lee”), female, aged 64, a
Malaysian, was appointed to the Board on 7 May 2014 as
an Alternate Director to Mr. Fung Heen Choon. She was re-
designated as Non-Independent Non-Executive Director of the
Company on 28 February 2018.
She is the co-founder and Managing Director of Continental
Resources Sdn Bhd (173543-U) (“CRSB”), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company. She obtained her Certificate of
Administrative Management from the administration and business
management professional body, Institute of Administrative
Management, in 1983. She has more than 32 years of experience
in the edible oils industry where her core competency is in the
marketing and sales of edible oils.
Ms. Joyce Lee began her career as a marketing executive in Felda
Marketing Services Sdn Bhd (“Felda”) in 1981 where she was
responsible for the export sales of palm oil and its downstream
products. During her Seven (7) years tenure with Felda, she
successfully developed the export market for two (2) regions,
namely Asia (including Australasia) and the Middle East. Ms. Joyce
Lee then joined Seacourt Pty Ltd, Australia in 1988 as Marketing
Director where she was responsible to explore and create business
opportunities as well as marketing of Malaysia’s palm oil and
other liquid oil products to Australian consumers. In 1990, Ms.
Joyce Lee left Seacourt Pty Ltd and co-founded CRSB where she
was appointed Managing Director of CRSB.
Ms. Joyce Lee was resigned as an Executive Director of CRSB on
28 October 2022. She was responsible for identifying, developing
and directing the implementation of CRSB’s business strategies to
ensure growth and progress in expanding market presence in
the Asia (including Australasia), Middle East and Africa regions.
She was also responsible for product development, brand and
company positioning as well as ensuring a positive culture and
working environment to achieve optimum employee productivity.
She has no directorships in other public companies and listed
issuers. She does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is
no business arrangement with the Company in which she has
personal interest.
Ms. Joyce Lee has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Company or its subsidiaries.
Other than traffic offences, Ms. Joyce Lee does not have
any convictions for offences within the past five (5) years and
particulars of any public sanction or penalty imposed by the
relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year, if any.
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(continued)
Datin Mariam
Prudence
Binti Yusof
Non-Independent
Non-Executive
Director
Ms.
Lee Cheang Mei
Non-Independent
Non-Executive
Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
8
Encik Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman, male, aged
60, a Malaysian, was appointed to the Board on 18 April
2013 as an Executive Director. He was re-designated as
Group Managing Director of the Company on 29 July 2015.
Subsequently, he retired as Group Managing Director and
was re-designated as Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director of the Company on 3 January 2023.
He is a USA trained and qualified accountant who graduated
from Boston University, Massachusetts with a Degree in
Accounting & Finance in 1986 and started his career with Peat
Marwick Mitchell, Chicago, USA. Having passed the USA CPA
examination in 1987 in Chicago he returned to join the KPMG
Kuala Lumpur office in 1988.
In 1991, he joined Kumpulan FIMA Berhad where he served in
various capacities as Vice President for the Agro-based group
and Business development and as Executive Director/ Chief
Executive Officer for Percetakan Keselamatan Nasional and
Security Printers (M) Sdn Bhd, of FIMA Berhad.
In 1998, Encik Megat Joha joined the Kuala Lumpur Stock
Exchange (“KLSE”) (now known as Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad) as Investigations Senior Manager for Market Supervision.
In 1999, he led the project team in establishing the Labuan
International Financial Exchange (“LFX”) for the KLSE, and held
the post of Assistant General Manager at LFX till 2002.
In early 2002, he assumed the post of Chief Operating Officer/
Executive Director (Operations) at Mayban Securities Sdn Bhd
until late 2005. His various other stints included being the Group
CEO of Majuperak Holdings Berhad and General Manager of
Boustead Sissons Paints Sdn Bhd.
He is currently a Board member of KUB Malaysia Berhad,
Marine & General Berhad and Central Cable Berhad. He
does not have any family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business
arrangement with the Company in which he has personal interest.
Encik Megat Joha has no conflict of interest or potential conflict
of interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Company or its subsidiaries.
Encik Megat Joha does not have any convictions for offences
within the past five (5) years and particulars of any public
sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year, other than traffic offences (if any).
Encik Megat
Joha Bin
Megat Abdul
Rahman
Non-Independent
Non-Executive
Director
Cik Sharina Binti Saidon, female, aged 63, a Malaysian,
was appointed to the Board on 28 October 2022 as an
Independent Non-Executive Director. She was redesignated
as Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on 1 March
2023. Currently, she is the Chairperson of the Nomination
Committee and Remuneration Committee, and also a member
of the Audit Committee and Risk Management Committee.
She graduated with Degree in Business Law from London
Metropolitan University. Besides, she also has Diploma in Law
from MARA University of Technology.
Cik Sharina, who has vast experience in law, company secretarial
and corporate governance was admitted to the Malaysian Bar
as an Advocate and Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya in
1991 and spent Six (6) years in private legal practice before
joining a public listed company in the publication and printing
industry in 1996.
She has no directorships in other public companies and listed
issuers. She does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and there
is no business arrangement with the Company in which she has
personal interest.
Cik Sharina has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Company or its subsidiaries.
Other than traffic offences, Cik Sharina does not have any
convictions for offences within the past five (5) years and
particulars of any public sanction or penalty imposed by the
relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year, if any.
Cik
Sharina Binti
Saidon
Senior Independent
Non-Executive
Director
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
9
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam (“Dato’ Siva”), male,
aged 55, a Malaysian, was appointed to the Board on 3
January 2023 as an Independent Non-Executive Director.
Currently, he is the member of the Audit Committee and the
Nomination Committee.
Dato’ Siva holds a Bachelor’s Degree of Arts from the University
of Malaya.
He was the Managing Director of Malaysia, Sri Lanka and
Maldives for Nokia, a role in which he oversees the operations
of the three Asian markets. An experienced veteran of over three
decades within the IT and Telecommunications field, Dato’ Siva
throughout his career had developed a deep understanding of
technologies i.e Industry IR 4.0. namely the internet of things (IoT),
managed services, cloud technology, artificial intelligence (AI),
digital transformation, e-commerce, automation and 5G.
Prior to his role at Nokia, Dato’ Siva was the Chairman and
Country Vice President of Tech Mahindra and before that he held
senior leadership roles at major IT firms such as IBM Malaysia
and Sapura as well as at leading telco firms including Swedtel
Southeast Asia, Alcatel Network and Maxis. From 2017 till 2019,
he has been a Committee Member of Outsourcing Malaysia,
an outsourcing initiative coordinated by Malaysia’s national ICT
industry association, PIKOM.
Dato’ Siva areas of expertise are in technology, business
management, startup, leadership, strategic planning, digital
transformation and corporate turnaround.
He is currently a Board member of Media Prima Berhad and
Watta Holding Berhad. He does not have any family relationship
with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and
there is no business arrangement with the Company in which he
has personal interest.
Dato’ Siva has no conflict of interest or potential conflict of
interest, including interest in any competing business with the
Company or its subsidiaries.
Other than traffic offences, Dato’ Siva does not have any
convictions for offences within the past five (5) years and
particulars of any public sanction or penalty imposed by the
relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year, if any.
Encik Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman (“Encik
Mohammad Farish”), male, aged 51, a Malaysian, was
appointed to the Board on 3 January 2023 as an Independent
Non-Executive Director. He is Chairman of Audit Committee
and Risk Management Committee, as well as a member of
the Remuneration Committee.
He graduated in 1995 with Bachelor of Accounting from
International Islamic University Malaysia and is a member of the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants. He is also a member of the
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants.
Encik Mohammad Farish began his career from 1995 to 2003
with PricewaterhouseCoopers Kuala Lumpur and subsequently
with KPMG Kuala Lumpur, both in the Assurance and
Business Advisory practice, covering multiple assignments on
various industries.
He then joined Malaysian Technology Development Corporation
(“MTDC”) for Six (6) years before moving on to Scomi Engineering
Berhad as General Manager, Business Development and Tender
Coordination.
Encik Mohammad Farish is currently the Director of Corporate
Services of MTDC having re-joined MTDC in 2014 and has held
various position prior to being appointed to his current position.
He also holds directorship on TT Vision Holdings Berhad.
He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business
arrangement with the Company in which he has personal interest.
Encik Mohammad Farish has no conflict of interest or potential
conflict of interest, including interest in any competing business,
that he has with the Company or its subsidiaries.
Other than traffic offences, Encik Mohammad Farish does not
have any convictions for offences within the past five (5) years
and particulars of any public sanction or penalty imposed by the
relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year, if any.
PROFILE OF DIRECTORS
(continued)
Dato’
Sivananthan a/l
Shanmugan
Independent
Non-Executive
Director
Encik
Mohammad
Farish Nizar
Bin Othman
Independent
Non-Executive
Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
10
Encik Mohammad Bin Alwi
Group Managing Director
(Please refer to page 6 of Directors’ Profile)
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Executive Chairman - Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn Bhd
(Please refer to page 5 of Directors’ Profile)
Encik Amir Nashrin Bin Johari
General Manager to Chairman’s Office
Encik Amir Nashrin Bin Johari, aged 28, male, a Malaysian, holds a Bachelor’s degree in Accounting and Finance from Oxford
Brookes University, Oxford, United Kingdom.
He has worked in financial assurance departments of EY Malaysia and KPMG Malaysia where he was involved in the provision
of external financial audit for a diverse range of industries including a large national non-profit organisation, trading enterprises,
manufacturing, hospitality, banking and real estate management companies.
Encik Amir Nashrin has also had a stint as a management consultant under KPMG’s Strategy & Operations advisory division. In this
capacity, he participated in a variety of engagements, encompassing economic planning, assessments of corporate governance, as
well as reviews of financial and commercial strategies for both public and private sector clients.
Currently, he serves as a director of Continental Resources Sdn Bhd and Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn Bhd, both are subsidiaries of
the Company. Subsequently, he was appointed as a General Manager to Chairman’s Office of the Company on 3 January 2023.
Prior to that he spent five (5) years in various management and executive roles in different industries and companies, including various
technology-based startups, private investment companies, and a public cable manufacturing company in Melaka. His roles covered
corporate finance, asset management, business development, accounting, treasury, and information systems.
Encik Amir Nashrin does not hold any directorships in other public companies and listed issuers.
Encik Amir Nashrin is the son of Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani. Save as disclosed, he does not have any family relationship with
any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business arrangement with the Company in which he has
personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, he does not have any convictions for offences within the past five (5) years and particulars of any public
sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year, if any.
Encik Azlan Bin Ahmad
Head of Corporate and Legal Affairs
Encik Azlan Bin Ahmad, aged 55, a Malaysian, holds an LL.B (Hons) degree from the Middlesex University, London and he qualified
as a Barrister-at-Law (Lincoln’s Inn), England. Currently, he is a member of the Risk Management Committee.
He was called to the Malaysian Bar as an Advocate and Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya in 1993 and spent more than six
(6) years in private legal practice before joining a public listed company in the fast food industry in year 2000 as its Legal Manager
where he served for five years.
He joined the Company’s then subsidiary, Permanis Sdn Bhd in 2005 as its Head of Legal and obtained his qualification as a
Licensed Company Secretary in 2007
. He served as the Group Company Secretary for the Company and its group of companies
since 21 August 2007 until 12 July 2016. At the Company, he is responsible for overseeing the Legal and Corporate Secretarial
Affairs department and provides advisory services in the same field to the Company and its subsidiaries.
He has no directorships in other public companies and listed issuers. He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business arrangement with the Company in which he has personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Encik Azlan does not have any convictions for offences within the past five (5) years and particulars of
any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year, if any
GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM’S PROFILE
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
11
Ms. Chaw Pei Yee
Senior Manager - Finance and Administration
Ms. Chaw Pei Yee, aged 58, female, a Malaysian, holds a Master’s Degree in Business from the Victory University of Technology,
Australia. She is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants, a fellow member of the Certified Practising Accountant Australia
and a member of the Asean Chartered Professional Accountant. Currently, she is a member of the Risk Management Committee.
She has more than nine (9) years of experience in the external audit field covering a wide range of industries including property
development, manufacturing, construction, hotel, plantations and investment holdings. Prior to joining the Company, she was an
Accountant of a Public Listed Company in the Property Development sector.
She joined the Company as an Accountant and was appointed as Senior Manager, Finance and Administration on 16 April 2007
.
She oversees the finance, tax, administration and human resources of the Company.
She has no directorships in other public companies and listed issuers. She does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business arrangement with the Company in which she has
personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Ms. Chaw does not have any convictions for offences within the past five (5) years and particulars of any
public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year, if any.
Encik Azril Akmar Bin Attan Akmar
Director/Chief Executive Officer of Continental Resources Sdn Bhd
Encik Azril Akmar Bin Attan Akmar, aged 44, male, a Malaysian, holds a Bachelor’s degree in Management (Accounting) from
Universiti Teknologi Malaysia and a Master of Science degree in Investment Management from Pace University, New York.
He was appointed as a Director of Continental Resources Sdn Bhd (“CRSB”) on 17 September 2021. He was also appointed as
Chief Executive Officer of CRSB on the same date.
He served as the Financial Controller at Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn Bhd, a subsidiary of CRSB, from 2015 to 2021. Prior to that
he spent 16 years in various management and executive roles in different industries, including luxury retail and distribution, oil & gas
service provider, and infrastructure works.
Encik Azril Akmar is a graduate of Akademi Tentera Malaysia (now known as Universiti Pertahanan Nasional Malaysia) and was
a commissioned officer in the Malaysian Army. He was the recipient of the Sword of Honour in 2003, conferred by the Yang Di-
Pertuan Agong for best military performance. He was also the recipient of the Academic Prize for best academic results during his
studies at the academy.
He does not hold any directorships in other public companies and listed issuers.
Encik Azril Akmar is the son of Datin Mariam Prudence binti Yusof. Save as disclosed, He does not have any family relationship with
any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business arrangement with the Company in which he has
personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, he does not have any convictions for offences within the past five (5) years and particulars of any public
sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year, if any.
GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM’S PROFILE
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
12
Encik Baharuddin Bin Basirun
Chief Operating Officer of Continental Resources Sdn Bhd
Encik Baharuddin Bin Basirun, aged 60, male, a Malaysian, was appointed as the Chief Operating Officer of Continental Resources
Sdn Bhd (“CRSB”) on 1 May 2015.
After obtaining a Diploma in Accountancy from Universiti Teknologi MARA (“UiTM”), Shah Alam, Malaysia, he began his career
in 1984, as an Assistant Accountant at Klang Port Authority. In 1986, he furthered his studies pursuing the Chartered Institute of
Management Accountant (CIMA) qualifications at the Accountancy Tutors, London, United Kingdom. In 1992, upon his return to
Malaysia, he joined the privatised Klang Port Management as an Assistant Accountant.
In 1995, he joined PDX Computers Sdn Bhd as a Senior Executive (Finance). Concurrently, he obtained his Bachelors of Accounting
from UiTM and in 1996, he joined Prolink Development Sdn Bhd, as an Assistant Manager (Finance).
In 1997
, he joined Konsortium Logistic Berhad (“KLB”), as an Accountant and his last position with KLB was as its Vice President. In
2004, he joined Ayamas Food Corporation Sdn Bhd (“Ayamas”), as a Senior Manager and in 2007 was promoted to the position
of Deputy General Manager (“DGM”) of KFC Manufacturing Sdn Bhd. His last position prior to joining the Company was as the
DGM of Ayamas. During his 10 years with the QSR Group, he successfully set-up the Logistics Division, warehouse management
system, re-engineering of its manufacturing system and production management system.
Currently, Encik Baharuddin is the Chief Operating Officer of the Edible Oil Products Division and is responsible for managing
the operations and financial of the Group’s Edible Oils Division including production planning, material planning, supply chain
management, quality management, licensing, financial strategies, cash flow, trade facilities and financing from financial institutions
and project manager for Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) and Manufacturing Execution System (MES) implementation.
He has no directorships in other public companies and listed issuers. He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business arrangement with the Company in which he has personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Encik Baharuddin does not have any convictions for offences within the past five (5) years and particulars
of any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year, if any.
Mr. Foo Loke Yean
Chief Executive Officer of Doe Industries Sdn Bhd
Mr. Foo Loke Yean (“Mr. Robert Foo”), aged 58, male, a Malaysian, is a Graduate Member of The Chartered Institute of Marketing
and Institute of Commercial Management, United Kingdom. After graduating he continued to pursue Advance Diploma in Business
and Management from West Glamorgan Institute of Higher Education, Wales, United Kingdom. Currently, he is a member of Risk
Management Committee of the holding company, C.I. Holdings Berhad.
Prior to joining Doe Industries Sdn Bhd [197701005750 (36788-T)] (“Doe”) in July 2001, he was with Hume Industries Berhad –
Concrete Division as Sales Manager from 1990 to 2001. He has 26 years’ experience in Building Material Industry.
He joined Doe in 2001 as Sales Manager later promoted in 2007 to General Manager – Sales and Marketing and subsequently
in August 2009 was promoted to Chief Executive Officer of Doe Group of Companies. He is overall in charge of the Operation
and Business Development of Tap ware and Sanitary Ware Division.
He has no directorships in other public companies and listed issuers. He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business arrangement with the Company in which he has personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Mr. Robert Foo does not have any convictions for offences within the past five (5) years and particulars of
any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year, if any.
GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM’S PROFILE
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
13
OVERVIEW OF GROUP’S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
Company Profile
The Group is structured into two (2) main divisions: Edible Oil Division and Tap and Sanitary Ware Division. The Edible Oil
Division focuses on exporting vegetable-based edible oil and fat products in various consumer pack forms. The Tap and Sanitary
Ware Division is primarily involved in the trading and distribution of sanitary ware and tap fittings to the property development
and retail markets.
Edible Oil Division
The Edible Oil Division consists of Continental Resources Sdn. Bhd. [198801006186 (173543-U)] (“CRSB”) and the Palmtop
Group (“Palmtop”).
CRSB has three (3) plants based in Banting, Klang equipped with 23 packing lines with a rated packing capacity of 360,000
metric tonnes (“MT”) of edible oils per annum and 37 oil tanks with a total tankage capacity of 4,000MT.
CRSB operates 17 Jerrycan (“JC”) blow molding machines with a total maximum monthly production capacity of 1.3 million units
in various sizes (3L, 5L, 10L, 18L, 20L & 25L). Plant 2 houses 12 JC machines, while Plant 3 has five (5) JC machines.
By manufacturing its own JC packaging materials, the division achieves cost savings and better quality control over products sold
to customers. The higher quality JC results in minimal rejections and complaints from customers, making our JC highly sought after.
Palmtop operates two (2) packing plants in Pasir Gudang, Johor. Palmtop comprises Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn. Bhd.
[199301012218 (266956-P)], PNC Oil Factory (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. [199501042433 (371637-V)] and Continental Palms Pte
Ltd, a sales & marketing office based in Singapore. Palmtop has 15 packing lines with a rated packing capacity of 316,000MT
of edible oils per annum and 37 oil tanks with a total capacity of 4,500MT.
Both subsidiaries within the Edible Oil Division are undergoing expansion works to increase our internal production capacity for JC
to further capture the benefits mentioned above along with our oil filling capacities. Upon completion of the upgrading exercise,
total production capacity will increase to 3,000 full container loads (“FCL”) per month from Third Quarter of FY2025.
Tap And Sanitary Ware Division
The Division refers to Doe Industries Sdn. Bhd. and its subsidiaries (“DOE Group”). The DOE Group currently operates an Assembly
and Quality Assurance plant in Senawang, Negeri Sembilan. The sales and marketing headquarters, which acts as its distribution
centre, is situated in Damansara Utama, Petaling Jaya, Selangor.
The Division is committed to building strong business partnerships with retail outlets nationwide and international distributors. It
collaborates with Original Equipment Manufacturers (“OEM”) from both local and overseas brands and works closely with major
developers and government agencies to secure orders. Additionally, the division will prioritise building materials to boost revenue
and ensure strict quality control for OEM/trading items. It trades various types of building materials like roof tiles, wall and floor
tiles, paint, kitchen appliances, precast concrete products, and timber plywood under its respective brands.
Vision
The Group aims to develop, enhance or create a comprehensive portfolio of consumer brands to enable the generation of
sustainable profit growth and extraordinary investment returns for the shareholders.
Principal Activities Of Our Group
• Blending and packing of vegetable-based edible oils.
• Marketing, branding, and merchandising of consumer-packed edible oil products in domestic and international markets.
• Trading of tap and sanitary ware products.
Key Markets
Asia (including Australasia), Africa and the Middle Eastern regions.
Strategies In Creating Value
• Leveraging core competencies and areas of strategic advantages.
• Identify market opportunities by keeping abreast on market developments and understanding evolving customer needs.
• Offering a diverse and attractive range of products and brands that cater to customer needs and preferences.
• Continual optimisation of business processes.
• Providing growth and enrichment opportunities to the employees, business partners and the communities where we operate.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
14
Highlights of the Group’s Financial Information for the Past 5 Financial Years
Financial (in RM’000)
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Revenue 5,347,165 4,046,102 3,144,549 2,572,493 2,272,914
Earnings Before Interest And Tax 190,140 128,897 127,873 63,584 45,934
Finance Costs (17,079) (5,132) (6,796) (10,517) (12,640)
Profit After Tax 166,514 119,360 116,090 45,311 27,074
Shareholders’ Funds 410,320 328,793 281,328 227,663 210,392
Total Assets 1,216,783 1,149,474 849,942 805,076 573,969
Borrowings 420,973 403,899 300,176 375,136 202,057
Debt/Equity (%) 103 123 107 165 96
Earnings per share (sen) 62.00 41.04 43.19 18.59 11.75
Net Assets per share (RM) 2.53 2.03 1.74 1.41 1.30
Dividend per share (sen) 15 12 12 10 8
Share Performance (RM)
2023 2022 2021 2020 2019
Year high 3.78 4.28 3.70 1.55 1.94
Year low 2.60 2.69 1.09 0.82 1.21
Year close 3.10 2.84 3.23 1.20 1.37
Market capitalisation
(as at financial year end) 502.2 million 460.0 million 523.3 million 194.4 million 221.94 million
REVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Revenue
The Group posted a significant increase in revenue of RM5.35 billion for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 (“FY2023”)
compared to the RM4.05 billion recorded in the preceding financial year ended 30 June 2022 (“FY2022”) despite the decrease in
crude palm oil (“CPO”) and palm olein prices and global trade tensions. The 32% increase in revenue was driven by:
• An increase in sales volume mainly from the Middle East, African and Indian Subcontinent regions. This was caused by an
increasingly competitive pricing for Refined Bleached and Deodorised (“RBD”) Palm Olein compared to other oilseed markets such
as sunflower oil and soybean oil.
• The weakening MYR relative to USD which has resulted in favourable average forex rates and contributed to higher realised gain in
foreign exchange and derivatives. MYR/USD started the financial year at MYR4.41 per 1USD and peaked at 4.75 in November
2022, ending with an average of 4.495 for the current reporting period. This is a 6.24% increase compared to the previous
financial year average of MYR4.231 to 1USD.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
15
Profit After Tax (“PAT”) And Expenses
The Group’s PAT increase of 40% to RM 166.51 million for the current year from RM119.36 million in the previous year is in line
with the increase in revenue in tandem with opportunities to unlock benefits of economies of scale from the strengthening volume. The
increased volume has allowed better negotiation with commodity suppliers and logistics partners, which have translated into improved
overall margins.
Operating expenses increased from RM149.07 million to RM165.78 million during the year, a 11.2% increase compared to the
previous year. The increase was due to higher realised/unrealised loss from derivatives arising from hedged forex contracts of the
sales proceeds.
Finance costs increased by 233% from RM5.13 million to RM17.08 million in the reporting period. This is mainly due to higher
utilisation of trade facilities aimed at funding the necessary working capital to accommodate the upsurge in sales volume. Since July
2022, Bank Negara Malaysia has increased its Overnight Policy Rate from 2.25% to 3.0%, or an increase of 75 basis points. This
has led to higher cost of funds for our financiers, consequently affecting our interest rates.
Assets: Trade Receivables
Trade receivables increased by 16% from RM 608.93 million to RM 706.23 million or on average being outstanding from 55
days to 48 days during the year. Although the increase in absolute terms have increased to RM97.3 million, the receivable
turnover days have significantly improved as a result of better collection rates from customers, a reduction of seven (7) days from
previous reporting period.
Assets: Inventories
There was a decrease in inventories by 35%, from RM109.64 million in the previous financial year to RM71.68 million. This drop
is mainly a result of lower average commodity prices recorded at the balance sheet date under review. For reference, average
CPO prices in June 2022 were at RM6,106/MT and RM3,525/MT in the current reporting period, a 42% variance.
Assets: Cash And Bank Balances
The Group’s bank balances and deposits placed with financial institutions increased by 4%, from RM241.87 million to RM250.52
million. This was primarily due to higher revenues, coupled with improved collection during the FY2023.
Liabilities: Trade And Other Payables
The Group’s trade and other payables decreased 20% to RM229.59 million from RM286.00 million in FY2022. This is in line
with the lower average commodity prices recorded at the balance sheet date under review.
Capital Structure And Capital Resources
The Group remains prudent in maintaining a sound financial position to enable the execution of strategic objectives in creating
value over the coming years. The Group’s borrowings increased by 4%, from RM403.90 million to RM420.97 million during the
year. The Debt/Equity ratio of 123% reported as at 30 June 2022 decreased to 103% as at 30 June 2023. It is important to note
that while total borrowings are still above shareholders’ fund levels, the debt is mainly for short term financing of no more than 90
days outstanding to purchase raw materials for sales.
REVIEW OF OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Operating Activities
Despite these challenging times, the Group is satisfied with the current period’s performance. The Group’s Earnings Before Interest
and Taxation (“EBIT”) of RM190.14 million achieved a 48% increase from the RM128.90 million recorded in the previous period.
This is in line with the increase in sales as a result of better margin traded alongside the lower freight rates.
Overall, the Group’s cash conversion cycle has also seen impressive improvements. Total cash conversion cycle days have gone
from 52.1 days in FY2022 to 44.5 days in FY2023.
During the financial year, the Group was awarded Highest Returns to Shareholders Over Three Years under the Consumer Products
& Services category at The Edge Malaysia Centurion Club Awards 2022.
Aside from that, there were no further significant developments in the operating activities during the financial year.
The Group takes pride in its commitment to safeguarding employees’ well-being by consistently maintaining full take-home salaries,
annual bonuses, and timely salary increments throughout the challenging past years. This dedication remains resolute even in
anticipation of future challenges and uncertainties.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
16
ANTICIPATED OR KNOWN RISKS
Foreign Exchange Risk
The Group annually exports around 99% of its products worldwide. which increases exposure to currency exchange risk.
However, this risk is managed by using forward currency contracts whenever possible.
Country Risk
The financial performance of the Group is significantly influenced by the political, economic, and regulatory conditions in the
importing countries. Negative developments in these areas could lead to contract defaults, collection issues, bad debts, and
potential loss of market share. The Group closely monitors the importing countries’ situation on a weekly or daily basis and takes
proactive measures to mitigate potential risks.
FUTURE PROSPECTS, POSSIBLE TRENDS AND OUTLOOK
EDIBLE OIL DIVISION
Palm Oil Supply Pressures - Impact of Climate Crisis on Palm Oil
Extreme weather patterns, including El Nino, excessive rainfall, and flooding, have been a subject of focus in the palm oil
industry. However, Malaysian Palm Oil Board (MPOB) Chairman Datuk Mohamad Helmy Othman Basha indicates that El Nino’s
significant impact on palm oil yields in the latter half of 2023 is now unlikely due to slight shifts in weather patterns. The likelihood
of a major El Nino event has diminished compared to earlier estimates, and the projected production impact may differ from
initial expectations. While El Nino may not be a major concern this year, the palm oil industry, like other agricultural sectors,
remains susceptible to ongoing worries related to extreme weather patterns. Excessive rainfall, potentially leading to flooding,
could affect the yield of fresh fruit bunches, disrupting harvesting and transportation processes. Malaysia’s recent 27% surge in
production between April and May, the largest rise in over two years, is attributed to enhanced labour conditions resulting in
more harvesting days.
Palm Oil Demand Pressures
a) Indonesia B40 Biodiesel Programme
The Indonesian Energy Ministry is planning to implement a new blending regulation that will raise the palm oil content in biodiesel
to 40%. Despite a slow initial progress, mainly due to historically low fossil fuel prices, the country is determined to achieve
its goal of producing fuel with a 35% palm oil blend this year. Starting from February 2023, the world’s leading producer of
vegetable oils transitioned from a 30% palm oil mix (B30) to a 35% blend (B35) in its transportation sector’s biodiesel program.
Indonesia, renowned as the largest global palm oil producer, is actively seeking to reduce its reliance on costly fossil fuel imports
by promoting the utilisation of palm oil in fuel. This year, the country successfully introduced a mandatory biodiesel mix of 35% palm
oil, the highest globally, surpassing last year’s 30%. As part of emission reduction initiatives, Indonesia’s national airline, Garuda
Indonesia, is conducting tests on a Boeing aircraft using jet fuel that incorporates a mixture of palm oil. This will lead to an increase
in Indonesia’s consumption of domestically produced palm oil.
b) Rising Attractiveness of Palm Oil Amidst Growing Price Gap with Rival Oils
Palm oil’s allure is rising due to surging demand from non-US and EU buyers such as India, China, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Turkiye,
Africa, and the Middle East. This preference is driven by its cost advantage stemming from superior yield efficiency of palm trees,
which translates into more competitive prices. Moreover, the quick shipping times cater to price-sensitive Asian buyers. This growing
attractiveness of palm oil is underscored by a widening price disparity compared to rival oils such as soybean and sunflower oil.
Escalating prices of soybean and sunflower oil, attributed to production concerns in the US, Argentina, and supply disruptions from
the Black Sea region, are enhancing palm oil’s appeal. This shift is crucially influenced by the Black Sea region, which accounts
for a substantial 60% of global sunflower oil output.
c) Continued Demonisation of Palm Oil to Protect Domestic Oilseed Oils
Ongoing stigmatisation of palm oil by western governments is perceived as a protective measure for other oilseed producers.
The newly established European Union (“EU”) regulations banning imports of commodities linked to deforestation are seen as
blocking market access for palm oil into the EU region. Although the ban may not impact Europe’s import of palm oil, it may have a
reputational impact on palm oil products as a whole and possibly lead to false impressions on end-users. The Group’s main buyers
are from Africa, the Middle East, and the Indian Subcontinent. It’s worth noting that the Malaysian Palm Oil Council (“MPOC”) is
urging the EU to provide clearer guidelines on defining ‘high-risk’ countries under the recently approved Deforestation Regulation.
The MPOC emphasises that existing scientific data already supports excluding Malaysia from this list. We are also hopeful that the
forced labour regulations will not create trade barriers.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
17
Preparing for Future Opportunities
Edible Oil Division is focused on broadening its customer reach in diverse markets, optimising cost and operations, and
leveraging CRSB’s recent business model restructuring for improving future profits and margins. The Group is undertaking essential
enhancements and expansion of Palmtop and CRSB to support anticipated business growth by increasing in-house production
capacities. The goal is to achieve a target capacity of 2,000 FCL and 1,000 FCL per month for Palmtop and CRSB respectively
by 3rd Quarter FY2025. Despite challenges in entering European and US markets, the Group is optimistic about demand from
other markets, anticipating sustained growth for consumer-packed palm oil-based cooking oil due to its higher yield nature. Given
economic uncertainties and ongoing post-COVID recovery, many countries are likely to seek competitively priced edible oils.
TAP AND SANITARYWARE DIVISION
The tap and sanitary ware division is highly dependent on the construction sector. We are optimistic of the potential to turnaround
the division’s performance as we have secured orders for the current Mass Rapid Transit (MRT) and Light Rail Transit (LRT) projects.
We also strongly believe that demand in the private housing renovation including the Do-It-Yourself (DIY) market will lead to positive
growth for the division.
Mega Transport Projects
The division aims to improve profitability by focusing on transportation mega projects, healthcare, and retail. The Government’s
efforts to improve intra-city public transportation present an opportunity for market expansion. We have supplied to MRT 2 and
are currently supplying to LRT 3, which strengthens our bid for upcoming projects such as the MRT 3 (31 stations) and Bayan
Lepas, Penang, and ECRL (23 stations).
Endemic Phase Hospital Construction
Hospital construction and expansions during this endemic phase will drive growth for the division’s medical series tap wares
and clinical series products. Our strong supply track record to hospitals nationwide will give us an advantage in bidding for
such projects. Additionally, the division is focusing on R&D efforts to develop products suitable for the healthcare market to
increase profitability.
Growing Consumer Segment
The retail industry for taps and sanitary ware is poised for growth as consumers become more skilled in DIY home improvements,
thus growing the retail segment. The Division plans to introduce appealing designs and improved packaging to target this market.
We are also increasing online sales through platforms like Lazada and Facebook, and other online sales portals. The Division
also offers attractive packages to retailers to boost revenue in the near future.
Notwithstanding the opportunities and value of the DOE Group, the CIH Group intends to divest this Division to interested parties
in order to focus on the Edible Oil Division. The potential divestment will facilitate the Group’s effort and resources to further drive
the edible oil business growth through more synergistic investments.
Dividend Policy
The Group does not have a dividend policy in place due to potential future requirements of funds for expansions and growth.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
18
Sustainability is a fundamental aspect of C.I. Holdings Berhad (“CIH” or “the Company”) and its subsidiaries’ (the “Group”) business
practices, serving as a guiding principle in its decision-making and development processes. The Group’s sustainability strategy is
established by the Board of Directors, who is responsible for supervising corporate sustainability performance. The Group Managing
Director oversees the implementation of the sustainability approach and ensures that targets are achieved.
The Sustainability Statement outlines the overview of our sustainability practices and performance for the financial year ended 30 June
2023. This encompasses corporate governance, prioritising stakeholders’ interests, fostering a safe, healthy, and harmonious working
environment for all employees, and contributing to the communities in which we operate. The Group recognises the importance of
integrating sustainability into its core strategy and business operations, viewing it as a source of competitive advantage to mitigate risks
and capitalise on business opportunities.
As we emerge from the challenges of the COVID-19, the urgency for an enhanced comprehensive sustainability strategy has never been
more crucial for shaping our collective future. Sustainability presents an opportunity to promote top-line economic and social growth
while retaining a long-term competitive advantage through its commitment to minimising environmental impact. The Group’s sustainability
framework is centred on evaluating economic, environmental, and social risks and opportunities, aligning with the corporate governance
framework and corporate social responsibilities outlined in the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Sustainability Reporting Guide.
Materiality
The Group identifies and prioritises the most relevant sustainability issues to the business and stakeholders. An issue is considered
material when two (2) conditions are met. Firstly, an issue is deemed material if it influences the business aspects of growth, costs,
risks, and trust. Secondly, it is significant to stakeholders, including customers, employees, governments, investors, non-governmental
organisations (“NGOs”), and suppliers.
In assessing the materiality of an issue, the Group considers its alignment with the Group’s Mission and Vision. The materiality assessment
enables the prioritisation of sustainability issues throughout the value chain, ensuring the sustainability and continuity of our business.
Economic, Environmental And Social (“EES”) Impacts
The Group recognises its impacts on stakeholders’ economic conditions and systems, natural ecosystems, and social systems within its
operational scope.
The Group has developed a comprehensive issues list through engagements with internal and external stakeholders, including:
• Internal – Board of Directors, Group Managing Director, the Management, and employees.
• External – Regulators and government authorities, suppliers, customers, NGOs, shareholders (retail and institutional) and community.
Since then, the Group has implemented an ongoing process to document and update emerging concerns raised by stakeholders during
engagements in the list.
Outcome Of The Materiality Assessment
The Sustainability Statement outlines the Group’s non-financial performance and identifies areas for improving sustainability management
and processes. This helps us improve reporting to meet stakeholders’ expectations.
The assessment findings are presented in the materiality matrix below, having considered the impact on the Group’s business and
significance to both internal and external stakeholders.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
19
The assessment identified nine (9) material topics: (i) Business Strategy, (ii) Product Responsibility, (iii) Occupational Safety and Health,
(iv) Customers, (v) Supply Chain, (vi) Environment, (vii) Governance and Ethics, (viii) Employees, (ix) Local Communities
Business Strategy
The Group believes that the core strategy is the most crucial aspect of any business. To ensure seamless operations and secure access
to financing, we prioritise cultivating robust relationships with our business partners, suppliers, and relevant authorities.
Given that a substantial portion of the Group’s revenues comes from export sales, we acknowledge the significance of competitive
pricing in international markets. Any decline in export sales due to competitive pricing abroad may significantly impact the bottom line
and market share. To mitigate costs and enhance margins, the Group consistently strives to procure competitively priced materials.
Product Responsibility
Customer satisfaction is the Group’s top most priority. Our commitment is to deliver products that comply with all regulatory, safety,
and quality standards to ensure they meet our customers’ requirements. We also strive to collaborate with suppliers who share our
philosophy, reinforcing our dedication to excellence and customer satisfaction. Quality management systems have been established to
oversee and regulate processes, from planning, development, production to after-sales services. This comprehensive approach ensures
strict adherence to all standards.
The Group’s Edible Oil division maintains continuous commitment to conforming with the food and quality standards mandated by
the respective Government agencies and licensing bodies in Malaysia and the importing countries. Additionally, it adheres strictly to
stringent food and quality standards set by our customers.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
20
The Group has been endorsed with the following certifications and accreditations that aim to guarantee the quality of the products for
consumption and use:
Edible Oil Division Sanitary and Tapware Division
ISO 22000:2018 by AJA Europe
HACCP by SIRIM QAS & by Ministry of Health Malaysia
HALAL by JAKIM
KOSHER by Orthodox Jewish Community of Singapore
GMP by Ministry of Health Malaysia
MeSTI by Ministry of Health Malaysia
RSPO by SIRIM QAS
MSPO by SIRIM QAS
Malaysian Standard 1184:2014
British Standard BS EN 200:2008
Malaysian Standard MS 795
Malaysian Standard 1522:2021
MS 147
MS2578
BS EN 1213 :2000
MS2545 : 2014 /2022
Malaysian Water Efficiency Product labelling Scheme
SPAN TS 3005 : 2021
SPAN TS 3004:2021
MS 1799 : 2020
BS 817 : 2008
To support the growth and adoption of sustainable oil palm products, the Edible Oil division is an active member of the Roundtable on
Sustainable Palm Oil (“RSPO”).
Occupational Safety And Health
At CIH, the wellbeing, health and safety of our workers is paramount. We aim to integrate safe and healthy behaviours and work
practices into our everyday business. We actively seek to eliminate hazards and, where that is not reasonably practicable, to take steps
to minimise the risks to our people and others impacted by our work.
We conduct occupational safety and health training to equip workers with the knowledge to identify workplace hazards and risks, to
ensure a safe working environment. Our commitment to safety is evident via undertaking regular inspections and maintenance, including
organising annual fire department assessments. The Group is also adequately insured to minimise any economic loss arising from an
unforeseen event.
Our safety management system is currently implemented and is continuously improved to comply with relevant legislations and regulatory
requirements. We have considered what a COVID-safe workplace would look like and how it would be effectively managed. We
undertake reasonably practicable ways to eliminate or minimise workplace health and safety risks, and foster an inclusive culture which
recognises the importance of health, safety and wellbeing of our workers and the public at large.
The Health and Safety Committee ensures that policies implemented are effective to create a safe working environment. The health and
safety officer is certified by the National Institute of Occupational Safety and Health (“NIOSH”). The Health and Safety Committee
has conducted the Chemical Health Risk Assessment (“CHRA”), Noise Mapping, Medical Exposure Monitoring, and audiometric tests
according to the Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”) 1994 to ensure compliance.
The Group prioritises clear and prompt communications on strict Standard Operating Procedures (“SOP”) and best practices, as
recommended by the Ministry of Health and the World Health Organisation. All foreign workers’ accommodations are COVID-19
compliant and are regularly inspected by Malaysia’s Ministry of Health, Majlis Perbandaran, and the National Security Council (“NSC”).
The Group did not receive any penalties related to occupational health and safety by relevant authorities in the current reporting year.
There were also no workplace fatality cases reported within the Group.
Customers
The Group’s primary customers are located overseas, making its businesses vulnerable to political or economic instability in destination
countries. Critical sustainability concerns include contract non-payment, defaults, foreign exchange risks, and shortages of USD currency
in the importing countries.
To mitigate these risks, the Group monitors customer credit performance and uses hedging instruments like foreign currency forward
contracts for incoming remittances. Sales exposure is diversified across multiple countries and regions to reduce dependence to minimise
potential financial impact.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
21
Supply Chain
The Group is at risk of production halts due to potential disruptions in material supplies. This could result in additional costs due to
overtime, delays in port delivery (special service request, “SSR”), and short shipping leading to delays in the subsequent shipment.
To mitigate supply chain risks, the Group on a daily basis monitors suppliers’ credit limits, terms, and stock availability. This includes
maintaining strong relationships with suppliers to ensure smooth operations despite disruptions. During this endemic period, the Group
avoids overreliance on a few suppliers by engaging with multiple sources for raw material delivery.
Environment
The Group actively reduces its environmental impact by managing business operations in the following areas: raw material, energy
usage, waste management, and supply chain optimisation.
The Group has an ongoing programme to eliminate product wastage. We practice product and packaging optimisation to minimise
raw material usage and waste. Recycled packaging products are also preferred. Additionally, the Group strives to conserve energy and
production inputs by optimising production processes. All waste management initiatives comply with regulations set by the Department
of Environment.
The Group promotes an extensive range of water conservation products that aid customers in conserving water and energy. These
products comply with Malaysia’s Green Building Index (“GBI”) and Singapore’s Water Efficiency Labelling Scheme (“WELS”).
In supply chain management, the Group prioritises suppliers who are ISO 14000 (Environmental Management System; “EMS”) certified.
The Group’s Edible Oil division implements procedures to minimise production wastage. Oil leakages from dented tins, jerry cans,
and spoilt PET bottles are rejected and sent to the rework area. Salvaged oil spillage is then transferred to a dedicated bullet tank,
subsequently filtered into a storage tank. Any remaining spillage that flows into the drain and is eventually collected by the oil trap system
and sold as sludge oil to approved buyers.
Recyclable items like rejected jerry cans, PET bottles, plastics, shrink wraps, caps, inserts, carton boxes, and wooden pallets are
collected and sent to the disposal area for approved buyers to purchase them as scrap items.
Governance & Ethics
Good corporate governance is a foundational attribute for a sustainable organisation. The code of conduct and ethics sets the tone as
to how the organisation operates and behaves. It defines the relationship between the Board of Directors, Management, and the rest
of the organisation. We are committed to strong governance and the fundamental principles of objectivity, integrity and professional
behaviour which underpins our decisions.
We have a whistleblowing policy to provide a safe and confidential channel for reporting concerns. We encourage everyone to call
out misconduct, including suspected wrongdoings and breaches of the law. The Group is committed to protecting individuals from being
victimised in the workplace as a result of an actual or potential concern being raised. Our policy is designed to encourage and support
individuals to report issues, knowing that it is safe to do so and that they will receive support.
The Group has established the Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC”) to ensure that the Company’s business is conducted in a
socially responsible manner. The Group’s subsidiaries have participated in workshops on the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission
Act 2009, focusing on the Provision on Corporate Liability as introduced by the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (Amendment)
Act 2018 to include a new Section 17(A), which stipulates that a commercial organisation will be committing an offence in cases where
any associated person engages in corrupt practices.
It is our policy to conduct all our business in an honest and ethical manner. We apply a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and
corruption. All complaints are confidentially investigated. Violations of this policy will lead to disciplinary action up to and including
dismissal, as well as arrest and prosecution for any criminal acts. There were zero recorded cases of corruption as defined under the
Provision for the current reporting year.
The Code of Conduct and Ethics, Whistleblowing policy, and Anti-bribery and Corruption guidelines are featured in our employee
handbooks and on our website —www.cih.com.my—. These documents outline the expected standards of conduct and behaviour for
our directors and employees.
Accurate, transparent, and timely financial reporting is crucial for efficient decision-making for the Group and stakeholders. We report
our financial performance on a consolidated basis and regularly engage with stakeholders through quarterly result announcements and
investor updates. The Group’s financial and operational information is made public on our website – www.cih.com.my–.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
22
Employee
The Group acknowledges its employees as its most valuable assets, playing a pivotal role in realising the Group’s vision. Following a
period of enormous change and disruption, we want to attract, retain, and develop diverse talent at all levels. This means recruiting
from the widest possible pool of talent, removing barriers that can prevent our people from reaching their full potential, and fostering a
fully inclusive environment.
A key focus of the Group is to support a diverse and inclusive workforce that is reflective of our values. We aspire to build a culture
which we can all be proud of, one that is based on trust and respect. An uplifting environment where employees feel appreciated and
empowered to be their authentic self. Our workplace is diverse and inclusive. Differences are celebrated and contributions are valued.
We are committed to a recruitment approach where everyone has an equal opportunity to be their best.
Gender and Generational Composition of Employees within the Group:
CIH seeks to attract, develop, and retain high-quality people with the technical skills and capabilities to achieve our strategic objectives,
and behaviours that are consistent with the Group’s values. We offer competitive salaries that fully reflect our employees’ value, which
are reviewed annually. We value our talent and provide an environment for our employees to develop their careers. Good performance
goes beyond turning a profit. We encourage employees to bring their passion and energy and relish every challenge for a rewarding
journey with the CIH Group.
We practice a zero-tolerance approach to ensure staff are treated with dignity and respect. All aggressive or violent behaviour
towards our staff, internal or otherwise, will not be tolerated under any circumstances. This includes unlawful discrimination, bullying or
harassment — including sexual harassment, physical or racism to ensure that all policies are consistent with the Employment Act 1955
and their collective agreements. There were no breaches of any regulations for the current reporting year.
The Group takes pride in its commitment to safeguarding employees’ well-being by consistently maintaining full take-home salaries,
annual bonuses, and timely salary increments throughout the challenging past years. This dedication remains resolute even in anticipation
of future challenges and uncertainties.
During the financial year, the Group was recognised by the Malaysian Productivity Corporation, Ministry of Human Resources, and the
Ministry of International Trade and Industry as a Shared Prosperity Organisation for our implementation of the Productivity-Linked Wages
System (“PLWS”).
Local Community
Corporate responsibility is a core part of our corporate culture. As a Group, we are committed to being a responsible company. We
are a socially aware organisation, continuously looking to create shared values. We care about the welfare of the community. This
is embedded within our core values, identity, and culture. The Group is proud to foster a culture of giving and contribute to create a
stronger, more equitable society. We endeavour to ensure that the impact we create results in a positive outcome.
The Group is committed to supporting organisations that make a difference in the community. We supported various charities and
foundations through donations to assist communities that are in need of help. During the 2023 financial year, the Group donated
approximately of MYR200,000.00 to the residents of the Federal Territories and the State of Johor to enhance their social welfare and
to ease the financial burdens of beneficiaries.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
23
The total contributions were channelled to students that were returning to school. This included providing the necessary educational
materials to support them through a Back-To-School campaign. Further aid was provided to students who were preparing for upcoming
national examinations.
Monetary contributions were given to Persatuan Kebajikan O.K.U Malaysia to help support and maintain their operations. The Group
also donated its edible oil products to underprivileged communities to assist in the rising cost of living.
The Group’s dedication and commitment to local communities drives the Group to actively aid, support and contribute to marginalised
groups. By fostering sustainable initiatives, supporting essential services, and empowering individuals, the Group fulfils its commitment
to bringing about meaningful change and creating a lasting and positive impact for all.
Conclusion
Continuous improvement is at the heart of what we do. We are committed to being a sustainable organisation in addressing environmental,
social, and governance (“ESG”) issues. From small actions in our teams and communities to large-scale business decisions, we believe
sustainability is everyone’s business. We want to inspire, educate, and lead sustainable business practices both in our markets and
in CIH.
By continually aligning our decisions and policies, we equip ourselves better to address present challenges and those that lie ahead.
We have full confidence in our people, processes, and values to meet these demands and exceed expectations in the years to come.
Pictured: Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani (CIH Chairman) handing out financial aid to local students.
Pictured : [left] En Mohammad Bin Alwi (CIH Group Managing Director) & [second from left] Dato’ Sukumaran
s/o Ramasamy (Palmtop Vegeoil Executive Chairman) with representatives from a local NGO.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
24
The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of C.I. Holdings Berhad (“CIH” or “the Company”) is committed in ensuring that the Company
and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) practice a high standard of corporate governance in discharging its responsibilities to enhance
shareholders’ value and financial position of the Group.
The Board continues to review its existing corporate governance practices and policies throughout the Group in ensuring full application
of key corporate governance principles as set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”).
This statement which is made pursuant to paragraph 15.25 of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”), sets out the manner in which the Group has applied the principles and recommendations
of MCCG. It must be read together with the Corporate Governance Report published on CIH’s website at www.cih.com.my.
PRINCIPLE A : BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
I. Board Responsibilities
The Board is cognisant of its responsibilities by ensuring proper control of the economics and financial management of the
Company and validates the strategic directions proposed by the Management for implementation.
The Board acts in the best interests of CIH, honestly, fairly and diligently and in accordance with the duties and obligations
imposed by Constitution of the Company and the law.
The Board also serves as a panel to provide effective guidance on the assessment of principal risks and the appropriate systems
to manage these risks, as well as to review the adequacy and integrity of the Company’s internal control system in safeguarding
shareholders’ interests and the Company’s assets.
The Board’s role and responsibilities include but are not limited to the following:
• Setting and reviewing the objectives, goals and strategic plans for the Group with a view to maximising shareholders’ value.
• Adopting and monitoring progress of the Company’s strategies, budgets, plans and policies.
• Overseeing the conduct of the Group’s businesses to evaluate whether the businesses are properly managed.
• Identifying principal risks of the Group and ensuring the implementation of appropriate systems to mitigate and manage
these risks.
• Considering Management’s recommendations on key issues including acquisitions, divestments, restructuring, funding and
significant capital expenditure.
• Implementing succession planning for senior management.
• Reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the Group’s internal control systems and management information systems.
To ensure the effective discharge of its functions and responsibilities, the Board has in place, business authority limits which sets
out relevant matters which the Board has delegated to the Management team led by the Group Managing Director (“GMD”).
These authority limits are reviewed and revised as and when required, to ensure an optimum structure for efficient and effective
decision-making in the Group.
There is a schedule of matters reserved specifically for the Board’s decision, including the conflict of interest issues relating to
a substantial shareholder or a Director, material acquisitions and disposition of assets not in the ordinary course of business,
investments in Capital projects, authority levels, treasury policies, risk management policies as well as key human resource
issues. The Executive Directors and the Management are tasked to ensure compliance with this. These authority limits are
reviewed and revised as and when required, to ensure an optimum structure for efficient and effective decision-making in the
Group. The Business Authority Limits for all the subsidiaries were last reviewed and updated on 21 September 2016 with the
approval from the Board.
It is also the Directors’ responsibility to declare to the Board whether they have any potential or actual conflict of interest in any
transactions or in any contract or proposed contract with the Company or any of its related companies. Where issues involve
conflict of interest, the Directors will abstain from discussion and voting on the matters as well as abstain from any other decision
making process in relation to these transactions.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Board Committees, all of which operate within defined terms of reference.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
25
The roles of the Chairman and GMD remain separate and distinct. The Chairman plays an important leadership role and is
responsible for:
• Leading the Board in setting the values and standards of the Company;
• Maintaining a relationship of trust with and between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors;
• Ensuring the provision of accurate, timely and clear information to Directors;
• Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and relevant stakeholders;
• Arranging regular evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors; and
• Facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and ensuring constructive relations be maintained between
Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
The Chairman, in consultation with the GMD and the Company Secretaries, sets the agenda for Board meetings and ensures
that all relevant issues are on the agenda. He ensures that all Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings,
sufficient time is allowed for the discussion of complex or contentious issues and, where appropriate, arranging for informal
meetings beforehand to enable thorough preparation for the Board discussion, the issues discussed are forward looking and
concentrates on strategy, every Board resolution is put to vote to ensure the will of the majority prevails and that all Executive
Directors look beyond their executive functions and accept their full share of responsibilities on governance.
The Company is committed to the highest standards of ethics and business conduct and has set in place a Code of Conduct
which governs employees conduct and behaviour in carrying out their duties and responsibilities in the day-to-day business
operations. The Code of Conduct outlines minimum standards expected of employees in dealing with conflicts of interest, supplier
relationships, interests in competitors, external businesses or activities, transactions with the Company, use of the Company’s
property or information, disclosure of information, personal or romantic relationships, laws and regulations, condonation,
business records, illegal or questionable payments and supplier obligations.
The Board Charter was last revised and updated on 23 August 2022 to be in line with the MCCG and Listing Requirements,
sets out inter alia, the roles and responsibilities of the Board and Board Committees, the procedures for convening Board
meetings, financial reporting, investor relations and shareholder communication. The Charter which serves as a source of
reference for Directors, will be reviewed and updated periodically in accordance with the needs of the Company and any new
regulations that may have an impact on the discharge of the Board’s responsibilities. The Charter includes a standalone Fit and
Proper Policy which had been formulated to be in line with the Listing Requirements.
The Board Charter and Fit and Proper Policy are made available for reference at the Company’s website at www.cih.com.my/
about-us/corporate-governance.
An Employee Manual, which was reviewed and updated on 21 November 2022 by the Group includes the Employee’s Code
of Conduct and Whistleblowing Policy, which is intended to cover protection for staff who raise concerns in relation to irregular
and unlawful practices.
In addition to the Code of Conduct, a Whistleblowing Policy has been put in place. The policy provides a mechanism and
offers protection for employees to report matters such as financial malpractice or impropriety or fraud, failure to comply with
legal obligations or statutes, hazardous to health or the environment, criminal activity, improper conduct or unethical behaviour
or any attempts to conceal any of the above. The protection of the employee who reports breaches and non-compliances is
in line with the Public Interest Disclosure Act which came into effect in 1999. The policy is disseminated to subsidiaries and is
available for access by employees.
This policy is designed to enable employees of the Company to raise concerns internally and at a high level and to disclose
information which the individual believes exhibits malpractice or impropriety. This policy is intended to cover concerns which are
in the public interest and may be investigated separately may then lead to the invocation of other procedures e.g. disciplinary.
These concerns may inter-alia include:
• Financial malpractice or impropriety or fraud
• Failure to comply with a legal obligation or Statutes
• Hazardous to health and safety or the environment
• Criminal activity
• Improper conduct or unethical behaviour
• Attempts to conceal any of the above
The employees are guided by the Whistleblowing Policy when relying on information in relation to the abovementioned in
writing to designated persons stated in the said policy. Upon receipt of report made together with available evidence, the
investigator is tasked to investigate and take all reasonable steps to ensure that investigations regarding the report and disclosure
are carried out fairly, unbiased and with due regards to the principles of natural justice. The investigator will report the outcome
of the investigation to the GMD or Chairman.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
26
In addition, subsequent to the introduction of the Corporate Liability Provision for bribery and corruption under Section 17A of
the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 (“MACC Act”), the Board had on 28 May 2020 approved the adoption
of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Policy which sets out the policies and procedures for compliance with the MACC
Act. The ABC Policy will be reviewed periodically to assess its effectiveness, and in any event, at least once every three (3)
years. The ABC Policy was reviewed and updated on 29 May 2023.
The details of the ABC Policy and Whistleblowing Policy are available on the Company’s website at www.cih.com.my.
The Board members have full access to the two (2) Companies Secretaries, both are professionally qualified, who play an
advisory role to the Board in relation to the Company’s constitution, Board’s policies and procedures as well as compliance
with the relevant guidelines, regulatory and statutory requirements, corporate governance and best practices.
The Company Secretaries are also responsible in organising and attending all Board and Committee Meetings, ensuring
adherence to board policies and procedures and that all statutory records are well maintained at the registered office of the
Company. The Company Secretaries ensure that the deliberations and decisions made at the Board and Committee Meetings
are well captured and minuted.
II. Board Composition
CIH is led and managed by a competent Board comprising members with vast experience in the fields relevant to the
Company. The breadth and depth of the Board skills are vital for the successful stewardship of CIH’s strategic direction and
operations to maximise shareholder value. Besides having an extensive knowledge and expertise in the real estate investment
and property development, the Board possesses a good mix of skills in business strategies, management, finance, economics,
legal and human resources.
As at 30 June 2023, the Board has nine (9) members, comprising one (1) Executive Director and eight (8) Non-Executive
Directors, of which three (3) of the Non-Executive Directors are Independent Directors, five (5) are Non-Independent Non-
Executive Directors. The Alternate Director has resigned on 28 October, 2022. This complies with the Listing Requirements of
at least two (2) or one-third (1/3) of the Board to be independent.
During the financial year ended 30 June 2023, six (6) Board meetings were held to review the Group’s operations, to approve
the quarterly financial results, year-end financial statements and other matters such as the business plan, the direction of the
Group, new investment and business proposals. A summary of the attendance of each Director at the Board meetings held
during the financial year under review is as follows:
Directors Designation
No. of Board
Meetings Attended
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani
Chairman,
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
6/6
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Deputy Chairman,
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Redesignated on 28 October 2022)
6/6
Mohammad Bin Alwi
Group Managing Director
(Appointed on 3 January 2023)
2/2
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof Non-Independent Non-Executive Director 6/6
Lee Cheang Mei Non-Independent Non-Executive Director 6/6
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(Redesignated from Group Managing Director
on 3 January 2023)
6/6
Sharina Binti Saidon
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 28 October 2022
as Independent Non-Executive Director and
redesignated on 1 March 2023)
3/3
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
27
Directors Designation
No. of Board
Meetings Attended
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 3 January 2023)
2/2
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 3 January 2023)
2/2
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 3 January 2023)
4/4
Teh Bee Tein
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 3 January 2023)
4/4
Kasinathan a/l Tulasi
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 3 January 2023)
3/4
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 6 January 2023)
4/4
The Independent Directors provide independent judgement, objectivity and check and balance on the Board. This is to protect
the interests of shareholders, employees, various stakeholders and the communities where the Company operates.
The Board takes cognisant of the recommendation to have gender diversity on the Board. Through its Nomination Committee
(“NC”) take steps to ensure that women candidates are sought as part of its recruitment exercise. Currently, the Company has
three (3) women directors, i.e. 30% of women participation on the Board.
In maintaining the effectiveness of the Board and the independence of Independent Directors, the Board through its NC
performs annual assessment in order to review that the Board as a whole and to ensure that individual director performed
effectively in discharging their functions and duties as well as to mitigate risks arising from conflict of interests or undue influence
affecting their independence. The assessment is conducted via the Assessment Sheet for each of the Board and the Independent
Directors of the Company. The assessment on independence serves as a form of attestation by the Independent Directors that
they are able to exercise independent judgment, impartiality and objectivity in the best interest of the Company.
In determining the succession planning for the members of the Board, the NC ensures that each nominated candidate has
comprehensive job description covering experience, qualifications and core competencies required of a director and taking
into account the existing skills and expertise of the Board and the anticipated time commitment required before recommending
the appointment as Director to the Board for approval.
Succession planning for the GMD, Executive Directors, Chief Executive Officers of the Group and key management personnel
is deliberated by the NC and thereafter makes necessary recommendations to the Board for its consideration and approval.
Whilst succession planning for other Senior Management positions is determined by a structured process led by the Human
Resource Department and endorsed by the GMD of the Company, Executive Directors and/or Chief Executive Officers of
the subsidiaries.
The Board, with the support of the Company Secretaries would assessed the training needs of each director. The Directors of
the Company attended and participated in various trainings, seminars and forums organised either internally or externally by the
Company in areas of finance, tax, accounting and regulatory updates. Members of the Board constantly, on their own initiatives
update themselves on the development of the aforesaid by way of reading related literatures and publications on the same.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
28
Training programmes attended by Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 were as follows:
Directors Training Programme Organiser Date
Datuk Seri Johari Bin
Abdul Ghani
MIA Conference 2023
- Future Fit Profession: Charting A
Better Tomorrow.
Malaysian Institute of
Accountants (“MIA”) 13-14 June 2023
Dato’ Sukumaran
s/o Ramasamy
Palm Oil Conference 2023 (POC2023)
- 34th Palm & Lauric Oils Price Outlook
Conference & Exhibition.
Bursa Malaysia
Derivatives Berhad
(“Bursa Derivatives”)
6-8 March 2023
Mohammad
Bin Alwi
Mandatory Accreditation Programme
(“MAP”) Bursa Securities 7-9 February 2023
Forum Contract & Arbitration
Workshop.
The Palm Oil Refiners
Association of Malaysia
8-9 May 2023
Datin Mariam
Prudence Binti Yusof
Economic Outlook. RAM Holdings Berhad 26 June 2023
Lee Cheang Mei
POC 2023 Palm Oil
Familiarisation. Bursa Derivatives 6 March 2023
Megat Joha
Bin Megat Abdul
Rahman
MIA Conference 2023
- Future Fit Profession: Charting A Better
Tomorrow.
MIA 13-14 June 2023
Sharina Binti Saidon
MAP. Bursa Securities 5-7 December 2022
Managing Recurrent Related
Party Transactions. CKM Advisory Sdn Bhd 15 June 2023
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l
Shanmugam
Global Entertainment & Media Outlook
2022 – 2026.
ESG Roadmap.
Media Prima Berhad
(“Media”)
10 January 2023
Digital Strategies for Business: Leading
the Next Generation Enterprise.
Columbia Business School
Executive Education
15 May 2023
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
29
Directors Training Programme Organiser Date
Mohammad Farish
Nizar Bin Othman
Negotiation & Influencing Skills. PEOPLElogy 10 February 2023
International CEO Forum 2023. Association of Development
Finance Institutions of
Malaysia
9-10 March 2023
Webinar Series: Withholding
Tax Principle & Practice and
Transfer Pricing Concept.
Malaysian Association
of Institute Chartered
Secretaries and
Administrators (“MAICSA”)
3 April 2023
Webinar Series:
Risk Management. MAICSA 4 April 2023
[SSM Webinar]
SSM x BNM: Company Secretaries as
Reporting Institution under AMLA 2001.
Suruhanjaya Syarikat
Malaysia (“SSM”)
6 April 2023
[SSM Webinar]
Understanding Joint Ventures.
Legal Considerations.
SSM 5 April 2023
[SSM Webinar]
Resolving Boardroom and
Shareholders Disputes.
SSM 11 April 2023
III. Remuneration
The Board believes in a competitive and transparent remuneration framework that supports the Directors’ and Senior Management’s
responsibilities and fiduciary duties in managing the Group to achieve its long-term objective and enhance stakeholders’ value.
The remuneration of Directors is determined at levels which enable the Company to attract and retain Directors with the relevant
experience and expertise to govern the Group effectively. In the case of Executive Directors, the remuneration is structured to
link rewards to corporate and individual performance based on key performance indicators. For Non-Executive Directors, the
level of remuneration reflects their experience and level of responsibilities.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
30
Non-Executive Directors
Name
Salary/
Fees
(RM’000)
Bonus
(RM’000)
Defined
Contribution
Plan – EPF
(RM’000)
Other
Emoluments/
Allowances
(RM’000)
Benefits
In-Kind
(RM’000)
Total
(RM’000)
Datuk Seri Johari Bin
Abdul Ghani
75.0 - - 21.0 - 96.0
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof 50.0 - - 12.0 - 62.0
Megat Joha Bin Megat
Abdul Rahman
12.5 - - 7.0 - 19.5
Lee Cheang Mei 5.9 - - 6.0 - 11.9
Sharina Binti Saidon 33.4 - - 20.0 - 53.4
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam 25.0 - - 8.0 - 33.0
Mohammad Farish Nizar
Bin Othman
25.0 - - 13.0 - 38.0
Teh Bee Tein 17.5 - - 29.0 - 46.5
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’
Mohd Nordin
17.5 - - 27.0 - 44.5
Kasinathan a/l Tulasi 17.5 - - 12.0 - 29.5
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat 17.5 - - 14.0 - 31.5
Total 296.8 - - 169.0 - 465.8
Executive Directors
Name
Salary/
Fees
(RM’000)
Bonus2/
Gratuity**
(RM’000)
Defined
Contribution
Plan – EPF1
(RM’000)
Other
Emoluments/
Allowances
(RM’000)
Benefits
In-Kind
(RM’000)
Total
(RM’000)
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy* 2,894 8,555 375 - - 11,824
Mohammad Bin Alwi 485 650 114 2 16 1,267
Megat Joha Bin Megat
Abdul Rahman
612 292** 73 50 23 1,050
Lee Cheang Mei* 600 - 29 - 30 659
Fung Heen Choon* 600 - 29 - 19 648
Total 5,191 9,497 620 52 88 15,448
1 Inclusive of Company’s contribution to employee provident fund and social security organisation contribution.
² Bonus for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 inclusive of employee provident fund.
* Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy is an executive director of a subsidiary and his remuneration is paid out from such subsidiary
and Ms. Lee Cheang Mei and Mr. Fung Heen Choon were executive directors of the subsidiary during the financial year
under review.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
31
The remuneration (including salary, bonus, allowances, benefits-in-kind and other emoluments) of top six (6) key Senior
Management personnel on a named basis during the financial year in bands of RM50,000 are set out below:
Range of Remuneration Key Senior Management
RM650,001 – RM700,000
Azril Akmar Bin Attan Akmar
(Chief Executive Officer of Continental Resources Sdn Bhd)
RM600,001 – RM650,000
Baharuddin Bin Nasirun
(Chief Operating Officer of Continental Resources Sdn Bhd)
RM550,001 – RM600,000
Azlan Bin Ahmad
(Head-Corporate and Legal Affairs)
RM500,001 – RM550,000
Chaw Pei Yee
(Senior Manager-Finance and Administration)
RM350,001 – RM400,000
Foo Loke Yean
(Chief Executive Officer of Doe Industries Sdn Bhd)
RM250,001 – RM300,000
Amir Nashrin Bin Johari
(General Manager of Chairman’s Office)
PRINCIPLE B : EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. Audit Committee
The Audit Committee (“AC”) comprises three (3) members, all of whom are Non-Executive Directors is chaired by and Independent
Non-Executive Director. They are:
Members Designation
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 3 January 2023)
Chairman
Sharina Binti Saidon
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 28 October 2022)
Member
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 6 January 2023)
Member
Teh Bee Tein
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 3 January 2023)
Chairperson
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 3 January 2023)
Member
Kasinathan a/l Tulasi
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Resigned on 3 January 2023)
Member
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 3 January 2023, subsequently resigned on 6 January 2023)
Member
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
32
The role of the AC is to support the Board in overseeing the processes for production of the financial data, review the financial
reports and the internal control of the Group.
The Chairman of the AC is not the Chairman of the Board ensuring that the objectivity of the Board’s review of the AC findings
and recommendations remain intact. The AC assesses the performance (including independence) and recommends to the
Board annually the appointment or re-appointment of the External Auditors guided by the criteria as prescribed under Paragraph
15.21 of the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities. The External Auditors confirmed that they are and have been independent
throughout the conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with the independence criteria set out by the Malaysian Institute
of Accountants. The Audit partner in-charge of a public listed company would be rotated (within the audit firm) every seven (7)
years to ensure independence of audit.
The composition of the AC is reviewed by the NC annually and recommended to the Board for approval. In safeguarding
an independent and effective AC whilst taking guidance from the MCCG, the membership for AC consists of at least one (1)
member who is financially literate and possesses appropriate level of expertise, experience and strong understanding of the
Group’s business.
The AC had met with the external auditors twice during the financial year ended 30 June 2023 without the presence of the
Management to discuss any key areas or issues which require the attention of the AC and Board. All members of the AC
undertake continuous professional development to keep themselves abreast with the relevant developments in accounting and
auditing standards, practices and rules.
The Terms of Reference of AC sets out its rights, duties, responsibilities and criteria on the composition of AC, which includes
former key audit partner of the Group to observe a cooling-off period of at least three (3) years before being eligible to be
appointed as member of AC.
The Board, with the recommendations of the AC, will ensure that all quarterly announcements and annual report present a
balanced and understandable assessment of the Group’s financial position and prospect.
The detailed roles, functions, responsibilities and summary of work undertaken by the AC during the financial year ended 30
June 2023 are as set out in the AC Report of this Annual Report.
II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Board understands that the ultimate responsibility for ensuring a sound internal control systems which provides reasonable
assurance on the effectiveness and efficiency of the systems lies with the Board. The Group’s internal control system is crafted to
manage the risks to achieve the Company’s objectives aside from safeguarding the stakeholder’s interest and the Group’s asset.
The internal audit function of the Group is performed in-house and reports to the AC directly in order to ensure that the
independence of the Internal Audit Department is preserved.
The details of the Risk Management and Internal Control Framework are set out in the Statement on Internal Control and Risk
Management of the Annual Report.
III. Internal Audit
The internal audit function is performed in-house whose primary responsibility is to assure the Board, through the AC, that the
internal control systems are functioning as intended.
In providing this assurance, the Internal Audit Department carries out regular audit activities in accordance with its annual audit
plan to review the adequacy and integrity of internal control systems and to identify opportunities for improvement in operational
efficiency. The AC reports to the Board on its activities, significant audit results or findings and necessary recommendations or
actions needed to be taken by management to rectify those issues.
The internal audit function adopts a risk-based approach and prepares its audit plans based on significant risks identified.
The internal audit provides an assessment of the adequacy, efficiency and effectiveness of the Group’s existing internal control
policies and procedures and provides recommendations, if any, for the improvement of the control policies and procedures.
The results of the audit reviews are presented and discussed during the AC meetings. Management is responsible for ensuring
that the necessary corrective actions on reported weaknesses are taken within the required time frame. The action plans
are reviewed and followed up by the internal audit function on a periodical basis to ensure the recommendations are
effectively implemented.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
33
The internal audit plan for each financial year will be approved by the AC and stipulates, amongst others, the internal auditors’
role, scope and authority, organisation status and reporting structure, independence and objectivity and responsibilities.
The Board acknowledges that risk management is an integral part of good governance. Risk is inherent in all business activities.
It is however, not the Group’s objective to eliminate risk totally but to provide structural means to identify, prioritise and mitigate
the risks involved in all the Group’s activities and to balance between the cost and benefits of managing and treating risks, and
the anticipated returns that will be derived therefrom.
PRINCIPLE C : INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
I. Communication with Stakeholders
The Board acknowledges the need for shareholders to be informed of all material business matters of the Company.
Announcements to Bursa Securities are made on significant developments and matters of the Group. Financial results are
released on a quarterly basis to provide shareholders with a regular overview of the Group’s performance. The Investor
Relations Department of the Company also arranges press interviews and briefings, and releases press announcements to
provide information on the Group’s business activities, performance and major developments, as and when necessary.
In addition to published annual report and quarterly results announced to Bursa Securities, the Company has a website at
www.cih.com.my from which investors and shareholders can access for information about the Group. Any enquiries may be
directed to this email address, info@cih.com.my.
While the Company endeavours to provide as much information as possible to its shareholders and stakeholders, it is mindful
of the legal and regulatory framework governing the release of material and price-sensitive information.
II. Conduct of General Meetings
The Company’s general meetings serve as a forum for dialogue and interaction with shareholders. Notice of the AGM and
Annual Report are sent to the shareholders at least 28 days before the date of the meeting. The Board has ensured each
item of special business included in the notice of meeting is accompanied by an explanatory statement on the effects of the
proposed resolution.
Notices of general meetings with sufficient information of business to be dealt with thereat are also published in one national
newspaper to provide for wider dissemination of such notice to encourage shareholder participation. At the general meetings,
shareholders have direct access to the Board and are encouraged to participate in the question and answer session.
Resolutions will be voted by way of poll as required under the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, and the Company will
make an announcement on the detailed results to Bursa Securities.
In facilitates the Government of Malaysia to curb the spread of coronavirus disease (“COVID-19”) in year 2022, the Group
had on 26 October 2022 successfully conducted its Forty-Fourth Annual General Meeting entirely via remote participation and
electronic voting. This is in accordance to Section 327 of the Companies Act 2016 and Clause 66 of the Group’s Constitution
which allow for General Meetings to be held using any technology or electronic means.
In facilitating greater participation by shareholders at AGMs of the Company, CIH will continue to explore possible means of
leveraging the technology such as to conduct general meetings using electronic communication devices and appointment of
proxy via electronic means as stated in the Company’s Constitution.
Focus Areas and Future Priorities
The Board has recognises the importance of embedding sustainability practices into strategic priorities of the Group, so as to build
long-term viability and value creation to the shareholders. The Board had on 29 June 2022 adopted the Fit and Proper Policy and
reviewed various existing policies during the financial year, as part of its efforts to enhance the Company’s corporate governance
practices and align them with the latest regulatory requirements.
The Board will prioritise the integration of environmental, economic and governance considerations in the strategies and operations
of the Group.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement was approved by the Board of CIH on 23 August 2023.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
34
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) is pleased to present the Audit Committee Report and its activities held throughout the financial
year ended 30 June 2023 in compliance with Paragraph 15.15 of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”)
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”).
1. Members Of The Audit Committee
The Audit Committee (“AC”) comprises Independent Non-Executive Directors. The AC Chairman possess the requisite
accounting and finance qualification. A summary of their respective attendance at the AC meetings held during the financial
year are as follows:
Members No. of Meetings Attended
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman – Chairman
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 3 January 2023)
2/2
Sharina Binti Saidon – Member
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 28 October 2022)
3/3
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam – Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 6 January 2023)
2/2
Teh Bee Tein – Chairperson
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased to hold office on 3 January 2023)
4/4
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin – Member
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased to hold office on 3 January 2023)
4/4
Kasinathan a/l Tulasi – Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Ceased to hold office on 3 January 2023)
3/4
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat – Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
(Appointed on 3 January 2023, ceased to hold office on 6 January 2023)
–
The AC held six (6) meetings during the financial year ended 30 June 2023. The Group Managing Director and the Head
of Internal Audit attended the AC meetings upon invitation. Other senior management personnel of the Group also attended
the meetings upon invitation by the AC, as and when necessary. The Company’s external auditors attended three (3) meetings
during the financial year where they were invited to discuss matters relating to the statutory audit. They were also given the
opportunity to raise areas of concern without the presence of the Management.
The Chairman of the AC undertakes a continuing process of engagement with the senior executives of the Company and the Group
as well as the external auditors so that the AC is kept up-to-date with all important issues affecting the Company and the Group.
During the year, the AC members attended conferences, seminars and training programmes relevant to their roles
and responsibilities.
The AC has the authority to examine specific issues and report to the Board with its recommendation. The final decision on all
matters, however, lies with the entire Board of the Company.
2. Terms Of Reference
The Terms of Reference of the AC are aligned with the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, recommendations of the
Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG”) and relevant best practices. Necessary revisions will be made
to the Terms of Reference to be in line with the amendments to the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities.
The Terms of Reference of the AC was last reviewed and updated on 23 August 2022 and is made available on the Company’s
corporate website at www.cih.com.my/investor-relations/corporate-governance.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
35
3. Activities Of The AC
In discharging its duties and responsibilities, the AC had undertaken the following activities and work during the year:-
Financial And Operations Review
(a) Reviewed the quarterly financial results and annual audited financial statements of the Company.
The AC is delegated with the responsibility to ensure that the Group’s statutory accounts are fairly stated and conform to
the relevant regulations and acceptable accounting standards.
The AC focuses particularly on changes in or implementation of major accounting policies, significant and other legal
requirements before recommending them for approval by the Board for announcement to Bursa Securities.
In reviewing of the annual audited financial statements, the AC had discussed with Management and the External Auditors
the accounting principles and standards and the judgements of the items that may affect the financial statements as well as
issues and reservation arising from the statutory audits.
(b) Reviewed the application of corporate governance principles and the extent of the Group’s compliance with the
recommendations set out in the MCCG in conjunction with the preparation of the Corporate Governance and Risk
Management and Internal Control Statements.
(c) Pursuant to Sections 131 and 132 of the Companies Act, 2016, a company may only make a distribution to shareholders
out of profits of the company if the company is solvent.
In this regard, the AC considered the quantum and cash flow impact of dividend payment. The AC reviewed the Statement
of Assets and Liabilities as well as Cash Flow Statement to ensure that the Company meets the solvency requirements before
the distribution of profits was recommended to the Board and to shareholders for approval.
(d) The AC took note that the assessment of the competence, audit quality and resource capacity of the external auditors in
relation to the audit and the information presented in the Transparency Report should also be considered in guiding the
decisions on the appointment and re-appointment of the external auditors as set out under Guidance 9.3 of MCCG 2021.
External Audit
(a) Reviewed the independence status and performance of the External Auditors for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
The AC carried out an annual assessment on the performance of the External Auditors covering areas such as calibre,
quality processes, audit team, audit scope, audit communication, audit governance and independence as well as the audit
fees of the External Auditors.
The AC also ensured that the Company obtained written assurance from the External Auditors confirming their independence
throughout their term of engagement for the financial year.
Having satisfied with the independence, suitability and performance of Messrs BDO PLT, the AC recommended to the
Board for approval of the re-appointment of Messrs BDO PLT as External Auditors for the ensuing financial year end of 30
June 2023 at its meeting held last year on 23 August 2022.
(b) Discussed and considered the significant accounting adjustments and auditing issues arising from the interim audit as well
as the final audit with the External Auditors.
During the year under review, the AC had two (2) independent meetings with the External Auditors without the presence
of Management to discuss any problems/issues arising from the final audit and the assistance given by the employees
during the course of audit by the External Auditors. The AC was pleased to report that there was no significant matter of
disagreement that arose between the External Auditors and Management.
(c) Reviewed the External Auditors’ audit plan for the financial year end of 30 June 2023, outlining the audit scope, methodology
and timetable, audit materiality, areas of focus, fraud consideration and the risk of management override and also the new
and revised auditors reporting standards.
(d) Reviewed all non-audit services to be performed by the External Auditors to reinforce the independence and objectivity of
the External Auditors.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
36
Internal Audit
(a) Reviewed the Internal Audit Reports and Follow-up Audit Reports on the Company and the Group during the financial
year under review and the audit findings and recommendations to improve any weaknesses or non-compliance and the
respective Management’s responses thereto, particularly on the following:
• Cash Sales and Cash Collection for Doe Industries Sdn Bhd.
• Bill of Lading Process Review for Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn Bhd.
• Edible Oil Purchase Process Review for Continental Resources Sdn Bhd (“CRSB”).
• Bill of Lading Process Review for CRSB.
Through the follow-up reports from the Internal Auditors, the AC was able to ensure that the Management’s action plan on
outstanding issues and that all key risks and control weaknesses were properly addressed and implemented.
(b) Reviewed and approved the Internal Audit Plan for financial year ended 30 June 2023 and Internal Audit Plan for financial
year ending 30 June 2024 to ensure that the scope and coverage of the internal audit on the operations of the Group is
adequate and comprehensive and that all the risk areas are audited annually.
Related Party Transactions
The AC reviewed all related party transactions entered into by the Company and the Group to ensure that such transactions
are undertaken on normal commercial terms and that internal control procedures employed are both sufficient and effective.
4. Internal Audit Function
The internal audit function of the Group is performed in-house and reports to the AC. The internal audit function acts independently
on the activities and operations of other operating units. Its principal role is to undertake independent, regular and systematic
reviews of the internal control system so as to provide reasonable assurance that the system continues to operate satisfactorily
and effectively. The costs incurred for the internal audit function in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2023 was
RM530,933 (financial year ended 30 June 2022: RM495,500).
A summary of the internal audit cost is as follows:
Cost Category RM (‘000) Percentage (%) of Total Cost
Manpower 502,989 94.74%
Travelling (inclusive of accommodation) 27,944 5.26%
Total 530,933 100.00
During the financial year under review, the internal auditors reviewed and assessed the operational procedures and effectiveness
of internal control on all the subsidiaries of the Group. Compliance tests had also been conducted to ascertain the extent of
compliance with control procedures and guidelines.
The Group Internal Audit undertakes internal audit function based on the internal audit plan. Other than the scheduled
reviews, the Group Internal Audit may undertake special assignments outside the normal scope of its daily activities. Findings
and recommendations for improvement as well as Management’s responses were presented to the AC and the Board for
further deliberation.
During the year under review, the AC had four (4) meetings with the Internal Auditors to discuss the Internal Audit Reports. During
the internal audit process, there were no material internal control failures or significant issues discovered during the financial year
under review.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
37
1. Introduction
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control is made in accordance with paragraph 15.26 (b) of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad’s Listing Requirements and the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of
Listed Issuers, which requires Directors of listed companies to include a statement in their annual reports on the state of their risk
management and internal controls.
The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of C.I. Holdings Berhad is pleased to present the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
2. The Board’s Responsibility
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility to maintain a sound system of internal controls and effective risk management
practices in the Group to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets. The Board continuously ensures the
adequacy and integrity of the overall internal control system for the Group.
The Board has delegated specific responsibilities to the following Board and Management committees that support the Board
in its risk management and internal control responsibilities:
• Audit Committee (“AC”) which is tasked with assessing the risk and internal control environment and overseeing financial
reporting, including the internal and external audit.
• Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) which is tasked with overseeing the Group’s risk management and compliance
aspect of the Group.
These committees are empowered by clearly established and approved terms of references in the above-mentioned responsibilities.
Accordingly, the Board is committed to the development and maintenance of an effective risk management framework and
internal control system to safeguard the shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets.
However, due to the limitations that are inherent in risk management framework and internal control system, the Board recognises
that such systems are designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group’s business objectives
and therefore, the system by its nature can only provide reasonable assurance but not absolute assurance against material
misstatement, operational failures, loss or fraud. The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of control
procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
3. Risk Management
The Group has a formal risk management framework, which enables the management and the Board to share a common model
for the effective communication and evaluation of all principal risks and controls. The Risk Framework covers a broad variety of
risks, including but not limited to business continuity issues, governance issues, financial issues and operational issues.
The Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) comprises eight (8) members, out of which three (3) are appointed representatives
from the Board, two (2) of which are Independent Non-Executive Directors. The Chairperson of the RMC is an Independent
Non-Executive Director. The others are representatives from the various operating subsidiaries. The roles and responsibilities of
the RMC include the following:
(a) To formalise the Group’s Risk Management Policy including objectives, strategy and scope of risk management activities as
well as to ensure the strategy, framework and methodology have been implemented and consistently applied.
(b) To ensure that a well-structured and systematic process exists for the comprehensive identification, assessment and
management of risks faced by the Group.
(c) To ensure that risk management process and culture are embedded throughout the Group.
(d) To ensure that appropriate reporting and feedback are received from management and reporting to the Board on the
Group’s risk profile and any major changes to the risk profile.
A Risk Coordinator was appointed to administer the Risk Management Framework during the financial under review. Under the
Risk Management Framework, risk identification is a line management responsibility, whereby an employee shall recognise and
identify the risk arises to the Risk Owner who is a named individual accountable for all aspects of the risk including assessment,
evaluation, monitoring and reporting. For each risk, we determine the risk source and subsequently determine the cause for each
risk, then the consequence is ascertained and the risk is then classified into either controllable, preventive or inherent. Risk that
has been identified and assessed is categorised broadly under one of the following categories:
• Governance
• Business
• Operational
• Information
• Financial
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
38
Risk assessment is an exercise of evaluating risk by considering the likelihood and impact in order to ascertain its relevance
to the business and efficacy of current treatment. The Risk Owner is responsible for the assessment of risk exposure within the
business operations which involves identifying the range of options for treating risk including accepting, mitigating, spreading,
transferring, avoiding or monitoring the risk. Appropriate risk treatment plans are then prepared after assessing each option
followed by implementation of those plans. All the above mentioned are recorded and updated in the Risk Register which is then
used to develop a risk profile for each company.
The Risk Coordinator works in conjunction with the management of each subsidiary to work through the Risk Management
Framework and updates the Risk Register. The results of this exercise are then reported to the RMC, which meets on a half yearly
basis. The RMC reviews and discusses the risk profiles of the various subsidiaries, taking special note of any changes and
developments, the existing controls, action plans in place to manage the risks and any further actions necessary. The RMC then
reports to the Board on a half yearly basis.
In addition, the Group Managing Director and/or Executive Director conduct meetings with senior management of
subsidiaries within the Group on a monthly basis. Amongst others, the key risks facing the respective subsidiaries are discussed
and monitored.
Furthermore, the Board has assigned to the AC the duty of reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s internal
control system, a critical element of effective risk management.
4. Internal Audit Function
The Group has an internal audit function whose primary responsibility is to assure the Board, through the AC, that the internal
control systems are functioning as intended. In providing this assurance, the Internal Audit Department carries out regular audit
activities in accordance with its annual audit plan to review the adequacy and integrity of internal control systems and to identify
opportunities for improvement in operational efficiency. A comprehensive Audit Report is produced to highlight audit findings and
provide recommendations to Management for comments and action. A follow-up audit would be carried out to monitor status of
completion and compliance to agreed action plan. The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its activities, significant audit
results or findings and necessary recommendations or actions needed to be taken by management to rectify those issues.
The Internal Auditors perform their tasks in accordance to International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing
issued by The Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia, which apply and uphold the following principles and rules of conduct:
• Integrity
• Objectivity
• Confidentiality
• Competency
5. Other Key Elements Of Internal Control
The Board has put in place other internal control measures including:
(a) An organisation structure with key responsibilities clearly defined for the Board, committees of the Board and the executive
management of the Group’s operating business units.
(b) Authorisation limits established to provide a functional framework of authority for approving expenditures.
(c) Monthly reporting of operating business unit’s performance.
(d) The Board’s review of quarterly reports on each operating business unit.
(e) The human resources function that coordinates the employees’ training and development programmes as well as occupational
health and safety programmes at all levels to enhance competency, work quality, ability and safety.
(f) An enterprise business application software which incorporates several in-built system controls, where upgrades/updates
are implemented when necessary, to assist the management in achieving various internal control objectives.
(g) Data and internal technology policy such as E-mail & Internet Access Policy and System & Data Security Policy. In addition,
the Group has also put in place a back-up system and disaster recovery plan.
(h) The clear documentation and regular review of policies and procedures regulating financial and operating activities.
(i) The comprehensive Employee Handbook and Code of Conduct is in place to ensure employees observe prescribed
standard of business ethics when conducting themselves at work and in their relationship with external parties. The new
Employee Manual was reviewed and updated on 21 November 2022.
(j) A Whistleblowing Policy is in place to help ensure conformance to the guidelines set out in the Employee Manual and
Code of Conduct by enabling the employees of the Company to raise concerns in a responsible and effective manner. The
Whistleblowing Policy covers concerns such as; financial malpractice or impropriety or fraud, failure to comply with legal
obligations or statutes, dangers to health and safety or the environment, criminal activity, improper conduct or unethical
behaviour or any attempts to conceal any of the above. In addition, the policy outlines safeguards for the whistle blower
including protection and confidentiality. Furthermore, the process for making a disclosure and the process of investigating
an allegation are also outlined in the policy.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
39
(k) Management of individual subsidiaries and business divisions are continuously assessing for risks within their business
environment and formulate mitigating strategies and/or corrective actions to minimise risks.
(l) An Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Policy was implemented and made effective on 28 May 2020. This policy
is implemented based on the “Guideline on Adequate Procedures” [Governance, Integrity and Anti-Corruption Centre
(GIACC) Guideline]. The Guidelines, which were issued pursuant to Section 17A(5) of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption
Commission (“MACC”) Act, set out adequate procedures a commercial organisation needs to put in place as a defense to
a corporate liability charge under the MACC Act. The ABC Policy was last reviewed and updated on 29 May 2023.
CIH has adopted and tailored the ABC Policy based on the baseline practices, processes and procedures that the MACC
has clustered the building blocks to having adequate procedures behind five principles:
T = Top Level Commitment
R = Risk Assessment
U = Undertake Control Measures
S = Systematic Review, Monitoring and Enforcement
T = Training and Communication
The CIH Group’s ABC Policy provides guidance to its personnel concerning methods in dealing with improper
solicitation, bribery and other corrupt activities that may arise in its business affairs. This policy acts as a legal defense
for CIH Group against any criminal liabilities in case of any corrupt practices of its employees and/or any person
associated with the CIH group.
6. Conclusion
Based on the observations and reports provided to the Board for financial year under review, the Board is of the opinion that
the risk management and internal control that is in place is adequate and effective to safeguard the interest of the Group’s
shareholders, their investments and the Group’s assets.
During the financial year under review, there was no major breakdown in internal controls that caused any material loss. The
Management has taken the necessary measure to improve the risk management and internal control system by continuously
reviewing, monitoring and considering all risks faced by the Group to ensure that the risks are within acceptable levels within
the Group’s business objectives.
The Board has received reasonable assurance from the Group Managing Director that the Group’s risk management and
internal controls system, in all material aspects, are operating adequately and effectively.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
40
The Directors are required by the Companies Act, 2016 (“CA”) to prepare financial statements for each financial year which have
been made out in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, and the
requirements of the CA in Malaysia and the Main Market Listing Requirements of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The Directors are responsible to ensure that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and
of the Company as at the end of the financial year, and of the results and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have:
• Adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• Made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
• Prepared financial statements on a going concern basis as the Directors have reasonable expectation, having made enquiries,
that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Directors acknowledge the responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy the financial position of the Group and of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements
comply with the CA and applicable approved accounting standards.
The Directors have overall responsibilities for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group,
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
FOR THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Directors’ Report
Statement By Directors
Statutory Declaration
Independent Auditors’ Report
Statements Of Financial Position
Statements Of Profit Or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Statement Of Changes In Equity
Statement Of Changes In Equity
Statements Of Cash Flows
Notes To The Financial Statements
42
47
47
48
51
53
54
55
56
58
AUDITED FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
DIRECTORS’ REPORT AND
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
42
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year ended 30 June 2023.
Principal Activities
The principal activities of the Company are that of investment holding and the provision of management services to its subsidiaries.
The principal activities of the subsidiaries are selling, packing and marketing of all types of edible oil, manufacture and trading of
household fittings and appliances and investment holding. Further details of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 8 to the financial
statements. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
Results
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Profit for the financial year 166,514 63,967
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 100,447 63,967
Non-controlling interests 66,067 –
166,514 63,967
Dividends
Dividends paid, declared or proposed since the end of the previous financial year was as follows:
Company
RM’000
In respect of financial year ended 30 June 2022:
Final dividend of 12.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 11 October 2022 19,440
On 23 August 2023, the Board of Directors approved payment of a single tier dividend of 15.0 sen per ordinary share amounting
to RM24,300,000. The financial statements for the current financial year do not reflect this dividend.
Reserves And Provisions
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.
Issue Of Shares And Debentures
The Company did not issue any new shares or debentures during the financial year.
Options Granted Over Unissued Shares
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
43
Directors
The Directors who have held office during the financial year and up to date of this report are as follows:
C.I. Holdings Berhad
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Lee Cheang Mei
Sharina Binti Saidon (Appointed on 28 October 2022)
Mohammad Bin Alwi (Appointed on 3 January 2023)
Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam (Appointed on 3 January 2023)
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman (Appointed on 3 January 2023)
Fung Heen Choon (Alternate Director to Lee Cheang Mei) (Resigned on 28 October 2022)
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin (Resigned on 3 January 2023)
Teh Bee Tein (Resigned on 3 January 2023)
Kasinathan a/l Tulasi (Resigned on 3 January 2023)
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat (Resigned on 6 January 2023)
Subsidiaries of C.I. Holdings Berhad (excluding those who are already listed above)
Amir Nashrin Bin Johari
Azlan Bin Ahmad
Azril Akmar Bin Attan Akmar
Chaw Pei Yee
Foo Loke Yean
Wong Lip Wai
Muhammad Razid Bin Sawall
Ramkrishna Ramier Sankara Raman
DIRECTORS REPORT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
44
Directors’ Interests
The Directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company and of
its related corporations during the financial year ended 30 June 2023 as recorded in the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings kept
by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
Balance at
1.7.2022 Bought Sold
Balance at
30.6.2023
Shares in the Company
Direct interests:
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman 1,000,000 – – 1,000,000
Lee Cheang Mei 11,055,700 3,000,000 (3,000,000) 11,055,700
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy 3,550,700 156,300 – 3,707
,000
Indirect interests:
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani 53,400,000 – – 53,400,000
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof 35,094,900 – – 35,094,900
Shares in a subsidiary
Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn. Bhd.
Direct interests:
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy 2,475,000 – – 2,475,000
By virtue of Section 8(4) of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani and Datin Mariam
Prudence Binti Yusof are also deemed to be interested in the ordinary shares of all the subsidiaries to the extent that the
Company has an interest.
None of the other Directors holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in ordinary shares of the Company
and of its related corporations during the financial year.
Directors’ Benefits
Since the end of the previous financial year, none of the Directors have received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other than
a benefit included in the aggregate amount of remuneration received or due and receivable by the Directors as shown in the financial
statements) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the
Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest other than deemed benefits arising
from related party transactions and remuneration received by certain Directors as Directors and Officers of subsidiaries as disclosed
in Note 30 to the financial statements.
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year, to which the Company is a party, which had the object
of enabling the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other
body corporate.
DIRECTORS REPORT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
45
Directors’ Remuneration
Fees and other benefits of the Directors who held for office during the financial year ended 30 June 2023 are as follows:
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Fees 297 297
Allowances 171 171
Salaries, bonus and other emoluments 14,446 782
Defined contribution plans 621 73
Other employee benefits 292 292
15,827 1,615
The estimated money value of benefits-in-kind for the Director of the Group and of the Company are RM88,000 and
RM39,000 respectively.
Indemnity And Insurance For Directors, Officers And Auditors
The Group and the Company effected Directors’ and Officers’ liability insurance during the financial year to protect the Directors and
the Officers of the Group and of the Company against potential costs and liabilities arising from claims brought against the Directors
and the Officers.
During the financial year, the total amount of indemnity coverage for the Directors and the Officers of the Group and of the Company
was RM10,000,000. The insurance premium paid by the Group and the Company for the financial year 2023 amounted to RM12,500.
There were no indemnity given to or insurance effected for the Auditors of the Group and of the Company during the financial year.
Other Statutory Information Regarding The Group And The Company
I. As At The End Of The Financial Year
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the Directors took reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of provision
for doubtful debts and had satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that adequate
provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets other than debts, which were unlikely to realise their book values in the ordinary course
of business had been written down to their estimated realisable values.
(b) In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have
		 not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.
II. From The End Of The Financial Year To The Date Of This Report
(c) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would render the amounts written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts in the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any material extent;
(ii) which would render the values attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company misleading; and
(iii) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the
Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) there has not arisen any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the
results of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made; and
(ii) no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within the period of twelve
(12) months after the end of the financial year which would or may affect the ability of the Group or of the Company
to meet their obligations as and when they fall due.
DIRECTORS REPORT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
46
Other Statutory Information Regarding The Group And The Company (continued)
III. As At The Date Of This Report
(e) There are no charges on the assets of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year
to secure the liabilities of any other person.
(f) There are no contingent liabilities of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year.
(g) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which
would render any amount stated in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
Auditors
The auditors, BDO PLT (201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206), have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
Auditors’ Remuneration
Auditors’ remuneration of the Group and the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 were as follows:
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Statutory audit 409 75
Other services 13 13
422 88
Signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.
........................................................................... .............................................................................
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani Mohammad Bin Alwi
Director Director
Kuala Lumpur
15 September 2023
DIRECTORS REPORT
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
47
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 51 to 107 have been drawn up in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, and the provisions of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2023
and of the financial performance and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended.
On behalf of the Board,
............................................................................ .............................................................................
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani Mohammad Bin Alwi
Director Director
Kuala Lumpur
15 September 2023
STATUTORY DECLARATION
I, Mohammad Bin Alwi (CA 31248) being the Director responsible for the financial management of C.I. Holdings Berhad, do
solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 51 to 107 are, to the best of my knowledge and belief,
correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory
Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly		 )
declared by the abovenamed at )
Kuala Lumpur this			 )
15 September 2023		 )		 Mohammad Bin Alwi
Before me:
Mardhiyyah Abdul Wahab (W729)
Commissioner for Oaths
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
48
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of C.I. Holdings Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as at 30
June 2023 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statements of
changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to
the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 51 to 107.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of
the Company as at 30 June 2023, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then ended in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing (“ISAs”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of
the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate
to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and
Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’
International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and
we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a
separate opinion on these matters.
Impairment of trade receivables
As at 30 June 2023, the carrying amount of trade receivables of the Group was RM706,228,000 as disclosed in Note 10 to the
ﬁnancial statements.
We determined this to be key audit matter because it requires management to exercise significant judgement in assessing expected
credit losses, including determining the probability of default by trade receivables and appropriate forward-looking information.
Audit response
Our audit procedures performed included the following:
(i)		 understand management’s internal control and assessment process for impairment of trade receivables and assessed the inherent
risk of material misstatement by considering the degree of estimation uncertainty and level of other inherent risk factors associated
with this accounting estimate;
(ii)		 evaluated management’s assessment and explanations on the individually significant trade receivables that were past due as
at 30 June 2023 with reference to supporting evidence such as payment record of the customers; and
(iii)		 evaluated the appropriateness of expected credit loss allowance including examining correlation coefficient between the
macroeconomic indicators applied by the Group in calculating probability of default using historical data and forward-looking
information adjustment.
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our auditors’ report in respect of the audit of the financial
statements of the Company.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in
the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not
express any form of assurance or conclusion thereon.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
49
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon (continued)
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of the
Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required
to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that give
a true and fair view in accordance with MFRSs, IFRSs and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors
are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements
of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the ability of
the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved
standards on auditing in Malaysia and ISAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the
economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and ISAs, we exercise professional judgement
and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, whether
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or
the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control of the Group
and of the Company.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by the Directors.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the
ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we
are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence
obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company
to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, including
the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the underlying transactions
and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the
Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and
performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence,
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and
where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
50
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (continued)
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe
these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we have not
acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 8 to the financial statements.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act 2016
in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.
BDO PLT Rejeesh A/L Balasubramaniam
201906000013 (LLP0018825-LCA) & AF 0206 02895/08/2024 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
15 September 2023
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD (INCORPORATED IN MALAYSIA)
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
51
Note
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment 5 114,578 72,167 477 143
Right-of-use assets 6 22,346 15,450 378 1,032
Intangible assets 7 17,261 17,261 – –
Investments in subsidiaries 8 – – 54,500 54,500
Other investment 9 10 10 10 10
154,195 104,888 55,365 55,685
CURRENT ASSETS
Trade and other receivables 10 733,744 667,618 265 535
Inventories 11 71,678 109,635 – –
Derivative financial assets 12 5,295 19,368 – –
Current tax assets 1,354 6,097 350 330
Cash and bank balances 13 250,517 241,868 151,922 107,453
1,062,588 1,044,586 152,537 108,318
TOTAL ASSETS 1,216,783 1,149,474 207,902 164,003
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 14 95,147 95,147 95,147 95,147
Reserves 15 315,173 233,646 111,279 66,752
410,320 328,793 206,426 161,899
Non-controlling interests 8(c) 109,661 85,596 – –
TOTAL EQUITY 519,981 414,389 206,426 161,899
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
52
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Note
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
LIABILITIES
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Borrowings 16 719 1,942 – –
Lease liabilities 6 9,674 4,555 – 465
Deferred tax liabilities 19 1,777 781 – –
Retirement benefit obligations 20 194 223 – –
12,364 7,501 – 465
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Trade and other payables 21 229,588 285,998 1,081 1,056
Derivative financial liabilities 12 31,000 36,674 – –
Borrowings 16 420,254 401,957 – –
Lease liabilities 6 2,739 1,592 395 583
Current tax liabilities 857 1,363 – –
684,438 727,584 1,476 1,639
TOTAL LIABILITIES 696,802 735,085 1,476 2,104
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 1,216,783 1,149,474 207,902 164,003
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
53
Note
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Revenue 23 5,347
,165 4,046,102 67
,125 52,110
Cost of sales 24 (4,991,249) (3,768,135) – –
Gross profit 355,916 277
,967 67
,125 52,110
Other operating income 40,433 3,019 3,891 1,665
Selling and distribution costs (26,824) (15,220) – –
Administrative expenses (174,669) (102,060) (6,858) (6,344)
Net loss on impairment losses on financial assets (264) (34,706) (39) (41)
Other operating expenses (4,452) (103) – –
Finance costs (17
,079) (5,132) (29) (45)
Profit before tax 25 173,061 123,765 64,090 47
,345
Tax expense 26 (6,547) (4,405) (123) (122)
Profit for the financial year 166,514 119,360 63,967 47
,223
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to
profit or loss
Gain on foreign currency translations 868 685 – –
Total comprehensive income 167
,382 120,045 63,967 47
,223
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the parent 100,447 66,487 63,967 47
,223
Non-controlling interests 66,067 52,873 – –
166,514 119,360 63,967 47
,223
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the parent 100,967 66,905 63,967 47
,223
Non-controlling interests 66,415 53,140 – –
167
,382 120,045 63,967 47
,223
Earnings per ordinary share attributable to equity
holders of the Company (sen):
Basic 27 62.00 41.04
Diluted 27 62.00 41.04
		
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
54
Group Note
Share capital
RM’000
Exchange
translation
reserve
RM’000
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
attributable
to owners of
the parent
RM’000
Non-
controlling
interests
RM’000
Total
equity
RM’000
As at 1 July 2022 95,147 473 233,173 328,793 85,596 414,389
Profit for the financial year – – 100,447 100,447 66,067 166,514
Other comperhensive
income, net of tax – 520 – 520 348 868
Total comprehensive income – 520 100,447 100,967 66,415 167
,382
Transactions with owners
Dividend paid 28 – – (19,440) (19,440) – (19,440)
Dividend paid to
non-controlling interest
of a subsidiary 8(d) – – – – (42,350) (42,350)
As at 30 June 2023 95,147 993 314,180 410,320 109,661 519,981
As at 1 July 2021 95,147 55 186,126 281,328 74,146 355,474
Profit for the financial year – – 66,487 66,487 52,873 119,360
Other comperhensive
income, net of tax – 418 – 418 267 685
Total comprehensive income – 418 66,487 66,905 53,140 120,045
Transactions with owners
Dividend paid 28 – – (19,440) (19,440) – (19,440)
Dividend paid to
non-controlling interest
of a subsidiary 8(d) – – – – (41,690) (41,690)
As at 30 June 2022 95,147 473 233,173 328,793 85,596 414,389
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
55
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Company Note
Share capital
RM’000
Retained earnings
RM’000
Total equity
RM’000
As at 1 July 2022 95,147 66,752 161,899
Profit for the financial year – 63,967 63,967
Other comprehensive income,
net of tax – – –
Total comprehensive income – 63,967 63,967
Transaction with owners
Dividend paid 28 – (19,440) (19,440)
As at 30 June 2023 95,147 111,279 206,426
As at 1 July 2021 95,147 38,969 134,116
Profit for the financial year – 47
,223 47
,223
Other comprehensive income,
net of tax – – –
Total comprehensive income – 47
,223 47
,223
Transaction with owners
Dividend paid 28 – (19,440) (19,440)
As at 30 June 2022 95,147 66,752 161,899
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
56
Note
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Cash Flows From Operating Activities
Profit before tax 173,061 123,765 64,090 47
,345
Adjustments for:
Bad debts written off 950 103 – –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5 7
,986 9,202 63 38
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 6 3,553 3,595 563 583
Dividends from a subsidiary 23 – – (63,525) (48,510)
Fair value adjustments on derivative instruments 12 8,399 21,302 – –
(Gain)/Loss on disposal of:
– property, plant and equipment (106) 108 – –
– right-of-use assets (516) – 91
Gain on termination of lease contracts (12) (3) – –
Impairment losses on:
– trade and other receivables 10 10,490 34,989 – –
– amounts owing by subsidiaries 10 – – 39 44
Interest expense 17
,079 5,132 29 45
Interest income (4,671) (1,673) (3,879) (1,653)
Inventories written back 11 (551) – – –
Inventories written down 11 3,502 – – –
Property, plant and equipment written off 5 – 123 – –
Provision for/(Reversal of) retirement benefit obligations 20 93 (355) – –
Reversal of impairment loss on trade and other receivables 10 (10,226) (283) – –
Unrealised (gain)/loss on foreign exchange 25 (15,884) 1,527 – –
Operating profit/(loss) before changes in working capital 193,147 197
,532 (2,529) (2,108)
Changes in working capital:
Inventories 35,006 (37
,407) – –
Trade and other receivables (54,464) (236,479) (8) 19
Trade and other payables (55,724) 105,033 25 (345)
Cash generated from/(used in) operations 117
,965 28,679 (2,512) (2,434)
Tax paid (5,805) (5,466) (143) (169)
Tax refunded 4,459 95 – 11
Contributions paid for retirement benefit 20 (122) – – –
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 116,497 23,308 (2,655) (2,592)
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
57
Note
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Cash Flows From Investing Activities
Advances to subsidiaries – – (10,131) (13,456)
Repayments from subsidiaries – – 10,370 16,605
Dividends received from a subsidiary – – 63,525 48,510
Withdrawal/(Placement) of deposits with maturity
periods of more than 3 months 500 (500) 500 (500)
Interest received 4,671 1,673 3,879 1,653
Proceeds from disposal of:
– property, plant and equipment 309 14 – –
– right-of-use assets 805 – – –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 5 (50,362) (4,530) (397) (32)
Payments for right-of-use assets 6(c) (1,947) (486) – –
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (46,024) (3,829) 67
,746 52,780
Cash Flows From Financing Activities
Dividends paid to shareholders 28 (19,440) (19,440) (19,440) (19,440)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests in a subsidiary (42,350) (41,690) – –
(Repayments)/Drawdowns of borrowings: 16(h)
– bankers’ acceptances (16,551) (3,774) – –
– Islamic financing facilities 37
,475 112,440 – –
– term loans (1,940) (5,930) – –
Interest paid (16,899) (4,999) (11) (12)
Payments of lease liabilities 6 (2,817) (2,091) (671) (600)
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities (62,522) 34,516 (20,122) (20,052)
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 7
,951 53,995 44,969 30,136
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
and cash equivalents 1,198 64 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 226,868 172,809 92,453 62,317
Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 13(g) 236,017 226,868 137
,422 92,453
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
58
1. Corporate Information
C.I. Holdings Berhad (“the Company”) is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia, and is
listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The registered office and principal place of business of the Company are located at Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place
Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur.
The consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries.
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the functional currency of the Company. All
financial information presented in RM has been rounded to the nearest thousand (“RM’000”), unless otherwise stated.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on 15 September 2023.
2. Principal Activities
The principal activities of the Company are that of investment holding and the provision of management services to its
subsidiaries. The principal activities of the subsidiaries are selling, packing and marketing of all types of edible oil, manufacture
and trading of household fittings and appliances and investment holding. The further details of the subsidiaries are set out
in Note 8 to the financial statements. There have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the
financial year.
3. Basis Of Preparation
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and the provisions of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the effects of adoption
of new MFRSs during the financial year. The new MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs adopted during the financial year are
disclosed in Note 33.1 to the financial statements.
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention except as
otherwise stated in the financial statements.
4. Operating Segments
C.I. Holdings Berhad has arrived at three (3) reportable segments that are organised and managed separately according to the
business segments, which requires different business and marketing strategies. The reportable segments are summarised as follows:
1. Edible oil Selling, packing and marketing of all types of edible oil.
2. Tap-ware and sanitary ware Manufacture and trading of household fittings and appliances such as water taps,
plumbing accessories and sanitary wares.
3. Investment holding Investment activities.
Others mainly comprised subsidiaries that have ceased operations and remained inactive.
The Group evaluates performance on the basis of profit or loss from operations before tax not including non-recurring losses,
such as restructuring costs and goodwill impairment.
The Directors are of the opinion that all inter-segment transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business and
are based on negotiated and mutually agreed terms.
Segment assets exclude tax assets.
Segment liabilities exclude tax liabilities and retirement benefit obligations. Even though loans and borrowings arise from
financing activities rather than operating activities, they are allocated to the segments based on relevant factors (e.g.
funding requirements).
Inter-segment revenue is priced along the same lines as sales to external customers and is eliminated in the consolidated
financial statements. These policies have been applied consistently throughout the current and previous financial years.
Details are provided in the reconciliations from segment assets and liabilities to the position of the Group.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
59
4. Operating Segments (continued)
2023
Edible oil
RM’000
Tap-ware and
sanitary ware
RM’000
Investment
holding
RM’000
Others
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Revenue
Total revenue 6,337
,321 21,155 67
,125 – 6,425,601
Inter-segment revenue (1,011,309) (2) (67
,125) – (1,078,436)
Revenue from external customers 5,326,012 21,153 – – 5,347
,165
Interest income 754 38 3,879 – 4,671
Finance costs (16,977) (73) (29) – (17
,079)
Net finance (expense)/income (16,223) (35) 3,850 – (12,408)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 7
,768 155 63 – 7
,986
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 2,773 217 563 – 3,553
Segment profit/(loss) before tax 180,277 (4,180) (3,017) (19) 173,061
Other material non-cash items:
– Fair value adjustment on derivative instruments 8,399 – – – 8,399
– Unrealised (gain)/loss on foreign exchange (15,886) 2 – – (15,884)
Additions to non-current assets other than
financial instruments and deferred tax assets 60,994 9 397 – 61,400
Segment assets 1,027
,411 23,720 164,298 – 1,215,429
Segment liabilities 688,626 3,857 1,485 6 693,974
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
60
4. Operating Segments (continued)
2022
Edible oil
RM’000
Tap-ware and
sanitary ware
RM’000
Investment
holding
RM’000
Others
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Revenue
Total revenue 4,988,947 17
,436 52,110 – 5,058,493
Inter-segment revenue (960,270) (11) (52,110) – (1,012,391)
Revenue from external customers 4,028,677 17
,425 – – 4,046,102
Interest income 57 27 1,589 – 1,673
Finance costs (5,048) (40) (44) – (5,132)
Net finance (expense)/income (4,991) (13) 1,545 – (3,459)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 9,151 13 38 – 9,202
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 2,780 233 582 – 3,595
Segment profit/(loss) before tax 129,934 (1,429) (5,224) 484 123,765
Other material non-cash items:
– Fair value adjustment on derivative instruments 21,302 – – – 21,302
– Impairment losses on financial assets, net 34,787 (81) – – 34,706
Additions to non-current assets other than
financial instruments and deferred tax assets 5,491 23 32 – 5,546
Segment assets 995,317 27
,916 120,144 – 1,143,377
Segment liabilities 727
,034 3,563 2,115 6 732,718
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
61
4. Operating Segments (continued)
Reconciliations of reportable segment profit or loss, assets and liabilities to the corresponding amounts of the Group are
as follows:
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Profit for the year
Total profit for reportable segments 173,061 123,765
Tax expense (6,547) (4,405)
Profit for the financial year of the Group per consolidated statement of profit or loss
and other comprehensive income 166,514 119,360
Assets
Total assets for reportable segments 1,215,429 1,143,377
Current tax assets 1,354 6,097
Assets of the Group 1,216,783 1,149,474
Liabilities
Total liabilities for reportable segments 693,974 732,718
Deferred tax liabilities 1,777 781
Current tax liabilities 857 1,363
Retirement benefit obligations 194 223
Liabilities of the Group 696,802 735,085
(a) Geographical information
The manufacturing facilities and sales offices of the Group are based in Malaysia.
In presenting information on the basis of geographical areas, segment revenue is based on the geographical location
of customers.
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Revenue from external customers
Malaysia 51,780 54,430
Africa 4,076,971 3,060,193
Asia 940,116 729,827
Other regions 278,298 201,652
5,347,165 4,046,102
(b) There has been no single customer which contributed to revenue equal or more than 10% of the revenue of the Group.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
62
5. Property, Plant And Equipment
Group
2023
Balance
as at
1 July
2022
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Disposals
RM’000
Written
off
RM’000
Reclassifications
RM’000
Reclassification
from right-of-
use asset
(Note 6)
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for
the financial
year
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
movement
RM’000
Balance
as at
30 June
2023
RM’000
Carrying amount
Buildings 24,485 1,805 – – – – (967) – 25,323
Freehold land 15,199 – – – – – – – 15,199
Plant and
machinery 17,802 96 – * 2,075 – (5,895) – 14,078
Office furniture
and equipment 1,016 311 – – – – (324) – 1,003
Renovation 6,849 180 – – 67 – (638) 14 6,472
Motor vehicles 761 1,221 (203) – – 224 (162) – 1,841
Construction-in-
progress 6,055 46,749 – – (2,142) – – – 50,662
72,167 50,362 (203) * – 224 (7,986) 14 114,578
At 30 June 2023
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
depreciation
RM’000
Carrying amount
RM’000
Buildings 34,425 (9,102) 25,323
Freehold land 15,199 – 15,199
Plant and machinery 62,834 (48,756) 14,078
Office furniture and equipment 5,136 (4,133) 1,003
Renovation 11,068 (4,596) 6,472
Motor vehicles 3,151 (1,310) 1,841
Construction-in-progress 50,662 – 50,662
182,475 (67,897) 114,578
*Property, plant and equipment written off with carrying amounts less than RM1,000.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
63
5. Property, Plant And Equipment (continued)
Group
2022
Balance
as at
1 July
2021
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Disposals
RM’000
Written
off
RM’000
Reclassifications
RM’000
Reclassification
from right-of-
use asset
(Note 6)
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for
the financial
year
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
movement
RM’000
Balance
as at
30 June
2022
RM’000
Carrying amount
Buildings 25,486 – – – – – (1,001) – 24,485
Freehold land 15,199 – – – – – – – 15,199
Plant and
machinery 23,758 198 (121) (103) 574 719 (7,223) – 17,802
Office furniture
and equipment 1,170 159 (1) (2) 32 – (343) 1 1,016
Renovation 6,256 317 – – 803 – (538) 11 6,849
Motor vehicles 297 561 – – – – (97) – 761
Construction-in-
progress 4,187 3,295 – (18) (1,409) – – – 6,055
76,353 4,530 (122) (123) – 719 (9,202) 12 72,167
At 30 June 2022
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
depreciation
RM’000
Carrying amount
RM’000
Buildings 32,620 (8,135) 24,485
Freehold land 15,199 – 15,199
Plant and machinery 66,763 (48,961) 17,802
Office furniture and equipment 5,084 (4,068) 1,016
Renovation 10,789 (3,940) 6,849
Motor vehicles 1,567 (806) 761
Construction-in-progress 6,055 – 6,055
138,077 (65,910) 72,167
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
64
5. Property, Plant And Equipment (continued)
Company
2023
Balance as at
1 July 2022
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Disposal
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the
financial year
RM’000
Balance as at
30 June 2023
RM’000
Carrying amount
Office furniture and equipment 54 17 * (20) 51
Renovation 88 – – (16) 72
Motor vehicles 1 380 – (27) 354
143 397 * (63) 477
As at 30 June 2023
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
depreciation
RM’000
Carrying amount
RM’000
Office furniture and equipment 893 (842) 51
Renovation 522 (450) 72
Motor vehicles 388 (34) 354
1,803 (1,326) 477
Company
2022
Balance as at
1 July 2021
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the
financial year
RM’000
Balance as at
30 June 2022
RM’000
Carrying amount
Office furniture and equipment 42 32 (20) 54
Renovation 104 – (16) 88
Motor vehicles 3 – (2) 1
149 32 (38) 143
As at 30 June 2022
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
depreciation
RM’000
Carrying amount
RM’000
Office furniture and equipment 889 (835) 54
Renovation 522 (434) 88
Motor vehicles 9 (8) 1
1,420 (1,277) 143
*Disposal property, plant and equipment with carrying amounts less than RM1,000.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
65
5. Property, Plant And Equipment (continued)
(a) All items of property, plant and equipment are initially recorded at cost. After initial recognition, property, plant and
equipment except for freehold land and construction-in-progress are stated at cost less any accumulated depreciation and
accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Freehold land has unlimited useful life and is not depreciated. Construction-in-progress represents renovation, machinery
and office equipment under installation and is stated at cost. Construction-in-progress is not depreciated until such time
when the asset is ready for use.
Depreciation on other property, plant and equipment is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual
values on a straight line basis over their estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives represent common life
expectancies applied in the various business segments of the Group operates. The principal depreciation annual rates
used are as follows:
Buildings				 2% - 13%
Plant and machinery								 2% - 25%
Office furniture and equipment 8% - 40%
Renovation			 10% - 20%
Motor vehicles			 20% - 25%
(b) The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment of the Group charged to licensed banks for banking facilities
granted to certain subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period as disclosed in Note 16, Note 17 and Note 18 to
the financial statements respectively are as follows:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Buildings 16,651 17,094
Freehold land 15,199 15,199
Plant and machinery 1,079 3,114
32,929 35,407
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
66
6. Leases
The Group as a lessee
Right-of-use assets
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1 July
2022
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Termination
of lease
contract
RM’000
Disposals
RM’000
Reclassification
to property,
plant and
equipment
(Note 5)
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the
financial year
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
movement
RM’000
Balance
as at
30 June
2023
RM’000
Land 6,984 – – – – (451) – 6,533
Buildings 6,238 9,067 (257) – – (2,164) (91) 12,793
Machineries 251 165 – – – (233) – 183
Office equipment 17 – – – – (6) 1 12
Motor vehicles 1,960 1,806 – (289) (224) (699) 271 2,825
15,450 11,038 (257) (289) (224) (3,553) 181 22,346
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1 July 2021
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Termination
of lease
contract
RM’000
Reclassification
to property,
plant and
equipment
(Note 5)
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the
financial year
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
movement
RM’000
Balance
as at
30 June 2022
RM’000
Land 7,473 – – – (489) – 6,984
Buildings 7,815 – – – (1,589) 12 6,238
Machineries 1,762 273 (97) (719) (968) – 251
Office equipment 23 – – – (7) 1 17
Motor vehicles 1,718 743 – – (542) 41 1,960
18,791 1,016 (97) (719) (3,595) 54 15,450
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
67
6. Leases (continued)
The Group as a lessee (continued)
Lease liabilities
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1 July 2022
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Termination
of lease
contract
RM’000
Payments of
lease liabilities
RM’000
Accretion
of interest
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
movement
RM’000
Balance
as at
30 June 2023
RM’000
Buildings 4,548 8,926 (269) (1,597) 112 53 11,773
Machineries 258 165 – (246) 8 – 185
Office equipment 17 – – (6) 1 1 13
Motor vehicles 1,324 – – (968) 59 27 442
6,147 9,091 (269) (2,817) 180 81 12,413
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1 July 2021
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Termination
of lease
contract
RM’000
Payments of
lease liabilities
RM’000
Accretion
of interest
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
movement
RM’000
Balance
as at
30 June 2022
RM’000
Buildings 5,458 – – (984) 61 13 4,548
Machineries 763 273 (100) (699) 21 – 258
Office equipment 22 – – (7) 1 1 17
Motor vehicles 1,406 257 – (401) 50 12 1,324
7,649 530 (100) (2,091) 133 26 6,147
The Company as a lessee
Right-of-use assets
Carrying amount
Balance as at
1 July 2022
RM’000
Disposal
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the financial year
RM’000
Balance as at
30 June 2023
RM’000
Buildings 881 – (503) 378
Motor vehicles 151 (91) (60) –
1,032 (91) (563) 378
Carrying amount
Balance as at
1 July 2021
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the financial year
RM’000
Balance as at
30 June 2022
RM’000
Buildings 1,385 (504) 881
Motor vehicles 230 (79) 151
1,615 (583) 1,032
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
68
6. Leases (continued)
The Company as a lessee (continued)
Lease liabilities
Carrying amount
Balance as at
1 July 2022
RM’000
Payments of
lease liabilities
RM’000
Accretion
of interest
RM’000
Balance as at
30 June 2023
RM’000
Buildings 912 (531) 14 395
Motor vehicles 136 (140) 4 –
1,048 (671) 18 395
Carrying amount
Balance as at
1 July 2021
RM’000
Payments of
lease liabilities
RM’000
Accretion
of interest
RM’000
Balance as at
30 June 2022
RM’000
Buildings 1,416 (530) 26 912
Motor vehicles 199 (70) 7 136
1,615 (600} 33 1,048
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Represented by:
Non-current liabilities 9,674 4,555 – 465
Current liabilities 2,739 1,592 395 583
12,413 6,147 395 1,048
(a) The Group and the Company lease a number of land, buildings, machineries, office equipment and motor vehicles in the
locations, which it operates with fixed periodic rent over the lease term. The Group has certain leases of office equipment and
office buildings with lease term of 12 months or less, and low value leases of office equipment of RM20,000 and below. The
Group applies the “short-term lease” and “lease of low-value assets” exemptions for these leases.
(b) The right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, which comprise the initial amount of the lease liabilities adjusted for
any lease payments made at or before the commencement date of the leases.
After initial recognition, right-of-use assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment
losses, if any, and adjusted for any re-measurement of the lease liabilities.
The right-of-use assets are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the earlier of the estimated useful lives of the right-of-use
assets or the end of the lease term. The lease terms of right-of-use assets are as follows:
Land up to 99 years
Buildings			 2 to 10 years
Machineries		 2 years
Office equipment 5 years
Motor vehicles 5 years
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
69
6. Leases (continued)
(c) During the financial year, the Group made the following cash payments to purchase of right-of-use assets:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Purchase of right-of-use assets 11,038 1,016
Financed by finance lease (9,091) (530)
Cash payments on purchase of right-of-use assets 1,947 486
(d) Certain land of the Group with a carrying amount of RM1,992,000 (2022: RM2,018,000) have been charged
as securities to banks for loans and borrowings granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 16 and Note 18 to the
financial statements respectively.
(e) The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss of the Group and of the Company:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets
(included in cost of sales and administrative expenses) 3,553 3,595 563 583
Interest expense on lease liabilities
(included in finance costs) 180 133 18 33
Expense relating to short-term leases
(included in administrative expenses) 803 487 – –
Expense relating to leases of low-value assets
(included in administrative expenses) 45 21 – –
Gain arising from termination of lease contracts
(include in other income) (12) (3)
Gain on disposal of right-of-use assets
(included in other income) (516) –
Loss on disposal of right-of-use asset
(included in administrative expenses) – – 91 –
4,053 4,233 672 616
(f) The total cash flows of leases of the Group and of the Company during the financial year, including short term and low-value
assets leases amounted to RM3,665,000 and RM671,000 (2022: RM2,599,000 and RM600,000) respectively.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
70
6. Leases (continued)
(g) The following table summarises the incremental borrowing rate as at the end of the reporting date and remaining maturity
profile of the lease liabilities of the Group and of the Company at the end of the reporting period based on contractual
undiscounted repayment obligations as follows:
Weighted
average
incremental
borrowing rate
per annum
%
On demand
or within
one (1)
year
RM’000
One (1) to
five (5) years
RM’000
Over
five (5)
years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Group
30 June 2023
Lease liabilities 2.28% - 4.10% 3,080 9,396 1,100 13,576
30 June 2022
Lease liabilities 2.28% - 4.84% 1,682 3,954 1,100 6,736
Company
30 June 2023
Lease liabilities 2.28% 398 – – 398
30 June 2022
Lease liabilities 2.28% 602 469 – 1,071
(h) Management exercises judgement in determining the incremental borrowing rates whenever the implicit rates of interest in a
lease are not readily determinable as well as the lease terms. The incremental borrowing rates used are based on prevailing
market borrowing rates over similar lease terms, of similar value as the right-of-use asset in a similar economic environment.
Lease terms are based on management expectations driven by prevailing market conditions and past experience in exercising
similar renewal and termination options.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
71
7. Intangible Assets
Group
2023
Balance as at
1 July 2022/ 30 June 2023
RM’000
Carrying amount
Goodwill 11,242
Trademark 6,019
17
,261
As at 30 June 2023
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
impairment loss
RM’000
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Goodwill 11,242 – 11,242
Trademark 6,019 – 6,019
17
,261 – 17
,261
Group
2022
Balance as at
1 July 2021/ 30 June 2022
RM’000
Carrying amount
Goodwill 11,242
Trademark 6,019
17
,261
As at 30 June 2022
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
impairment loss
RM’000
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Goodwill 11,242 – 11,242
Trademark 6,019 – 6,019
17
,261 – 17
,261
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill is initially measured at cost. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment
losses, if any. Goodwill is not amortised but instead tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could be impaired.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill associated with the acquisition of Continental Resources Sdn. Bhd. (the “cash
generating unit” or “CGU”) under edible oil segment has been determined based on value-in-use calculations using a cash
flow forecast and projections from financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period and a terminal
value. Estimating the value-in-use amount requires management to make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from
the CGU and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
72
7. Intangible Assets (continued)
(a) Goodwill (continued)
The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow forecast and projections, the forecasted growth rates used to extrapolate
cash flows for the five-year period, and the calculations of the value-in-use for the CGU are most sensitive to the
following assumptions:
2023 Key assumptions
Revenue growth rate for FY2024 - FY2028
Gross profit margin for FY2024 - FY2028
Pre-tax discount rate
Terminal value
3%
7%
9.88%
Zero growth rate
2022 Key assumptions
Revenue growth rate for FY2023 - FY2027
Gross profit margin for FY2023 - FY2027
Pre-tax discount rate
Terminal value
3% - 4%
4%
8.90%
Zero growth rate
Management is not aware of any reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions that would cause the carrying
amount of the CGU to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
(b) Other intangible assets with indefinite useful life
Other intangible assets represent trademark and are recognised only when the identifiability, control and future economic
benefits probability are met. Other intangible assets are initially measured at cost. After initial recognition, other intangible
assets are measured at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any. The useful life of the trademark is estimated to
be indefinite.
The recoverable amount of the trademark under edible oil segment has been determined based on value in use calculations
using a cash flow forecast and projections from financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year
period. The pre-tax discount rate applied to the cash flow forecast and projections, the forecasted growth rate used to
extrapolate cash flows for the five-year period, and the calculations of value in use for the CGUs are most sensitive to the
following assumptions:
2023 Key assumptions
Revenue growth rate for FY2024
Revenue growth rate for FY2025 - FY2028
Gross profit margin for FY2024 - FY2028
Pre-tax discount rate
-59%
2%
3%
9.88%
2022 Key assumptions
Revenue growth rate for FY2023 - FY2029
Gross profit margin for FY2023 - FY2029
Pre-tax discount rate
0% - 2%
3%
8.90%
Management is not aware of any reasonably possible changes in the key assumptions that would cause the carrying
amount of trademark to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
73
8. Investments In Subsidiaries
Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Unquoted shares, at cost 155,230 155,230
Less: Accumulated impairment losses (100,730) (100,730)
54,500 54,500
(a) Investments in subsidiaries, which are eliminated on consolidation, are stated in the separate financial statements of the
Company at cost less impairment losses, if any.
All components of non-controlling interests shall be measured at their acquisition-date fair values, unless another measurement
basis is required by MFRSs. The choice of measurement basis is made on a combination-by-combination basis. Subsequent
to initial recognition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus
the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity.
(b) Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of company
Country of
incorporation/
Principal place
of business
Effective interest in equity
Principal activities
2023
%
2022
%
Continental Resources Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Selling, manufacturing and
packing of edible oils
Doe Industries Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture and selling of
water taps, showers and
other plumbing fittings
C.I. Building Industries Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
C.I. Engineering Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
C.I. Edible Oils Sdn Bhd Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
C.I. Construction Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
C.I. Marketing Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
C.I. Halla Environmental Technology
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
Subsidiary of Continental Resources Sdn. Bhd.
Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 60 60 Selling and packing of
edible oils
Subsidiaries of Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn. Bhd.
PNC Oil Factory (Malaysia)
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 60 60 Selling and packing of
edible oils
Continental Palms Pte. Ltd.* Singapore 60 60 Selling and marketing
of edible oils
Tradekey PT Foods Nigeria Limited* Nigeria 60 60 Inactive
Cebon Pte Ltd* Singapore 60 60 General wholesale trade,
including general importers
and exporters, and trading
on various commodities
Palmtop FZE* Dubai 60 60 Inactive
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
74
8. Investments In Subsidiaries (continued)
(b) Details of the subsidiaries are as follows (continued):
Name of company
Country of
incorporation/
Principal place
of business
Effective interest in equity
Principal activities
2023
%
2022
%
Subsidiaries of Doe Industries Sdn. Bhd.
Doe Marketing Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Dealership and distribution
of household fittings and
appliances
Potex Industries Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Manufacturing and trading of
ceramic sanitary wares and
related products
Elegant Flow Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Trading of sanitary wares and
related products
Subsidiary of C.I. Building Industries Sdn. Bhd.
C.I. Quarries Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
Subsidiaries of C.I. Quarries Sdn. Bhd.
Capital Aim Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
Subsidiary of Capital Aim Sdn. Bhd.
C.I. Quarries (Nilai) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
		 * Subsidiary not audited by BDO PLT or member firms of BDO International.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
75
8. Investments In Subsidiaries (continued)
(c) Subsidiaries of the Group that have material non-controlling interests (“NCI”) are as follows:
2022
Palmtop Vegeoil Products
Sdn. Bhd. and
its subsidiaries
RM’000
2023
NCI percentage of ownership interest and voting interest (%) 40%
Carrying amount of NCI 109,661
Profit allocated to NCI 66,067
Total comprehensive income allocated to NCI 66,415
2022
Palmtop Vegeoil Products
Sdn. Bhd. and
its subsidiaries
RM’000
2022
NCI percentage of ownership interest and voting interest (%) 40%
Carrying amount of NCI 85,596
Profit allocated to NCI 52,873
Total comprehensive income allocated to NCI 53,140
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
76
8. Investments In Subsidiaries (continued)
(d) Summarised financial information before intra-group elimination of a subsidiary that has material NCI as at the end of each
reporting period are as follows:
Palmtop Vegeoil
Products Sdn. Bhd. and
its subsidiaries
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Assets and liabilities
Non-current assets 66,365 28,754
Current assets 808,975 794,038
Non-current liabilities (1,603) (1,080)
Current liabilities (598,494) (606,630)
Net assets 275,243 215,082
Results
Revenue 5,168,305 3,823,471
Profit for the financial year 165,167 132,181
Total comprehensive income 166,035 132,850
Cash flows from operating activities 86,309 15,643
Cash flows used in investing activities (39,461) (2,054)
Cash flows from/(used in) financial activities (81,621) 12,871
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (34,773) 26,460
Dividends paid to NCI (42,350) (41,690)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
77
9. Other Investment
Group and Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Non-current
Club membership 10 10
(a) The club membership were classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss pursuant to MFRS 9
Financial Instruments.
(b) The fair value of club membership is determined by reference to comparable market value of similar investments. The fair
value of club membership of the Group and of the Company is categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. There
is no transfer between levels in the hierarchy during the financial year.
(c) The club membership is held by the Company under a subsidiary Director’s name.
10. Trade And Other Receivables
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Current
Trade receivables
Trade receivables 742,695 644,890 – –
Less: Impairment losses (36,467) (35,964) – –
706,228 608,926 – –
Other receivables
Other receivables and deposits 16,046 5,961 238 222
Amounts due from subsidiaries – – 3,959 4,198
16,046 5,961 4,197 4,420
Less: Impairment losses – (222) (3,959) (3,920)
16,046 5,739 238 500
722,274 614,665 238 500
Prepayments 11,470 52,953 27 35
733,744 667
,618 265 535
(a) Trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments, are classified as financial assets measured at amortised cost.
(b) The normal trade credit terms granted by the Group in respect of trade receivables ranged from 14 to 90 days (2022: 14
to 90 days) from the date of invoice. They are recognised at their original invoice amounts which represent their fair values
on initial recognition.
(c) Amounts due from subsidiaries represent advances and payments made on behalf, which are unsecured, interest-free and
payable in cash and cash equivalents.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
78
10. Trade And Other Receivables (continued)
(d) Impairment for trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are recognised based on the
simplified approach using the lifetime expected credit losses.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the expected
life of the asset. The maximum period considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period
over which the Group is exposed to credit risk.
The Group uses a provision matrix to measure the expected credit loss of trade receivables based on grouping of customers
sharing the same credit risk characteristics and past due days. Expected loss rates are calculated using the roll rate method
and probability of default method separately for exposure in different segments based on type of products.
The Group has established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted to reflect
current and forward looking information on macroeconomic factors, which the Group has identified the inflation rate
and gross domestic product (“GDP”) of the countries which the Group sells its goods as the most relevant factors for the
edible oil segment and tap-ware and sanitary ware segment respectively, affecting the ability of the consumers to settle
the receivables.
During this process, the probability of non-payment by the trade receivables is adjusted by forward looking information
and multiplied by the amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine the lifetime expected credit loss for the
trade receivables. For trade receivables, which are reported net, such impairments are recorded in a separate impairment
account with the loss being recognised in the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income. On confirmation
that the trade receivable would not be collectible, the gross carrying value of the asset would be written off against the
associated impairment.
The Group considers a financial asset to be in default when internal or external information indicates that the Group is
unlikely to receive the outstanding contractual amounts in full before taking into account any credit enhancement held by
the Group.
Individual assessment of impairment of trade receivable are separately assessed when it is probable that cash due will not
be received in full.
It requires management to exercise significant judgement in determining the probability of default by trade receivables and
appropriate forward looking information.
(e) The loss allowance for trade receivables of the Group is determined as follows:
Group
Current
RM’000
1 - 90 days
past due
RM’000
More than
90 days
past due
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2023
Expected loss rate 1.24% 8.48% 47
.63%
Gross carrying amount of trade receivables 529,460 183,001 30,234 742,695
Loss allowance (6,548) (15,519) (14,400) (36,467)
522,912 167
,482 15,834 706,228
2022
Expected loss rate 3.60% 7
.65% 78.47%
Gross carrying amount of trade receivables 484,066 152,059 8,765 644,890
Loss allowance (17
,450) (11,636) (6,878) (35,964)
466,616 140,423 1,887 608,926
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
79
10. Trade And Other Receivables (continued)
(f) The movements of the impairment loss for trade and other receivables at the end of each reporting period are as follows:
Group
Lifetime ECL
allowance
RM’000
Credit impaired
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Trade receivables
As at 1 July 2022 28,909 7
,055 35,964
Charge for the financial year 445 10,045 10,490
Reversal of impairment loss (7
,027) (2,977) (10,004)
Exchange difference 17 – 17
As at 30 June 2023 22,344 14,123 36,467
As at 1 July 2021 1,264 485 1,749
Charge for the financial year 27
,828 6,939 34,767
Reversal of impairment loss (183) (100) (283)
Written off – (269) (269)
As at 30 June 2022 28,909 7
,055 35,964
Group
12-month ECL
RM’000
Lifetime ECL -
Credit impaired
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Other receivables and deposits
As at 1 July 2022 – 222 222
Reversal of impairment loss – (222) (222)
As at 30 June 2023 – – –
As at 1 July 2021 – * –
Charge for the financial year – 222 222
As at 30 June 2022 – 222 222
Company
12-month ECL
RM’000
Lifetime ECL -
Credit impaired
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Other receivables and deposits
As at 1 July 2022 * – *
Charge for the financial year * – *
As at 30 June 2023 * – *
As at 1 July 2021 * – *
Charge for the financial year * – *
As at 30 June 2022 * – *
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
80
10. Trade And Other Receivables (continued)
(f) The movements of the impairment loss for trade and other receivables at the end of each reporting period are as follows
(continued):
Company
12-month ECL
RM’000
Lifetime ECL -
Credit impaired
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Amounts due from subsidiaries
As at 1 July 2022 – 3,920 3,920
Charge for the financial year – 39 39
As at 30 June 2023 – 3,959 3,959
As at 1 July 2021 * 4,071 4,071
Charge for the financial year * (38) (38)
Written off – (113) (113)
As at 30 June 2022 * 3,920 3,920
* The effects of expected credit loss is insignificant.
Credit impaired refers to receivables who have defaulted on payments and are in significant financial difficulties as at the
end of the reporting period.
(g) Impairment for other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries are recognised based on the general approach
within MFRS 9 using the forward looking expected credit loss model. The methodology used to determine the amount
of the impairment is based on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of the
financial asset. For those in which the credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition of the financial
asset, twelve-month expected credit losses along with gross interest income are recognised. For those in which credit risk
has increased significantly, lifetime expected credit losses along with the gross interest income are recognised. As at the
end of the reporting period, the Group and the Company assess whether there has been a significant increase in credit
risk for financial assets by comparing the risk for default occurring over the expected life with the risk of default since initial
recognition. For those that are determined to be credit impaired, lifetime expected credit losses along with interest income
on a net basis are recognised.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible default events over the expected
life of the asset, while twelve-month expected credit losses are the portion of expected credit losses that result from
default events that are possible within the twelve months after the end of the reporting period. The maximum period
considered when estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period over which the Company is
exposed to credit risk.
The Group defined significant increase in credit risk based on operating performance of the receivables, changes to
contractual terms, payment delays and past due information.
The Group considers a receivable as credit impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the
estimated cash flow have occurred, which includes debtors who are in significant financial difficulties or have defaulted
on payments.
The probabilities of non-payment by other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries are adjusted by forward looking
information on macroeconomic factors, which the Group has identified the inflation rate of the countries which the Group
sells its goods as the most relevant factor for edible oil segment, whereas GDP of the countries which the Group sells its
goods as the most relevant factor for tap-ware and sanitary ware segment and investment holding segment, and multiplied
by the amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine the twelve (12) months or lifetime expected credit loss
for other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries.
It requires management to exercise judgement in determining the probabilities of default by other receivables and amounts
due from subsidiaries, appropriate forward looking information and significant increase in credit risk.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
81
10. Trade And Other Receivables (continued)
(h) Included in prepayments of the Group are advance payments to suppliers amounting to RM5,612,000 (2022:
RM48,138,000).
(i) At the end of each reporting period, the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk except for trade receivable
from one (1) customer constituting 16% (2022: 6%) of total receivables of the Group. The Group does not anticipate the
carrying amounts recorded at the end of each reporting period to be significantly different from the values that would
eventually be received.
(j) The currency exposure profile of receivables excluding prepayments of the Group and of the Company is as follows:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Euro (“EUR”) 268,325 116,667 – –
United States Dollar (“USD”) 407,064 473,321 – –
Arab Emirates Dirham (“AED”) 10,473 26 – –
Singapore Dollar (“SGD”) 7,668 51 – –
Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”) – 20 – –
RM 28,744 24,570 238 500
722,274 614,665 238 500
(k) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period of the Group and of the Company,
assuming that all other variables remain constant, are as follows:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Effects of 10% (2022: 3%) changes to
RM against foreign currencies
Profit after tax and equity
– USD/RM – strengthen 30,937 10,792 – –
– USD/RM – weaken (30,937) (10,792) – –
– EUR/RM – strengthen 20,393 2,660 – –
– EUR/RM – weaken (20,393) (2,660) – –
The exposure of the Group and of the Company to the other currencies are not significant, hence the effects of the changes
in the exchange rates are not presented.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
82
11. Inventories
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
At cost
Raw materials 25,969 36,567
Work-in-progress 342 104
Finished goods 44,041 72,962
70,352 109,633
At net realisable value
Raw materials 1,326 2
71,678 109,635
(a) Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and cost is determined using the weighted average formula.
(b) Inventories of the Group recognised as cost of sales amounted to RM4,586,500,000 (2022: RM3,322,000,000).
(c) The amounts of inventories written down recognised in the statements of profit or loss are as follows:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Recognised in other operating expenses
Inventories written down 3,502 –
Recognised in other operating income
Inventories written back (551) –
2,951 –
The Group reversed RM551,000 (2022: Nil) in respect of inventories written down in the previous financial years that
were subsequently not required as the Group was able to sell those inventories above their carrying amounts.
12. Derivative Financial Instruments
Group
2023 2022
Contract/
Notional
amount
Net long/
(short)
RM’000
Assets
RM’000
Liabilities
RM’000
Contract/
Notional
amount
Net long/
(short)
RM’000
Assets
RM’000
Liabilities
RM’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts 1,405,868 – (25,606) 1,255,247 – (12,712)
Commodity forward contracts 7,744 5,295 (5,394) (49,943) 19,368 (22,828)
Commodity futures contracts – – – 9,112 – (1,134)
5,295 (31,000) 19,368 (36,674)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
83
12. Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)
(a) Derivative financial instruments are classified as financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit
or loss.
The fair value of a forward foreign exchange contract is the amount that would be payable or receivable upon termination
of the outstanding position arising and is determined by reference to the difference between the contracted rate and the
forward exchange rate as at the end of each reporting period applied to a contract of similar amount and maturity profile.
The fair values of the above instruments have been estimated using the published market prices or quotes from reputable
financial institutions or valuation techniques supported by observable market data.
Derivative financial instruments are categorised at Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. There is no transfer between levels in
the hierarchy during the financial year.
(b) The forward foreign exchange contracts were entered into with the objective of managing the exposure of the Group to
currency risk for receivables, which are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Group.
(c) The commodity forward contracts and commodity future contracts were entered into with the objective of managing the
exposure of the edible oil segment of the Group to adverse price movements in vegetable oil commodity.
(d) The above derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and are
subsequently re-measured at fair value through profit and loss. The resulting loss from the re-measurement of RM8,399,000
(2022: loss of RM21,302,000) is recognised in profit or loss.
(e) The unexpired foreign currency forward contracts, which have been entered into by the Group for its trade receivables and
trade payables as at end of each reporting period are as follows:
Group
Contractual
amount
in Foreign
Currency
(“FC’000”)
Equivalent
amount
in Ringgit
Malaysia
(“RM’000”)
Average
contractual
rate
RM/FC
Expiry dates
2023
USD 184,075 811,179 4.41 3.7.2023 to 30.10.2023
EUR 116,400 594,689 5.11 3.7.2023 to 27.12.2023
2022
USD 226,120 977,001 4.32 1.7.2022 to 23.11.2022
EUR 58,500 278,246 4.76 20.7.2022 to 29.12.2022
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
84
12. Derivative Financial Instruments (continued)
(f) The financial instruments of the Group, which are subject to price risk along with their contract values and mark-to-market
fair value on closing, plus fair value recognised over the financial year are as follows:
Group
Contract and notional value
Fair value attributed to price
changes at period closing
<1 year
RM’000
<1 year
RM’000
2023
Commodity based
Forward sales contracts 246,744 (5,394)
Forward purchase contracts (239,000) 5,295
(99)
2022
Commodity based
Forward sales contracts 130,262 19,368
Forward purchase contracts (180,205) (22,828)
(3,460)
The exposure of the Group to price volatility was solely derived from palm products. If the price of palm products changes
by 5% (2022: 3%), profit after tax and equity for the Group would have equally increased or decreased by approximately
RM294,000 (2022: RM1,139,000).
13. Cash And Bank Balances
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Cash and bank balances 230,737 202,138 133,422 69,053
Deposits with licensed banks 19,780 39,730 18,500 38,400
250,517 241,868 151,922 107,453
(a) Cash and bank balances are classified as financial assets measured at amortised cost.
(b) Deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company are subject to interest at rates ranging from 0.7% to 2.9%
per annum and 2.5% to 2.9% per annum (2022: 0.07% to 1.99% per annum and 1.5% to 1.95% per annum) respectively.
(c) Deposits with the licensed banks of the Group and of the Company as at the end of the reporting period have maturity
periods ranging from 8 days to 150 days and 30 days to 150 days (2022: 8 days to 154 days and 16 days to 149
days) respectively.
(d) Deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company are fixed rate instruments. Sensitivity analysis at the end
of the reporting period is not presented as fixed rate instrument is not affected by change in interest rates.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
85
13. Cash And Bank Balances (continued)
(e) The currency exposure profile of cash and bank balances is as follows:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
RM 207,653 161,652 151,922 107,453
USD 28,441 51,772 – –
SGD 2,379 3,086 – –
EUR 11,692 21,027 – –
Others 352 4,331 – –
250,517 241,868 151,922 107,453
(f) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of each reporting period, assuming that all other variables
remain constant, are as follows:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Effects of 10% (2022: 3%) changes to RM against foreign currencies
Profit after tax and equity
– EUR/RM – strengthen 889 479
– EUR/RM – weaken (889) (479)
– USD/RM – strengthen 2,162 1,180
– USD/RM – weaken (2,162) (1,180)
The exposure of the Group to the other currencies are not significant, hence the effects of the changes in the exchange
rates are not presented.
(g) For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following as at the end of
each reporting period:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Cash and bank balances 230,737 202,138 133,422 69,053
Deposits with licensed banks 19,780 39,730 18,500 38,400
As reported in statements of
financial position 250,517 241,868 151,922 107,453
Less: Deposits with maturity more than
three (3) months (14,500) (15,000) (14,500) (15,000)
As reported in statements of cash flows 236,017 226,868 137,422 92,453
(h) Included in the bank balances of the Group are cash placed in Islamic accounts, which amounted to RM41,997,000
(2022: RM50,014,000).
(i) No expected credit losses were recognised arising from the deposits with licensed banks because the probability of
default by these licensed banks were negligible.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
86
14. Share Capital
Group and Company
2023 2022
Number
of shares
’000 RM’000
Number
of shares
’000 RM’000
Issued and fully paid with no pair value
As at 1 July/30 June 162,000 95,147 162,000 95,147
The owners of the parent are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company and are entitled to one
(1) vote per ordinary share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares rank pari passu with regard to the residual
assets of the Company.
15. Reserves
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Exchange translation reserve 993 473 – –
Retained earnings 314,180 233,173 111,279 66,752
315,173 233,646 111,279 66,752
Exchange translation reserve
The exchange translation reserve is used to record foreign currency exchange differences arising from the translation of the
financial statements of foreign operations whose functional currencies are different from that of the presentation currency
of the Group. It is also used to record the exchange differences arising from monetary items which form part of the net
investment of the Group in foreign operations, where the monetary item is denominated in either the functional currency
of the reporting entity or the foreign operation.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
87
16. Borrowings
Note
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Non-current liabilities
Secured:
Term loans – 923
Islamic financing facilities 719 1,019
719 1,942
Current liabilities
Secured:
Term loans 1,004 2,021
Bankers’ acceptances 75,347 91,898
Islamic financing facilities 343,903 308,038
420,254 401,957
Total borrowings
Term loans 17 1,004 2,944
Bankers’ acceptances 75,347 91,898
Islamic financing facilities 18 344,622 309,057
420,973 403,899
(a) Borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(b) The carrying amounts of borrowings are reasonable approximation of their fair values, either due to their short-term nature
or that they are floating rate instruments, which are re-priced to market interest rates on or near the end of the reporting
period. Fair value of the borrowings of the Group are categorised as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. There is no transfer
between levels in the hierarchy during the financial year.
(c) Bankers’ acceptances are secured by first legal charges over land and buildings of certain subsidiaries as disclosed in
Note 5 and Note 6 to the financial statements respectively. In addition, bankers’ acceptances are guaranteed by corporate
guarantee and indemnity by the Company and a negative pledge on the assets of certain subsidiaries.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
88
16. Borrowings (continued)
(d) The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average effective interest rates as at the end of each
reporting period and the remaining maturities of the borrowings of the Group and of the Company that are exposed to
interest rate risk:
Group
Weighted
average
effective
interest rate
per annum
%
On
demand
or within
one (1)
year
RM’000
One (1)
to five (5)
years
RM’000
Over
five (5)
years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
30 June 2023
Floating rates
Term loans 5.33% 1,004 – – 1,004
Bankers’ acceptances 2.11% - 5.10% 75,347 – – 75,347
Islamic financing facilities 3.64% - 4.50% 343,903 719 – 344,622
420,254 719 – 420,973
30 June 2022
Floating rates
Term loans 5.33% - 6.16% 2,021 923 – 2,944
Bankers’ acceptances 1.19% - 3.70% 91,898 – – 91,898
Islamic financing facilities 1.89% - 4.50% 308,038 826 193 309,057
401,957 1,749 193 403,899
(e) The maturity profile of borrowings of the Group and of the Company at the end of each reporting period based on
contractual undiscounted repayment obligations is summarised in the table below:
Group
On
demand
or within
one (1)
year
RM’000
One (1)
to five (5)
years
RM’000
Over
five (5)
years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2023
Financial liabilities
Term loans 1,017 – – 1,017
Bankers’ acceptances 75,347 – – 75,347
Islamic financing facilities 344,182 798 – 344,980
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 420,546 798 – 421,344
2022
Financial liabilities
Term loans 2,112 926 – 3,038
Bankers’ acceptances 91,898 – – 91,898
Islamic financing facilities 308,114 1,084 204 309,402
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 402,124 2,010 204 404,338
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
89
16. Borrowings (continued)
(f) Sensitivity analysis of interest rate at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other variables remain constant, are
as follows:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Profit after tax and equity
– Increased by 1.0% (2022: 1.0%) (3,199) (3,070)
– Decreased by 1.0% (2022: 1.0%) 3,199 3,070
(g) The currency exposure profile of borrowings of the Group is as follows:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
USD 16,082 208,174
RM 404,891 194,109
EURO – 1,616
420,973 403,899
Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currency, USD as at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other
variables remain constant, are as follows:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Effects of 10% (2022: 3%) changes to RM against foreign currencies
Profit after tax and equity
– USD/RM - strengthen (1,222) (4,746)
– USD/RM - weaken 1,222 4,746
The exposure of the Group to the other currency was not significant, hence the effect of the changes in the exchange rate
was not presented.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
90
16. Borrowings (continued)
(h) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
The table below details changes in the Group’s and in the Company’s liabilities arising from financing activities, including
both cash and non-cash changes. Liabilities arising from financing activities are those for which cash flows were, or
future cash flows will be, classified in the statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company as cash flows from
financing activities.
Group
Term
loans
RM’000
Bankers’
acceptances
RM’000
Islamic
financing
facilities
RM’000
Lease
liabilities
(Note 6)
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2023
As at 1 July 2022 2,944 91,898 309,057 6,147 410,046
Additions – – – 9,091 9,091
Cash flows (1,940) (16,551) 37,475 (2,817) 16,167
Non-cash flows:
– Accretion of interest – – – 180 180
– Termination of lease contracts – – – (269) (269)
– Unrealised loss on foreign exchange – – (1,910) – (1,910)
– Foreign exchange movement – – – 81 81
As at 30 June 2023 1,004 75,347 344,622 12,413 433,386
2022
As at 1 July 2021 8,874 95,106 196,196 7,649 307,825
Additions – – – 530 530
Cash flows (5,930) (3,774) 112,440 (2,091) 100,645
Non-cash flows:
– Accretion of interest – – – 133 133
– Termination of lease contracts – – – (100) (100)
– Foreign exchange movement – 566 421 26 1,013
As at 30 June 2022 2,944 91,898 309,057 6,147 410,046
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
91
16. Borrowings (continued)
(h) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities (continued)
Lease liabilities
(Note 6)
RM’000
Company
2023
As at 1 July 2022 1,048
Cash flows (671)
Non-cash flows:
– Accretion of interest 18
As at 30 June 2023 395
2022
As at 1 July 2021 1,615
Cash flows (600)
Non-cash flows:
– Accretion of interest 33
As at 30 June 2022 1,048
17. Term Loans
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Secured
Term loans
– non-current – 923
– current 1,004 2,021
1,004 2,944
(a) Term loans of the Group are secured by legal charges over the freehold land, building and plant and machinery of a
subsidiary as disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements. In addition, the term loans of the Group are guaranteed by
the Company and a negative pledge on the assets of a subsidiary.
(b) Tangible Net Worth of a subsidiary shall be maintained at least RM45,000,000 for certain secured term loans of
the subsidiary.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
92
18. Islamic Financing Facilities
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Secured
Islamic trade facilities
– non-current 719 1,019
– current 343,903 308,038
344,622 309,057
Islamic trade facilities of the Group are secured by first legal charge over the land and building of subsidiaries as disclosed in
Note 5 and Note 6 to the financial statements respectively and guaranteed by way of a corporate guarantee by the Company
and a negative pledge on the assets of certain subsidiaries.
19. Deferred Tax Liabilities
(a) The deferred tax liabilities are made up of the following:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
As at 1 July 2022/2021 781 1,020
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 26) 996 (239)
As at 30 June 2023/2022 1,777 781
(b) The components and movements of deferred tax liabilities during the financial year prior to offsetting are as follows:
Deferred tax liabilities of the Group
Property, plant
and equipment
and right-of-use
assets
RM’000
Others
RM’000
Total
RM’000
As at 1 July 2021 1,173 (153) 1,020
Recognised in profit or loss (132) (107) (239)
As at 30 June 2022/1 July 2022 1,041 (260) 781
Recognised in profit or loss (109) 1,105 996
As at 30 June 2023 932 845 1,777
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
93
19. Deferred Tax Liabilities (continued)
(c) Amounts of temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the statements of financial
position are as follows:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Unabsorbed capital allowances 4,413 4,313 376 369
Unused tax losses
– Expires by 30 June 2028 5,056 5,056 736 736
– Expires by 30 June 2029 314 314 – –
– Expires by 30 June 2030 2,022 2,022 – –
– Expires by 30 June 2031 332 332 – –
– Expires by 30 June 2032 1,681 1,681 – –
– Expires by 30 June 2033 402 – – –
Other temporary differences 14,752 44,951 – –
28,972 58,669 1,112 1,105
Deferred tax assets of the Company have not been recognised in respect of these items as these items were derived from
different business sources and it is not probable that taxable profits of the Company from the same business source would
be available against which the deductible temporary differences could be utilised.
Deferred tax assets of certain subsidiaries have not been recognised in respect of these items as it is not probable that
taxable profits of the subsidiaries would be available against which the deductible temporary differences could be utilised.
The amount and availability of these items to be carried forward up to the periods as disclosed above are subject to the
agreement of the respective local tax authorities.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
94
20. Retirement Benefit Obligations
The Group operates an unfunded defined benefit plan for non-executive staff who are entitled to a payment calculated
by reference to their length of service and earnings. Provision for retirement benefit obligations is calculated based on the
predetermined rate of basic salaries and length of service of the employees.
The amounts recognised in the statements of financial position are determined as follows:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Present value of unfunded retirement benefit obligations 194 223
Analysed as follows:
Non-current liabilities
– later than five (5) years 194 223
The total expenses recognised in profit or loss are as follows:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Current service cost 41 –
Past service cost – 355
Interest cost 52 –
Expenses recognised in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive
income included under administrative expenses 93 355
The movements during the financial year in the amounts recognised in the statements of financial position in respect of the
retirement benefit obligations are as follows:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
As at 1 July 2022/2021 223 578
Recognised in profit or loss 93 (355)
Contributions paid (122) –
As at 30 June 2023/2022 194 223
The principal actuarial assumptions used are as follows:
Group
2023
%
2022
%
Discount rates 4.2 4.2
Expected rates of salary increases 5.0 5.0
Price inflation 2.5 2.5
The actuarial valuation dated 31 March 2022 was conducted by a professional actuary, which covered a three years
estimation from 30 June 2022 to 30 June 2024.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
95
21. Trade And Other Payables
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Trade payables 121,658 138,729 – –
Other payables 64,599 97,307 8 7
Accrued liabilities 43,331 49,962 1,073 1,049
107,930 147,269 1,081 1,056
229,588 285,998 1,081 1,056
(a) Trade and other payables of the Group and of the Company are classified as financial liabilities measured at
amortised cost.
(b) Trade payables are non-interest bearing and the normal credit terms granted to the Group in respect of trade payables
ranged from 4 to 120 days (2022: 4 to 120 days) from the date of invoice.
(c) Included in other payables of the Group are advance payments from customers amounting to RM45,258,000 (2022:
RM87,294,000).
(d) Maturity profile of trade and other payables of the Group and of the Company at the end of the reporting period based
on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations is repayable on demand or within one (1) year.
(e) The currency exposure profile of trade and other payables of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
EUR 3,923 11,127 – –
USD 142,650 125,244 – –
SGD 3,199 6,899 – –
RM 79,035 141,991 1,081 1,056
RMB 1 244 – –
AED 780 493 – –
229,588 285,998 1,081 1,056
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
96
21. Trade And Other Payables (continued)
(f) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period of the Group, assuming that all other
variables remain constant, are as follows:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Effects of 10% (2022: 3%) changes to RM against foreign currency
Profit after tax and equity
– USD/RM – strengthen (10,841) (2,856)
– USD/RM – weaken 10,841 2,856
– EUR/RM – strengthen (298) (254)
– EUR/RM – weaken 298 254
The exposure to the other currencies are not significant, hence the effects of the changes in the exchange rates are
not presented.
22. Commitments
Capital commitments
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Capital expenditure in respect of purchase of property, plant and equipment:
– Approved and contracted for 9,257 –
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
97
23. Revenue
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Revenue from contracts with customers
– Sale of goods 5,347,165 4,046,102 – –
– Management fees from subsidiaries – – 3,600 3,600
5,347,165 4,046,102 3,600 3,600
Revenue from other sources
– Dividend income from a subsidiary – – 63,525 48,510
5,347,165 4,046,102 67,125 52,110
Timing of revenue recognition
Transferred at a point in time 5,347,165 4,046,102 – –
Transferred over time – – 3,600 3,600
Revenue from contracts with customers 5,347,165 4,046,102 3,600 3,600
Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated by primary geographical market, major products and service lines and
timing of revenue recognition as disclosed in Note 4 to the financial statements.
(a) Sale of goods
Revenue from sale of goods are recognised at a point in time when the goods have been transferred to the customer and
coincides with the delivery of goods and acceptance by customers.
There is no material right of return and warranty provided to the customers on the sale of goods.
There is no significant financing component in the revenue arising from sale of goods as the sales are made on the normal
credit terms not exceeding twelve (12) months.
(b) Management fees
		 Management fees is recognised over the period in which the services are rendered.
(c) Dividend income
		 Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
24. Cost Of Sales
Cost of sales of the Group represents cost of inventories sold and other related expenses.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
98
25. Profit Before Tax
Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, profit before tax is arrived at:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
After charging:
Auditors’ remuneration to BDO PLT:
– statutory audit 325 312 75 71
– non-statutory audit 13 13 13 13
Other auditors’ remuneration:
– statutory audit 84 71 – –
Bad debts written off 950 103 – –
Interest expense on:
– bank overdraft 9 10 9 10
– term loans 307 271 – –
– bankers’ acceptances 3,025 2,659 – –
– islamic financing facilities 13,556 2,056 – –
– lease liabilities 180 133 18 33
– others 2 3 2 2
Loss on disposal of:
– property, plant and equipment – 108 – –
– right-of-use asset – – 91 –
Net loss on foreign exchange:
– unrealised – 1,527 – –
– realised – 1,489 – –
Inventories written down 3,502 – – –
Fair value loss on derivative financial instruments:
– unrealised 8,399 21,302 – –
– realised 79,475 11,365 – –
And crediting:
Interest income received from:
– deposits with licensed banks 1,354 535 562 497
– short term investments 3,317 1,138 3,317 1,092
– subsidiaries – – – 64
Gain on disposal of:
– property, plant and equipment 106 – – –
– right-of-use asset 516 – – –
Gain on termination of lease contracts 12 3 – –
Net gain on foreign exchange:
– realised 16,987 – – –
– unrealised 15,884 – – –
Inventories written back 551 – – –
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
99
26. Tax Expense
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Malaysian income tax:
Current tax expense 5,138 3,901 138 135
Under/(Over)-provision in prior years 42 15 (15) (13)
5,180 3,916 123 122
Foreign income tax:
Current tax expense 363 780 – –
Under/(Over)-provision in prior years 8 (52) – –
5,551 4644 123 122
Deferred tax (Note 19):
Relating to origination and reversal of
temporary differences 1,219 (450) – –
(Over)/Under-provision in prior years (223) 211 – –
996 (239) – –
6,547 4,405 123 122
(a) Malaysian income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 24% (2022: 24%) of the estimated taxable profits for the fiscal
year. Tax expense for other taxation authorities are calculated at the rates prevailing in those respective jurisdictions.
(b) A subsidiary of the Group has been granted Principal Hub status, which provides tax incentive to the subsidiary for a period
of ten (10) years. The Principal Hub status commenced in the Year of Assessment 2017 under the Income Tax Act 1967
.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
100
26. Tax Expense (continued)
(c) The numerical reconciliations between the tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the applicable tax
rate of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Profit before tax 173,061 123,765 64,090 47,345
Tax at Malaysian statutory income tax rate
of 24% (2022: 24%) 41,535 29,704 15,382 11,363
Tax effects in respect of:
– non-allowable expenses 2,739 5,525 796 677
– non-taxable income (1,600) (1,632) (16,042) (11,904)
– different tax rates in foreign jurisdiction (239) (319) – –
– deferred tax assets not recognised 632 11,230 2 –
– utilisation of deferred tax assets previously
unrecognised (7,759) (1) – (1)
– tax incentives (28,588) (40,276) – –
6,720 4,231 138 135
Under/(Over)-provision of income tax in
prior years 50 (37) (15) (13)
(Over)/Under-provision of deferred tax in
prior years (223) 211 – –
6,547 4,405 123 122
(d) Tax on each component of other comprehensive income is as follows:
Group
Before tax
RM’000
Tax effect
RM’000
After tax
RM’000
2023
Foreign currency translations 868 – 868
2022
Foreign currency translations 685 – 685
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
101
27. Earnings Per Share
(a) Basic
		
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year attributable
to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year.
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 100,447 66,487
Unit’000 Unit’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 162,000 162,000
Sen Sen
Basic earnings per ordinary share 62.00 41.04
(b) Diluted
The Group has no potential ordinary shares in issue as at reporting date and therefore, the diluted earnings per ordinary
share equals basic earnings per ordinary share.
28. Dividends
Group and Company
2023 2022
Dividend
per share
sen
Amount of
dividend
RM’000
Dividend
per share
sen
Amount of
dividend
RM’000
In respect of the financial year
ended 30 June 2022:
Final single-tier dividend, paid on
11 October 2022 12 19,440 – –
In respect of the financial year ended
30 June 2021:
Final single-tier dividend, paid on
11 November 2021 – – 12 19,440
On 23 August 2023, the Board of Directors approved payment of a single tier dividend of 15.0 sen per ordinary share
amounting to RM24,300,000. The financial statements for the current financial year do not reflect this dividend.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
102
29. Employee Benefits
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Salaries and wages 51,566 40,550 3,470 3,409
Social security contributions 315 240 16 13
Contributions to defined contribution plan 3,478 3,277 398 407
Defined benefit plan 93 (355) – –
Other employee benefits 1,113 534 543 202
56,565 44,246 4,427 4,031
Included in employee benefits of the Group and of the Company is Executive Directors’ and other key management personnel’s
remuneration as disclosed in Note 30(c) to the financial statements.
30. Related Party Disclosures
(a) Identities of related parties
Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party
or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the
Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related parties could be individuals
or other parties.
Related parties of the Group include the following:
(i) Direct and indirect subsidiaries as disclosed in the Note 8 to the financial statements;
(ii) A corporation in which a Director of the Company has substantial financial interests; and
(iii) Key management personnel are defined as those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling the activities of the Group either directly or indirectly. The key management personnel include the
Executive Directors of the Group.
(b) In addition to the transactions and balances detailed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the Company
had the following transactions with related parties during the financial year:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Subsidiaries
Management fee income – – 3,600 3,600
Interest income – – – 64
Dividend income – – 63,525 48,510
Management fee expense – – 120 –
Related party
Management fee expense 480 480 480 480
The related party transactions described above were carried out on agreed contractual terms and conditions and in the
ordinary course of business between the related parties of the Group and of the Company.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
103
30. Related Party Disclosures (continued)
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel are those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling
the activities of the entity, directly and indirectly, including Directors (whether Executive or otherwise) of the Group and of
the Company.
The remuneration of key management personnel during the financial year was as follows:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Directors of the Company
Executive Directors:
– Salaries, bonus and allowances 14,446 10,838 782 1,070
– Defined contribution plan 621 599 73 122
– Other employee benefits 292 – 292 –
15,359 11,437 1,147 1,192
Non-Executive Directors:
– Fees 297 375 297 225
– Allowances 171 135 171 135
– Other emoluments – 2,280 – –
468 2,790 468 360
Total remuneration for Directors
of the Company 15,827 14,227 1,615 1,552
Directors of Subsidiaries
Executive Directors:
– Salaries, bonus and allowances 1,219 1,333 – –
– Defined contribution plan 118 116 – –
1,337 1,249 – –
Non-Executive Directors:
– Fees 60 60 – –
– Allowances – – – –
60 60 – –
Total remuneration for Directors
of subsidiaries 1,397 1,309 – –
Other key management personnel of
the subsidiaries:
– Salaries, bonus and allowances 3,013 3,112 – –
– Defined contribution plan 409 305 – –
Total other key management
personnel remuneration 3,422 3,417 – –
Total compensation of key
management personnel 20,646 18,953 1,615 1,552
The estimated monetary value of benefits-in-kind received by the Directors otherwise than in cash from the Group and from
the Company amounted to RM88,000 and RM39,000 (2022: RM85,000 and RM31,000) respectively.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
104
31. Financial Guarantee Contracts
The Company has financial guarantee contracts of RM853,964,000 (2022: RM734,478,000) in respect of financial
guarantees given to financial institutions for banking facilities granted to subsidiaries.
Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Company are those contracts that require payments to be made to reimburse the
holders for losses they incur because the specified debtors fail to make payments when due in accordance with the terms of
the debt instruments.
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as financial liabilities at the time the guarantees are issued. The liability is initially
measured at fair value and subsequently at the higher of the amount determined in accordance with the expected loss model
under MFRS 9 and the amount initially recognised less amortisation.
The fair value of financial guarantees is classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy and is determined based on the present
value of the difference in cash flows between the contractual payments required under the debt instrument and the payments
that would be required without the guarantee, or the estimated amount that would be payable to a third party for assuming
the obligations.
Financial guarantees have not been recognised since the fair value was not material on initial recognition. As at the end of the
reporting period, there was no indication that any subsidiary would default on repayment.
Maturity profile of financial guarantee contracts of the Company at the end of each reporting period based on contractual
undiscounted repayment obligations, is repayable upon any default by the subsidiaries in respect of the guaranteed
bank facilities.
The maximum credit risk exposure of the financial guarantee issued is limited to the credit amount utilised of RM853,964,000
(2022: RM722,797,000). The financial guarantees have low credit risk at the end of the year as the financial guarantee is
unlikely to be called by the financial institutions.
32. Capital And Financial Risk Management
(a) Capital management
The primary objective of the capital management of the Group is to ensure that entities of the Group would be able to
continue as a going concern whilst maximising return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity ratios.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in response to changes in economic conditions. In
order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payout to shareholders, issue new
ordinary shares and redeem debts, where necessary. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes
during the financial years ended 30 June 2022 and 30 June 2023.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
105
32. Capital And Financial Risk Management (continued)
(a) Capital management (continued)
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by equity. The Group includes within net debt,
borrowings, lease liabilities, trade and other payables, other liabilities, less cash and bank balances. Equity represents
equity attributable to the owners of the parent. The net debt-to-equity ratios as at 30 June 2022 and 30 June 2023 are
as follows:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Borrowings 420,973 403,899
Lease liabilities 12,413 6,147
Trade and other payables 229,588 285,998
Other liabilities 33,828 39,041
Total liabilities 696,802 735,085
Less: Cash and bank balances (250,517) (241,868)
Net debt 446,285 493,217
Equity 410,320 328,535
Net debt to equity ratio 1.09 1.50
Pursuant to the requirements of Practice Note No. 17/2005 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities, the Group is required to
maintain a consolidated shareholders’ equity of more than twenty-five percent (25%) of the issued and paid-up capital
(excluding treasury shares, if any) and such shareholders’ equity is not less than RM40.0 million. The Company has
complied with this requirement for the financial year ended 30 June 2023.
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies
Exposure to credit risk, liquidity and cash flow risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and price fluctuation risk arises
in the normal course of the businesses of the Group. The overall financial risk management objective of the Group is to
minimise potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group.
The overall business strategies of the Group, its tolerance of risk and its general risk management philosophy are determined
by management in accordance with prevailing economic and operating conditions. Financial risk management is carried
out through risk reviews, internal control systems and adherence to the financial risk management policies of the Group.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
106
32. Capital And Financial Risk Management (continued)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued)
The management policies of the Group for managing each of its financial risk are summarised below:
(i) Credit risk
		
		 Cash deposits and trade and other receivables could give rise to credit risk which requires the loss to be recognised
if a counterparty fails to perform as contracted. Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty would default on its
contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with
creditworthy counterparties. The exposure and the creditworthiness of the counterparties of the Group are continuously
monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties.
		
		 The primary exposure of the Group and of the Company to credit risk arises through its trade receivables and other
receivables. The carrying amount of financial assets as recorded in the financial statements, grossed up for any
impairment losses, represents the maximum exposure to credit risk of the Group.
		 The credit risk concentration profiles have been disclosed in Note 10 to the financial statements.
(ii) Liquidity and cash flow risk
		
		 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to service its cash obligations in the future. To mitigate this risk,
management measures and forecasts its cash commitments, monitors and maintains a level of cash and cash equivalents
deemed adequate to finance the operations and development activities of the Group.
		 Based on management’s assessment, it is not probable that the counterparties to financial guarantee contracts will
claim under the contract. The analysis of financial instruments by remaining contractual maturities has been disclosed
in Note 6, Note 16 and Note 21 to the financial statements respectively.
(iii) Foreign currency risk
		
		 Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument would fluctuate because
of changes in foreign exchange rates.
		 The Group is subject to foreign exchange fluctuations through the import of raw materials and packaging materials
and export of finished goods. The Group monitors the movement in foreign currency exchange rates closely to ensure
its foreign currency risk is minimised.
		 The foreign currency profile and sensitivity analysis have been disclosed in Note 10, Note 12, Note 13, Note 16 and
Note 21 to the financial statements respectively.
(iv) Interest rate risk
		
		 Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of the financial instruments of the Group and of the
Company would fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
		 The exposure of the Group to interest rates risk arises primarily from their borrowings. The Group does not use
derivative financial instruments to hedge this risk.
		 The interest rate profile and sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk have been disclosed in Note 6, Note 13 and Note
16 to the financial statements respectively.
(v) Price fluctuation risk
		
		 The edible oil segment of the Group is inversely exposed to price fluctuation risk on sales and purchases of palm oil
commodities. This segment enters into commodity forward contracts with the objective of managing and hedging their
respective exposure to price volatility in the commodity markets.
		 The objective of the Group on price risk management is to limit the exposure of the Group to fluctuations in market
prices and to achieve expected margins on revenue.
		 The Group manages its price fluctuation risk by having policies and procedures governing forward positions.
		 The commodity forward contracts and commodity future contracts profile and sensitivity analysis of price fluctuation risk
have been disclosed in Note 12 to the financial statements.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
107
33. Adoption Of New MFRSs And Amendments To MFRSs
33.1 New MFRSs adopted during the financial year
The Group and the Company adopted the following Standards and Amendments of the MFRS Framework that were
issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) during the financial year:
Title Effective Date
Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018 - 2020 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 3 Reference to the Conceptual Framework 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment - Proceeds before Intended Use 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 137 Onerous Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a Contract 1 January 2022
The adoption of the above Amendments did not have any material effect on the financial performance or position of the
Group and of the Company.
33.2 New MFRSs that have been issued, but only effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January
2023
The following are Standards of the MFRS Framework that have been issued by the MASB but have not been early
adopted by the Group and the Company:
Title Effective Date
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 17 Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 -
Comparative Information
1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 101 Disclosure of Accounting Policies 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 108 Definition of Accounting Estimates 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 112 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising
from a Single Transaction
1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 112 International Tax Reform - Pillar Two Model Rules Refer paragraph 98M
of MFRS 112
Amendments to MFRS 16 Lease liability in a sale and leaseback 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 107 and MFRS 7 Supplier Finance Arrangements 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 101 Non-current Liabilities with Covenants 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 121 The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates
- Lack of Exchangeability
1 January 2025
Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128 Sale or Contribution of Assets
between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
Deferred
The Group and the Company are in the process of assessing the impact of implementing these Standards and Amendments
since the effects would only be observable in the future financial years.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
108
Tenure Location
Approximate
land area
(sq ft)
Approximate
age of
buildings
(year) Description
Date of
acquisition
2023
Net Book
Value
RM’000
Negeri Sembilan Darul Khusus
Leasehold
99 years
expiring 2077
Land with building at
HS(D) 658 PT 1342,
Senawang Industrial Estate,
Seremban, Negeri Sembilan.
130,680
(Built-up Area)
43 Factory for
Manufacturing
Tap wares
10/06/1978 619
Freehold
(2 individual
lots)
Land at
HS (D) 14031 PT 3272,
HS (D) 14036 PT 3277,
Mukim Si Rusa,
Daerah Port Dickson,
Negeri Sembilan Darul Khusus.
43,594
48,115
– Bungalow
Land for Future
Development of
Orchard and
Building
03/01/1999 –
Melaka
Leasehold
99 years
expiring 2101
Land with building at
Lot No. 6672 – 6674
PM No. 567 – 569
Lot No. 6667 – 6669
PM No. 571 – 573
Mukim Sungei Baru Tengah,
Daerah Alor Gajah, Melaka.
93,099
(Built-up Area)
27 Factory for
Manufacturing
Sanitary wares
03/11/1995 4,555
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Freehold land Land with building at
GM 2514, Lot 2239,
Mukim Teluk Panglima Garang,
Lot 2239, Jalan Rajawali,
Batu 9, Kampung Kebun Baru,
42500 Telok Panglima Garang, Kuala
Langat, Selangor Darul Ehsan.
175,602 18 Industrial land 20/09/2005 12,911
Freehold land Land with building at
GM 4406, Lot 11202,
Mukim Teluk Panglima Garang,
Lot 11202, Jalan Rajawali,
Batu 9, Kampung Kebun Baru,
42500 Telok Panglima Garang, Kuala
Langat, Selangor Darul Ehsan.
88,016 10 Industrial land 30/12/2012 11,472
Freehold land Land with building at
GM6505, Lot 11203,
Mukim Teluk Panglima Garang,
Lot 11203, Jalan Rajawali,
Batu 9, Kampung Kebun Baru,
42500 Telok Panglima Garang,
Kuala Langat, Selangor Darul Ehsan.
89,984 5 Industrial land 15/03/2019 4,281
Leasehold Building at
PM 1529, Lot 14595 Seksyen 2,
Mukim Bandar Ulu Kelang,
Daerah Gombak. 			
No.2, Lorong AU 4/19B,
Taman Sri Keramat Tengah,
54200 Kuala Lumpur,
Wilayah Persekutuan Kuala Lumpur.
– – Property
building
for business
own use
21/03/2023 1,724
LIST OF PROPERTIES
PROPERTIES HELD BY THE GROUP AS AT 30 JUNE 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
109
Tenure Location
Approximate
land area
(sq ft)
Approximate
age of
buildings
(year) Description
Date of
acquisition
2023
Net Book
Value
RM’000
Johor Darul Takzim
Leasehold
60 years
expiring 2055
Land with building at
PTD 115556, HSD 221665,
Mukim of Plentong,
District of Johor Bahru,
Johor Darul Takzim
PLO 470, Jalan Keluli 1,
81700 Pasir Gudang,
Johor Darul Takzim.
87,120 15 Industrial land 20/02/2008 2,849
Leasehold
60 years
expiring 2052
Land with building at
PTD 110329, HSD 200231,
Mukim Plentong,
Daerah Johor Bahru,
No.18, Jalan Pekeliling,
Taman Perindustrian Pasir Gudang,
81700 Pasir Gudang,
Johor Darul Takzim.
99,876 5 Industrial land 30/04/2019 8,644
47,055
LIST OF PROPERTIES
PROPERTIES HELD BY THE GROUP AS AT 30 JUNE 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
110
Issued and fully paid-up share capital : 162,000,000 ordinary shares
Class of shares : Ordinary shares
Voting rights by show of hand : One vote for every member
Voting rights by poll : One vote for every share held
Analysis By Size Of Shareholdings
Size of Shareholdings
No. of
Shareholders %
No. of
Shares %
1 - 99 159 6.83 1,737 0.00
100 - 1,000 820 35.22 639,810 0.39
1,001 - 10,000 1,027 44.12 3,984,141 2.46
10,001 - 100,000 256 11.00 7,259,402 4.48
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 62 2.66 65,169,110 40.23
5% and above of issued shares 4 0.17 84,945,800 52.44
Total 2,328 100.00 162,000,000 100.00
Substantial Shareholders As Per The Register Of Substantial Shareholders
No. Name
Direct No. of
Shares Held %
Indirect No. of
Shares Held %
1 JAG Capital Holdings Sdn Bhd 53,400,000 32.96 – –
2 Continental Theme Sdn Bhd 12,922,100 7.98 – –
3 Lee Cheang Mei 11,055,700 6.82 – –
4 Fung Heen Choon 10,590,100 6.54 – –
5 Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani – – 53,400,000 32.961
6 Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof – – 35,094,900 21.662
Notes:
1 Deemed interest by virtue of his substantial shareholding in JAG Capital Holdings Sdn Bhd.
2 Deemed interest through Du Ain Sdn Bhd, Duclos Sdn Bhd, Syed Ibrahim Sdn Bhd, Leasing Corporation Sdn Bhd, Sisma Water Technology Sdn Bhd and Continental
Theme Sdn Bhd.
Directors’ Shareholdings As Per The Register Of Directors’ Shareholdings
No. Name
Direct No. of
Shares Held %
Indirect No. of
Shares Held %
1 Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy 3,707,000 2.29 – –
2 Lee Cheang Mei 11,055,700 6.82 – –
3 Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman 1,000,000 0.62 – –
4 Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani – – 53,400,000 32.961
5 Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof – – 35,094,900 21.662
Notes:
1 Deemed interest by virtue of his substantial shareholding in JAG Capital Holdings Sdn Bhd.
2 Deemed interest through Du Ain Sdn Bhd, Duclos Sdn Bhd, Syed Ibrahim Sdn Bhd, Leasing Corporation Sdn Bhd, Sisma Water Technology Sdn Bhd and
Continental Theme Sdn Bhd.
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 30 AUGUST 2023
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
111
List Of Thirty (30) Largest Shareholders
No. Name No. of Shares %
1 Cimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB for JAG Capital Holdings Sdn Bhd (PB)
53,400,000 32.96
2 Lee Cheang Mei 11,055,700 6.82
3 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
For Continental Theme Sdn Bhd
11,000,000 6.79
4 Fung Heen Choon 9,490,100 5.86
5 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
For Duclos Sdn Bhd
5,360,000 3.31
6 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
For Leasing Corporation Sdn Bhd
4,686,400 2.89
7 Money Penny Sdn Bhd 4,654,810 2.87
8 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
For Syed Ibrahim Sdn Bhd
4,540,000 2.80
9 Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy 3,707,000 2.29
10 MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Syarifah Anita Ibrahim (CTS-SAI0004C)
3,669,500 2.27
11 MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Syarifah Aminah Ibrahim Binti
Syed Ibrahim (CTS-SAI0005C)
3,646,400 2.25
12 MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Azril Akmar Bin Attan Akmar (CTS-AAA0006C)
3,624,400 2.24
13 Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Erwin Selvarajah a/l Peter Selvarajah
3,580,000 2.21
14 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
For Sisma Water Technology Sdn Bhd
3,507,400 2.17
15 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
For Du-Ain Sdn Bhd
3,329,000 2.05
16 Tiger Vest Sdn Bhd 3,009,800 1.86
17 AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd (7006509)
Pledged Securities Account for Erwin Selvarajah a/l Peter Selvarajah
2,670,000 1.65
18 Cimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB For Continental Theme Sdn Bhd (PB)
1,922,100 1.19
19 HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt An for Bank Vontobel AG
1,512,700 0.93
20 Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Fung Heen Choon
1,100,000 0.68
21 Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman 1,000,000 0.62
22 MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for RDS Network Sdn Bhd (CTS-RDS0001C)
856,600 0.53
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 30 AUGUST 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
112
No. Name No. of Shares %
23 MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Leasing Corporation Sdn Bhd (CTS-LCS0001C)
750,000 0.46
24 HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt An for Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd. (Singapore BCH)
618,700 0.38
25 HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt An for Credit Suisse (SG BR-TST-ASING)
447,900 0.28
26 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Exempt An for UOB Kay Hian Pte Ltd (A/C CLIENTS)
385,400 0.24
27 Tan Sri Abdul Ghani Bin Abdul Aziz 360,000 0.22
28 Cimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB FOR RDS NETWORK SDN BHD (PB)
339,100 0.21
29 Tong Kin Yoong 256,500 0.16
30 Lim Tow Kuang 252,300 0.16
144,731,810 89.34
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 30 AUGUST 2023
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
113
Utilisation of Proceeds Raised From Corporate Proposals
The Company did not undertake any corporate proposals during the financial year.
Audit and Non-Audit Fees
The total amount of audit and non-audit fees paid/payable to the external auditors and their affiliated companies by the Group and
the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 were tabulated as follows:
Audit Fees Non-Audit Fees
Group
RM
Company
RM
Group
RM
Company
RM
i) BDO PLT 325,000 75,300 13,000 13,000
ii) BDO Tax Services Sdn Bhd – – 37,000 5,500
325,000 75,300 50,000 18,500
Material Contracts
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’ and major shareholders’
interests, either still subsisting at the end of the financial year ended 30 June 2023 or entered into since the end of the previous
financial year.
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
114
Agenda
As Ordinary Business
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2023 together
with the Reports of the Directors and the Auditors thereon.
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of RM296,800 for the financial year ended 30 June
2023.
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM250,000 for the period from
28 October 2023 until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2024.
4. To re-elect the following Directors who are retiring by rotation pursuant to Clause 100 of the
Constitution of the Company and being eligible offer themselves for re-election:
(i) Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof; and
(ii) Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman.		
5. To re-elect the following Directors who are retiring pursuant to Clause 103 of the Constitution of
the Company and being eligible offer themselves for re-election:
(i) Sharina Binti Saidon;
(ii) Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam;
(iii) Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman; and
(iv) Mohammad Bin Alwi.
6. To re-appoint BDO PLT as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix their
remuneration for the ensuing year.
As Special Business
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following resolution:
7. Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”) for the
Directors to allot and issue shares
“THAT pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act, the Directors be and are hereby authorised to
allot and issue shares in the Company at any time until the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting and upon such terms and conditions and for such purposes as the Directors may, in their
absolute discretion, deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares to be issued does not
exceed ten per centum (10%) of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time
being, subject always to the Constitution of the Company and approval of all relevant regulatory
bodies being obtained for such allotment and issuance.
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Act, read together with Clause 18 of the Constitution of
the Company, approval be and is hereby given to waive the statutory pre-emptive rights of the
shareholders of the Company to be offered new shares ranking equally to the existing issued
shares arising from issuance of new shares pursuant to this Mandate.
AND THAT the new shares to be issued shall, upon allotment and issuance, rank equally in all
respects with the existing shares of the Company, save and except that they shall not be entitled
to any dividends, rights, allotments and/or any other forms of distribution that which may be
declared, made or paid before the date of allotment of such new shares.”
8. To transact any other business for which due notice shall have been given in accordance with the
Companies Act 2016 and the Constitution of the Company.
Notice Is Hereby Given That the Forty-Fifth Annual General Meeting of the Company will be conducted on a virtual basis
through live streaming from the broadcast venue at Boardroom, Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire,
No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur on Friday, 27 October 2023 at 9:30 a.m. for the purpose of considering
the following:
Please refer to
Explanatory Note 1
Ordinary Resolution 5
Ordinary Resolution 6
Ordinary Resolution 4
Ordinary Resolution 1
Ordinary Resolution 3
Ordinary Resolution 2
Ordinary Resolution 7
Ordinary Resolution 8
Ordinary Resolution 9
Ordinary Resolution 10
NOTICE OF FORTY-FIFTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
115
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
ON POOI FONG (MAICSA 7018189 / SSM PC No. 202208000204)
TAI YUEN LING (LS 0008513 / SSM PC No. 202008001075)
Secretaries
Kuala Lumpur
27 September 2023
Notes:
1. The broadcast venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Act, which requires the Chairman
of the meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting.
Shareholders will not be allowed to attend the Forty-Fifth Annual General Meeting in person at the broadcast venue on
the day of the meeting.
Shareholders are to attend, speak (including posing questions to the Board via real time submission of typed texts) and vote
remotely via Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd
using the online meeting platform, https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my.
Kindly refer to the Administrative Guide for the Forty-Fifth Annual General Meeting for further information.
2. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to attend this meeting, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company a Record of Depositors as at 19 October 2023. Only a member
whose name appears in such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to attend and vote at this meeting or appoint not more than
two (2) proxies to attend and vote in his stead. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
3. Where a member of the Company appoints two (2) proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless the member specifies the
proportion of his shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple
beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt
authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an
authorised nominee defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991 (“SICDA”) which is exempted from
compliance with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of SICDA.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in
writing or, if the appointor is a corporation, either under the corporation’s seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney
duly authorised.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy, with the power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed or a notarially
certified or office copy of such power or authority, shall be deposited at the Company’s Registered Office at Suite A-11-1, Level
11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or via electronic
means through the Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com. (Please follow the procedures as
stipulated in the Administrative Guide) not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned
meeting and in default the instrument of proxy shall not be treated as valid. Any notice of termination of person’s authority to act
as a proxy must be forwarded to the Company prior to the commencement of the Annual General Meeting or Adjourned Annual
General Meeting.
7. For any corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of
appointment of authorised representative, executed in the manner as stated in the proxy form at the Registered Office at Suite
A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur.
8. The last date and time for lodging the proxy form is Wednesday, 25 October 2023 at 9:30 a.m.
9. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions
set out in the notice of any general meeting will be put to vote by way of poll. Independent Scrutineer who is independent of
the person undertaking the polling process, will be appointed to verify the results of the poll.
NOTICE OF FORTY-FIFTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
116
Explanatory Notes:
(i) Agenda No. 1 – Audited Financial Statements
This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as it does not require shareholders’ approval pursuant to the provision of Section
340(1)(a) of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”). Hence, this item on the Agenda is not put forward for voting.
(ii) Ordinary Resolutions 1 and 2 - Directors’ fees and benefits payable to Directors
Payment of Directors’ fees and benefits under Section 230(1) of the Act provides amongst others, that the Directors’ fees and
any benefits payable to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company shall be approved at a general meeting.
The details of the proposed payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year ended 30 June 2023, are as disclosed in the
Corporate Governance Overview Statement of the Annual Report 2023.
In determining the estimated total amount of Directors’ benefits payable, the Board has considered the anticipated number of
meetings for the Board and Board Committees based on the existing Board composition. The Directors’ benefit payable is also
inclusive of allocation of expenses to be incurred for continuing education programmes for the Directors. Approval will be sought
at the next Annual General Meeting for additional Directors’ benefit, should there be any shortfall.
(iii) Ordinary Resolutions 3 to 8 - Re-election of Directors
The profiles of the Directors who are standing for re-election as per Agenda items 4 and 5 are set out in the Profile of Directors
of the Annual Report 2023.
The Board had through the Nomination Committee, carried out the necessary assessment of the retiring Directors, namely Datin
Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof, Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman, Sharina Binti Saidon, Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam,
Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman and Mohammad Bin Alwi (collectively referred to as “Retiring Directors”). The Nomination
Committee concluded that the Retiring Directors have:
(i)		 met the criteria as prescribed under Paragraph 2.20A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
			 Berhad on character, experience, integrity, competence and time commitment to effectively discharge their roles as Directors;
(ii) met the fit and proper criteria pursuant to the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy adopted; and
(iii) those who are Independent Directors remain independent.
The Directors named above, who are the members of Nomination Committee and Board have abstained from deliberation and
decision on their own eligibility and suitability to stand for re-election at the relevant Nomination Committee Meeting and Board
of Directors’ Meeting respectively.
(iv) Ordinary Resolution 10 - Authority pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Act for the Directors to Allot and
Issue Shares
The Ordinary Resolution 10 proposed under item 7 of the Agenda seeks the shareholders’ approval of a general mandate for
issuance of shares by the Company under Section 75 and 76 of the Act. The mandate, if passed, will provide flexibility for the
Company and empower the Directors to allot and issue new shares speedily in the Company up to an amount not exceeding
in total 10% of the issued share capital of the Company for purpose of funding the working capital or strategic development of
the Group. This would eliminate any delay arising from and cost involved in convening a general meeting to obtain approval of
the shareholders for such issuance of shares. This authority, unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting, will
expire at the next Annual General Meeting.
At this juncture, there is no decision to issue new shares but the Directors consider it desirable to have the flexibility permitted
to respond to market developments and to enable allotments to take place to finance business opportunities without making a
pre-emptive offer to existing shareholders. If there should be a decision to issue new shares after the general mandate is sought,
the Company will make an announcement in respect thereof.
The Company did not allot and issue any shares pursuant to the general mandate granted by the shareholders at the previous
Annual General Meeting.
NOTICE OF FORTY-FIFTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
117
Personal data privacy:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at the AGM and/or any
adjournment thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents to the collection, use and disclosure of the member’s personal data
by the Company (or its agents) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or its agents) of proxies and
representatives appointed for the AGM (including any adjournment thereof) and the preparation and compilation of the attendance
lists, minutes and other documents relating to the AGM (including any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its
agents) to comply with any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”), (ii) warrants that
where the member discloses the personal data of the member’s proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents),
the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the collection, use and disclosure by the
Company (or its agents) of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees that the
member will indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and damages as a result of the
member’s breach of warranty.
NOTICE OF FORTY-FIFTH
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
118
The 45th AGM of the Company will be conducted on a virtual basis through live streaming from the broadcast venue, as below:
Virtual meeting platform		 : https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my
Broadcast venue		 : Boardroom, Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan
			 		 Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur
Day, Date and Time		 : Friday, 27 October 2023 at 9:30 a.m.
1. Virtual Meeting
The Company will continue to leverage on technology to facilitate communication and engagement with shareholders by
conducting the 45th AGM on virtual basis through live streaming and online voting via the Remote Participation and Electronic
Voting (“RPEV”) facilities in accordance with the Guidance Note and FAQs on the Conduct of General Meetings for listed issuers
and all its subsequent revisions issued by the Securities Commission Malaysia. This is also in line with Practice 13.3 of the
Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 which recommends that listed companies leverage on technology to facilitate
remote shareholders’ participation at general meetings.
The broadcast venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires
the Chairperson of the Meeting to be present at the main venue of the Meeting. Therefore, NO SHAREHOLDERS/ PROXIES/
CORPORATE REPRESENTATIVES/ ATTORNEYS shall be physically present nor admitted at the broadcast venue on the day of
the Meeting.
Kindly ensure that you are connected to the internet at all times in order to participate in and/or vote at the Meeting. Therefore,
it is your responsibility to ensure that connectivity for the duration of the Meeting is maintained. The quality of the live webcast
as well as for electronic voting (“e-Voting”) is dependent on the bandwidth and stability of the internet connection of the
remote participants.
2. Entitlement to Participate and Vote
Only shareholders whose names appear in the Record of Depositors as at 19 October 2023 (“General Meeting Record of
Depositors”) shall be entitled to participate in and/or vote at the 45th AGM via RPEV facilities or appoint proxy(ies) or in case
of a corporation to appoint corporate representative(s) to participate and/or vote on his/her/their behalf by returning the duly
executed Form(s) of Proxy.
3. Form(s) of Proxy
If you are unable to attend and participate in the 45th AGM, you are encouraged to appoint a proxy or the Chairman of the
45th AGM as your proxy and indicate the voting instructions in the Form(s) of Proxy in accordance with the notes and instructions
printed therein.
Please ensure that the ORIGINAL Form(s) of Proxy is/are deposited at the Company’s registered office.
Alternatively, you may lodge your Form(s) of Proxy electronically through the Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (“BSIP”) at https://
investor.boardroomlimited.com (Kindly refer to item 7 below).
The Form(s) of Proxy must be received not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the 45th AGM
i.e. latest by Wednesday, 25 October 2023 at 9:30 a.m.
4. Corporate Representative
For corporate shareholder who has appointed a representative(s) or attorney(s) to participate in the 45th AGM, please deposit
the ORIGINAL Form(s) of Proxy, Certificate of Appointment or Power of Attorney, as the case may be, by hand or post to our
registered office not later than Wednesday, 25 October 2023 at 9:30 a.m.
Upon verification against the General Meeting Record of Depositors, an email containing the username and password will
be sent to the corporate representative(s) or attorney(s) by our Share Registrar. Please note that only one (1) user name will be
provided to each corporate representative(s) or attorney(s).
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE FOR THE
FORTY-FIFTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(“45TH AGM” OR THE “MEETING”)
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
119
5. Revocation of Proxy
If you have submitted your Form(s) of Proxy prior to the 45th AGM and subsequently decide to appoint another person as your
proxy(ies) or wish to participate in the 45th AGM yourself, please write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com to revoke
the earlier appointed proxy(ies) not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the 45th AGM. Upon revocation, the proxy(ies)
appointed by you previously will not be allowed to participate in the 45th AGM. In such event, you should notify your previous
proxy(ies) accordingly.
6. Voting Procedure
Pursuant to Clause 82 of the Constitution of the Company and Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, voting at the 45th AGM will be conducted by poll. The Company has appointed our
Share Registrar as the Poll Administrator to conduct the poll by way of e-Voting and Sky Corporate Services Sdn Bhd as the
Independent Scrutineer to verify the results of the poll.
The e-Voting session will commence from the start of the 45th AGM at 9:30 a.m. on Friday, 27 October 2023 or such other time
as announced by the Chairman and will continue until the time declared by the Chairman as the end of the e-Voting session.
7. Registration and procedure for Remote Participation and submission of eProxy Form
The RPEV facilities are available to (i) individual shareholders; (ii) corporate shareholders; (iii) authorised nominees; and (iv)
exempt authorised nominees. You shall use the RPEV facilities to participate and vote remotely at the 45th AGM. You will be able
to view a live webcast of the Meeting, pose questions and submit your votes in real time whilst the Meeting is in progress.
Kindly follow the steps below to register your participation as a shareholder or appointed proxy(ies) for the 45th AGM:
PROCEDURE
Before the day of the 45th AGM Steps
1. Register/Sign-up as Online User
with BSIP
(For first-time registration only)
[Note: If you have previously registered/signed-up with BSIP, you are not required
to register again. You may proceed to Step (2).]
a. Access the website https:/
/investor.boardroomlimited.com.
b. Click <<Register>> to sign up as an online user.
c. Please select the account type i.e. sign up as ‘Individual Shareholder’ or
‘Corporate Holder’.
d. Complete registration and upload softcopy of MyKad (front and back) or
passport in JPEG, PNG or PDF format. For Corporate Holder, please upload
the authorisation letter (template available) for Corporate Holder.
e. Enter a valid mobile number and email address.
f. You will receive an e-mail from our Share Registrar for e-mail address
verification. Click ‘Verify E-mail Address’ from the e-mail received to
continue with the registration.
g. Once your email address is verified, you will be re-directed to BSIP for
verification of mobile number. Click ‘Request OTP Code’ and an OTP code
will be sent to the registered mobile number. You will need to enter the OTP
Code and click ‘Enter’ to complete the process.
h. Your registration will be verified and approved within one (1) business day
and an email notification will be provided. You can login to BSIP with the
email address and password provided during the registration to proceed with
the next step.
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
120
PROCEDURE
Before the day of the 45th AGM Steps
2. Submit request for remote
participation
Note: You must be a registered BSIP
user. If not, return to Step (1)
The registration for RPEV facilities will be opened from Wednesday, 27 September
2023 until Wednesday, 25 October 2023, upon the commencement of the
e-Voting session to be announced by the Chairman of the 45th AGM.
The instrument appointing a proxy must be received latest by Wednesday, 25
October 2023 at 9:30 a.m.
For Individual Shareholders
a. Log in to https:/
/investor.boardroomlimited.com
b. Click ‘Meeting Event(s)’ and select from the list of companies - ‘C.I. HOLDINGS
BERHAD 45TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING’ and click ‘Enter’
c. To attend the virtual 45th AGM remotely
• Click ‘Register for RPEV’
• Read and accept the general terms and conditions and enter your CDS
account no. to submit your request
d. To appoint proxy(ies)
• Click ‘Submit eProxy Form’
• For Corporate Shareholders, select the company you would like to represent
(if represent more than one company)
• Read and accept the general terms and conditions and enter your CDS
account no. Then, insert your proxy(ies) details and voting instructions.
If you wish your proxy(ies) to act upon his/her discretion, please indicate
“Discretionary”
For Corporate Shareholders, Authorised Nominees and Exempt Authorised
Nominees
a. write to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com and provide the name of
the shareholder, CDS account no. and the Certificate of Appointment of
Corporate Representative or Form(s) of Proxy or Power of Attorney (as the
case may be).
b. Provide a copy of Corporate Representative’s MyKad (front and back) or
passport in JPEG, PNG or PDF format and his/her valid mobile number and
email address.
3. Verification and email notification For Individual Shareholders, Corporate Shareholders, Authorised Nominees/
Exempt Authorised Nominees and Attorneys
a. An email notification will be sent by our Share Registrar to notify that your
request for remote participation has been received for system verification.
b. Upon verification against the General Meeting Record of Depositors, you will
receive an email from our Share Registrar on the day prior to the 45th AGM,
i.e. Thursday, 26 October 2023 either approving or rejecting your request for
remote participation.
c. If your registration is approved, the said email will provide the Meeting ID,
username and password for the 45th AGM.
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
121
PROCEDURE
On the day of the 45th AGM Steps
4. Log in a. The RPEV facilities will be accessible for log in on Friday, 27 October 2023
at 8:30 a.m., i.e. one (1) hour before the commencement of the 45th AGM.
b. Click the link provided in the email in Step (3)c to join the 45th AGM. Insert
the Meeting ID and sign in with the username and password provided to you
via the same email.
5. Participate a. Please follow the user guides in the email to view the live webcast, submit
question(s) and vote.
b. To view the live webcast, select the broadcast icon
c. To ask a question during the 45th AGM, select the messaging icon.
Type your questions in the chat box and click the send button to submit.
Note:
(1) Questions submitted online will be moderated before being sent to the
Chairman of the 45th AGM to avoid repetition.
(2) All relevant questions and messages will be presented with the full
name of the participant raising the question(s).
6. Vote a. Once voting has commenced, the polling icon will appear with the
resolutions and voting choices until such time that the Chairman declares the
end of the voting session.
b. To vote, select your voting preference from the options provided. A confirmation
message will appear to indicate that your vote has been received.
c. To change your vote, re-select your voting preference.
d. If you wish to cancel your vote, please press ‘Cancel’.
7. End a. After closing of the voting session, the Chairman will wait for polling results
to be furnished by the Independent Scrutineers and thereafter inform the
shareholders/participants whether the resolutions are carried.
b. Upon the announcement by the Chairman on the closure of the 45th AGM,
the live webcast will end.
8. Submission of question(s)
Prior to the 45th AGM
Submit question(s) in relation to the agenda items of the 45th AGM by logging in to the BSIP at https://investor.boardroomlimited.
com using the same user ID and password provided in Step 1 latest by Wednesday, 25 October 2023 at 9:30 a.m. Click
‘Submit Questions’ after selecting “C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 45TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING” from ‘Event(s) Meeting’;
During the 45th AGM
Shareholders may also submit question(s) via the chat box at any time during the live streaming of the 45th AGM at https://
meeting.boardroomlimited.my until such time as the Chairman decides.
The Chairman/Board/Management will endeavor to provide responses to the questions submitted/posed prior to/during
the 45th AGM session. However, if the responses could not be provided during the 45th AGM due to time constraints, they
will be recorded in the minutes of the 45th AGM of the Company which will be published on the Company’s website at
www.cih.com.my.
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
(continued)
ANNUAL REPORT 2023
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
122
9. Gift Policy
There will be NO DISTRIBUTION of door gifts or e-vouchers for shareholders/proxies who participate in the Meeting.
10. No Recording or Photography
No recording or photography of the live streaming of the 45th AGM proceedings is allowed without the prior written permission
of the Company.
11. Enquiries relating to the Meeting
If you have any enquiries prior to the 45th AGM, please contact our Share Registrar during office hours from Monday to Friday
(8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.) (except weekend and public holidays) as set out below:
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd
Address : 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
					 Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
General line : 603-7890 4700 (Helpdesk)
Fax number : 603-7890 4670
Email : bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
(continued)
FORM OF PROXY
CDS Account No.
No. of Shares Held
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD (Company No.: 197801000889 (37918-A))
(Incorporated in Malaysia under the Companies Act, 1965)
NOTES:
1. The broadcast venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Act, which requires the Chairman of the meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting.
Shareholders will not be allowed to attend the Forty-Fifth Annual General Meeting in person at the broadcast venue on the day of the meeting.
Shareholders are to attend, speak (including posing questions to the Board via real time submission of typed texts) and vote remotely via Remote Participation and Electronic Voting
(“RPEV”) facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd using the online meeting platform, https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my.
Kindly refer to the Administrative Guide for the Forty-fifth Annual General Meeting for further information.
2. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to attend this meeting, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company
a Record of Depositors as at 19 October 2023. Only a member whose name appears in such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to attend and vote at this meeting or appoint not
more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote in his stead. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
3. Where a member of the Company appoints two (2) proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless the member specifies the proportion of his shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.
4. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus
account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to
an authorised nominee defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991 (“SICDA”) which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of SICDA.
5. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointor is a corporation, either under the
corporation’s seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy, with the power of attorney or other authority (if any) under which it is signed or a notarially certified or office copy of such power or authority, shall
be deposited at the Company’s Registered Office at Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or
via electronic means through the Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com (Please follow the procedures as stipulated in the Administrative Guide) not
less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting and in default the instrument of proxy shall not be treated as valid. Any notice of termination
of person’s authority to act as a proxy must be forwarded to the Company prior to the commencement of the Annual General Meeting or Adjourned Annual General Meeting.
7. For any corporate member who has appointed an authorised representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment of authorised representative, executed in the
manner as stated in the proxy form at the Registered Office at Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur.
8. The last date and time for lodging the proxy form is Wednesday, 25 October 2023 at 9:30 a.m.
9. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set out in the notice of any general meeting will be put
to vote by way of poll. Independent Scrutineer who is independent of the person undertaking the polling process, will be appointed to verify the results of the poll.
PERSONAL DATA PRIVACY:
By submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to attend, speak and vote at the AGM and/or any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents to the collection, use and disclosure of the member’s
personal data by the Company (or its agents) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or its agents) of proxies and representatives appointed for the AGM (including any adjournment thereof) and the preparation
and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating to the AGM (including any adjournment thereof), and in order for the Company (or its agents) to comply with any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/
or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”), (ii) warrants that where the member discloses the personal data of the member’s proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents), the member has obtained the prior consent of such
proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the collection, use and disclosure by the Company (or its agents) of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes, and (iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the Company
in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty.
I/We
(Full name in block letters, NRIC No. / Passport No. / Company No.)
of
Telefon No. Email Address
being a member/members of C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD, hereby appoint:
Full Name (in block letters) NRIC No. / Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Telefon No. Email Address
Address
and/or (delete as appropriate)
Full Name (in block letters) NRIC No. / Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Telefon No. Email Address
Address
or failing him/her, the Chairman as *my/our proxy to vote for *me/ us on *my/ our behalf at the Forty-Fifth Annual General Meeting of the Company, to
be held on a virtual basis at the broadcast venue at Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450
Kuala Lumpur on Friday, 27 October 2023 at 9:30 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof.
RESOLUTION NO. ORDINARY BUSINESS FOR AGAINST
Ordinary Resolution 1 To approve the payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year ended 30 June 2023
Ordinary Resolution 2
To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits for the period from 28 October 2023 until the
next Annual General Meeting of the Company
Ordinary Resolution 3 To re-elect Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof as Director
Ordinary Resolution 4 To re-elect Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman as Director
Ordinary Resolution 5 To re-elect Sharina Binti Saidon as Director
Ordinary Resolution 6 To re-elect Dato’ Sivananthan a/l Shanmugam as Director
Ordinary Resolution 7 To re-elect Mohammad Farish Nizar Bin Othman as Director
Ordinary Resolution 8 To re-elect Mohammad Bin Alwi as Director
Ordinary Resolution 9 To re-appoint BDO PLT as Auditors of the Company
SPECIAL BUSINESS FOR AGAINST
Ordinary Resolution 10
Authority under Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016 for the Directors to
allot and issue shares
(Please indicate with a (“X”) in the appropriate box whether you wish your vote to be cast for or against the resolution. In the absence of specific direction,
your proxy will vote or abstain as he thinks fit.)
Signed this day of ,2023
Signature(s) of Shareholder/Attorney
(if shareholder is a corporation, this part should be executed under seal)
Fold this flap for sealing
Then fold here
1st fold here
The Company Secretary
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Company no. 197801000889 (37918-A))
Suite A-11-1, Level 11,
Hampshire Place Office,
157 Hampshire,
No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari,
50450 Kuala Lumpur
STAMP
