The flower is chosen for this cover because of the many good things it represents:
optimism, positiveness, new beginnings, growth, among others.
The company remains confident and positive in outlook and endeavour. As
depicted by the blossoms that soar upwards in the winds of change, we will
continue to cultivate quality excellence, grow our businesses and flourish in a
world of new challenges.
Cover Rationale
CORPORATE
Corporate Information
Notice of Forty-Second Annual General Meeting
Administrative Guide
Director’s Profile
Group Management Team’s Profile
Management Discussion and Analysis
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
Audit Committee Report
Sustainability Statement
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
Directors‘ Responsibility Statement
FINANCIAL
Directors’ Report and Audited Financial Statements
List of Properties
Analysis of Shareholdings
Additional Compliance Information
Form of Proxy
CONTENTS
02
03
09
13
19
21
25
32
35
39
42
43
110
112
114
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
1
CORPORATE INFOMATION
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani
Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman
Group Managing Director
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Lee Cheang Mei
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Teh Bee Tein
Independent Non-Executive Director
Kasinathan a/l Tulasi
Independent Non-Executive Director
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat
Independent Non-Executive Director
Fung Heen Choon
Alternate Director to Lee Cheang Mei
AUDIT COMMITTEE
Teh Bee Tein
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Kasinathan a/l Tulasi
Independent Non-Executive Director
REMUNERATION COMMITTEEEE
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin
Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Teh Bee Tein
Independent Non-Executive Director
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat
Independent Non-Executive Director
NOMINATION COMMITTEE
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin
Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Teh Bee Tein
Independent Non-Executive Director
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat
Independent Non-Executive Director
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
Teh Bee Tein Chairman
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman Member
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin Member
Azlan Bin Ahmad Member
Chaw Pei Yee Member
Foo Loke Yean Member
Teoh Kar Hoe Member
Chia Yen Yee Risk Coordinator
GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman
Group Managing Director
Fung Heen Choon
Executive Director – Continental Resources Sdn Bhd
Lee Cheang Mei
Executive Director – Continental Resources Sdn Bhd
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Managing Director – Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn Bhd
Azlan Bin Ahmad
Head of Corporate and Legal Affairs
Chaw Pei Yee
Senior Manager – Finance & Administration
Baharuddin Bin Basirun
Chief Operating Officer – Continental Resources Sdn Bhd
Foo Loke Yean
Chief Executive Officer – Doe Industries Sdn Bhd
COMPANY SECRETARIES
On Pooi Fong MAICSA 7018189/ SSM PC NO. 202008001814
Tan Lai Hong MAICSA 7057707/ SSM PC NO. 202008002309
SHARE REGISTRAR
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
[Company No. 199601006647 (378993-D]
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Tel: 603–7890 4700
Fax: 603–7890 4670
www.boardroomlimited.com
REGISTERED OFFICE
Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office
157 Hampshire
No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari
50450 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: 603–2182 7333
Fax: 603–2166 7208
www.cih.com.my
AUDITORS
BDO PLT (AF 0206)
Level 8
BDO @ Menara CenTARa 360 Jalan Tunku Abdul Rahman
50100 Kuala Lumpur
Tel: 603–2616 2888
Fax: 603–2616 3190
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Affin Bank Berhad
CIMB Bank Berhad
Malayan Banking Berhad
RHB Bank Berhad
RHB Islamic Bank Berhad
LISTING
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Stock Name : CIHLDG Stock Code : 2828
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
2
AGENDA
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year end 30 June 2020 together with
the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.
2. To declare final single-tier dividend of 10.0 sen per ordinary share for the financial year end 30
June 2020.
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of RM225,000 for the financial year end 30 June 2020.
4. To approve the Directors’ benefits up to an amount of RM163,000 for the period from 1 November
2020 until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held in 2021.
5. To re-elect the following Directors, who retire by rotation in accordance with Clause 96 of the
Company’s Constitution:
(i) Datin Mariam Prudence binti Yusof
(ii) Datuk Haji Ariffin bin Imat
(iii) Teh Bee Tein		
6. To re-appoint Messrs BDO PLT as auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors to fix
their remuneration for the ensuing year.
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and, if thought fit, to pass the following ordinary resolutions:
7. Authority for Directors to issue and allot shares in the Company pursuant to
Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act, 2016
“THAT subject always to the Companies Act, 2016, the Main Market Listing Requirements of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, the Constitution of the Company and the approvals of the
relevant government and/or regulatory authorities, the Directors be and are hereby empowered
pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act, 2016 to issue and allot new shares
in the Company at any time at such price, upon such terms and conditions, for such purposes
and to such person(s) whomsoever as the Directors may in their absolute discretion deem fit and
expedient in the interest of the Company, provided that the aggregate number of shares issued
pursuant to this resolution does not exceed 20% of the total issued share capital of the Company
for the time being.
AND THAT the Directors be and are also empowered to obtain the approval from Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so issued and that such
authority shall continue to be in force until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of
the Company.”
8. Continuing in Office as Independent Non-Executive Directors
8.1 “THAT approval be and is hereby given to Encik Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd
Nordin who has served as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company for
a cumulative term of more than nine years, to continue to act as an Independent Non-
Executive Director of the Company.”
Please refer to
Explanatory Note 1
Ordinary Resolution 9
Ordinary Resolution 5
Ordinary Resolution 6
Ordinary Resolution 4
Ordinary Resolution 1
Ordinary Resolution 3
Ordinary Resolution 2
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the Forty-Second Annual General Meeting (“42nd AGM”) of the Company will be conducted
fully virtual for the purpose of considering and if thought fit, passing with or without modifications the resolutions setting out
in this notice.
Meeting Platform : https://web.lumiagm.com/
Day and Date : Wednesday, 28 October 2020
Time : 9:30 a.m.
Broadcast Venue : Boardroom, Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari,
		 50450 Kuala Lumpur
Mode of Communication : 1) Typed text in the Meeting Platform
		 2) Alternatively, you may submit your questions to cihagm@cih.com.my by Monday, 26 October 2020
at 9:30 a.m. (48 hours before the commencement of the 42nd AGM) and the Board will endeavour
		 to respond to the questions submitted during the AGM.
NOTICE OF FORTY-SECOND
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Ordinary Resolution 7
Ordinary Resolution 8
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
3
8.2 “THAT subject to passing of Ordinary Resolution No. 6, approval be and is hereby given to
Ms. Teh Bee Tein who has served as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company
for a cumulative term of more than nine years, to continue to act as an Independent Non-
Executive Director of the Company.”
8.3 “THAT approval be and is hereby given to Mr. Kasinathan a/l Tulasi who has served as
an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company for a cumulative term of more than
nine years, to continue to act as an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company.”
ANY OTHER BUSINESS
9. To transact any other business for which due notice shall have been given in accordance with the
Company’s Constitution and the Companies Act, 2016.
NOTICE OF BOOK CLOSURE
NOTICE IS ALSO HEREBY GIVEN that a final single-tier dividend of 10.0 sen per ordinary share for the financial year ended
30 June 2020 will be payable on 12 November 2020 to depositors whose names appear in the Record of Depositors at the close
of business on 28 October 2020 if approved by the members at the 42nd AGM.
A Depositor shall qualify for entitlement only in respect of:
(a) Shares transferred to the Depositor’s Securities Account before 4:00 p.m. on 28 October 2020 in respect of ordinary transfer; and
(b) Shares bought on the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on a cum entitlement basis according to the Rules of the Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
ON POOI FONG (MAICSA 7018189 / SSM PC NO. 202008001814)
TAN LAI HONG (MAICSA 7057707 / SSM PC NO. 202008002309)
Company Secretaries
Kuala Lumpur
29 September 2020
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
4
Ordinary Resolution 10
Ordinary Resolution 11
NOTICE OF FORTY-SECOND
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(cont'd)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
5
Notes:
1. The 42nd AGM will be conducted on a virtual basis through live streaming and online remote voting via Remote Participation
and Voting (“RPV”) facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at http://web.lumiagm.com. Please follow
the procedures as set in the Administrative Guide in order to register, participate and vote remotely via RPV facilities.
2. The venue of the 42nd AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which
requires the Chairman of Meeting to be present at the main venue. No shareholders/proxy(ies) shall be physically present at nor
admitted to the Broadcast Venue.
3. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the Meeting, the Company will be requesting Bursa
Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. in accordance with Clause 72 of the Company’s Constitution to issue a General Meeting
Record of Depositors as at 21 October 2020. Only a member whose name appears in the Record of Depositors as at 21
October 2020 shall be entitled to attend the Meeting and to speak and vote thereat.
4. A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to
attend and vote in his(her) stead. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. A proxy appointed to attend and vote
at the Meeting shall have the same rights as the member to speak at the Meeting.
5. A member of the Company may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend the Meeting. Where a member appoints two or more
proxies, he(she) shall specify the proportion of his(her) shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hands of the appointor or of his(her) attorney duly authorised
in writing or if the appointor is a corporation either under its common seal or under the hand of its officer or its duly
authorised attorney.
7. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories)
Act 1991, it may appoint at least one proxy in respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company
standing to the credit of the said securities account.
8. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple
beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt
authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. The appointment of multiple proxies shall not
be valid unless the proportion of its shareholdings represented by each proxy is specified.
9. To be valid, the Form of Proxy must be completed, signed and deposited at the Company’s registered office at Suite A-11-1,
Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur not less than forty-eight
(48) hours before the time set for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which the person named in the instrument
proposes to vote and in the case of a poll, not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the time appointed in taking of the poll,
and in default the instrument of proxy shall be treated as invalid. Alternatively, the Form of Proxy can be deposited electronically
through Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://www.boardroomlimited.my before the Form of Proxy lodgement cut-off time
as mentioned above.
10. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all resolutions set
out in the Notice will be put to vote on a poll. Independent Scrutineers will be appointed to observe the polling process and
to verity the results of the poll respectively.
NOTICE OF FORTY-SECOND
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(cont’d)
NOTICE OF FORTY-SECOND
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(cont’d)
Explanatory Notes to the Agenda:
Item 1 of the Agenda
This item of the Agenda is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 2016 does not
require a formal approval of the shareholders for the Audited Financial Statements. Hence, this item of the Agenda is not put forward
for voting.
Item 2 of the Agenda
With reference to Section 131 of the Companies Act, 2016, a company may only make a distribution to the shareholders out of
profits of the Company available if the Company is solvent. On 25 August 2020, the Board has considered the amount of dividend
and decided to recommend the same for the shareholders’ approval.
The Directors of the Company are satisfied that the Company will be solvent as it will be able to pay its debts as and when the
debts become due within twelve (12) months immediately after the distribution is made on 12 November 2020 in accordance with
the requirements under Section 132(2) and (3) of the Companies Act, 2016.
Item 3 of the Agenda
Section 230(1) of the Companies Act, 2016 provides amongst others, that “the fees” of the directors and “any benefits” payable to
the directors of a listed company and its subsidiaries shall be approved at a general meeting.
In this respect, the Company is seeking shareholders’ approval for the payment of Directors’ fees of RM225,000 for the financial
year ended 30 June 2020.
Details of the above are set out on page 29 of the Annual Report 2020.
Item 4 of the Agenda
The Company is also seeking shareholders’ approval for the payment of benefits up to an amount of RM163,000 for the period from
1 November 2020 until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company held in 2021.
The estimated amount payable is based on the assumption that the Company maintain its existing Board composition. In the event
the proposed amount is insufficient (e.g. due to more meetings or enlarged Board size), approval will be sought at the next Annual
General Meeting for additional benefits to meet the shortfall.
The proposed payment of benefits comprises meeting and training allowances payable to the Chairman and members of the Board
and Board Committees.
Item 5 of the Agenda
Clause 96 of the Constitution provides that one-third (1/3) of the Directors of the Company for the time being shall retire by rotation
at an Annual General Meeting of the Company provided always that each director shall retire at least once in every three (3) years
but shall be eligible for re-election.
With the current Board size of nine (9) directors, three (3) Directors namely Datin Mariam Prudence binti Yusof, Datuk Haji Ariffin bin Imat
and Ms. Teh Bee Tein, being the longest in office since their last election are to retire in accordance with Clause 96 of the Constitution.
Item 6 of the Agenda
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad had on 16 April 2020 issued a circular in respect of increased general mandate limit for new
issue of securities whereby a listed issuer is allowed to seek a higher general mandate under paragraph 6.03 of the Main Market
Listing Requirements of not more 20% of the total number of issued shares (excluding treasury shares) for issue of new securities (“20%
General Mandate”) provided that the following are being complied with:
(a) The listed issuer procures its shareholder approval for the 20% General Mandate at a general meeting;
(b) The listed issuer complies with all the relevant applicable legal requirements, including its constitution or relevant constituent
document; and
(c) In addition to the existing disclosures required in the statement accompanying the proposed resolution under paragraph 6.03(3)
of the Main Market Listing Requirements, the listed issuer must also disclose the views from its board of directors’ that the 20%
General Mandate is in the best interest of the listed issuer and its shareholders, as well as the basis for such views.
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 8 is to empower the Directors of the Company to issue and allot shares up to an aggregate
amount not exceeding 20% of the issued share capital of the Company for the time being for such purposes as the Directors consider
would be in the best interest of the Company. This authority unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting will
expire at the next Annual General Meeting.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
6
Item 7.1 of the Agenda
The Nomination Committee has assessed the independence of Encik Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin who served as
an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years, and the Board, upon the
Nomination Committee’s recommendation, had recommend for shareholders’ approval for him to continue to act as an Independent
Non-Executive Director of the Company based on the following justifications:
(a) He fulfilled the criteria under the definition of Independent Director as stated in the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad and therefore would be able to function as a check and balance and bring an element of objectivity
to the Board of Directors.
(b) He has vast experience in the legal field and was able to provide constructive and independent judgment from the legal
perspective of the business.
(c) He consistently challenged management in an effective and constructive manner.
(d) He actively participated in board discussion and provided an independent voice on the board.
Item 7.2 of the Agenda
The Nomination Committee has assessed the independence of Ms. Teh Bee Tein who served as an Independent Non-Executive
Director of the Company for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years, and the Board, upon the Nomination Committee’s
recommendation, had recommend for shareholders’ approval for her to continue to act as an Independent Non-Executive Director of
the Company based on the following justifications:
(a) She fulfilled the criteria under the definition of Independent Director as stated in the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad and therefore would be able to function as a check and balance and bring an element of objectivity
to the Board of Directors.
(b) She has vast experience in the accounting and audit industry, which enabled her to provide constructive advice, expertise and
independent judgment.
(c) She consistently challenged management in an effective and constructive manner.
(d) She actively participated in board discussion and provided an independent voice on the board.
Item 7.3 of the Agenda
The Nomination Committee has assessed the independence of Mr. Kasinathan a/l Tulasi who served as an Independent Non-
Executive Director of the Company for a cumulative term of more than nine (9) years, and the Board, upon the Nomination Committee’s
recommendation, had recommend for shareholders’ approval for him to continue to act as an Independent Non-Executive Director
of the Company based on the following justifications:
(a) He fulfilled the criteria under the definition of Independent Director as stated in the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad and therefore would be able to function as a check and balance and bring an element of objectivity
to the Board of Directors.
(b) He has vast experience in the legal field and was able to provide constructive and independent judgment from the legal
perspective of the business.
(c) He consistently challenged management in an effective and constructive manner.
(d) He actively participated in board discussion and provided an independent voice on the board.
Pursuant to Practice 4.2 of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance published in April 2017, the tenure of an independent
director should not exceed a cumulative term limit of nine (9) years. Upon completion of the nine (9) years, an independent director
may continue to serve on the Board but will be redesignated as a non-independent director. If the Board intends to retain an
independent director beyond nine (9) years, the Board should justify and seek annual shareholders’ approval.
However, in order for an independent director to continue to serve on the Board as an independent director after twelve (12) years,
shareholders’ approval must be sought through a two-tier voting process and the Board must provide justifications for the retention.
Encik Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin was appointed to the Board as an Independent Director of the Company on 30
May 2001 and have served as Independent Director for a cumulative term of more than twelve (12) years. In connection thereto, the
retention of Encik Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin as Independent Director of the Company is subject to the approval
by the shareholders via a two-tier voting process.
Under the two-tier voting process, shareholders’ votes will be cast in the following manner at the same shareholders meeting:
• Tier 1: Only the Large Shareholder(s) of the Company votes; and
• Tier 2: Shareholders other than Large Shareholders votes.
NOTICE OF FORTY-SECOND
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(cont’d)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
7
NOTICE OF FORTY-SECOND
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(cont’d)
*Large Shareholder means a person who –
• is entitled to exercise, or control the exercise of, not less than 33% of the voting shares in the company;
• is the largest shareholder of voting shares in the company;
• has the power to appoint or cause to be appointed a majority of the directors of the company; or
• has the power to make or cause to be made, decisions in respect of the business or administration of the company, and to give
effect to such decisions or cause them to be given effect to.
The decision for the resolution is determined based on the vote of Tier 1 and a simple majority of Tier 2. If there is more than one
Large Shareholder, a simple majority of votes determine the outcome of Tier 1 vote. The resolution is deemed successful if both Tier
1 and Tier 2 votes support the resolution. However, the resolution is deemed to be defeated where the vote between the two tiers
differs or where Tier 1 voter(s) abstained from voting.
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
No notice in writing has been received by the Company nominating any candidate for election as Directors at the 42nd AGM of the
Company. The Directors who are due for retirement and seeking for re-election pursuant to the Company’s Constitution are as set out
in the Notice of 42nd AGM and their profile are set out in the Directors’ Profile in the Annual Report 2020.
Authority for Directors to issue and allot shares in the Company pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the
Companies Act, 2016
This is a renewal of the mandate obtained from the shareholders of the Company at the Annual General Meeting of 31 October
2019 and if passed, will empower the Directors of the Company to issue and allot shares up to an aggregate amount not exceeding
20% of the issued share capital of the Company for the time being for such purposes as the Directors consider would be in the best
interest of the Company.
This authority unless revoked or varied by the Company at a general meeting will expire at the next Annual General Meeting.
The renewal of this mandate would provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising exercise, including but not limited
for further placing of shares, for purpose of funding future investment projects, working capital and/or acquisitions. This authority is
to avoid any delay and cost involved in convening a general meeting to approve such issuance of shares.
As at the date of this Notice, no new shares in the Company were issued pursuant to the mandate granted to the Directors at the
Forty-First Annual General Meeting held on 31 October 2019 and which will lapse at the conclusion of the 42nd AGM to be held
on 28 October 2020.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
8
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
FORTY-SECOND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“42ND AGM”) OF C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
Meeting Platform : https://web.lumiagm.com/
Day and Date : Wednesday, 28 October 2020
Time : 9:30 a.m.
Broadcast Venue : Boardroom, Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari,
		 50450 Kuala Lumpur
Mode of Communication : 1) Typed text in the Meeting Platform
					 2) Alternatively, you may submit your questions to cihagm@cih.com.my by Monday, 26 October 2020
					 at 9:30 a.m. (48 hours before the commencement of the 42nd AGM) and the Board will endeavour
		 to respond to the questions submitted during the AGM.
Dear Shareholders,
As a precautionary measure amid COVID-19 outbreak, the Company’s forthcoming Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) will be
conducted fully virtually on our Meeting Platform, as the safety of our members, Directors, staff and other stakeholders who will
attend the AGM is of paramount importance to us. Hence, NO SHAREHOLDERS will be allowed to physically be present at the
Broadcast venue on the day of the 42nd AGM.
In line with the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance Practice 12.3, by conducting a virtual AGM, this would facilitate greater
shareholder participation as it facilitates electronic voting and remote shareholders’ participation. With the Virtual Meeting Facilities,
you may exercise your right as a member of the Company to participate (including to pose questions to the Board of Directors and/
or Management of the Company) and vote at the AGM. Alternatively, you may also appoint the Chairman of the Meeting as your
proxy to attend and vote on your behalf at the AGM.
As part of our commitment to reduce paper usage, the following documents are available on our website at www.cih.com.my:
(1) Annual Report 2020;
(2) Corporate Governance Report 2020;
(3) Notice of the 42nd AGM;
(4) Form of Proxy; and Administrative Guide.
Should you require a printed copy of the above documents, you may submit your request by through our Smart Investor Portal at
https://boardroomlimited.my via the following steps:
Step 1 : Visit Boardroom Smart Investor portal at https://boardroomlimited.my
Step 2 : Register an account [your registration will be verified and approved within one (1) business day and an email notification
		 will be provided]
Step 3 : Login with your User ID and Password given above
Step 4 : Select “INVESTOR SERVICES” from the menu followed by “REQUEST FOR ANNUAL REPORT/ CIRCULAR”
Alternatively, you may also make your request through telephone/email to our service provider at the number/email address provided
in the enquiry section of this document. Any request for the printed documents would be forwarded to the requestor within four (4)
market days from the date of receipt of the verbal or written request, whichever is later.
Broadcast Venue
The venue of the virtual Meeting as indicated above is strictly to serve as the broadcast venue where the chairperson of the Meeting
is physically present, and no shareholders/proxies shall be physically present at the broadcast venue.
The Meeting will be in compliance with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which provides that the main venue of the AGM
shall be in Malaysia and the chairperson must be present at the main venue of the AGM. The electronic means of conducting the
AGM on a fully virtual basis will facilitate and enable all shareholders to participate fully in the proceedings by audio and/or video
capabilities without the need to be physically present at the Meeting venue, which is advantageous given the current circumstances
relating to COVID-19 and best health practices.
Entitlement to Participate the AGM
In respect of deposited securities, only members whose names appear on the Record of Depositors on 21 October 2020 (General
Meeting Record of Depositors) shall be eligible to participate the meeting or appoint proxy(ies) to participate on his/her behalf.
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
9
Form(s) of Proxy
If you are unable to attend the AGM, you are encouraged to appoint a proxy or the Chairman of the Meeting as your and indicate
the voting instructions in the Proxy Form in accordance with the notes and instructions printed therein. Please ensure that the original
form is deposited at our Share Registrar’s office not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting
i.e. latest by Monday, 26 October 2020 at 9:30 a.m. Details of our Share Registrar’s office can be found in the enquiry section of
this document.
Alternatively, the proxy appointment may also be lodged electronically at https://boardroomlimited.my which is free and available
to all individual shareholders, not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time of holding the 42nd AGM, i.e. latest by Monday, 26
October 2020 at 9:30 a.m. For further information, kindly refer to the “Electronic Lodgement of Form of Proxy” below.
Step 1 Register Online with BoardRoom Smart Investor Portal (for first time registration only)
[Note: If you have already signed up with BoardRoom Smart Investor Portal, you are not required to register again. You may
proceed to Step 2 on eProxy Lodgement.]
a. Access website https:/
/boardroomlimited.my
b. Click <<Login>> and click <<Register>> to sign up as a user.
c. Complete the registration and upload a softcopy of your MyKAD/Identification Card (front and back) or Passport.
d. Please enter a valid email address and wait for BoardRoom’s email verification.
e. Your registration will be verified and approved within one (1) business day and an email notification will be provided.
Step 2 eProxy Lodgement
a. Access website https:/
/boardroomlimited.my
b. Login with your User ID and Password given above.
c. Go to “E-PROXY LODGEMENT” and browse the Meeting List for “C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 42ND VIRTUAL AGM” and click
“APPLY”.
d. Read the terms & conditions and confirm the Declaration.
e. Enter your CDS Account Number and indicate the number of securities.
f. Appoint your proxy(ies) or the Chairman of the Meeting and enter the required particulars for your proxy(ies).
g. Indicate your voting instructions – FOR or AGAINST, otherwise your proxy(ies) will decide your votes.
h. Review and confirm your proxy(ies) appointment.
i. Click submit.
If you wish to participate in the Meeting yourself, please do not submit any proxy form for the Meeting. You
will not be allowed to participate in the Meeting together with a proxy appointed by you.
Revocation of Proxy
If you have submitted your Proxy Form prior to the AGM and subsequently decide to appoint another person or wish to participate
in the Meeting yourself, please write in to BSR.Helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com to revoke the earlier appointed proxy(ies) at least
forty-eight (48) hours before the AGM. On revocation, your proxy(ies) will not be allowed to participate in the Meeting. In such event,
you should advise your proxy(ies) accordingly.
Voting Procedure
The voting will be conducted by poll in accordance with Paragraph 8.29A of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Main Market Listing
Requirements. The Company has appointed BoardRoom Share Registrar Sdn. Bhd. as the Poll Administrator to conduct the poll by
way of electronic voting (e-Voting) and Boardroom Corporate Services Sdn Bhd as Scrutineer to verify the poll results.
Members and proxies are required to use one (1) of the following methods to vote remotely:
(i) Download Lumi AGM App (free of charge) onto your personal voting device prior to the Meeting from Apple App Store or Google
Play Store; or
(ii) Launch Lumi AGM by scanning the QR code given to you in the email along with your remote participation User ID and
Password; or
(iii) Access to Lumi AGM via website URL https://web.lumiagm.com
During the AGM, the Chairman will invite the Poll Administrator to brief on the e-Voting housekeeping rules.
For the purpose of this AGM, e-Voting can be carried out by using either personal smart mobile phones, tablets, personal computers
or laptops. The polling will only commence after announcement of poll being opened by the Chairman and until such time when the
Chairman announces the closure of poll.
The Scrutineer will verify the poll result reports upon closing of the poll session by the Chairman. Thereafter, the Chairman will
announce and declare whether the resolutions put to vote were successfully carried or not.
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
10
Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (RPEV)
Please note that all members including (i) individual members; (ii) corporate shareholders; (iii) authorised nominees; and (iv) exempt
authorised nominees shall use the RPEV facilities to participate and vote remotely at the AGM.
If you wish to participate in the Meeting, you will be able to view a live webcast of the Meeting, ask questions and submit your votes
in real time whilst the Meeting is in progress.
Kindly follow the steps below to request for your login ID and password and usage of the RPEV facilities:
Procedure
Before the day of the AGM Action
1. Register Online with Boardroom
Smart Investor Portal (for first time
registration only)
[Note: If you have already signed up with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal, you are
not required to register again. You may proceed to Step 2 – Submit request for remote
participation.]
a. Access website https:/
/boardroomlimited.my
b. Click <<Login>> and click <<Register>> to sign up as a user.
c. Complete registration and upload softcopy of your MyKAD/Identification Card
(front and back) or Passport.
d. Please enter a valid email address and wait for BoardRoom’s email verification.
e. Your registration will be verified and approved within one (1) business day and an
email notification will be provided.
2. Submit request for remote participation
(User ID and Password)
Registration for remote access will be opened on Tuesday, 29 September 2020.
Please note that the closing time to submit your request is at Monday, 26 October
2020 at 9:30 a.m. (48 hours before the commencement of the AGM).
Individual Members
a. Log in to https:/
/boardroomlimited.my using your user ID and password.
b. Select “VIRTUAL MEETING” from main menu and select the correct Corporate
Event “C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 42ND VIRTUAL AGM”.
c. Read and agree to the Terms & Conditions.
d. Enter your CDS Account and thereafter submit your request.
Corporate Shareholders
a. Write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing the name of
Member, CDS Account Number accompanied with the Certificate of Appointment
of Corporate Representative or Form of Proxy to submit the request.
b. Please provide a copy of Corporate Representative’s MyKad/Identification Card
(Front and Back) or Passport as well as his/her email address.
Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee
a. Write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing the name of
Member, CDS Account Number accompanied with the Form of Proxy to submit
the request.
b. Please provide a copy of Corporate Representative’s MyKad/Identification Card
(Front and Back) or Passport as well as his/her email address.
3. Email notification a. You will receive notification from Boardroom that your request(s) has been received
and is/are being verified.
b. Upon system verification against the General Meeting Record of Depositories as
at 21 October 2020, you will receive an email from Boardroom either approving
or rejecting your registration for remote participation.
c. If your registration is approved, you will also receive your remote access user ID
and password in the same email from Boardroom.
d. Please note that the closing date and time to submit your request is by Monday,
26 October 2020 at 9:30 a.m.
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
(cont’d)
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
11
Procedure
On the day of the AGM Action
4. Login to Virtual Meeting Platform a. The Meeting Platform will be open for login one (1) hour before the commencement
of the AGM at 8:00 a.m. on 28 October 2020.
b. The Meeting Platform can be accessed via one of the following methods:
• Download the free Lumi AGM application from Apple App Store or Google
Play Store;
• Scan the QR Code provided in the email notification;
• Access to Lumi AGM webportal via website at https:/
/web.lumiagm.com
c. Insert the Meeting ID No. and sign in with the user ID and password provided
to you via the email notification in Step 3.
5. Participate [Note: Questions submitted online will be moderated before being sent to the Chairman
to avoid repetition.]
a. If you would like to view the live webcast, select the broadcast icon.
b. If you would like to ask a question during the AGM, select the
messaging icon.
c. Type your message within the chat box, once completed click the send button.
6. Voting a. Once voting has been opened, the polling icon will appear with the resolutions
and your voting choices.
b. To vote simply select your voting direction from the options provided. A confirmation
message will appear to show your vote has been received.
c. To change your vote, simply select another voting direction.
d. If you wish to cancel your vote, please press “Cancel”.
7. End of Participation a. Upon the announcement by the Chairman on the closure of the AGM, the live
webcast will end and the Messaging window will be disabled.
b. You can now logout from the Meeting Platform.
No Distribution Door Gifts, Food and Beverage
There will be no door gifts, food and beverage provided.
No Recording or Photography
No recording or photography of the AGM proceedings is allowed without the prior written permission of the Company.
Enquiry
If you have any enquiries prior to the AGM or if you wish to request for technical assistance to participate in the fully virtual Meeting,
please contact BoardRoom during office hours from Monday to Friday (8:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.), details as follows:
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn. Bhd.
Address		
: 11th Floor, Menara Symphony
			 No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
General Line : 603-7890 4700 (Helpdesk)
Fax Number : 603-7890 4670
Email		 : bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com
Personal Data Policy
By registering for the remote participation and electronic voting meeting and/or submitting the instrument appointing a proxy(ies)
and/or representative(s), the member of the Company has consented to the use of such data for purposes of processing and
administration by the Company (or its agents); and to comply with any laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines. The member
agrees that he/she will indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and damages as a
result of the shareholder’s breach of warranty.
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
12
Datuk Seri Johari Bin
Abdul Ghani
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Chairman
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani, male, aged 56, a Malaysian, was appointed to the Board on 6 March 2019. He was re-
designated as Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman on 30 May 2019. He is a qualified Chartered Accountant under the
Chartered Association of Certified Accountants, United Kingdom. Datuk Seri Johari was a former Minister of Finance II from
27 July 2016 until 9 May 2018.
Datuk Seri Johari began his career at an international accounting firm, Peat Marwick & Co. (now known as KPMG). He has been
involved in the corporate world for more than 25 years where he held senior positions in various companies both listed and unlisted.
He is also shareholder of several companies listed on the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad which are involved in various industries.
Datuk Seri Johari is currently a Chairman and a substantial shareholder of KUB Malaysia Berhad.
Datuk Seri Johari previously served on a number of Boards including amongst others, as the Chairman of Langkawi Development
Authority (LADA), as a Director of Khazanah Nasional Berhad, a Trustee of Yayasan Pelaburan Bumiputera and a member of the
National Productivity & Export Council.
He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business
arrangement with the Company in which he has personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Datuk Seri Johari does not have any convictions for offences within the past 5 years and was not subject
of any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
DIRECTOR’S PROFILE
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
13
Encik Megat Joha Bin
Megat Abdul Rahman
Group Managing Director
Encik Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman, male, aged 57, a Malaysian, was appointed to the Board on 18 April 2013 as an
Executive Director. Subsequently, he was re-designated as Group Managing Director on 29 July 2015. Currently, he is a member
of the Risk Management Committee.
He is a USA trained and qualified accountant who graduated from Boston University, Massachusetts with a Degree in Accounting &
Finance in 1986 and started his career with Peat Marwick Mitchell, Chicago, USA. Having passed the USA CPA examination in 1987
in Chicago he returned to join the KPMG Kuala Lumpur office in 1988.
In 1991, he joined Kumpulan FIMA Berhad where he served in various capacities as Vice President for the Agro-based group and
Business development and as Executive Director/ Chief Executive Officer for Percetakan Keselamatan Nasional and Security Printers
(M) Sdn Bhd, of FIMA Berhad.
In 1998, Encik Megat Joha joined the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange (“KLSE”) (now known as Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad) as
Investigations Senior Manager for Market Supervision. In 1999, he led the project team in establishing the Labuan International Financial
Exchange (“LFX”) for the KLSE, and held the post of Assistant General Manager at LFX till 2002.
In early 2002, he assumed the post of Chief Operating Officer/Executive Director (Operations) at Mayban Securities Sdn Bhd until
late 2005.
His various other stints included being the Group CEO of Majuperak Holdings Berhad and General Manager of Boustead Sissons
Paints Sdn Bhd.
He is currently a Board member of KUB Malaysia Berhad and Central Cable Berhad. He does not have any family relationship with
any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business arrangement with the Company in which he has
personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Encik Megat Joha does not have any convictions for offences within the past 5 years and particulars of any
public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
DIRECTOR’S PROFILE
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
14
DIRECTOR’S PROFILE
(cont’d)
YBhg Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof, female, aged 67, a
Malaysian was appointed to the Board on 27 July 2005 as
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director.
She graduated with BA (Honours), University of Malaya in
1974. She started her career in the field of human resource and
organisational development with multinational companies, namely
Motorola (M) Sdn Bhd, Intel (M) Sdn Bhd, Shell Malaysia Sdn
Bhd and Nestle (M) Sdn Bhd. In 1984, she entered the field of
stockbroking and was the Executive Director of Equity Market of
MIDF Amanah Investment Bank Bhd, until her retirement.
Datin Mariam Prudence other previous appointments include being
a Member of the Kuala Lumpur Stock Exchange Committee (KLSE),
a Director of Labuan International Financial Exchange Inc. (LFX), a
Director of Securities Clearing Automated Network Services Sdn
Bhd (SCANS) and a Director of Research Institute & Investment
Analyst Malaysia (RIIAM) and Trustee of the Bumiputera Training
Fund of the Securities Commission. She was also the Chairman
of the Membership Committee of the KLSE. She retired from the
Board of KLSE and its subsidiaries on 10 April 2004.
In year 2002, she was elected as Chairman of the Association
of Stockbroking Companies of Malaysia (ASCM) with the primary
role of spearheading the demutualization of KLSE to its new entity,
Bursa Malaysia Berhad.
On 26 August 2002, she was appointed as a member of the
National Economic Action Council (NEAC) by the Prime Minister
of Malaysia, and served until the year 2009.
In 2017
, Datin Mariam Prudence was appointed as a Board
member of Bursa Malaysia Berhad, Bursa Malaysia Derivatives
Berhad, Bursa Malaysia Derivatives Clearing Berhad and
resigned from the Board on 1 May 2020. She also serves on the
Board of RAM Rating Services Berhad and iFast Capital Sdn Bhd.
She does not have any family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business
arrangement with the Company in which she has personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, she does not have any convictions
for offences within the past 5 years and particulars of any public
sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
YBhg Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy (“Dato Kumar”), male,
aged 63, a Malaysian was appointed to the Board on 10 June
2015 as Non-Independent Non-Executive Director.
After completing his secondary education, Dato’ Kumar began his
career in 1981 as a Plant Manager in Ngo Chew Hong Edible
Oil Pte Ltd (subsidiary of Mewah International, a listed company in
the Singapore Stock Exchange) and advanced in several positions
in the company before becoming the Chief Executive Officer of
the company. This equipped him with extensive knowledge on
the daily operations of the company including production, finance
and consumer marketing.
Dato’ Kumar left the company in 2011 and was appointed
Managing Director of Saber Pte Ltd. Dato’ Kumar has 39 years of
experience in the palm oil industries, specifically in the consumer
pack segment. He is now the Managing Director of Palmtop
Vegeoil Products Sdn Bhd. He is a well-known and respected
figure in the industry with good relationships built with edible oil
producers and suppliers.
Dato’ Kumar possesses vast knowledge in the palm oil industry
which he had successfully distributed edible oils and fats in retail
packings to over 120 countries in Asia, Middle East, Australasia
and Pacific Islands, Indian sub-continents, Africa, Caribbean
Islands, Commonwealth of Independent States region and Europe.
He is currently a Board member of Tradewinds Plantation Berhad.
He has no directorships in other public companies and listed
issuers. He does not have any family relationship with any Director
and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business
arrangement with the Company in which he has personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Dato’ Kumar does not have any
convictions for offences within the past 5 years and particulars of
any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year.
YBhg Datin
Mariam Prudence
Binti Yusof
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
YBhg Dato’
Sukumaran s/o
Ramasamy
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
15
DIRECTOR’S PROFILE
(cont’d)
Ms. Lee Cheang Mei (“Joyce Lee”), female, aged 61, a
Malaysian, was appointed to the Board on 7 May 2014 as
an Alternate Director to Mr. Fung Heen Choon. She was re-
designated as Non-Independent Non-Executive Director of the
Company on 28 February 2018.
She is the co-founder and Managing Director of Continental
Resources Sdn Bhd [198801006186 (173543-U)] (“CRSB”),
a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. She obtained her
Certificate of Administrative Management from the administration
and business management professional body, Institute of
Administrative Management, in 1983. She has more than 30
years of experience in the edible oils industry where her core
competency is in the marketing and sales of edible oils.
Ms. Joyce Lee began her career as a marketing executive in Felda
Marketing Services Sdn Bhd (“Felda”) in 1981 where she was
responsible for the export sales of palm oil and its downstream
products. During her 7 years tenure with Felda, she successfully
developed the export market for 2 regions, namely Asia (including
Australasia) and the Middle East. Ms. Joyce Lee then joined
Seacourt Pty Ltd, Australia in 1988 as Marketing Director where
she was responsible to explore and create business opportunities
as well as marketing of Malaysia’s palm oil and other liquid oil
products to Australian consumers. In 1990, Ms. Joyce Lee left
Seacourt Pty Ltd and co-founded CRSB where she was appointed
Managing Director of CRSB.
Ms. Joyce Lee’s current position as Executive Director of CRSB
is responsible for identifying, developing and directing the
implementation of CRSB’s business strategies to ensure growth
and progress in expanding market presence in the Asia (including
Australasia), Middle East and Africa regions. She is also responsible
for product development, brand and company positioning as well
as ensuring a positive culture and working environment to achieve
optimum employee productivity.
She has no directorships in other public companies and listed
issuers. She does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and there
is no business arrangement with the Company in which she has
personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Ms. Joyce Lee does not have any
convictions for offences within the past 5 years and particulars of
any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year.
Encik Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin, male,
aged 54, a Malaysian, was appointed to the Board as an
Independent Non-Executive Director and a member of the
Audit Committee on 30 May 2001. He was appointed as
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director on 29 May 2019.
Currently, he is the Chairman of the Remuneration Committee
and Nomination Committee, and also a member of the Risk
Management Committee.
He holds a Bachelor of Law (LLB) degree with honours and was
called to the Malaysian Bar as an Advocate and Solicitor of the
High Court of Malaya in 1994. He is presently the Managing
Partner of Messrs Hisham Yoong – K.C. Lim, a legal firm.
He has no directorships in other public companies and listed
issuers. He does not have any family relationship with any Director
and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business
arrangement with the Company in which he has personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Encik Nor Hishammuddin does not
have any convictions for offences within the past 5 years and
particulars of any public sanction or penalty imposed by the
relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Ms. Lee Cheang Mei
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
Encik Nor
Hishammuddin Bin
Dato’ Mohd Nordin
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
16
DIRECTOR’S PROFILE
(cont’d)
Ms. Teh Bee Tein, female, aged 64, a Malaysian, was
appointed to the Board on 15 April 2009 as an Independent
Non-Executive Director. Currently, she is the Chairman of the
Audit Committee and Risk Management Committee, and also
a member of the Nomination Committee and Remuneration
Committee.
Ms. Teh is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
(MIA) and also a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants-United Kingdom. She has over 30 years experience
in public accounting practice, both in Malaysia and the United
Kingdom. She is currently the Managing Partner of B.T. Teh, Thiang
& Co.-Chartered Accountants (Petaling Jaya), a partner of Thiang
& Co.-Chartered Accountants (Klang) and the Managing Director
of B.T. Teh Tax Services Sdn Bhd.
She has no directorships in other public companies and listed
issuers. She does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and there
is no business arrangement with the Company in which she has
personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Ms. Teh does not have any convictions
for offences within the past 5 years and particulars of any public
sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
Mr. Kasinathan a/l Tulasi (“Mr. Sunther”), male, aged 62, a
Malaysian, was appointed to the Board on 8 February 2011 as
an Independent Non-Executive Director and a member of the
Audit Committee.
He holds a Bachelor of Law (LL.B) degree with honours from the
University of London (External), and he is also a Barrister (Lincoln’s
Inn). He started his career as a Legal Executive in Messrs Shah
& Burke and read in the chambers of Mr. Philip Waller QC in
London. Mr. Sunther returned to Malaysia and was called to the
Malaysian Bar on 27 September 1991. Upon being called to the
Bar, he joined the legal firm of Messrs Sajali, Amier & Partners. In
December 1992, Mr. Sunther resigned from Messrs Sajali, Amier
& Partners to set up the partnership of Messrs A. Zahari Thulasi
now known as Messrs Affendi Zahari.
He is currently a Board member of Central Cable Berhad. He
does not have any family relationship with any Director and/
or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business
arrangement with the Company in which he has personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Mr. Sunther does not have any
convictions for offences within the past 5 years and particulars
any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year.
Ms. Teh Bee Tein
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Kasinathan
a/l Tulasi
Independent
Non-Executive Director
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
17
DIRECTOR’S PROFILE
(cont’d)
YBhg Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat, male, aged 64, a Malaysian,
was appointed to the Board as Independent Non-Executive
Director on 6 March 2017. He is currently a member of
Remuneration Committee and Nomination Committee.
He graduated with BEc (Honours) in the field of Applied Economics,
University Malaya in 1979, and served for 36 years in the public
sector. He started his career as an Administrative and Diplomatic
Officer, and was promoted to the State Development Officer in
1987
, and served until he retired on 31 December 2015.
He has extensive experience in the implementation and
monitoring of Government 5-Year Plan development projects and
the implementation of special projects. He is also experienced
in managing the relationship and cooperation between central
agencies, ministries and state governments.
Throughout 36 years of service, has been awarded the Bintang
Cemerlang Melaka (B.C.M), Ahli Mangku Negara (A.M.N) and
Panglima Mahkota Wilayah (P.M.W) by His Majesty the Yang Di-
Pertuan Agong in conjunction with Federal Territory Day in 2015.
He has no directorships in other public companies and listed
issuers. He does not have any family relationship with any Director
and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business
arrangement with the Company in which he has personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, he does not have any convictions for
offences within the past 5 years and particulars of any public
sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year.
Mr. Fung Heen Choon (“Julian Fung”), male, aged 63, a
Malaysian was appointed to the Board on 7 May 2014 as
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director. On 28 February
2018, he was re-designated as an alternate director to Ms. Lee
Cheang Mei.
He is the co-founder and Executive Director of Continental
Resources Sdn Bhd [198801006186 (173543-U)] (“CRSB”),
a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company. He obtained his
Bachelor of Arts degree in Economics from North East London
Polytechnic, United Kingdom, in 1982. He has more than 20
years of experience in the edible oils industry where his core
competency is in operations, accounting and finance.
Mr. Julian Fung began his career as an account assistant in
London’s E.F. Hutton Pte Ltd in 1984 and was responsible
for contract reconciliation and producing financial reports. In
1987
, Mr. Julian Fung returned to Malaysia and joined Seccon
Management Services Sdn Bhd as Manager and served the
company for a period of 3 years. Mr. Julian Fung was responsible
for the business development of the company as well as secretarial
and management consultation services to its clients. Mr. Julian
Fung resigned from Seccon Management Services Sdn Bhd in
1990 and co-founded CRSB where he was appointed Executive
Director of CRSB, a position he continues to hold till today.
Mr. Julian Fung is responsible for managing the administration
and factory operations of CRSB, including evaluation and
implementation of operational expansion plans, licensing, financial
strategies and cash flow as well as securing trade facilities and
financing from financial institutions.
He has no directorships in other public companies and listed
issuers. He does not have any family relationship with any Director
and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business
arrangement with the Company in which he has personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Mr. Julian Fung does not have any
convictions for offences within the past 5 years and particulars of
any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year.
YBhg Datuk Haji
Ariffin Bin Imat
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Mr. Fung Heen Choon
Alternate Director to
Ms. Lee Cheang Mei
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
18
GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM’S PROFILE
Encik Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman
Group Managing Director
(Please refer to page 14 of Directors’ Profile)
Ms. Lee Cheang Mei
Executive Director - Continental Resources Sdn Bhd
(Please refer to page 16 of Directors’ Profile)
Mr. Fung Heen Choon
Executive Director - Continental Resources Sdn Bhd
(Please refer to page 18 of Directors’ Profile)
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Managing Director-Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn Bhd
(Please refer to page 15 of Directors’ Profile)
Encik Azlan Bin Ahmad
Head of Corporate and Legal Affairs
Encik Azlan Bin Ahmad, aged 52, male, a Malaysian, holds an LL.B (Hons) degree from the Middlesex University, London and
qualified as a Barrister-at-Law (Lincoln’s Inn), England. Currently, he is a member of the Risk Management Committee.
He was called to the Malaysian Bar as an Advocate and Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya in 1993 and spent more than
6 years in private legal practice before joining a public listed company in the fast food industry in year 2000 as its Legal
Manager where he served for 5 years.
He joined the Company’s then subsidiary, Permanis Sdn Bhd in 2005 as its Head of Legal and obtained his qualification
as a Licensed Company Secretary in 2007. He served as the Group Company Secretary for the Company and its group
of companies until July 2016. At the Company, he is responsible for overseeing the Legal and Corporate Secretarial Affairs
department and provides advisory services in the same field to the Company and its subsidiaries.
Apart from Central Cables Berhad, a non-listed public company, he has no directorships in other public companies and listed
issuers. He does not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is no
business arrangement with the Company in which he has personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Encik Azlan does not have any convictions for offences within the past 5 years and particulars of
any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Ms. Chaw Pei Yee
Senior Manager - Finance and Administration
Ms. Chaw Pei Yee, aged 55, female, a Malaysian, holds a Master’s Degree in Business from the Victory University of
Technology, Australia. She is a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants, the Certified Practising Accountant Australia
and Asean Chartered Professional Accountant. Currently, she is a member of the Risk Management Committee.
She has more than 9 years of experience in the external audit field covering a wide range of industries including property
development, manufacturing, construction, hotel, plantations and investment holdings. Prior to joining the Company, she was an
Accountant of a Public Listed Company in the Property Development sector.
She joined the Company as an Accountant and was appointed as Senior Manager-Finance and Administration on 16 April
2007. She oversees the finance, tax, administration and human resources of the Company.
She has no directorships in other public companies and listed issuers. She does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business arrangement with the Company in which she has
personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Ms. Chaw does not have any convictions for offences within the past 5 years and particulars of any
public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
19
GROUP MANAGEMENT TEAM’S PROFILE
(cont’d)
Encik Baharuddin Bin Basirun
Chief Operating Officer of Continental Resources Sdn Bhd
Encik Baharuddin Bin Basirun, aged 57, male, a Malaysian, was appointed as the Chief Operating Officer of Continental
Resources Sdn Bhd [198801006186 (173543-U)] (“CRSB”) on 1 May 2015.
After obtaining a Diploma in Accountancy from Universiti Teknologi MARA (“UiTM”), Shah Alam, Malaysia, he began his career
in 1984, as an Assistant Accountant at Klang Port Authority (KPA). In 1986, he furthered his studies pursuing the Chartered
Institute of Management Accountant (CIMA) qualifications at the Accountancy Tutors, London, United Kingdom. In 1992, upon
his return to Malaysia, he joined the privatised Klang Port Management as an Assistant Accountant.
In 1995, he joined PDX Computers Sdn Bhd as a Senior Executive (Finance). Concurrently, he obtained his Bachelors of
Accounting from UiTM and in 1996, he joined Prolink Development Sdn Bhd, as an Assistant Manager (Finance).
In 1997, he joined Konsortium Logistic Berhad (“KLB”), as an Accountant and his last position with KLB was as its Vice President.
In 2004, he joined Ayamas Food Corporation Sdn Bhd (“Ayamas”), as a Senior Manager and in 2007 was promoted to the
position of Deputy General Manager (“DGM”) of KFC Manufacturing Sdn Bhd. His last position prior to joining the Company
was as the DGM of Ayamas. During his 10 years with the QSR Group, he successfully set-up the Logistics Division, warehouse
management system, re-engineering of its manufacturing system and production management system.
Currently, Encik Baharuddin is the Chief Operating Officer of the Edible Oil Products Division and is responsible for managing
the operations and financial of the Group’s Edible Oils Division including production planning, material planning, supply chain
management, quality management, licensing, financial strategies, cash flow, trade facilities and financing from financial institutions
and project manager for Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) and Manufacturing Execution System (MES) implementation.
He has no directorships in other public companies and listed issuers. He does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business arrangement with the Company in which he has
personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Encik Baharuddin does not have any convictions for offences within the past 5 years and particulars
of any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Mr. Foo Loke Yean
Chief Executive Officer of Doe Industries Sdn Bhd
Mr. Foo Loke Yean (“Robert Foo”), aged 55, male, a Malaysian, is a Graduate Member of The Chartered Institute of Marketing
and Institute of Commercial Management, United Kingdom. After graduating he continued to pursue Advance Diploma in
Business and Management from West Glamorgan Institute of Higher Education, Wales, United Kingdom. Currently, he is a
member of Risk Management Committee of the holding company, C.I. Holdings Berhad.
Prior to joining Doe Industries Sdn Bhd [197701005750 (36788-T)] (“Doe”) in July 2001, he was with Hume Industries Berhad–
Concrete Division as Sales Manager from 1990 to 2001. He has 25 years’ experience in Building Material Industry.
He joined Doe in 2001 as Sales Manager later promoted in 2007 to General Manager–Sales and Marketing and subsequently
in August 2009 was promoted to Chief Executive Officer of Doe Group of Companies. He is overall in charge of the Operation
and Business Development of Tap and Sanitary Ware Division.
He has no directorships in other public companies and listed issuers. He does not have any family relationship with any
Director and/or major shareholder of the Company and there is no business arrangement with the Company in which he has
personal interest.
Other than traffic offences, Mr. Robert Foo does not have any convictions for offences within the past 5 years and particulars
of any public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
20
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OVERVIEW OF GROUP’S BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
Company Profile
The Group is divided into two main divisions, namely the Edible Oil Products Division and the Tap and Sanitary Ware Division.
The former focuses on exporting consumer-packed edible oil products while the latter is mainly involved in manufacturing, trading
and distribution of sanitary ware and tap fittings to the property development market.
Edible Oil Products Division
The Edible Oil Products Division consists of Continental Resources Sdn Bhd [198801006186 (173543-U)] (“CRSB”) and the
Palmtop Group (“Palmtop”).
CRSB has three plants based in Banting, Klang equipped with 23 packing lines with a rated packing capacity of 414,000 metric
tonnes of edible oils per annum and 37 oil tanks with a total tankage capacity of 3,870 metric tonnes.
CRSB also has 15 Jerry-Can (“JC”) moulding machines with a monthly production capacity of 600,000 jerry cans in various sizes,
i.e. 3L, 5L, 10L, 18L, 20L & 25L. 10 JC machines at Plant 2 and 5 JC machines at CRSB’s new Plant 3.
As CRSB manufactures its own jerry cans packaging material, there are cost savings of between of up to 5% in terms of costs
incurred for the purchase of packing materials and their logistics costs. These savings are either shared with the customers or
serve to improve the selling margins. These high-quality jerry cans are packed with cooking oil and exported with very minimal
rejections and customer complaints. Thus, placing CRSB in a more competitive position amongst its competitors in the industry in
increasing profitability and market share.
Palmtop Group in turns operates two packing plants in Pasir Gudang, Johor which comprises of Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn.
Bhd. [199301012218 (266956-P)], PNC Oil Factory (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. [199501042433 (371637-V)] and Continental Palms
Pte Ltd, a sales & marketing office based in Singapore. It has 14 packing lines with a rated packing capacity of 237,000 metric
tonnes of edible oils per annum and 32 oil tanks with a total capacity of 4,000 metric tonnes.
Tap And Sanitary Ware Division
The Tap and Sanitary Ware Division currently has one manufacturing plant in Senawang, Negeri Sembilan. It also has a sales
and marketing headquarters located in Damansara Utama, Petaling Jaya which also functions as a distribution centre.
The division is committed to service and promote business partnerships with its retail outlets nationwide, leverage Original
Equipment Manufacturer (“OEM”) partnerships with local and overseas brands and work closely with major developers and
government agencies to secure orders. It will also emphasise on building materials to increase revenue and focus on stringent
control on quality for OEM/trading items. Through its agents under the respective brands, the division traded various types of
building materials such as roof tiles, wall and floor tiles, paint, kitchen appliances, precast concrete products and timber plywood.
However, as the building materials industry is currently experiencing very bad times, it is the intention to sell the Tap and Sanitary
Ware Division to whomever will be keen to expand and tap into the hardware market totalling around 1,000 dealers. The Group
will then focus all its effort and resources to further drive growth in the edible oil business.
Vision
The Group strives to develop, enhance and create a comprehensive portfolio of consumer brands to enable the generation of
sustainable profit growth and reasonable investment returns to the shareholders.
Principal Activities Of The Group
• Blending and packing of vegetable-based edible oils.
• Marketing, branding and merchandising of various consumer-packed edible oil products in the domestic and international market.
• Manufacturing and trading a broad range of tap and sanitary ware products.
Key Markets
Asia (including Australasia), Africa and the Middle East regions.
Strategies In Creating Value
• Leveraging core competencies and areas of strategic advantage.
• Identifying compelling market opportunities by maintaining abreast of market developments and evolving customer needs.
• Offering a broad and compelling portfolio of products and brands tailored to customer needs/wants.
• Continual optimisation of business processes.
• Providing opportunities for growth and enrichment to the employees, the business partners and the communities in which
we operate.
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
21
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
Highlights Of The Group’s Financial Information For The Past 5 Financial Years
Financial (in RM’000)
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Revenue 2,572,493 2,272,914 2,602,701 2,175,392 1,305,383
Profit before interest and tax 63,584 45,934 58,395 59,528 57,630
Finance costs (10,517) (12,640) (13,095) (8,683) (5,311)
Net profit 45,311 27,074 45,034 38,573 38,348
Shareholders’ Funds 227,663 210,392 211,153 192,946 173,880
Total assets 805,076 573,969 588,973 664,075 421,865
Borrowings 375,136 202,057 243,034 248,274 134,867
Debt/Equity (%) 165 96 115 129 78
Earnings per share (sen) 18.59 11.75 19.20 16.70 16.43
Net assets per share (RM) 1.41 1.30 1.30 1.19 1.07
Dividend per share (sen) 10 8 10 8 5
Share Performance (RM)
2020 2019 2018 2017 2016
Year high 1.55 1.94 2.39 2.73 3.20
Year low 0.82 1.21 1.80 2.28 1.67
Year close 1.20 1.37 1.84 2.34 2.55
Market capitalisation
(as at financial year end) 194.4 million 221.94 million 298.08 million 379.08 million 413.1 million
REVIEW OF FINANCIAL RESULTS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
Revenue
The Group’s revenue increased by 13% from RM2.3 billion to RM 2.6 billion for the financial year under review as compared to
the previous financial year, mainly contributed from the factors below:
• Increase in shipments of full container loads (“FCLs”) or tonnage sold. This was contributed by the demand surge of edible oil
products in West and East Africa region during the 2019 Novel Coronavirus Infection (“COVID-19”) lockdown period.
• Increase in average palm olein prices by 12% or USD65. USD592 per tonne was recorded in this financial year. It was due to
rising global demand fearful of running out of stock during the fourth quarter (April 2020 – June 2020) (“Q4FY20”) period. Lower
inventory stock balances for Crude Palm Olein (“CPO”) as a result of operational shutdowns throughout Malaysia during the early
phases of the COVID-19 pandemic led to surging olein prices. Additionally, the increasing price spread between palm olein and
soft oils prices led to higher demand for the cheaper palm olein at price sensitive countries who were experiencing low stock of
cooking oil. This eventually led the customers to order large quantities at higher prices to secure urgent shipments to their markets
that were severely affected by their own COVID-19 pandemic lock-downs and loss of local production and supplies.
Profit Before Tax (“PBT”) & Expenses (costs)
The Group’s profit before tax increased by 59% to RM53 million for the current year from RM33 million in the previous year due
to improved selling margins brought about by higher selling prices and favourable olein purchase costs and higher customer
demand.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
22
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
Operating expenses increased from RM72 million to RM105 million during the year, a 46% increase as compared to the previous
year in line with revenue growth and due to documentation and agency fees, higher factory equipment upkeep costs and higher
provisions for staff bonuses and overtime. These costs were however moderated by lower travelling expenses, staff refreshment,
entertainment costs, trade exhibition expenses brought about by the early phase Movement Control Order (“MCO”) lockdowns
and global travel bans.
Total finance costs also decreased by 17% from RM13 million to RM11 million during the reporting financial year. This is mainly
due to lower utilisation of trade facilities because of the efforts to reduce facility utilisation to control finance costs by paying cash
for certain capital expenditures, wherever possible.
Assets: Trade Receivables
Trade receivables increased by 55% from RM287 million to RM445 million or on average being outstanding from 46 days
to 63 days during the year primarily due to higher sales during the current financial period and also affected by the various
lockdowns at the customers’ markets who faced some delays in remitting payments cost of documentation clearance delays at
arrival ports. We expect this to be temporary whilst the markets we export to accustom themselves to the new norms brought on
by this COVID-19 pandemic.
Assets: Inventories
There was an increase in inventories by 26%, from RM46 million in the previous financial year to RM59 million. This is in
proportion to the higher revenue recorded in the financial year under review.
Assets: Cash And Bank Balances
The Group’s bank balances and deposits placed with financial institutions increased by 38%, from RM120 million to RM165
million. This was mainly due to the higher proceeds arising from increased sales made during the financial year end 30 June
2020 (“FYE2020”).
Liabilities: Trade And Other Payables
The Group’s trade and other payables increased by 14% from RM122 million in the previous financial year to RM139 million. This
is in tandem with the higher revenue recorded during the year.
Capital Structure And Capital Resources
The Group remains prudent in maintaining a sound financial position to enable the execution of strategic objectives in creating
value over the coming years. Group’s borrowings increased by 86% from RM202 million to RM375 million during the year as a
result of higher purchases of olein in tandem with increased sales and rising average olein prices during the FYE2020.
Known Trends And Events
The COVID-19 pandemic is taking a toll on the Malaysian economy as well as many other countries around the world. The MCO
and subsequent Conditional Movement Control Orders (“CMCO”) were fully enforced since 18 March 2020. This has dampened
domestic economic activities. Evidently and unfortunately this has severely impacted the Group’s Tapware and Sanitary Ware
Division (“DOE Group”) which is deemed a non-essential sector. DOE Group was not allowed to operate or did not operate at
full capacity for most of the Q4FY20 period. As such, the division registered a loss after taxation (“LAT”).
However, on the flip side, the Group’s Edible Oil Division is benefitting from the outbreak. There was a surge in demand for the
edible oil products during Q4FY20 especially in the East and West Africa regions. More countries were implementing quarantine
measures to slow the spread of the COVID-19 outbreak; therefore, their local goods production has been affected. The inventory
of edible oil product has depleted. This caused the countries in East and West Africa regions desperately seeking and securing
goods to cover their shortfall in the local market. This has certainly brought advantages to the Edible Oil Products Division in
exporting more FCLs to the mentioned countries. Most of the sales orders were done with immediate delivery which fetched
premium pricing.
Thus, the Edible Oil Products Division registered a higher profit after taxation (“PAT”), owing to better selling margins and brilliant
team effort in achieving higher sales despite the current challenges during the second half of the FYE2020.
REVIEW OF OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Operating Activities
The Group’s profit before interest and taxation (“PBIT”) increased by 38% from RM46 million in the previous financial year to RM64
million this year. The positive growth was particularly attributed from the better margins in exporting edible oil products during
the COVID-19 lockdown period. Local packing production in some of the countries has been significantly affected. As a result,
there was a shortage in stocks resulting in a demand surge in edible oil products especially in the East and West Africa regions.
Aside from that, there were no further significant developments in the operating activities during the financial year.
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
23
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
(cont’d)
ANTICIPATED OR KNOWN RISKS
Foreign Exchange Risk
The Group exports approximately 95% of its products worldwide each year, thereby increasing the risk of exposure to currency
exchange. However, this risk is mitigated by way of forward currency contracts, wherever possible.
Country Risk
To a large extent, financial performance is dependent on political, economic and regulatory environment in the importing
countries. Any adverse developments may result in default of contracts, collection problems leading to bad debts and possible
loss of market share. The Group thus closely monitors the situation on a weekly basis of the importing countries to identify, plan
and execute counter measures to mitigate such risks.
FUTURE PROSPECTS
Possible Trend And Outlook
The Group will focus on its expansion plans for revenue growth for its edible oil operations and with smart partnership tie-up with
property developers for the Tap and Sanitary Ware Division to enhance shareholders’ value.
The Edible Oil Products Division is focusing on expanding its customer base and products range especially in non-oil products
such as, soap related products, evaporated and condensed milk and milk powder to improve future earnings and margins for
the Group. In addition, the division has also initiated cost control measures in its daily operation. It is also reorganising its current
production floor layout in order to accommodate increasing demand by improving production efficiency by way of increasing
production automation to help reduce reliance on manual processes and foreign workers.
The Tap and Sanitary Ware Division will emphasize the retail market and online retail stores as more contractors now purchase
tapware and sanitary wares from the hardware retailers. Additionally, the Tap and Sanitary Ware Division managed to secure a
number of hospital projects to ensure a more sustainable and long-term business model, with more still in the negotiation stage.
The division will continue to focus into specification and extension of its range of products in the healthcare market.
The division also aspires to be the “Station Master” for tap and sanitary ware for all MRT and LRT stations nationwide, after
securing the supply tender to all 32 MRT 2 stations from Sg Buloh – Serdang – Putrajaya. Going forward, it is looking to secure
more of such projects to ensure a sustainable stream of income for better profit margin for the Group.
Dividend Policy
The Group has no dividend policy in place on the account of possible requirements of funds for future expansions and growth.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
24
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of C.I. Holdings Berhad (“CIH” or “the Company”) is committed in ensuring that the Company and
its subsidiaries (the “Group”) practise a high standard of corporate governance in discharging its responsibilities to enhance shareholders’
value and financial position of the Group.
The Board continues to review its existing corporate governance practices and policies throughout the Group in ensuring full application
of key corporate governance principles as set out in the Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance 2017 (“MCCG”).
This statement which is made pursuant to paragraph 15.25 of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”), sets out the manner in which the Group has applied the principles and recommendations
of MCCG. It must be read together with the Corporate Governance Report published on CIH’s website at www.cih.com.my.
PRINCIPLE A : BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
I. Board Responsibilities
The Board is cognizant of its responsibilities by ensuring proper control of the economics and financial management of the
Company and validates the strategic directions proposed by the Management for implementation.
The Board acts in the best interests of CIH, honestly, fairly and diligently and in accordance with the duties and obligations
imposed upon it by Constitution of the Company and the law.
The Board also serves as a panel to provide effective guidance on the assessment of principal risks and the appropriate systems
to manage these risks, as well as to review the adequacy and integrity of the Company’s internal control system in safeguarding
shareholder interests and the Company’s assets.
The Board’s role and responsibilities include but are not limited to the following:
• Setting and reviewing the objectives, goals and strategic plans for the Group with a view to maximising shareholders’ value.
• Adopting and monitoring progress of the Company’s strategies, budgets, plans and policies.
• Overseeing the conduct of the Group’s businesses to evaluate whether the businesses are properly managed.
• Identifying principal risks of the Group and ensuring the implementation of appropriate systems to mitigate and manage
these risks.
• Considering Management’s recommendations on key issues including acquisitions, divestments, restructuring, funding and
significant capital expenditure.
• Implementing succession planning for senior management.
• Reviewing the adequacy and integrity of the Group’s internal control systems and management information systems.
To ensure the effective discharge of its functions and responsibilities, the Board has in place, business authority limits which sets
out relevant matters which the Board has delegated to the Management Team led by the Group Managing Director (“GMD”).
These authority limits are reviewed and revised as and when required, to ensure an optimum structure for efficient and effective
decision-making in the Group.
There is a schedule of matters reserved specifically for the Board’s decision, including the conflict of interest issues relating to
a substantial shareholder or a Director, material acquisitions and disposition of assets not in the ordinary course of business,
investments in Capital projects, authority levels, treasury policies, risk management policies as well as key human resource
issues. The Executive Directors and the Management are tasked to ensure compliance with this. These authority limits are
reviewed and revised as and when required, to ensure an optimum structure for efficient and effective decision-making in the
Group. The Business Authority Limits for all the subsidiaries were last reviewed and updated on 21 September 2016 with the
approval from the Board.
It is also the Directors’ responsibility to declare to the Board whether they have any potential or actual conflict of interest in any
transactions or in any contract or proposed contract with the Company or any of its related companies. Where issues involve
conflict of interest, the Directors will abstain from discussion and voting on the matters as well as abstain from any other decision
making process in relation to these transactions.
The Board delegates certain responsibilities to the Board Committees, all of which operate within defined terms of reference.
The roles of the Chairman and GMD remain separate and distinct. The Chairman plays an important leadership role and is
responsible for:
• Leading the Board in setting the values and standards of the Company;
• Maintaining a relationship of trust with and between the Executive and Non-Executive Directors;
• Ensuring the provision of accurate, timely and clear information to Directors;
• Ensuring effective communication with shareholders and relevant stakeholders;
• Arranging regular evaluation of the performance of the Board, its Committees and individual Directors; and
• Facilitating the effective contribution of Non-Executive Directors and ensuring constructive relations be maintained between
Executive and Non-Executive Directors.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
25
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
The Chairman, in consultation with the GMD and the Company Secretaries, sets the agenda for Board meetings and ensures
that all relevant issues are on the agenda. He ensures that all Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at Board meetings,
sufficient time is allowed for the discussion of complex or contentious issues and, where appropriate, arranging for informal
meetings beforehand to enable thorough preparation for the Board discussion, the issues discussed are forward looking and
concentrates on strategy, every Board resolution is put to vote to ensure the will of the majority prevails and that all Executive
Directors look beyond their executive functions and accept their full share of responsibilities on governance.
The Company is committed to the highest standards of ethics and business conduct and has set in place a Code of Conduct
which governs employees conduct and behaviour in carrying out their duties and responsibilities in the day-to-day business
operations. The Code of Conduct outlines minimum standards expected of employees in dealing with conflicts of interest, supplier
relationships, interests in competitors, external businesses or activities, transactions with the Company, use of the Company’s
property or information, disclosure of information, personal or romantic relationships, laws and regulations, condonation,
business records, illegal or questionable payments and supplier obligations.
The Board Charter was last revised and updated on 29 May 2019 to be in line with MCCG, sets out inter alia, the roles and
responsibilities of the Board and Board Committees, the procedures for convening Board meetings, financial reporting, investor
relations and shareholder communication. The Charter which serves as a source of reference for Directors, will be reviewed and
updated periodically in accordance with the needs of the Company and any new regulations that may have an impact on the
discharge of the Board’s responsibilities.
The Board Charter is made available for reference at the Company’s website at www.cih.com.my/about-us/corporate-
governance.
An Employee Handbook, which was adopted by the Group includes the Employee’s Code of Conduct and Whistleblowing
Policy, which is intended to cover protection for staff who raise concerns in relation to irregular and unlawful practices.
In addition to the Code of Conduct, a Whistle Blowing Policy has been put in place. The existence of the whistle blower policy
provides a mechanism and offers protection for employees to report matters such as financial malpractice or impropriety or
fraud, failure to comply with legal obligations or statutes, dangers to health and safety or the environment, criminal activity,
improper conduct or unethical behaviour or any attempts to conceal any of the above. The protection of the employee who
report breaches and non-compliances is in line with the Public Interest Disclosure Act which came into effect in 1999. The policy
is disseminated to subsidiaries and is available for access by employees.
This policy is designed to enable employees of the Company to raise concerns internally and at a high level and to disclose
information which the individual believes shows malpractice or impropriety. This policy is intended to cover concerns which
are in the public interest and may at least initially be investigated separately but might then lead to the invocation of other
procedures e.g. disciplinary. These concerns could include:
• Financial malpractice or impropriety or fraud
• Failure to comply with a legal obligation or Statutes
• Dangers to Health and safety or the environment
• Criminal activity
• Improper conduct or unethical behaviour
• Attempts to conceal any of these
The employees are guided by the Whistleblowing Policy when relying any information in relation to the abovementioned in
writing to designated persons stated in the said policy. Upon receipt of report made together with available evidence, the
investigator is tasked to investigate and take all reasonable steps to ensure that investigations regarding the report and disclosure
are carried out fairly, unbiased and with due regards to the principles of nature justice. The investigator will report the outcome
of the investigation to the GMD or Chairman.
In addition, subsequent to the introduction of Corporate Liability Provision for bribery and corruption under Section 17A of
the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 (“MACC Act”), the Board has in June 2020 approved the adoption of
the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy which sets out the policies and procedures towards compliance with the MACC Act.
The Anti-Corruption Policy will be reviewed periodically to assess its effectiveness, and in any event, at least once every three
(3) years.
The details of the Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and Whistleblowing Policy are available on the Company’s website at
www.cih.com.my.
The Board members have full access to the two (2) Companies Secretaries, both are professionally qualified, who play an
advisory role to the Board in relation to the Company’s constitution, Board’s policies and procedures as well as compliance
with the relevant guidelines, regulatory and statutory requirements, corporate governance and best practices.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
26
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
The Company Secretaries are also responsible in organising and attending all Board and Committee Meetings, ensuring
adherence to board policies and procedures and that all statutory records are well maintained at the registered office of the
Company. The Company Secretaries also ensures that the deliberations and decisions made at the Board and Committee
Meetings are well captured and minuted.
II. Board Composition
CIH is led and managed by a competent Board comprising members with vast experience in the fields relevant to the
Company. The breadth and depth of the Board skills are vital for the successful stewardship of CIH’s strategic direction and
operations to maximise shareholder value. Besides having an extensive knowledge and expertise in the real estate investment
and property development, the Board possesses a good mix of skills in business strategies, management, finance, economics,
legal and human resources.
As at 30 June 2020, the Board has ten (10) members, comprising one (1) Executive Director and nine (9) Non-Executive
Directors, of which four (4) of the Non-Executive Directors are Independent Directors, four (4) are Non-Independent Non-
Executive Directors and one (1) Alternate Director. This complies with the Listing Requirements of at least two (2) or one-third
(1/3) of the Board to be independent.
During the financial year ended 30 June 2020, five (5) Board meetings were held to review the Group’s operations, to approve
the quarterly financial results, year-end financial statements and other matters such as the business plan, the direction of the
Group, new investment and business proposals. A summary of the attendance of each Director at the Board meetings held
during the financial year under review is as follows:
Directors Designation
No. of Board
Meetings Attended
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani
Chairman, Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
5/5
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman Group Managing Director 5/5
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof Non-Independent Non-Executive Director 5/5
Lee Cheang Mei Non-Independent Non-Executive Director 5/5
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy Non-Independent Non-Executive Director 5/5
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 5/5
Teh Bee Tein Independent Non-Executive Director 5/5
Kasinathan a/l Tulasi Independent Non-Executive Director 3/5
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat Independent Non-Executive Director 5/5
Fung Heen Choon
(Alternate Director to Lee Cheang Mei)
Alternate Director to Lee Cheang Mei,
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
3/5
The Independent Directors provide independent judgment, objectivity and check and balance on the Board. This is to protect
the interests of shareholders, employees, various other stakeholders and the communities where the Company operates.
The Board takes cognisant of the recommendation to have gender diversity on the Board and will through its Nomination
Committee (“NC”) take steps to ensure that women candidates are sought as part of its recruitment exercise. Currently, the
Company has three (3) women directors achieving its target of at least 30% of women participation on the Board.
In maintaining the effectiveness of the Board and the independence of Independent Directors, the Board through its NC
performs annual assessment in order to review that the Board as a whole and to ensure that individual director performed
effectively in discharging their functions and duties as well as to mitigate risks arising from conflict of interests or undue influence
affecting their independence. The assessment is conducted via the Assessment Sheet for each of the Board and the Independent
Directors of the Company. The assessment on independence serves as a form of attestation by the Independent Directors that
they are able to exercise independent judgment, impartiality and objectivity in the best interest of the Company.
In determining the succession planning for the members of the Board, the NC ensures that each nominated candidate has
comprehensive job description covering experience, qualifications and core competencies required of a director and taking
into account the existing skills and expertise of the Board and the anticipated time commitment required before recommending
the appointment as Director to the Board for approval.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
27
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
Succession planning for the GMD, Executive Directors, Chief Executive Officer of the Group and key management personnel is
deliberated on by the NC and thereafter makes necessary recommendation to the Board for their consideration and approval.
Whilst succession planning for other Senior Management positions is determined by a structured process led by the Human
Resource Department and endorsed by the GMD of the Company, Executive Directors and/or Chief Executive Officer of
the subsidiaries.
The Board, with the support from Company Secretaries would assessed the training needs of each director. The Directors of the
Company attended and participated in various trainings, seminars and forums organised either externally or internally by the
Company in areas of finance, tax, accounting and regulatory updates. Members of the Board constantly, on their own initiatives
update themselves on the development of the aforesaid by way of reading related literatures and publications on the same.
Some of the development and training programmes attended by Directors for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 were
as follows:
Director Training Programme Organiser Date
Datuk Seri Johari Bin
Abdul Ghani
National Anti-Corruption Plan (NACP)
2019-2023.
Institut Integriti
Malaysia
14 January 2020
Megat Joha Bin
Megat Abdul Rahman
Malaysia-Vietnam Palm Oil Trade Fair
Seminar:
- Malaysian Palm Oil: Enhancing
Partnership, Exploring Opportunities.
Malaysia Palm Oil
Council
13 September 2019
Anti-Corruption Act. Institut Integriti Malaysia 3 December 2019
National Anti-Corruption Plan (NACP)
2019-2023.
Institut Integriti Malaysia 14 January 2020
Datin Mariam Prudence
Binti Yusof
National Anti-Corruption Plan (NACP)
2019-2023.
Institut Integriti Malaysia 14 January 2020
Dato’ Sukumaran
s/o Ramasamy
Malaysia-Vietnam Palm Oil Trade Fair
Seminar:
- Malaysian Palm Oil: Enhancing
Partnership, Exploring Opportunities.
Malaysian Palm Oil
Council
13 September 2019
Lee Cheang Mei
Malaysia-Vietnam Palm Oil Trade Fair
Seminar:
- Malaysian Palm Oil: Enhancing
Partnership, Exploring Opportunities.
Malaysian Palm Oil
Council
13 September 2019
National Anti-Corruption Plan (NACP)
2019-2023.
Institut Integriti Malaysia 14 January 2020
Mitigating the impact of COVID-19 on
Malaysia Palm Oil Trade.
Malaysia Palm Oil
Council
12 May 2020
Palm Oil in the Post-Pandemic Market.
Malaysian Palm Oil
Council
11 June 2020
Nor Hishammuddin
Bin Mohd Nordin
Securities Commission Malaysia’s
(SC) Audit Oversight Board (AOB)
Conversation with Audit Committees.
Securities Commission 8 November 2019
National Anti-Corruption Plan (NACP)
2019-2023.
Institut Integriti Malaysia 14 January 2020
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
28
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
Director Training Programme Organiser Date
Teh Bee Tein
National Tax Conference 2019.
Chartered Tax Institute
of Malaysia (CTIM)
5 & 6 August 2019
Seminar Percukaian Kebangsaan 2019. Lembaga Hasil
Dalam Negeri
15 October 2019
2020 Budget Seminar. CTIM 24 October 2019
National Anti-Corruption Plan (NACP)
2019-2023.
Institut Integriti Malaysia 14 January 2020
Kasinathan a/l Tulasi
National Anti-Corruption Plan (NACP)
2019-2023.
Institut Integriti Malaysia 14 January 2020
Datuk Haji Ariffin
Bin Imat
National Anti-Corruption Plan (NACP)
2019-2023. Institut Integriti Malaysia 14 January 2020
Fung Heen Choon
(Alternate Director to
Lee Cheang Mei)
Malaysia-Vietnam Palm Oil Trade Fair
Seminar:
- Malaysian Palm Oil: Enhancing
Partnership, Exploring Opportunities.
Malaysian Palm Oil
Council
13 September 2019
National Anti-Corruption Plan (NACP)
2019-2023.
Institut Integriti Malaysia 14 January 2020
Mitigating the impact of COVID-19 on
Malaysia Palm Oil Trade.
Malaysian Palm Oil
Council
12 May 2020
Palm Oil in the Post-Pandemic Market. Malaysian Palm Oil
Council
11 June 2020
III. Remuneration
The Board believes in a competitive and transparent remuneration framework that supports the Directors’ and Senior Management’s
responsibilities and fiduciary duties in managing the Group to achieve its long term objective and enhance stakeholders’ value.
The remuneration of Directors is determined at levels which enable the Company to attract and retain Directors with the relevant
experience and expertise to govern the Group effectively. In the case of Executive Directors, the remuneration is structured to
link rewards to corporate and individual performance based on key performance indicators. For Non-Executive Directors, the
level of remuneration reflects their experience and level of responsibilities.
Non-Executive Directors
Name
Salary/Fees
(RM’000)
Bonus
(RM’000)
Defined
Contribution
Plan – EPF
(RM’000)
Other
Emoluments/
Allowances
(RM’000)
Benefits
In-Kind
(RM’000)
Total
(RM’000)
Datuk Seri Johari Bin
Abdul Ghani
50 - - 9 - 59
Datin Mariam Prudence
Binti Yusof
35 - - 10 - 45
Teh Bee Tein 35 - - 35 - 70
Nor Hishammuddin Bin
Dato’ Mohd Nordin
35 - - 30 - 65
Kasinathan a/l Tulasi 35 - - 12 - 47
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat 35 - - 14 - 49
Total 225 - - 110 - 335
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
29
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
Executive Directors
Name
Salary/Fees
(RM’000)
Bonus
(RM’000)
Defined
Contribution
Plan – EPF1
(RM’000)
Other
Emoluments/
Allowances
(RM’000)
Benefits
In-Kind
(RM’000)
Total
(RM’000)
Megat Joha Bin Megat
Abdul Rahman
840 260 125 50 31 1,306
Lee Cheang Mei 750 256 117 - 32 1,155
Fung Heen Choon 750 256 117 - 21 1,144
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o
Ramasamy
1,946 3,013 101 1,824 - 6,884
Total 4,286 3,785 460 1,874 84 10,489
1 Inclusive of Company’s contribution to employee provident fund and social security organisation contribution.
² Bonus for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 inclusive of employee provident fund.
* Ms. Lee Cheang Mei, Mr. Fung Heen Choon and Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy are executive directors of the subsidiaries
and their remuneration are paid out of such subsidiaries.
The remuneration (including salary, bonus, allowances, benefits-in-kind and other emoluments) of top four (4) key Senior
Management personnel on a named basis during the financial year in bands of RM50,000 are set out below:
Range of Remuneration Key Senior Management
RM550,000 – RM600,000
Azlan Bin Ahmad
(Head-Corporate and Legal Affairs)
RM500,000 – RM550,000
Baharuddin Bin Basirun
(Chief Operating Officer of Continental Resources Sdn Bhd)
RM400,000 – RM450,000
Foo Loke Yean
(Chief Executive Officer of Doe Industries Sdn Bhd)
RM400,000 – RM450,000
Chaw Pei Yee
(Senior Manager-Finance and Administration)
The disclosures on Practise 6.2 and 7.1 to 7.3 of the MCCG are disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report.
PRINCIPLE B : EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. Audit Committee
The Audit Committee (“AC”) comprises three (3) members, all of whom are Non-Executive Directors and is chaired by and
Independent Non-Executive Director.
The composition of the AC is reviewed by the NC annually and recommended to the Board for approval. In safeguarding and
independent and effective AC whilst taking guidance from the MCCG, the NC that the membership for AC consists at least
one (1) member who is financially literate and possesses appropriate level of expertise, experience and strong understanding
the Company’s business.
The disclosures on Practise 8.1 to 8.5 of the MCCG are disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
30
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
(cont’d)
II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Board understands that the ultimate responsibility for ensuring a sound internal control systems which provides reasonable
assurance on the effectiveness and efficiency of the systems lies with the Board. The Group’s internal control system is crafted
to manage the risks to achieve Company’s objectives aside from safeguarding the stakeholder’s interest and the Group’s asset.
The internal audit function of the Group is performed in-house and reports to the AC directly in order to ensure that the
independence of the Internal Audit Department is preserved.
The disclosures on Practise 9.1 and 9.2 of the MCCG are disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report
and the details of the Risk Management and Internal Control Framework are set out in the Statement on
Internal Control and Risk Management of the Annual Report.
III. Internal Audit
The internal audit function is performed in-house whose primary responsibility is to assure the Board, through the AC, that the
internal control systems are functioning as intended.
In providing this assurance, the Internal Audit Department carries out regular audit activities in accordance with its annual audit
plan to review the adequacy and integrity of internal control systems and to identify opportunities for improvement in operational
efficiency. The AC reports to the Board on its activities, significant audit results or findings and necessary recommendations or
actions needed to be taken by management to rectify those issues.
The internal audit plan for each financial year will be approved by the AC and stipulates, amongst others, the internal auditors’
role, scope and authority, organisation status and reporting structure, independence and objectivity and responsibilities.
The disclosures on Practises 10.1 to 10.2 of the MCCG are disclosed in the Corporate Governance Report as
well as Audit and Risk Management Committee’s Report of the Annual Report.
PRINCIPLE C : INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
I. Communication with Stakeholders
The Board acknowledges the need for shareholders to be informed of all material business matters of the Company.
Announcements to Bursa Securities are made on significant developments and matters of the Group. Financial results are
released on a quarterly basis to provide shareholders with a regular overview of the Group’s performance. The Corporate
Communication Department of the Company also arranges press interviews and briefings, and releases press announcements
to provide information on the Group’s business activities, performance and major developments, as and when necessary.
In addition to published annual report and quarterly results announced to Bursa Securities, the Company has a website at
www.cih.com.my from which investors and shareholders can access for information about the Group. Any enquiries may
be directed to this email address, info@cih.com.my.
While the Company endeavours to provide as much information as possible to its shareholders and stakeholders, it is mindful
of the legal and regulatory framework governing the release of material and price-sensitive information.
II. Conduct Of General Meetings
The Company’s general meetings serve as a forum for dialogue and interaction with shareholders. Notice of the AGM and
Annual Report are sent to the shareholders at least 28 days before the date of the meeting. The Board has ensured each
item of special business included in the notice of meeting is accompanied by an explanatory statement on the effects of the
proposed resolution.
Notices of general meetings with sufficient information of business to be dealt with thereat are also published in one national
newspaper to provide for wider dissemination of such notice to encourage shareholder participation. At the general meetings,
shareholders have direct access to the Board and are encouraged to participate in the question and answer session.
Resolutions will be voted by way of poll as required under the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, and the Company
will make an announcement on the detailed results to Bursa Securities.
In facilitating greater participation by shareholders at AGMs of the Company, CIH will continue to explore possible means
of leveraging the technology such as to conduct general meetings using electronic communication devices and appointment
of proxy via electronic means.
This Corporate Governance Statement was approved by the Board of CIH on 25 August 2020.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
31
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) is pleased to present the Audit Committee Report and its activities held throughout the financial
year ended 30 June 2020 in compliance with Paragraph 15.15 of the Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”)
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”).
1. MEMBERS OF THE AUDIT COMMITTEE
The Audit Committee (“AC”) currently comprises the following members, all of which are Independent Non-Executive Directors.
In accordance with corporate governance best practice, the AC Chairman has the necessary accounting and finance
qualification. A summary of their respective attendance at the AC meetings held during the financial year are as follows:
Members No. of Meetings Attended Percentage (%)
Teh Bee Tein (MIA 3454) – Chairman
Independent Non-Executive Director
5/5 100.0%
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin – Member
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
5/5 100.0%
Kasinathan a/l Tulasi – Member
Independent Non-Executive Director
3/5 60.0%
The AC held five (5) meetings during the financial year ended 30 June 2020. The Group Managing Director and the Head
of Internal Audit attended the AC meetings upon invitation. Other senior management personnel of the Group also attended
the meetings upon invitation by the AC, as and when necessary. The Company’s external auditors attended three (3) meetings
during the financial year where they were invited to discuss matters relating to the statutory audit. They were also given the
opportunity to raise areas of concern without the presence of the Management.
The Chairman of the AC undertakes a continuing process of engagement with the senior executives of the Company and the Group
as well as the external auditors so that the AC is kept up-to-date with all important issues affecting the Company and the Group.
During the year, the AC members attended conferences, seminars and training programmes relevant to their roles and
responsibilities.
The AC has the authority to examine specific issues and report to the Board with its recommendation. The final decision on all
matters, however, lies with the entire Board of the Company.
2. TERMS OF REFERENCE
The Terms of Reference of the AC are aligned with the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities, recommendations of the
Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2017 (“MCCG”) and relevant best practices. Necessary revisions will be made to
the Terms of Reference to be in line with the amendments of the Listing Requirements of Bursa Securities.
The Terms of Reference of the AC was last reviewed and updated on 22 November 2017 and is made available on the
Company’s corporate website at http://www.cih.com.my/about-us/corporate-governance.
3. ACTIVITIES OF THE AC
In discharging its duties and responsibilities, the AC had undertaken the following activities and work during the year:
Financial And Operations Review
(a) Reviewed the quarterly financial results and annual audited financial statements of the Company.
The AC is delegated with the responsibility to ensure that the Group’s statutory accounts are fairly stated and conform to
the relevant regulations and acceptable accounting standards.
The AC focuses particularly on changes in or implementation of major accounting policies, significant and other legal
requirements before recommending them for approval by the Board for announcement to Bursa Securities.
In review of the annual audited financial statements, the AC had discussed with Management and the External Auditors
the accounting principles and standards and the judgements of the items that may affect the financial statements as well as
issues and reservation arising from the statutory audits.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
32
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(cont’d)
(b) Reviewed the application of corporate governance principles and the extent of the Group’s compliance with the
recommendations set out in the MCCG in conjunction with the preparation of the Corporate Governance and Risk
Management and Internal Control Statements.
(c) Pursuant to Sections 131 and 132 of the Companies Act, 2016, a company may only make a distribution to shareholders
out of profits of the company if the company is solvent.
In this regard, the AC considered the quantum and cash flow impact of dividend payment. The AC reviewed the Statement
of Assets and Liabilities as well as Cash Flow Statement to ensure that the Company meets the solvency requirements before
the distribution of profits was recommended to the Board and to shareholders for approval.
External Audit
(a) Reviewed the independence status and performance of the External Auditors for the financial year ended 30 June 2019.
The AC carried out an annual assessment on the performance of External Auditors covering areas such as calibre, quality
processes, audit team, audit scope, audit communication, audit governance and independence as well as the audit fees
of the External Auditors.
The AC also ensured that the Company obtained written assurance from the External Auditors confirming their independence
throughout their term of engagement for the financial year.
Having satisfied with the independence, suitability and performance of Messrs BDO PLT, the AC recommended to the
Board for approval of the re-appointment of Messrs BDO PLT as External Auditors for the ensuing financial year end of 30
June 2020 at its meeting held last year on 29 August 2019.
(b) Discussed and considered the significant accounting adjustments and auditing issues arising from the interim audit as well
as the final audit with the External Auditors.
During the year under review, the AC had two (2) independent meetings with the External Auditors without the presence of
Management to discuss any problems/issues arising from the final audit and the assistance given by the employees during
the course of audit by External Auditors. The AC was pleased to report that there was no significant matter of disagreement
that arose between the External Auditors and Management.
(c) Reviewed the External Auditors’ audit plan for the financial year end of 30 June 2020, outlining the audit scope, methodology
and timetable, audit materiality, areas of focus, fraud consideration and the risk of management override and also the new
and revised auditors reporting standards.
(d) Reviewed all non-audit services to be performed by the External Auditors to reinforce the independence and objectivity of
the External Auditors.
Internal Audit
(a) Reviewed the Internal Audit Reports and Follow-up Audit Reports on the Company and the Group during the financial
year under review and the audit findings and recommendations to improve any weaknesses or non-compliance and the
respective Management’s responses thereto, particularly on the following:
• Credit Controls & Sales Process Review;
• Packaging Material Purchase and Inventory Control Process Review for a wholly-owned subsidiary;
• Packaging Materials Purchase and Inventory Control Process Review for a subsidiary;
• Showroom’s Cash Sales Process Review.
Through the follow-up reports from Internal Auditors, the AC was able to ensure that the Management’s action plan on
outstanding issues and that all key risks and control weaknesses were properly addressed and implemented.
Related Party Transactions
The AC reviewed all related party transactions entered into by the Company and the Group (if any) to ensure that such
transactions are undertaken on normal commercial terms and that internal control procedures employed are both sufficient
and effective.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
33
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
4. INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The internal audit function of the Group is performed in-house and reports to the AC. The internal audit function acts independently
on the activities and operations of other operating units. Its principal role is to undertake independent, regular and systematic
reviews of the internal control system so as to provide reasonable assurance that the system continues to operate satisfactorily
and effectively. The costs incurred for the internal audit function in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2020 was
RM448,000 (financial year ended 30 June 2019: RM443,000).
A summary of the internal audit cost is as follows:
Cost Category RM (‘000) Percentage (%) of Total Cost
Manpower 426 95%
Travelling (inclusive of accommodation) 22 5%
Total 448 100%
During the financial year under review, the internal auditors reviewed and assessed the operational procedures and effectiveness
of internal control on all the subsidiaries of the Group. Compliance tests had also been conducted to ascertain the extent of
compliance with control procedures and guidelines.
The Group Internal Audit undertakes internal audit function based on the internal audit plan. Other than the scheduled reviews,
the Group Internal Audit may undertake special assignments outside the normal scope of its daily activities. Findings and
recommendations for improvement as well as Management’s response were presented to the AC and the Board for further
deliberation.
During the year under review, the AC had four (4) meetings with the Internal Auditors to discuss the Internal Audit Reports. During
the internal audit process, there were no material internal control failures or significant issues discovered during the financial year
under review.
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
34
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
10%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
0%
0%
20% 40% 50% 80% 100%
60% 90%
30%
• Local community
Medium
Medium
Materiality Matrix
Inﬂuence on Stakeholder Assessments and Decisions
Signiﬁcance of Group’s Economic, Environmental and Social Impacts
Low
Low High
High
• Employees
Customers •
Supply chain •
•
Business strategy
Product responsibility
Occupational safety and health
• Environment
70%
Sustainability is an integral part of the Company and its subsidiaries’ (the “Group”) way of doing business and a guiding principle to the
decision making and development processes. The Group’s sustainability strategy is determined by the Board of Directors who provides
oversight of the corporate sustainability performance. The Group Managing Director oversees the implementation of the Group’s
sustainability approach and ensures that key targets are being met.
This Sustainability Statement outlines an overview of the Group’s sustainability practices and performance for the financial year ended
30 June 2020 in the areas of corporate governance, upholding stakeholders’ interests, promoting a safe, healthy and harmonious
working environment for all employees and contributing to the communities in which the Group operates. Recognising the importance
of embedding sustainability management and considerations in the business strategy to reduce risks and take advantage of
business opportunities.
MATERIALITY
The Group identifies and prioritises the sustainability issues that matter most to the business and stakeholders. An issue is material if two
conditions are met. Firstly, it impacts the business in terms of growth, cost, risks and/or trust. Secondly, it is important to the stakeholders
such as customers, employees, governments, investors, non-governmental organisations (“NGOs”) and suppliers.
In determining if an issue is material, the Group also considers whether it is aligned with the Group’s Mission and Vision. The Group
uses the materiality assessment to identify priority sustainability issues across the value chain in ensuring the sustainability and continuity
of the business and reporting on the issues of most interest.
ECONOMIC, ENVIRONMENTAL AND SOCIAL (“EES”) IMPACTS
The Group acknowledges its impacts on the economic conditions of the stakeholders and on economic systems at local, national and
global levels, its impact on living and non-living natural systems, including land, air, water and ecosystems, as well as the impacts the
Group has on the social systems within which it operates.
The Group has developed a list of relevant issues, based on the engagements with internal and external stakeholders. Among others,
the stakeholders considered in the development of the list were:
• Internal – Board of Directors, Group Managing Director, the management and employees.
• External – regulators and government authorities, suppliers, customers, NGOs, shareholders (retail and institutional) and community.
Since then, the Group has established an ongoing process whereby emerging concerns raised by stakeholders during any engagement
will be documented and updated in the list.
OUTCOME OF THE MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
The findings of the assessment have been plotted in the materiality matrix below based on their EES impact to the Group’s business, and
against their importance to both internal and external stakeholders.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
35
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
The assessment yielded 8 material topics, (i) business strategy, (ii) product responsibility, (iii) occupational safety and health, (iv) customers,
(v) supply chain, (vi) environment, (vii) employees and (viii) local community.
BUSINESS STRATEGY
The Group reckons that the most vital part of a business lies in its strategy. To ensure the smooth running of our operations and good
access to financing, the Group maintains strong relationships with the business partners, suppliers and relevant authorities.
The Group’s revenues are highly dependent on export sales; therefore, the Group acknowledges that any reduction on export sales
due to competitive pricing abroad will impact bottom line and erode market share. With this in mind, the Group always seeks ways to
secure competitively-priced materials to reduce costs and improve margins.
PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY
The Group prioritises its customers’ satisfaction. Thus, the Group is committed to providing products that meet regulatory, safety and quality
standards to fulfil customers’ requirements and ensure that the suppliers share the same philosophy. The existing quality management
system is designed to monitor and control the processes from planning and development to production and after-sales service in order
to comply with all the stipulated standards.
The Group’s Edible Oil Products Division continuously ensures that it conforms to the various food and quality standards imposed by the
respective Government agencies and licensing bodies in Malaysia and the importing countries. It also adheres to the stringent food and
quality standards imposed by its customers.
The division is proud to be awarded with various accreditations such as ISO 22000, Good Manufacturing Practices (“GMP”), Hazard
Analysis and Critical Control Points (“HACCP”), HALAL, KOSHER, MeSTI and Phytosanitary Certifications. In addition, to promote the
growth and use of sustainable oil palm products through credible global standards and engagement of stakeholders, the division has
become a member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (“RSPO”). A dedicated officer has been assigned to undertake the role
of ensuring compliance to the abovementioned standards and requirements.
Whereas for the sanitary and tapware division, the Group has designed and expanded its range of products to conform to the Malaysian
Standard MS1184:2014. The tap wares and mixers produced by the Group comply with British Standard BS EN 200:2008 (one of
the world’s highest standard) to ensure good durability and performance. Meanwhile, the Group’s range of sanitary wares products
comply with the Malaysian Standards MS795, MS1522, MS147 and MS2578 and are in accordance with the statutory requirements.
There are new additional Standards that the Tap and Sanitary Ware Division conforms to in this reporting year, BS EN 1213:2000 for
Stopcocks DE60 and DE 60A and MS 2545:2014 for WC Flush Valve DE601 and DE401T.
The Group’s tap and sanitary wares are registered and meet the requirements of Suruhanjaya Perkhidmatan Air Negara (“SPAN”),
and are therefore approved to be used throughout the country. Selected water-efficient taps and low-flushing capacity cisterns (“WC”)
are labelled with the Malaysian Water-Efficiency Product Labelling Scheme (“MWEPLS”), so as to provide consumers with detailed
information on the water-saving features of the products to ease their buying decision.
OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH
Another area of material matters in business is occupational safety and health (“OSH”). This includes the health hazard due to
unconducive working environment, old machineries, poor facilities, oil spillage, dust, which can result in accidental injuries, health issues
and fire hazard. Since the Group relies heavily on humans and machineries in the plants, any untoward fire incident may result in the
loss of life, injuries as well as damage to the machineries.
The safety and health of the employees, partners and local communities has always been a top priority. The Group has implemented
proactive measures to prevent incidents and to minimise risks and continuously emphasises on safety and courses on safety-related
matters. Regular morning briefings to production workers, regular inspections on safety equipment, and regular maintenance of the
machineries and facilities are among the measures taken to mitigate the risks. The Group also ensures that insurance coverage is in
place, all the fire hoses are functioning well, annual inspection by the Fire Department is done, fire drills and exercises are scheduled
to mitigate any fire-related risks.
The Health and Safety Committee is tasked to ensure a safe and healthy working environment, has prepared safety policies and ensured
effective implementation of the said policies. The health and safety officer is certified by the National Institute of Occupational Safety
and Health (“NIOSH”). The committee has also done the Chemical Health Risk Assessment (“CHRA”), the Noise Mapping, the Medical
Exposure Monitoring and the audiometric tests according to Occupational Safety and Health Act (“OSHA”) 1994.
CUSTOMERS
The Group’s customers are mainly abroad. Thereby, any political or economic instability of the importing countries, could put the Group’s
business in jeopardy. Some of the key sustainability issues identified in this category are non-payment and default of contracts, foreign
exchange risks and shortage of the USD currency in the importing countries.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
36
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
In order to mitigate such risks, the Group continuously monitors the credit performance of the customers and deploy hedging instruments
such as foreign currency forward contracts. The Group is also becoming less dependent on sales from particular countries or region, by
spreading sales percentage to other countries or region to diversify and reduce impacts.
SUPPLY CHAIN
The Group will face the risk of a production halt if the supplies ceases to arrive, incur extra costs in terms of overtime, delay delivery to
port (special service request/SSR) and short ship (delay to next shipment).
In order to mitigate risks associated with the supply chain, the Group monitors the suppliers’ credit limits, credit terms and stock’s
availability on a daily basis. The Group also maintains good rapport with all the suppliers to ensure smooth day-to-day operations which
may disrupt production schedules and deliveries. The Group also seeks ways to engage few suppliers to mitigate the risk of supply
shortage especially during the pandemic period.
ENVIRONMENT
The Group actively minimises the impact its business operations have on the environment and manages them in the following areas; raw
material and energy utilisation, waste management and supply chain optimisation.
The Group implements an ongoing product wastage elimination programme, as well as product and packaging design optimisation to
reduce raw material wastage and/or utilisation. It also specifies recycled packaging products. The Group also aims to conserve energy
and production inputs through optimisation of its production processes. These waste management programmes are in accordance with
the regulations of the Department of Environment.
The Group also promotes its extensive range of water conservation products to help its customers conserve water and energy, which
conform to Malaysia’s Green Building Index (“GBI”) and Singapore’s Water Efficiency Labelling Scheme (“WELS”).
On the supply chain management front, the Group prioritises suppliers who are ISO 14000 (Environmental Management System; EMS)
certified.
The Group’s Edible Oil Products Division have also implemented the appropriate procedures to minimise production wastage whereby
any oil leakages as a result of dented tins, jerry cans and spoilt PET bottles will be rejected and sent to the rework area. All salvaged
oil spillage is then transferred into a dedicated bullet tank and subsequently filtered into a storage tank. Any remaining oil spillage will
then flow into the drain and be collected by the oil trap system and disposed-off only as sludge oil to approved buyers.
Additionally, recyclable items such as rejected jerry cans, PET bottles, plastics, shrink wraps, caps, inserts, carton boxes and wooden
pallets are then sent to the disposal area for collection by approved buyers and sold as scrap items.
EMPLOYEES
The Group recognises its employees as key assets; hence, the Group takes care of its employees’ welfare and personal development
by providing them with a rewarding, healthy, safe and fair workplace, in accordance to Malaysia Employment Act 1955 and their
collective agreements. For this reporting year, the Group is pleased to report that there were no breaches to these regulations. Equal
opportunities are given to potential candidate to be part of the Group, and the Group does not practise discrimination in gender,
age, race, religion, culture or nationality. The Group believes believe that diversity in the workplace is a good indicator of a healthy
working environment.
The Group also strives to improve working environment and continues to provide competitive salary packages and benefits to its
workforce. This will help curb high turnover of general local workers, which will result in disruption of operations, loss of productivity and
increases to costs of production.
Many industries were severely impacted in the country during the various Movement Control Orders that was imposed in response to the
COVID-19 pandemic and had to resort to salary reductions, no-pay leave, job cuts or other drastic measures. However, the Group is
proud to state that the Group strived in ensuring the employees’ future was protected by paying their full take-home salaries and annual
bonuses and salary increments without delay and with no pay cuts. The Group did this consciously with the good cooperation and
teamwork between Management and employees which ensured the Group maintained high employee morale. The key point was the
Group assured job security to all its employees which ultimately fostered into developing a close-knit work culture.
In addition, the Group is committed to the highest standard of integrity and accountability in conducting the business operations. The
Group takes a zero-tolerance approach to any corrupt practices, as well as to any other manifestations of corrupt and unethical business
practices. Building upon this, the Group established and enforced the Anti-bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABC”) on 28 May 2020 to
create awareness and to prevent corruption cases from occurring. The Group conducted workshops at all the Group’s subsidiaries on the
Provision on Corporate Liability (amendment of Section 17A) under the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009. The purpose
of the Provision is to criminalise an organisation if any associated person commits corrupt practices. Training sessions were attended by
mid and senior management from each department in all subsidiaries. The Group is pleased to announce that for this reporting year,
the Group recorded zero cases of corruption as defined under the Provision.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
37
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
(cont’d)
LOCAL COMMUNITY
As part of the corporate social responsibility initiative, the Group endeavours to contribute to the general welfare of the community,
particularly in promoting water conservation and proper disposal of industrial waste into common drainage in order to preserve the
surrounding environment.
The Group, via its edible oil products division, participated in local communities’ activities such as Persatuan Thalasemia Tawau, Majlis
Sukan, Kebajikan Dan Kebudayaan, Jabatan Bomba Dan Penyelamat Malaysia, Jawatankuasa Kemajuan Dan Keselamatan Kampung
(“JKKK”) Kebun Baru and Persatuan Kaunselling Universiti Malaya (“PERKUM”).
Moreover, during the COVID-19 outbreak, the Edible Oil Products Division has also made monetary contribution to the Primary Industries
and Commodities Ministry (“MPIC”) through Palm Oil Refiners Association of Malaysia (“PORAM”). This initiative was a joint effort of all
the agencies under MPIC to contribute to COVID-19 fund or Tabung COVID-19.
The Group believes in contributing to a better society and ensuring that the business operations create positive impacts on local
communities. In February 2020, the Edible Oil Products Division participated and donated RM50,000 to the Malaysian Golf Association
(“MGA”) Charity Golf event. The fund raised in this charity drive was channelled to the needy organisations i.e. Al-sultan Abdullah
Foundation and the National Young Golfers Development Fund.
CONCLUSION
The Group aspires to be a responsible corporation that contributes towards the nation’s agenda for sustainable development. The
Group’s enthusiasm and commitment have enabled the Group to progress forward this year and the Group will continue to embed
sustainability into the business strategy, making it inherent within the Group’s culture.
As the Group further aligns our decisions and policies, the Group will be better equipped to meet the challenges of today and those
of the future. The Group is confident that the people, processes and values will meet these demands, and that we will deliver beyond
expectations in the coming years.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
38
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
1. INTRODUCTION
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control is made in accordance with paragraph 15.26 (b) of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad Listing Requirements and the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of
Listed Issuers, which requires Directors of listed companies to include a statement in their annual reports on the state of their risk
management and internal controls.
The Board of Directors (the “Board”) of C.I. Holdings Berhad (“CIH”) is pleased to present the Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control of the Group for the financial year ended 30 June 2020.
2. THE BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITY
The Board acknowledges its overall responsibility to maintain a sound system of internal controls and effective risk management
practices in the Group to safeguard shareholders’ investment and the Group’s assets. The Board continuously ensures the
adequacy and integrity of the overall internal control system for the Group.
There are two (2) committees at Board level that support the Board in its risk management and internal control responsibilities:
• Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) which is tasked with overseeing the Group’s risk management and compliance
aspect of the Group;
• Audit Committee (“AC”) which is tasked with assessing the risk and internal control environment and overseeing financial
reporting, including the internal and external audit.
These committees are empowered by clearly established and approval term of reference in the above mentioned responsibilities.
Accordingly, the Board is committed to the development and maintenance of an effective risk management framework and
internal control system to safeguard the shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets.
However, due to the limitations that are inherent in risk management framework and internal control system, the Board recognises
that such system are designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure to achieve the Group’s business objectives
and therefore, the system by its nature can only provide reasonable assurance but not absolute assurance against material
misstatement, operational failures, loss or fraud. The concept of reasonable assurance recognises that the cost of control
procedures should not exceed the expected benefits.
3. RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group has a formal risk management framework, which enables the management and the Board to share a common model
for the effective communication and evaluation of all principal risks and controls. The Risk Framework covers a broad variety of
risks, including but not limited to business continuity issues, governance issues, financial issues and operational issues.
The Risk Management Committee (“RMC”) comprises seven (7) members, out of which three (3) are appointed representatives
from the Board, two (2) of which are Independent Non-Executive Directors. The Chairman of the RMC is an Independent Non-
Executive Director. The others are representatives from the various operating subsidiaries. The roles and responsibilities of the
RMC include the following:
(a) To formalise the Group’s Risk Management Policy including objectives, strategy and scope of risk management activities as
well as to ensure the strategy, framework and methodology have been implemented and consistently applied.
(b) To ensure that a well-structured and systematic process exists for the comprehensive identification, assessment and
management of risks faced by the Group.
(c) To ensure that risk management process and culture are embedded throughout the Group.
(d) To ensure that appropriate reporting and feedback are received from management and reporting to the Board on the
Group’s risk profile and any major changes to the risk profile.
A Risk Coordinator was appointed to administer the Risk Management Framework. Under the Risk Management Framework,
risk identification is a line management responsibility, whereby an employee shall recognise and identify the risk arises to the
Risk Owner who is a named individual accountable for all aspects of the risk including assessment, evaluation, monitoring and
reporting. For each risk, we determine the risk source and subsequently determine the cause for each risk, then the consequence
is ascertained and the risk is then classified into either controllable, preventive or inherent. Risk that has been identified and
assessed is categorised broadly under one of the following categories:
• Governance
• Business
• Operational
• Information
• Financial
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
39
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(cont’d)
Risk assessment is an exercise of evaluating risk by considering the likelihood and impact in order to ascertain its relevance
to the business and efficacy of current treatment. The Risk Owner is responsible for the assessment of risk exposure within the
business operations which involves identifying the range of options for treating risk including accepting, mitigating, spreading,
transferring, avoiding or monitoring the risk. Appropriate risk treatment plans are then prepared after assessing each option
followed by implementation of those plans. All the above mentioned are recorded and updated in the Risk Register which is then
used to develop a risk profile for each company.
The Risk Coordinator works in conjunction with the management of each subsidiary to work through the Risk Management
Framework and updates the Risk Register. The results of this exercise are then reported to the RMC, which meets on a half yearly
basis. The RMC reviews and discusses the risk profiles of the various subsidiaries, taking special note of any changes and
developments, the existing controls, action plans in place to manage the risks and any further actions necessary. The RMC then
reports to the Board on a half yearly basis.
In addition, the Group Managing Director and/or Executive Director conduct meetings with senior management of subsidiaries
within the Group on a monthly basis. Amongst others, the key risks facing the respective subsidiaries are discussed and
monitored.
Furthermore, the Board has assigned to the Audit Committee the duty of reviewing and monitoring the effectiveness of the
Group’s internal control system, a critical element of effective risk management.
4. INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Group has an internal audit function whose primary responsibility is to assure the Board, through the Audit Committee, that
the internal control systems are functioning as intended. In providing this assurance, the Internal Audit Department carries out
regular audit activities in accordance with its annual audit plan to review the adequacy and integrity of internal control systems
and to identify opportunities for improvement in operational efficiency. A comprehensive Audit Report is produced to highlight
audit findings and provide recommendations to Management for comments and action. A follow-up audit would be carried out
to monitor status of completion and compliance to agreed action plan. The Audit Committee reports to the Board on its activities,
significant audit results or findings and necessary recommendations or actions needed to be taken by management to rectify
those issues.
The Internal Auditors perform their tasks in accordance to International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing
issued by The Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia, which apply and uphold the following principles and rules of conduct:
• Integrity
• Objectivity
• Confidentiality
• Competency
5. OTHER KEY ELEMENTS OF INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board has put in place other internal control measures including:
(a) An organisation structure with key responsibilities clearly defined for the Board, committees of the Board and the executive
management of the Group’s operating business units.
(b) Authorisation limits established to provide a functional framework of authority for approving expenditures.
(c) Monthly reporting of operating business unit’s performance.
(d) The Board’s review of quarterly reports on each operating business unit.
(e) The human resources function that coordinates the employees’ training and development programmes as well as occupational
health and safety programmes at all levels to enhance competency, work quality, ability and safety.
(f) An enterprise business application software which incorporates several in-built system controls, where upgrades/updates
are implemented when necessary, to assist the management in achieving various internal control objectives.
(g) Data and internal technology policy such as E-mail & Internet Access Policy and System & Data Security Policy. In addition,
the Group has also put in place a back-up system and disaster recovery plan.
(h) The clear documentation and regular review of policies and procedures regulating financial and operating activities.
(i) The comprehensive Employee Handbook and Code of Conduct is in place to ensure employees observe prescribed
standard of business ethics when conducting themselves at work and in their relationship with external parties.
(j) A Whistle Blowing Policy is in place to help ensure conformance to the guidelines set out in the Employee Handbook and
Code of Conduct by enabling the employees of the Company to raise concerns in a responsible and effective manner. The
Whistle Blowing Policy covers concerns such as; financial malpractice or impropriety or fraud, failure to comply with legal
obligations or statutes, dangers to health and safety or the environment, criminal activity, improper conduct or unethical
behaviour or any attempts to conceal any of the above. In addition, the policy outlines safeguards for the whistle blower
including protection and confidentiality. Furthermore, the process for making a disclosure and the process of investigating
an allegation are also outlined in the policy.
(k) Task force unit had been established for specific activities such as disposal of old stocks and promotion of special range
launches for Doe group of companies.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
40
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
(cont’d)
(l) Management of individual subsidiaries and business divisions are continuously assessing for risks within their business
environment and formulate mitigating strategies and/or corrective actions to minimise risks.
(m) An Anti-Bribery and Corruption (“ABC”) Policy was implemented and made effective on 28 May 2020. This policy
is implemented based on the “Guideline on Adequate Procedures” [Governance, Integrity and Anti-Corruption Centre
(“GIACC”) Guideline]. The Guidelines, which were issued pursuant to Section 17A(5) of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption
Commission Act (“MACC Act”), set out adequate procedures a commercial organisation needs to put in place as a defense
to a corporate liability charge under the MACC Act.
CIH has adopted and tailored the ABC Policy based on the baseline practices, processes and procedures that the MACC
has clustered the building blocks to having adequate procedures behind five principles:
T = Top Level Commitment
R = Risk Assessment
U = Undertake Control Measures
S = Systematic Review, Monitoring and Enforcement
T = Training and Communication
The CIH Group’s ABC Policy provides guidance to its personnel concerning methods in dealing with improper solicitation,
bribery and other corrupt activities that may arise in its business affairs. This policy acts as a legal defence for CIH Group
against any criminal liabilities in case of any corrupt practices of its employees and/or any person associated with the
CIH group.
6. CONCLUSION
Based on the observations and reports provided to the Board for financial year under review, the Board is of the opinion that
the risk management and internal control that is in place is adequate and effective to safeguard the interest of the Group’s
shareholders, their investments and the Group’s assets.
During the financial year under review, there was no major breakdown in internal controls that caused any material loss. The
Management has taken the necessary measure to improve the risk management and internal control system by continuously
reviewing, monitoring and considering all risks faced by the Group to ensure that the risks are within acceptable levels within
the Group’s business objectives.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
41
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
FOR THE AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The Directors are required by the Companies Act, 2016 (“CA”) to prepare financial statements for each financial year which have
been made out in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, and the
requirements of the CA in Malaysia and the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The Directors are responsible to ensure that the financial statements give a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Group and
of the Company as at the end of the financial year, and of the results and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year.
In preparing the financial statements, the Directors have:
• Adopted appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• Made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
• Prepared financial statements on a going concern basis as the Directors have reasonable expectation, having made enquiries,
that the Group and Company have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future.
The Directors acknowledge the responsibility for ensuring that the Company keeps accounting records which disclose with reasonable
accuracy the financial position of the Group and of the Company and which enable them to ensure that the financial statements
comply with the CA and applicable approved accounting standards.
The Directors have overall responsibilities for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Group,
to prevent and detect fraud and other irregularities.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
42
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
DIRECTORS' REPORT and
AUDITED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CONTENTS
Directors’ Report
Statement By Directors
Statutory Declaration
Independent Auditors’ Report
Statements Of Financial Position
Statements Of Profit Or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Statement Of Changes In Equity
Statement Of Changes In Equity
Statements Of Cash Flows
Notes To The Financial Statements
44
48
48
49
52
54
55
56
57
59
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the
financial year ended 30 June 2020.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The principal activities of the Company are that of investment holding and the provision of management services to its subsidiaries.
The principal activities and the details of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 8 to the financial statements. There have been no
significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
RESULTS
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Profit for the financial year 45,311 16,409
Attributable to:
Owners of the parent 30,114 16,409
Non-controlling interests 15,197 –
45,311 16,409
DIVIDENDS
Dividends paid, declared or proposed since the end of the previous financial year was as follows:
Company
RM’000
In respect of financial year ended 30 June 2019:
Final dividend of 8.0 sen per ordinary share, paid on 14 November 2019 12,960
A final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2020 of 10.0 sen per ordinary share, amounting to RM16,200,000
has been recommended by the Directors after the reporting period for shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming Annual General
Meeting. The financial statements for the current financial year do not reflect this proposed dividend. This dividend, if approved by
shareholders, would be accounted for as appropriation of retained earnings in the financial year ending 30 June 2021.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year.
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
The Company did not issue any new shares or debentures during the financial year.
DIRECTORS
The Directors who have held office during the financial year and up to date of this report are as follows:
C.I. Holdings Berhad
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy
Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin
Teh Bee Tein
Kasinathan a/l Tulasi
Datuk Haji Ariffin Bin Imat
Lee Cheang Mei
Fung Heen Choon (Alternate Director to Lee Cheang Mei)
Subsidiaries of C.I. Holdings Berhad (excluding those who are already listed above)
Amir Nashrin Bin Johari
Azlan Bin Ahmad
Chaw Pei Yee
Foo Loke Yean
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
44
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
Subsidiaries of C.I. Holdings Berhad (excluding those who are already listed above)
Wong Lip Wai
K.J. Kuruvilla a/l John Kuruvilla
Muhammad Razid Bin Sawall
Ramkrishna Ramier Sankara Raman (appointed on 29 June 2020)
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The Directors holding office at the end of the financial year and their beneficial interests in ordinary shares of the Company and of
its related corporations during the financial year ended 30 June 2020 as recorded in the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings kept
by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia were as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
Balance at
1.7.2019 Bought Sold
Balance at
30.6.2020
Shares in the Company
Direct interests:
Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman 1,000,000 – – 1,000,000
Fung Heen Choon 10,300,000 – – 10,300,000
Lee Cheang Mei 10,515,000 – – 10,515,000
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy 2,004,000 139,200 – 2,143,200
Indirect interests:
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani 53,000,000 400,000 – 53,400,000
Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof 34,344,900 – – 34,344,900
Teh Bee Tein 230,900 – – 230,900
Number of ordinary shares
Balance at
1.7.2019 Bought Sold
Balance at
30.6.2020
Shares in a subsidiary
Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn. Bhd.
Direct interests:
Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy 2,475,000 – – 2,475,000
By virtue of Section 8(4) of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani and Datin Mariam
Prudence Binti Yusof are also deemed to be interested in the ordinary shares of all the subsidiaries to the extent that the
Company has an interest.
None of the other Directors holding office at the end of the financial year held any interest in ordinary shares of the Company and
of its related corporations during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, none of the Directors have received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other
than those benefits included in the aggregate amount of remuneration received or due and receivable by the Directors as shown
in the financial statements) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a firm
of which the Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest other than deemed
benefits arising from related party transactions as disclosed in Note 31 to the financial statements and remuneration received by
certain Directors as directors and officers of subsidiaries.
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year, to which the Company is a party, which had the object
of enabling the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the Company or any other
body corporate.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
45
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
The details of Directors’ remuneration are disclosed in Note 31(c) to the financial statements.
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND AUDITORS
There were no indemnity given to or insurance effected for the Directors, the officers and the auditors of the Group and of the
Company during the financial year.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION REGARDING THE GROUP AND THE COMPANY
I. As At The End Of The Financial Year
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the Directors took reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of provision
for doubtful debts and had satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that adequate
provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets other than debts, which were unlikely to realise their book values in the ordinary course
of business had been written down to their estimated realisable values.
(b) In the opinion of the Directors, the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have
		 not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.
II. From The End Of The Financial Year To The Date Of This Report
(c) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would render the amounts written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts in the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company inadequate to any material extent;
(ii) which would render the values attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company misleading; and
(iii) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group
and of the Company misleading or inappropriate.
(d) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) there has not arisen any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the results
		 of the operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made; and
(ii) no contingent or other liability has become enforceable, or is likely to become enforceable, within the period of twelve
		 (12) months after the end of the financial year which would or may affect the ability of the Group or of the Company
		 to meet their obligations as and when they fall due.
III. As At The Date Of This Report
(e) There are no charges on the assets of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial
year to secure the liabilities of any other person.
(f) There are no contingent liabilities of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year.
(g) The Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements which
		 would render any amount stated in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Significant event during the financial year are disclosed in Note 34 to the financial statements.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
46
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
AUDITORS
The auditors, BDO PLT (LLP0018825-LCA & AF 0206), have expressed their willingness to continue in office.
The details of auditors’ remuneration of the Company and its subsidiaries for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 are disclosed
in Note 26 to the financial statements.
Signed on behalf of the Board in accordance with a resolution of the Directors.
................................................................................ ..................................................................
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman
Director Director
Kuala Lumpur
15 September 2020
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
47
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 52 to 109 have been drawn up in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards, and the provisions of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 30 June 2020
and of the financial performance and cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended.
On behalf of the Board,
................................................................................ ..................................................................
Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman
Director Director
Kuala Lumpur
15 September 2020
STATUTORY DECLARATION
I, Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman, being the Director responsible for the financial management of C.I. Holdings Berhad,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 52 to 109 are, to the best of my knowledge and
belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true and by virtue of the provisions of the
Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly		 )
declared by the abovenamed at )
Kuala Lumpur this			 )
15 September 2020		)				 Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman
Before me:
Mardhiyyah Abdul Wahab (W729)
Commissioner for Oaths
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
48
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of C.I. Holdings Berhad, which comprise the statements of financial position as at 30
June 2020 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statements of
changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to
the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 52 to 109.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of
the Company as at 30 June 2020, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the financial year then ended in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing (“ISAs”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of
the Financial Statements section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate
to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice)
of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code
of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our
other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a
separate opinion on these matters.
Recoverability of trade receivables
As at 30 June 2020, the net carrying amount of trade receivables of the Group was RM445 million, as disclosed in Note 10 to
the ﬁnancial statements.
The Group has impaired trade receivables of RM0.5 million during the financial year.
We determined this to be key audit matter because it requires management to exercise significant judgement in determining the
probability of default by trade receivables and appropriate forward looking information.
Audit response
Our audit procedures performed included the following:
(i) recomputed the probability of default using historical data and forward looking information adjustment applied by the Group;
(ii) recomputed the correlation coefficient between forward looking factors and historical credit losses to determine
the appropriateness of the forward-looking information of the Group; and
(iii) inquiries of management to assess the rationale underlying the relationship between the forward-looking information and
expected credit losses.
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to communicate in our auditors’ report in respect of the audit of the financial
statements of the Company.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the information included in
the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not
express any form of assurance or conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of the
Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD (Incorporated in Malaysia)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
49
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD (Incorporated in Malaysia)
(cont’d)
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon (continued)
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required
to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that give
a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and
the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the ability of
the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and
using the going concern basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease
operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved
standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably
be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing, we
exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, whether
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or
the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in
the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the internal control of the Group
and of the Company.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by the Directors.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the
ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we
are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence
obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company
to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, including
the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the underlying transactions
and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the
Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and
performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence,
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and
where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe
these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing
so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
50
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD (Incorporated in Malaysia)
(cont’d)
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we have not
acted as auditors, are disclosed in Note 8 to the financial statements.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act 2016
in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.
BDO PLT Rejeesh A/L Balasubramaniam
LLP0018825-LCA & AF 0206 02895/08/2022 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
15 September 2020
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
51
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2020
Note
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
ASSETS
NON-CURRENT ASSETS
Property, plant and equipment 5 77,375 84,951 46 445
Right-of-use assets 6 21,704 – 2,197 –
Intangible assets 7 11,261 11,261 – –
Investments in subsidiaries 8 – – 54,500 46,300
Other investment 9 10 10 10 10
Trade and other receivables 10 – – 4,278 15,572
110,350 96,222 61,031 62,327
CURRENT ASSETS
Trade and other receivables 10 468,739 303,675 7,157 12,749
Inventories 11 58,586 46,327 – –
Derivative financial assets 12 664 1,711 – –
Current tax assets 1,315 5,889 200 124
Cash and bank balances 13 165,422 120,145 64,952 52,598
694,726 477,747 72,309 65,471
TOTAL ASSETS 805,076 573,969 133,340 127,798
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity attributable to owners of the parent
Share capital 14 95,147 95,147 95,147 95,147
Reserves 15 132,516 115,245 34,925 31,476
227,663 210,392 130,072 126,623
Non-controlling interests 8(e) 40,134 31,733 – –
TOTAL EQUITY 267,797 242,125 130,072 126,623
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
52
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Note
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
LIABILITIES
NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES
Borrowings 16 9,021 16,709 – 260
Lease liabilities 6 6,642 – 1,616 –
Deferred tax liabilities 20 999 1,145 – –
Retirement benefit obligations 21 538 500 – –
17,200 18,354 1,616 260
CURRENT LIABILITIES
Trade and other payables 22 138,947 122,134 1,096 857
Derivative financial liabilities 12 12,185 5,330 – –
Borrowings 16 366,115 185,348 – 58
Lease liabilities 6 2,405 – 556 –
Current tax liabilities 427 678 – –
520,079 313,490 1,652 915
TOTAL LIABILITIES 537,279 331,844 3,268 1,175
TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 805,076 573,969 133,340 127,798
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
53
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
Note
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Revenue 24 2,572,493 2,272,914 20,713 16,600
Cost of sales 25 (2,415,178) (2,164,416) – –
Gross profit 157
,315 108,498 20,713 16,600
Other income 11,914 9,865 1,960 2,219
Selling and distribution costs (16,933) (17
,740) – –
Administrative expenses (81,467) (50,427) (5,985) (5,389)
Other expenses (7
,245) (4,262) (45) (44)
Finance costs (10,517) (12,640) (73) (16)
Profit before tax 26 53,067 33,294 16,570 13,370
Tax expense 27 (7
,756) (6,220) (161) (300)
Profit for the financial year 45,311 27
,074 16,409 13,070
Other comprehensive income, net of tax:
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit
or loss
Foreign currency translations 195 35 – –
Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit
or loss
Re-measurement of defined benefit liability 21 – 113 – –
Total comprehensive income 45,506 27
,222 16,409 13,070
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the parent 30,114 19,037 16,409 13,070
Non-controlling interests 15,197 8,037 – –
45,311 27
,074 16,409 13,070
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the parent 30,231 19,171 16,409 13,070
Non-controlling interests 15,275 8,051 – –
45,506 27
,222 16,409 13,070
Earnings per ordinary share attributable to equity holders of
the Company (sen):
Basic 28 18.59 11.75
Diluted 28 18.59 11.75
		
STATEMENTS OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2020
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
54
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2020
Group Note
Non-distributable Distributable
Non-
controlling
interests
RM’000
Total
equity
RM’000
Share capital
RM’000
Exchange
translation
reserve
RM’000
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
attributable
to owners of
the parent
RM’000
Balance as at 1 July 2019 95,147 39 115,206 210,392 31,733 242,125
Profit for the financial year – – 30,114 30,114 15,197 45,311
Foreign currency translation – 117 – 117 78 195
Total comprehensive income – 117 30,114 30,231 15,275 45,506
Transactions with owners
Dividend paid 29 – – (12,960) (12,960) – (12,960)
Dividend paid to
non-controlling interest
of a subsidiary 8(f) – – – – (6,874) (6,874)
Balance as at 30 June 2020 95,147 156 132,360 227
,663 40,134 267
,797
Balance as at 1 July 2018 95,147 18 112,256 207
,421 29,732 237
,153
Profit for the financial year – – 19,037 19,037 8,037 27
,074
Foreign currency translation – 21 – 21 14 35
Re-measurement of defined
benefit liability – – 113 113 – 113
Total comprehensive income – 21 19,150 19,171 8,051 27
,222
Transactions with owners
Dividend paid 29 – – (16,200) (16,200) – (16,200)
Dividend paid to non-
controlling interest of a
subsidiary 8(f) – – – – (6,050) (6,050)
Balance as at 30 June 2019 95,147 39 115,206 210,392 31,733 242,125
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
55
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2020
Company Note
Distributable
Share capital
RM’000
Retained earnings
RM’000
Total equity
RM’000
Balance as at 1 July 2018 95,147 34,606 129,753
Profit for the financial year – 13,070 13,070
Other comprehensive
income, net of tax – – –
Total comprehensive income – 13,070 13,070
Transaction with owners
Dividend paid 29 – (16,200) (16,200)
Balance as at 30 June 2019 95,147 31,476 126,623
Profit for the financial year – 16,409 16,409
Other comprehensive
income, net of tax – – –
Total comprehensive income – 16,409 16,409
Transaction with owners
Dividend paid 29 – (12,960) (12,960)
Balance as at 30 June 2020 95,147 34,925 130,072
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
56
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2020
Note
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax 53,067 33,294 16,570 13,370
Adjustments for:
Bad debts written off 6,757 744 – –
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 5 8,282 8,674 17 46
Depreciation of right-of-use asset 6 3,879 – 583 –
Dividend income 24 – – (17
,113) (13,000)
Fair value adjustments on derivative instruments 12 7
,902 2,873 – –
Impairment losses on:
– amounts owing by subsidiaries 10 – – 44 44
– trade receivables 10 476 646 – –
Interest expense 10,517 12,640 73 16
Interest income (1,885) (2,036) (1,960) (2,144)
Inventories written down 11 11 100 – –
Inventories written back 11 (76) (138) – –
Loss/(Gain) on disposal of:
– property, plant and equipment 2 (108) – (75)
– right-of-use asset (132) – – –
Property, plant and equipment written off 5 2 2 – –
Provision for retirement benefit obligations 21 112 75 – –
Reversal of impairment loss on trade and other receivables 10 (3,474) (585) – –
Unrealised loss/(gain) on foreign exchange 26 942 (737) – –
Operating profit/(loss) before changes in working capital 86,382 55,444 (1,786) (1,743)
Changes in working capital:
Inventories (12,194) (4,218) – –
Trade and other receivables (167
,896) 15,268 33 111
Trade and other payables 16,041 27
,718 239 (194)
Cash (used in)/from operations (77
,667) 94,212 (1,514) (1,826)
Tax paid (6,995) (7
,929) (237) (245)
Tax refunded 3,416 25 – –
Contributions paid for retirement benefit 21 (74) (244) – –
Net cash (used in)/from operating activities (81,320) 86,064 (1,751) (2,071)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
57
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
Note
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Repayment from/(Advances to) subsidiaries – – 16,809 (2,792)
Addition of interest in a subsidiary 8(c) – – (8,200) –
Dividend received from a subsidiary – – 17
,113 13,000
Withdrawal/(Placement) of deposits with maturity periods
of more than 3 months 5,000 (12,900) 5,000 (12,900)
Interest received 1,885 2,036 1,960 2,144
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 1 118 – 75
Proceeds from disposal of right-of-use asset 200 – – –
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 5(b) (14,728) (22,670) (6) (83)
Purchase of right-of-use assets 6(b) (3,526) – – –
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (11,168) (33,416) 32,676 (556)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Dividend paid to shareholders (12,960) (16,200) (12,960) (16,200)
Dividend paid to non-controlling interests in a subsidiary (6,874) (6,050) – –
Drawdowns/(Repayments) of borrowings:
– term loan (4,798) 10,617 – –
– bankers’ acceptance (39,188) (50,286) – –
– islamic term financing 221,578 2,606 – –
– hire purchase creditors – (4,579) – (130)
Interest paid (10,227) (12,640) (11) (16)
Payments of lease liabilities (2,815) – (600) –
Net cash from/(used in) financing activities 144,716 (76,532) (13,571) (16,346)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 52,228 (23,884) 17
,354 (18,973)
Effect of exchange rate changes on cash
and cash equivalents (1,632) 3,383 – –
Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of financial year 99,826 120,327 32,598 51,571
Cash and cash equivalents at end of financial year 13(g) 150,422 99,826 49,952 32,598
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
58
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
1. CORPORATE INFORMATION
C.I. Holdings Berhad (“the Company”) is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia, and is
listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The registered office and principal place of business of the Company are located at Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place
Office, 157 Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur.
The consolidated financial statements for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries.
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is also the functional currency of the Company. All
financial information presented in RM has been rounded to the nearest thousand (“RM’000”), unless otherwise stated.
The financial statements were authorised for issue in accordance with a resolution by the Board of Directors on 15 September 2020.
2. PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The principal activities of the Company are that of investment holding and the provision of management services to its
subsidiaries. The principal activities and the details of the subsidiaries are set out in Note 8 to the financial statements. There
have been no significant changes in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
3. BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and the provisions of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia.
The accounting policies adopted are consistent with those of the previous financial year except for the effects of adoption
of new MFRSs during the financial year. The new MFRSs and Amendments to MFRSs adopted during the financial year are
disclosed in Note 35.1 to the financial statements.
The Group and the Company applied MFRS 16 Leases for the first time during the current financial year, using the cumulative
effect method as at 1 July 2019. Consequently, the comparative information were not restated and are not comparable to the
financial information of the current financial year.
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention except as
otherwise stated in the financial statements.
4. OPERATING SEGMENTS
C.I. Holdings Berhad has arrived at three (3) reportable segments that are organised and managed separately according to the
business segments, which requires different business and marketing strategies. The reportable segments are summarised as follows:
1. Edible oil Selling, packing and marketing of all types of edible oil.
2. Tap-ware and sanitary ware Manufacture and trading of household fittings and appliances such as water taps,
plumbing accessories and sanitary wares.
3. Investment holdings Investment activities.
Others mainly comprised subsidiaries that have ceased operations and remained inactive.
The Group evaluates performance on the basis of profit or loss from operations before tax not including non-recurring losses,
such as restructuring costs and goodwill impairment.
The Directors are of the opinion that all inter-segment transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business and
are based on negotiated and mutually agreed terms.
Segment assets exclude tax assets.
Segment liabilities exclude tax liabilities and retirement benefit obligations. Even though loans and borrowings arise from
financing activities rather than operating activities, they are allocated to the segments based on relevant factors (e.g.
funding requirements).
Inter-segment revenue is priced along the same lines as sales to external customers and is eliminated in the consolidated
financial statements. These policies have been applied consistently throughout the current and previous financial years.
Details are provided in the reconciliations from segment assets and liabilities to the position of the Group.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
59
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
4. OPERATING SEGMENTS (continued)
2020
Edible oil
RM’000
Tap-ware and
sanitary ware
RM’000
Investment
holdings
RM’000
Others
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Revenue
Total revenue 2,788,389 20,672 20,713 – 2,829,774
Inter-segment revenue (236,529) (39) (20,713) – (257
,281)
Revenue from external customers 2,551,860 20,633 – – 2,572,493
Interest income 157 53 1,675 – 1,885
Finance costs (10,388) (56) (73) – (10,517)
Net finance (expense)/income (10,231) (3) 1,602 – (8,632)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 8,089 175 18 – 8,282
Depreciation of rights-of-use assets 3,045 252 582 – 3,879
Segment profit/(loss) before tax 58,023 (1,100) (3,841) (15) 53,067
Other material non-cash items:
– Bad debts written off 6,757 – – – 6,757
– Fair value adjustment on derivative instruments 7
,902 – – – 7
,902
– Impairment losses on trade receivables 412 64 – – 476
– Reversal of impairment losses on
trade receivables (3,399) (75) – – (3,474)
– Unrealised loss on foreign exchange 942 – – – 942
Additions to non-current assets other than
financial instruments and deferred tax assets 22,328 17 6 – 22,351
Segment assets 693,442 31,605 78,714 – 803,761
Segment liabilities 528,519 3,510 3,280 6 535,315
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
60
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
4. OPERATING SEGMENTS (continued)
2019
Edible oil
RM’000
Tap-ware and
sanitary ware
RM’000
Investment
holdings
RM’000
Others
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Revenue
Total revenue 2,441,306 36,519 16,600 – 2,494,425
Inter-segment revenue (204,697) (214) (16,600) – (221,511)
Revenue from external customers 2,236,609 36,305 – – 2,272,914
Interest income 275 29 1,732 – 2,036
Finance costs (12,560) (64) (16) – (12,640)
Net finance (expense)/income (12,285) (35) 1,716 – (10,604)
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 8,424 204 46 – 8,674
Segment profit/(loss) before tax 32,161 762 385 (14) 33,294
Other material non-cash items:
– Bad debts written off 744 – – – 744
– Fair value adjustment on derivative instruments 2,873 – – – 2,873
– Impairment losses on trade receivables 211 435 – – 646
– Reversal of impairment losses on
trade receivables (481) (104) – – (585)
– Unrealised gain on foreign exchange (737) – – – (737)
Additions to non-current assets other than
financial instruments and deferred tax assets 22,611 27 401 – 23,039
Segment assets 469,280 34,207 64,593 – 568,080
Segment liabilities 323,476 4,851 1,188 6 329,521
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
61
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
4. OPERATING SEGMENTS (continued)
Reconciliations of reportable segment profit or loss, assets and liabilities to the corresponding amounts of the Group are
as follows:
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Profit for the year
Total profit for reportable segments 53,067 33,294
Tax expense (7,756) (6,220)
Profit for the financial year of the Group per consolidated statement of profit or loss
and other comprehensive income 45,311 27,074
Assets
Total assets for reportable segments 803,761 568,080
Current tax assets 1,315 5,889
Assets of the Group 805,076 573,969
Liabilities
Total liabilities for reportable segments 535,315 329,521
Deferred tax liabilities 999 1,145
Current tax liabilities 427 678
Retirement benefit obligations 538 500
Liabilities of the Group 537,279 331,844
Geographical information
The manufacturing facilities and sales offices of the Group are based in Malaysia.
In presenting information on the basis of geographical areas, segment revenue is based on the geographical location
of customers.
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Revenue from external customers
Malaysia 73,758 77,919
Africa 1,879,114 1,584,594
Asia 535,913 533,921
Other regions 83,708 76,480
2,572,493 2,272,914
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
62
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group
2020
Balance
as at
1 July
2019
RM’000
Effect on
adoption
of
MFRS 16
(Note
35.1)
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Disposal
RM’000
Written
off
RM’000
Reclassifications
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for
the financial
year
RM’000
Exchange
differences
RM’000
Balance
as at
30 June
2020
RM’000
Carrying amount
Buildings 23,645 – 873 – – 2,013 (938) – 25,593
Freehold land 15,194 – 5 – – – – – 15,199
Leasehold land 8,451 (8,451) – – – – – – –
Plant and
machinery 26,034 (4,247) 721 – – 7,776 (6,180) – 24,104
Office furniture
and equipment 1,465 (7) 135 (3) (2) 58 (500) 1 1,147
Renovation 5,932 – 226 – – – (475) 1 5,684
Motor vehicles 1,567 (1,318) – – – – (189) 4 64
Construction
-in-progress 2,663 – 12,768 – – (9,847) – – 5,584
84,951 (14,023) 14,728 (3) (2) – (8,282) 6 77,375
At 30 June 2020
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
depreciation
RM’000
Carrying amount
RM’000
Buildings 31,736 (6,143) 25,593
Freehold land 15,199 – 15,199
Plant and machinery 56,963 (32,859) 24,104
Office furniture and equipment 4,870 (3,723) 1,147
Renovation 8,580 (2,896) 5,684
Motor vehicles 1,845 (1,781) 64
Construction-in-progress 5,584 – 5,584
124,777 (47,402) 77,375
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
63
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued)
Group
2019
Balance
as at
1 July
2018
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Disposal
RM’000
Written off
RM’000
Reclassifications
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for
the financial
year
RM’000
Exchange
differences
RM’000
Balance
as at
30 June
2019
RM’000
Carrying amount
Buildings 12,255 3,490 – – 8,094 (710) – 23,129
Freehold land 11,041 4,152 – – – – – 15,193
Leasehold land 5,368 4,011 – – – (411) – 8,968
Plant and machinery 18,338 4,363 (10) – 9,178 (5,836) 1 26,034
Office furniture
and equipment 1,274 216 * (2) 452 (477) 2 1,465
Renovation 5,460 610 – – 310 (449) 1 5,932
Motor vehicles 1,833 514 * – – (791) 11 1,567
Construction
-in-progress 15,014 5,683 – – (18,034) – – 2,663
70,583 23,039 (10) (2) – (8,674) 15 84,951
At 30 June 2019
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
depreciation
RM’000
Carrying amount
RM’000
Buildings 28,330 (5,201) 23,129
Freehold land 15,193 – 15,193
Leasehold land 10,934 (1,966) 8,968
Plant and machinery 55,686 (29,652) 26,034
Office furniture and equipment 4,578 (3,113) 1,465
Renovation 8,349 (2,417) 5,932
Motor vehicles 5,041 (3,474) 1,567
Construction-in-progress 2,663 – 2,663
130,774 (45,823) 84,951
* Disposal of property, plant and equipment with a less than RM1,000 and Nil carrying amount.
Company
2020
Balance as at
1 July 2019
RM’000
Effect on
adoption
of MFRS 16
(Note 35.1)
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Written
off
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the
financial year
RM’000
Balance as at
30 June 2020
RM’000
Carrying amount
Office furniture and equipment 51 – 6 * (16) 41
Motor vehicles 394 (388) – – (1) 5
445 (388) 6 * (17) 46
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
64
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued)
At 30 June 2020
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
depreciation
RM’000
Carrying amount
RM’000
Office furniture and equipment 866 (825) 41
Renovation 413 (413) –
Motor vehicles 9 (4) 5
1,288 (1,242) 46
Company
2019
Balance as at
1 July 2018
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Disposal
RM’000
Written
off
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the
financial year
RM’000
Balance as at
30 June 2019
RM’000
Carrying amount
Office furniture and equipment 60 7 – * (16) 51
Renovation 22 – – – (22) –
Motor vehicles 8 394 * – (8) 394
90 401 * * (46) 445
At 30 June 2019
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
depreciation
RM’000
Carrying amount
RM’000
Office furniture and equipment 865 (814) 51
Renovation 413 (413) –
Motor vehicles 402 (8) 394
1,680 (1,235) 445
* Disposal of property, plant and equipment with less than RM1,000 carrying amount.
(a) All items of property, plant and equipment are initially recorded at cost. After initial recognition, property, plant and
equipment except for freehold land and construction-in-progress are stated at cost less any accumulated depreciation and
accumulated impairment losses, if any.
Depreciation is calculated to write down the cost of the assets to their residual values on a straight line basis over their
estimated useful lives. The estimated useful lives represent common life expectancies applied in the various business
segments of the Group operates. The principal depreciation period and annual rates used are as follows:
Buildings				 2% - 13%
Leasehold land			 over the lease period up to 99 years
Plant and machinery		 2% - 33%
Office furniture and equipment 8% - 40%
Renovation			 10% - 20%
Motor vehicles			 20% - 25%
Freehold land has unlimited useful life and is not depreciated. Construction-in-progress represents machinery and office
equipment under installation and is stated at cost. Construction-in-progress is not depreciated until such time when the asset
is ready for use.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
65
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (continued)
(b) During the financial year, the Group and the Company made the following cash payments to purchase property, plant
and equipment:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 14,728 23,039 6 401
Financed by finance lease – (369) – (318)
Cash payments on purchase of property, plant
and equipment 14,728 22,670 6 83
(c) In the previous financial year, the Group had assessed and classified land use rights of the Group as finance leases based
on the extent to which risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the land resides with the Group arising from the lease
term. Consequently, the Group had classified the unamortised upfront payment for land use rights as finance leases in
accordance with MFRS 117 Leases.
(d) In the previous financial year, included in the property, plant and equipment of the Group and of the Company were assets
acquired under finance lease obligations at the end of each reporting period as follows:
Group Company
2019
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Motor vehicles 1,399 394
Plant and machinery 4,247 –
Office equipment 7 –
5,653 394
Details of terms and condition of the hire purchase arrangements are disclosed in Note 16 and Note 18 to the
financial statements.
(e) The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment of the Group pledged to licensed banks for banking facilities
granted to certain subsidiaries at the end of the reporting period as disclosed in Note 16, Note 17 and Note 19 to the
financial statements are as follows:
Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Buildings 17,981 18,406
Freehold land 15,199 15,193
Leasehold land – 2,097
Plant and machinery 9,944 13,050
43,124 48,746
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
66
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
6. LEASES
The Group as a lessee
Right-of-use assets
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1.7.2019
RM’000
Effects on
adoption of
MFRS 16
(Note 35.1)
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Disposal
RM’000
Depreciation
charge for the
financial year
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
differences
RM’000
Balance
as at
30.6.2020
RM’000
Land – 8,451 – – (489) – 7,962
Buildings – 3,590 6,238 – (983) – 8,845
Machineries – 4,653 – – (1,616) – 3,037
Office equipment – 7 – – (6) – 1
Motor vehicles – 1,318 1,385 (68) (785) 9 1,859
– 18,019 7,623 (68) (3,879) 9 21,704
Lease liabilities liabilities
Carrying amount
Balance
as at
1.7.2019
RM’000
Effects on
adoption of
MFRS 16
(Note 35.1)
RM’000
Additions
RM’000
Payments of
lease liabilities
RM’000
Payments of
lease interest
RM’000
Accretion
of interest
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
differences
RM’000
Balance
as at
30.6.2020
RM’000
Buildings – 3,558 2,969 (724) (85) 85 – 5,803
Machineries – 2,843 – (1,179) (130) 130 – 1,664
Office equipment – 7 – (7) * – – –
Motor vehicles – 1,142 1,128 (615) (75) 75 (75) 1,580
– 7,550 4,097 (2,525) (290) 290 (75) 9,047
* The payments of lease interest is insignificant.
The Company as a lessee
Right-of-use assets
Carrying amount
Balance as at
1.7.2019
RM’000
Effects on
adoption of MFRS 16
(Note 35.1)
RM’000
Depreciation charge for
the financial year
RM’000
Balance as at
30.6.2020
RM’000
Buildings – 2,392 (504) 1,888
Motor vehicles – 388 (79) 309
– 2,780 (583) 2,197
Lease liabilities
Carrying amount
Balance as at
1.7.2019
RM’000
Effects on
adoption of
MFRS 16
(Note 35.1)
RM’000
Payments of
lease liabilities
RM’000
Payments of
lease interest
RM’000
Accretion
of interest
RM’000
Balance as at
30.6.2020
RM’000
Buildings – 2,392 (482) (49) 49 1,910
Motor vehicles – 318 (56) (13) 13 262
– 2,710 (538) (62) 62 2,172
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
67
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
6. LEASES (continued)
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Represented by:
Current liabilities 2,405 556
Non-current liabilities 6,642 1,616
9,047 2,172
(a) The right-of-use assets are initially measured at cost, which comprise the initial amount of the lease liabilities adjusted for
any lease payments made at or before the commencement date of the leases.
After initial recognition, right-of-use assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any accumulated impairment
losses, and adjusted for any re-measurement of the lease liabilities.
The right-of-use assets are depreciated on the straight-line basis over the earlier of the estimated useful lives of the right-of-use
assets or the end of the lease term. The lease terms of right-of-use assets are as follows:
Land up to 99 years
Buildings			 5 years
Machineries		 5 years
Office equipment 5 years
(b) During the financial year, the Group made the following cash payments to purchase of right-of-use assets:
Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Purchase of right-of-use assets 7
,623 –
Financed by finance lease (4,097) –
Cash payments on purchase of right-of-use assets 3,526 –
(c) The Group has certain leases of office equipment and office building with lease term of 12 months or less, and low value
leases of office equipment of RM20,000 and below. The Group applies the “short-term lease” and “lease of low-value assets”
exemptions for these leases.
(d) The following are the amounts recognised in profit or loss:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Depreciation charge of right-of-use assets (included in cost of sales and
administrative expenses) 3,879 583
Interest expense on lease liabilities (included in finance costs) 290 61
Expense relating to short-term leases (included in administrative expenses) 529 –
Expense relating to leases of low-value assets
(included in administrative expenses) 14 –
4,712 644
(e) Certain land of the Group with a carrying amount of RM2,072,000 have been pledged as securities to banks for loans and
borrowings granted to the Group as disclosed in Note 16 and Note 19 to the financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
68
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
6. LEASES (continued)
(f) The following table sets out the carrying amounts, the weighted average incremental borrowing rates and the remaining
maturities of the lease liabilities of the Group and of the Company that are exposed to interest rate risk:
Weighted
average
incremental
borrowing rate
per annum
%
Within
one (1) year
RM’000
One (1) to
five (5) years
RM’000
More than
five (5) years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Group
30 June 2020
Lease liabilities
Floating rates 4.22% 2,405 3,872 2,770 9,047
Company
30 June 2020
Lease liabilities
Floating rates 2.28% 556 1,616 – 2,172
(g) The table below summarises the maturity profile of the lease liabilities of the Group and of the Company at the end of the
reporting period based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations as follows:
Within
one (1) year
RM’000
One (1) to
five (5) years
RM’000
More than
five (5) years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Group
30 June 2020
Lease liabilities 2,591 4,120 3,086 9,797
Company
30 June 2020
Lease liabilities 602 1,672 – 2,274
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
69
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
6. LEASES (continued)
(h) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
The table below details changes in the Group’s and the Company’s liabilities arising from financing activities, including both
cash and non-cash changes. Liabilities arising from financing activities are those for which cash flows were, or future cash flows
will be, classified in the statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company as cash flows from financing activities.
Lease liabilities
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
At 1 July 2019 – –
Effect on adoption of MFRS 16 7
,550 2,710
At 1 July 2019, as restated 7
,550 2,710
Additions 4,097 –
Cash flows (2,815) (600)
Non-cash flows:
– Unwinding of interest 290 62
– Effect of foreign exchange (75) –
At 30 June 2020 9,047 2,172
7. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Group
2020
Balance as at
1 July 2019/30 June 2020
RM’000
Carrying amount
Goodwill 11,242
Trademark 19
11,261
At 30 June 2020
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
impairment loss
RM’000
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Goodwill 11,242 – 11,242
Trademark 19 – 19
11,261 – 11,261
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
70
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
7. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (continued)
Group
2019
Balance as at
1 July 2018/30 June 2019
RM’000
Carrying amount
Goodwill 11,242
Trademark 19
11,261
At 30 June 2019
Cost
RM’000
Accumulated
impairment loss
RM’000
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Goodwill 11,242 – 11,242
Trademark 19 – 19
11,261 – 11,261
(a) Goodwill
Goodwill is initially measured at cost. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less accumulated impairment
losses, if any. Goodwill is not amortised but instead tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount could be impaired.
The recoverable amount of the goodwill associated with the acquisition of Continental Resources Sdn. Bhd. (the “cash
generating unit” or “CGU”) has been determined based on value in use calculations using a cash flow forecast and
projections from financial budgets approved by management covering a five-year period. The pre-tax discount rate applied
to the cash flow forecast and projections, the forecasted growth rates used to extrapolate cash flows for the five-year
period, and the calculations of value in use for the CGUs are most sensitive to the following assumptions:
(i) Growth rates
The forecasted average annual revenue growth rate from 2021 to 2025 is 2.0%. The average annual revenue growth
rate used in 2019 was 4.0%.
(ii) Pre-tax discount rates
		 The pre-tax discount rate used was 3.5% (2019: 5.1%). In determining the appropriate discount rate due consideration
has been given to the weighted average cost of capital of the Group and reflect specific risks relating to the
relevant CGU.
A reasonably possible change in the assumptions above would not cause any impairment loss on goodwill.
The Group determines whether goodwill on consolidation is impaired at least on an annual basis. This requires an estimation
of the value-in-use of a subsidiary to which goodwill is allocated. Estimating a value-in-use amount requires management to
make an estimate of the expected future cash flows from the subsidiary and also to choose a suitable discount rate in order
to calculate the present value of those cash flows.
(b) Other intangible assets are recognised only when the identifiability, control and future economic benefits probability are
met. The other intangible assets are initially measured at cost. After initial recognition, other intangible assets are measured
at cost less accumulated impairment losses, if any.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
71
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
8. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Unquoted shares, at cost 155,230 147,030
Less: Accumulated impairment losses (100,730) (100,730)
54,500 46,300
(a) Investments in subsidiaries, which are eliminated on consolidation, are stated in the separate financial statements of the
Company at cost less impairment losses, if any.
All components of non-controlling interests shall be measured at their acquisition-date fair values, unless another measurement
basis is required by MFRSs. The choice of measurement basis is made on a combination-by-combination basis. Subsequent
to initial recognition, the carrying amount of non-controlling interests is the amount of those interests at initial recognition plus
the non-controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity.
(b) Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of company
Country of
incorporation
Effective equity interest
Principal activities
2020
%
2019
%
Continental Resources Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Selling, manufacturing and
packing of edible oils
Doe Industries Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Manufacture and selling of
water taps, showers and
other plumbing fittings
C.I. Building Industries Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
C.I. Engineering Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
C.I. Management Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
C.I. Construction Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
C.I. Marketing Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
C.I. Halla Environmental Technology
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
72
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
8. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (continued)
(b) Details of the subsidiaries are as follows (continued):
Name of company
Country of
incorporation
Effective equity interest
Principal activities
2020
%
2019
%
Subsidiary of Continental Resources Sdn. Bhd.
Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 60 60 Selling and packing of edible
oils
Subsidiaries of Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn. Bhd.
PNC Oil Factory (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 60 60 Selling and packing of edible
oils
Continental Palms Pte. Ltd.* Singapore 60 60 Selling and marketing of
edible oils
Tradekey PT Foods Nigeria Limited * Nigeria 60 60 Inactive
Cebon Pte Ltd * Singapore 60 – General wholesale trade,
including general importers
and exporters, and trading
on various commodities
Palmtop Fze Ω* Dubai 60 – Inactive
Subsidiaries of Doe Industries Sdn. Bhd.
Doe Marketing Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Dealership and distribution
of household fittings and
appliances
Potex Industries Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Manufacturing and trading of
ceramic sanitary wares and
related products
Elegant Flow Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Trading of sanitary wares and
related products
Subsidiary of C.I. Building Industries Sdn. Bhd.
C.I. Quarries Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
Subsidiaries of C.I. Quarries Sdn. Bhd.
Capital Aim Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Investment holding
C.I. Damansara Quarry Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 65 65 Inactive
Subsidiary of Capital Aim Sdn. Bhd.
C.I. Quarries (Nilai) Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Inactive
Subsidiary of C.I. Engineering Sdn. Bhd.
C.I. Auto Services Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 51 51 Inactive
		 * Subsidiary not audited by BDO PLT or member firms of BDO International.
		 Ω Incorporated during the financial year and audited financial statements have not been prepared
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
73
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
8. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (continued)
(c) Addition of interest in a subsidiary during the financial year ended 30 June 2020
On February 2020, the Group subscribed 8,200,000 ordinary shares in Continental Resources Sdn. Bhd. (“CRSB”) for a
total cash consideration of RM8,200,000.
(d) Acquisition of subsidiaries during the financial year ended 30 June 2020
(i) Cebon Pte Ltd (“Cebon”)
On 18 September 2019, Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn. Bhd. (“Palmtop”), 60%-owned subsidiary of the Group,
incorporated a subsidiary Cebon Pte Ltd (“Cebon”) in Singapore with an issued and paid-up share capital of
SGD10,001 (equivalent to RM30,561) comprising 10,001 ordinary shares of SGD1.00 each. The principal
activity of Cebon Pte Ltd is general wholesale trade, including general importers and exporters, and trading on
various commodities.
(i) Palmtop FZE
On 29 June 2020, Palmtop Vegeoil Products Sdn. Bhd. (“Palmtop”), 60%-owned subsidiary of the Group, incorporated
a subsidiary Palmtop FZE in Dubai with an issued and paid-up share capital of AED50,000 (equivalent to RM58,329)
comprising 50 ordinary shares of AED1,000 each. The intended principal activity of Palmtop FZE is general wholesale
trading of vegetable oil related products.
(e) Subsidiaries of the Group that have material non-controlling interests (“NCI”) are as follows:
Palmtop Vegeoil
Products Sdn. Bhd.
and its subsidiaries
RM’000
Other individually
immaterial
subsidiaries
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2020
NCI percentage of ownership interest and voting
interest (%) 40%
Carrying amount of NCI 40,310 (176) 40,134
Profit/(Loss) allocated to NCI 15,200 (3) 15,197
Total comprehensive income allocated to NCI 15,278 (3) 15,275
Palmtop Vegeoil
Products Sdn. Bhd.
and its subsidiaries
RM’000
Other individually
immaterial
subsidiaries
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2019
NCI percentage of ownership interest and voting
interest (%) 40%
Carrying amount of NCI 31,469 264 31,733
Profit/(Loss) allocated to NCI 8,040 (3) 8,037
Total comprehensive income allocated to NCI 8,054 (3) 8,051
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
74
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
8. INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (continued)
(f) Summarised financial information before intra-group elimination of a subsidiary that has material NCI as at the end of each
reporting period are as follows:
Palmtop Vegeoil
Products Sdn. Bhd. and
its subsidiaries
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Assets and liabilities
Non-current assets 35,013 24,606
Current assets 411,535 302,085
Non-current liabilities (1,277) (1,705)
Current liabilities (344,496) (245,221)
Net assets 100,775 79,765
Results
Revenue 1,974,654 1,864,803
Profit for the financial year 38,000 20,101
Total comprehensive income 38,195 20,136
Cash flows (used in)/from operating activities (55,937) 64,881
Cash flows used in investing activities (14,487) (15,053)
Cash flows from/(used in) financing activities 75,852 (51,122)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 5,428 (1,294)
Dividend paid to NCI (6,874) (6,050)
9. OTHER INVESTMENT
Group and Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Non-current
Club membership 10 10
(a) The club membership were classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss pursuant to MFRS 9
Financial Instruments.
(b) The fair value of club membership of the Group and of the Company is categorised as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy.
There is no transfer between levels in the hierarchy during the financial year.
(c) The club membership is held by the Company under a subsidiary Director’s name.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
75
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
10. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Non-current
Other receivables
Amounts due from subsidiaries – – 4,278 15,572
Current
Trade receivables
Trade receivables 447
,760 293,033 – –
Less: Impairment losses (2,768) (5,765) – –
444,992 287
,268 – –
Other receivables
Other receivables 9,028 9,670 66 77
Deposits 1,101 924 162 162
Amounts due from subsidiaries – – 10,927 16,442
10,129 10,594 11,155 16,681
Less: Impairment losses
– Other receivables (385) (385) – –
– Amounts due from subsidiaries – – (4,026) (3,982)
9,744 10,209 7
,129 12,699
454,736 297
,477 7
,129 12,699
Prepayments 14,003 6,198 28 50
468,739 303,675 7
,157 12,749
(a) Trade and other receivables, excluding prepayments, are classified as financial assets measured at amortised cost.
(b) The normal trade credit terms granted by the Group in respect of trade receivables ranged from 14 to 90 days (2019: 14
to 90 days) from the date of invoice. They are recognised at their original invoice amounts which represent their fair values
on initial recognition.
(c) Amounts owing by subsidiaries represent advances and payments made on behalf, which are unsecured, interest-free and
payable in cash and cash equivalents, except for an amount owing by a subsidiary amounting to RM4,500,000 (2019:
RM15,200,000), which was unsecured, subject to fixed interest rate of 4.0% (2019: 4.0%) per annum and payable in cash
and cash equivalents. The amounts due from subsidiaries under non-current are receivable after twelve (12) months.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
76
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
10. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued)
(d) Impairment for trade receivables that do not contain a significant financing component are recognised based on the
simplified approach using the lifetime expected credit losses.
The Group has established a provision matrix that is based on its historical credit loss experience, adjusted to reflect current
and forward looking information such as consumer price index, unemployment rate, inflation rate, producer price index and
gross domestic product (“GDP”) of the countries which it sells its goods to be the most relevant factor, affecting the ability
of the consumers to settle the receivables.
During this process, the probability of non-payment by the trade receivables is adjusted by forward looking information
and multiplied by the amount of the expected loss arising from default to determine the lifetime expected credit loss for the
trade receivables. For trade receivables, which are reported net, such impairments are recorded in a separate impairment
account with the loss being recognised in the consolidated statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income.
On confirmation that the trade receivable would not be collectible, the gross carrying value of the asset would be written
off against the associated impairment.
It requires management to exercise significant judgement in determining the probability of default by trade receivables and
appropriate forward looking information.
(e) The loss allowance for trade receivables of the Group is determined as follows:
Group
Current
RM’000
1 - 90 days
past due
RM’000
More than
90 days
past due
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2020
Expected loss rate 0.23% 0.75% 12.71%
Gross carrying amount
– trade receivables 315,049 124,014 8,697 447
,760
Loss allowance (738) (925) (1,105) (2,768)
314,311 123,089 7
,592 444,992
2019
Expected loss rate 0.02% 0.32% 17
.7%
Gross carrying amount
– trade receivables 142,208 120,218 30,607 293,033
Loss allowance (37) (394) (5,334) (5,765)
142,171 119,824 25,273 287
,268
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
77
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
10. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued)
(f) The reconciliation of movements of the impairment loss for trade and other receivables at the end of each reporting period
are as follows:
Group
Lifetime ECL
allowance
RM’000
Individually
impaired
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Trade receivables
As at 1 July 2019 4,963 802 5,765
Charge for the financial year 476 – 476
Reversal of impairment loss (3,437) (37) (3,474)
Exchange differences 1 – 1
As at 30 June 2020 2,003 765 2,768
As at 1 July 2018 4,832 2,013 6,845
Charge for the financial year 235 411 646
Reversal of impairment loss (104) (481) (585)
Written off – (1,141) (1,141)
As at 30 June 2019 4,963 802 5,765
Group
Lifetime ECL-
not credit impaired
RM’000
Lifetime ECL-
credit impaired
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Other receivables and deposits
As at 1 July 2019 * 385 385
Charge for the financial year * – *
As at 30 June 2020 * 385 385
As at 1 July 2018 * 385 385
Charge for the financial year * – *
As at 30 June 2019 * 385 385
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
78
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
10. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued)
(f) The reconciliation of movements of the impairment loss for trade and other receivables at the end of each reporting period
are as follows (continued):
Company
Lifetime ECL-
not credit impaired
RM’000
Lifetime ECL-
credit impaired
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Other receivables and deposits
As at 1 July 2019 * – *
Charge for the financial year * – *
As at 30 June 2020 * – *
As at 1 July 2018 * – *
Charge for the financial year * – *
As at 30 June 2019 * – *
Amounts due from subsidiaries
As at 1 July 2019 * 3,982 3,982
Charge for the financial year * 44 44
As at 30 June 2020 * 4,026 4,026
As at 1 July 2018 * 3,938 3,938
Charge for the financial year * 44 44
As at 30 June 2019 * 3,982 3,982
* The effects of expected credit loss is insignificant
Individually impaired refers to debtors who have defaulted on payments and are in significant financial difficulties as at the
end of the reporting period.
(g) Impairment for other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries are recognised based on the general approach
within MFRS 9 using the forward looking expected credit loss model. The methodology used to determine the amount
of the impairment is based on whether there has been a significant increase in credit risk since initial recognition of the
financial asset. For those in which the credit risk has not increased significantly since initial recognition of the financial
asset, twelve-month expected credit losses along with gross interest income are recognised. For those in which credit risk
has increased significantly, lifetime expected credit losses along with the gross interest income are recognised. As at the
end of the reporting period, the Group and the Company assess whether there has been a significant increase in credit
risk for financial assets by comparing the risk for default occurring over the expected life with the risk of default since initial
recognition. For those that are determined to be credit impaired, lifetime expected credit losses along with interest income
on a net basis are recognised.
The probabilities of non-payment by other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries are adjusted by forward looking
information such as gross domestic product (“GDP”) and multiplied by the amount of the expected loss arising from default
to determine the twelve month or lifetime expected credit loss for other receivables and amounts due from subsidiaries.
It requires management to exercise significant judgement in determining the probabilities of default by other receivables
and amounts due from subsidiaries, appropriate forward looking information and significant increase in credit risk. The
Group defined significant increased in credit risk based on past due information, i.e. overdue amounts more than twelve
(12) months.
(h) At the end of each reporting period, the Group has no significant concentration of credit risk except for trade receivable
from one (1) customer constituting 9% (2019: 9%) of total receivables of the Group. The Group does not anticipate the
carrying amounts recorded at the end of each reporting period to be significantly different from the values that would
eventually be received.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
79
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
10. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES (continued)
(i) The currency exposure profile of receivables excluding prepayments is as follows:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Euro (“EUR”) 109,729 57,164 – –
United States Dollar (“USD”) 309,044 205,267 – –
Singapore Dollar (“SGD”) 219 1,082 – –
Chinese Renminbi (“RMB”) 31 – – –
RM 35,713 33,964 11,407 28,271
454,736 297,477 11,407 28,271
(j) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other variables
remain constant, are as follows:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Effects of 3% changes to RM against
foreign currencies
Profit after tax
– USD/RM – strengthen 7,046 4,680 – –
– USD/RM – weaken (7,046) (4,680) – –
– EUR/RM – strengthen 2,502 399 – –
– EUR/RM – weaken (2,502) (399) – –
		 The exposures to the other currencies are not significant, hence the effects of the changes in the exchange rates are
		not presented.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
80
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
11. INVENTORIES
Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
At cost
Raw materials 16,361 11,544
Work-in-progress 375 295
Finished goods 41,848 34,483
58,584 46,322
At net realisable value
Raw materials 2 5
58,586 46,327
(a) Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value and cost is determined using the weighted average formula.
(b) Inventories of the Group recognised as cost of sales amounted to RM2,255,120,000 (2019: RM1,985,215,000) and
inventories written back amounted to RM76,000 (2019: RM138,000), which was recognised in other income.
(c) During the financial year, inventories written down amounted to RM11,000 (2019: RM100,000), which is recognised as
other expenses in the statements of profit or loss of the Group.
12. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
Group
2020 2019
Contract/
Notional
amount
RM’000
Assets
RM’000
Liabilities
RM’000
Contract/
Notional
amount
RM’000
Assets
RM’000
Liabilities
RM’000
Forward foreign exchange contracts 771,011 – (9,262) 471,172 185 (2,995)
Commodity forward contracts (18,986) 664 (2,923) (321) 1,526 (2,335)
664 (12,185) 1,711 (5,330)
(a) Derivative financial instruments are classified as fair value through profit or loss and measured at fair value, categorised as
Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. There is no transfer between levels in the hierarchy during the financial year.
(b) The forward foreign exchange contracts were entered into with the objective of managing the exposure of the Group to
currency risk for receivables, which are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Group.
(c) The commodity forward contracts were entered into with the objective of managing the exposure of the edible oil segment
of the Group to adverse price movements in vegetable oil commodity.
(d) The above derivatives are initially recognised at fair value on the date the derivative contract is entered into and are
subsequently re-measured at fair value through profit and loss. The resulting loss from the re-measurement of RM7,902,000
(2019: loss of RM2,873,000) is recognised in profit or loss.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
81
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
12. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)
(e) The unexpired foreign currency forward contracts, which have been entered into by the Group for its trade receivables and
trade payables as at end of each reporting period are as follows:
Group
Contractual
amount
in Foreign
Currency
(“FC’000”)
Equivalent
amount
in Ringgit
Malaysia
(“RM’000”)
Average
contractual rate
RM/FC
Expiry dates
2020
USD 134,420 569,296 4.24 1.7.2020 to 4.1.2021
EUR 42,200 201,715 4.78 17.7.2020 to 18.12.2020
2019
USD 85,496 351,879 4.12 3.7.2019 to 31.12.2019
EUR 25,200 119,293 4.73 18.9.2019 to 29.12.2019
(f) The Group’s financial instruments which are subject to price risk along with their contract values and mark-to-market fair
value on closing, plus fair value recognised over the financial year are as follows:
Group
Contract and notional value
Fair value attributed to price
changes at period closing
<1 year
RM’000
<1 year
RM’000
2020
Commodity based
Forward sales contracts 29,747 664
Forward purchase contracts (48,733) (2,923)
(2,259)
2019
Commodity based
Forward sales contracts (41,925) 1,526
Forward purchase contracts 41,604 (2,335)
(809)
The exposure of the Group to price volatility was solely derived from palm products. If the price of palm products changes by
3%, profit after tax for the Group would have equally increased or decreased by approximately RM433,000 (2019: RM7
,000).
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
82
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
13. CASH AND BANK BALANCES
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Cash and bank balances 138,202 96,445 43,952 30,598
Deposits with licensed banks 27,220 23,700 21,000 22,000
165,422 120,145 64,952 52,598
(a) Cash and bank balances are classified as financial assets measured at amortised cost.
(b) Deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company are subject to fixed interest at rates ranging from 0.75% to
2.67% and 1.65% to 2.67% (2019: 1.95% to 3.45% and 2.70% to 3.45%) respectively.
(c) Deposits with the licensed banks of the Group and of the Company as at the end of the reporting period have maturity
periods ranging from 6 days to 154 days and 29 days to 154 days (2019: 6 days to 94 days and 28 days to 94 days)
respectively.
(d) Deposits with licensed banks of the Group and of the Company are fixed rate instruments. Sensitivity analysis at the end
of the reporting period is not presented as fixed rate instrument is not affected by change in interest rates.
(e) The currency exposure profile of cash and bank balances is as follows:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
RM 98,422 65,222 64,952 52,598
USD 46,280 28,139 – –
SGD 1,966 2,606 – –
EUR 18,749 24,173 – –
Others 5 5 – –
165,422 120,145 64,952 52,598
(f) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of each reporting period, assuming that all other variables
remain constant, are as follows:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Effects of 3% changes to RM against
foreign currencies
Profit after tax
– EUR/RM – strengthen 427 551 – –
– EUR/RM – weaken (427) (551) – –
– USD/RM – strengthen 1,055 642 – –
– USD/RM – weaken (1,055) (642) – –
The exposures to the other currencies are not significant, hence the effects of the changes in the exchange rates are
not presented.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
83
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
13. CASH AND BANK BALANCES (continued)
(g) For the purpose of the statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents comprise the following as at the end of
each reporting period:
Note
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Cash and bank balances 138,202 96,445 43,952 30,598
Deposits with licensed banks 27,220 23,700 21,000 22,000
As reported in statements of
financial position 165,422 120,145 64,952 52,598
Less: Deposits with maturity more
than three (3) months (15,000) (20,000) (15,000) (20,000)
Less: Bank overdraft 16 – (319) – –
As reported in statements of cash flows 150,422 99,826 49,952 32,598
(h) No expected credit losses were recognised arising from the deposits with licensed banks because the probability of
default by these licensed banks were negligible.
14. SHARE CAPITAL
Group and Company
2020 2019
Number
of shares
’000 RM’000
Number
of shares
’000 RM’000
Issued and fully paid
As at 1 July/30 June 162,000 95,147 162,000 95,147
The owners of the parent are entitled to receive dividends as and when declared by the Company and are entitled to one
(1) vote per ordinary share at meetings of the Company. All ordinary shares rank pari passu with regard to the residual
assets of the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
84
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
15. RESERVES
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Non-distributable:
Exchange translation reserve 156 39 – –
Distributable:
Retained earnings 132,360 115,206 34,925 31,476
132,516 115,245 34,925 31,476
Exchange translation reserve
The exchange translation reserve is used to record foreign currency exchange differences arising from the translation of the
financial statements of foreign operations whose functional currencies are different from that of the presentation currency
of the Group. It is also used to record the exchange differences arising from monetary items which form part of the net
investment of the Group in foreign operations, where the monetary item is denominated in either the functional currency
of the reporting entity or the foreign operation.
16. BORROWINGS
Note
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Non-current liabilities
Secured:
Term loans 9,021 14,616 – –
Hire purchase creditors – 2,093 – 260
9,021 16,709 – 260
Current liabilities
Secured:
Bank overdraft – 319 – –
Term loans 5,662 4,865 – –
Bankers’ acceptances 120,034 159,327 – –
Islamic term financing 240,419 19,376 – –
Hire purchase creditors – 1,461 – 58
366,115 185,348 – 58
Total borrowings
Bank overdraft – 319 – –
Term loans 17 14,683 19,481 – –
Bankers’ acceptances 120,034 159,327 – –
Islamic term financing 19 240,419 19,376 – –
Hire purchase creditors 18 – 3,554 – 318
375,136 202,057 – 318
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
85
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
16. BORROWINGS (continued)
(a) Borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost.
(b) Bankers’ acceptances are secured by first legal charges over land and buildings of certain subsidiaries as disclosed in Note
5 and Note 6 to the financial statements. In addition, bankers’ acceptances are guaranteed by the following:
(i) corporate guarantee and indemnity by the Company and a negative pledge on the assets of certain subsidiaries; and
(ii) individual guarantee issued by a Director of the Group.
(c) The remaining maturities of borrowings as at the end of each reporting period are as follows:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Within one (1) year 366,115 185,348 – 58
More than one (1) year and less than five
(5) years 8,501 16,011 – 260
More than five (5) years 520 698 – –
375,136 202,057 – 318
(d) The weighted average effective interest rates for the borrowings as at reporting date, are as follows:
Group Company
2020
%
2019
%
2020
%
2019
%
Fixed rate
Hire purchase creditors – 5.55 – 4.33
Floating rate
Bank overdraft – 8.06 – –
Term loans 4.83 5.50 – –
Bankers’ acceptances 3.69 3.71 – –
Islamic term financing 2.73 4.81 – –
(e) At the end of the reporting period, the interest rate profile of the borrowings are as follows:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Fixed rate – 3,554 – 318
Variable rate 375,136 198,503 – –
(f) Sensitivity analysis of interest rate at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other variables remain constant, are
as follows:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Profit after tax
– Increased by 1.0% (2019: 1.0%) (2,851) (1,509) – –
– Decreased by 1.0% (2019: 1.0%) 2,851 1,509 – –
Sensitivity analysis for fixed rate borrowings at the end of reporting period is not presented as it is not affected by changes
in interest rates.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
86
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
16. BORROWINGS (continued)
(g) The maturity profile of the Group’s and Company’s borrowings at the end of each reporting period based on contractual
undiscounted repayment obligations is summarised in the table below:
Group
On demand or
within one year
RM’000
One to five
years
RM’000
Over five
years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
As at 30 June 2020
Financial liabilities
Term loans 6,228 9,183 560 15,971
Bankers’ acceptances 120,034 – – 120,034
Islamic term financing 240,419 – – 240,419
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 366,681 9,183 560 376,424
As at 30 June 2019
Financial liabilities
Bank overdraft 319 – – 319
Term loans 5,828 15,013 769 21,610
Bankers’ acceptances 159,327 – – 159,327
Islamic term financing 19,376 – – 19,376
Hire purchase creditors 1,632 2,205 – 3,837
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 186,482 17,218 769 204,469
Company
On demand or
within one year
RM’000
One to five
years
RM’000
Over five
years
RM’000
Total
RM’000
As at 30 June 2019
Financial liabilities
Hire purchase creditors 71 283 – 354
Total undiscounted financial liabilities 71 283 – 354
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
87
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
16. BORROWINGS (continued)
(h) The currency exposure profile of borrowings is as follows:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
USD 106,093 136 – –
RM 269,043 201,921 – 318
375,136 202,057 – 318
Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currency, USD as at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other
variables remain constant, are as follows:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Effects of 3% changes to RM against
foreign currencies
Profit after tax
– USD/RM – strengthen (2,419) (2) – –
– USD/RM – weaken 2,419 2 – –
(i) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities
The table below details changes in the Group’s and the Company’s liabilities arising from financing activities, including both
cash and non-cash changes. Liabilities arising from financing activities are those for which cash flows were, or future cash flows
will be, classified in the statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company as cash flows from financing activities.
Group
Bankers’
acceptances
RM’000
Islamic
term
financing
RM’000
Term
loans
RM’000
Hire
purchase
creditors
RM’000
Total #
RM’000
As at 30 June 2020
At 1 July 2019 159,327 19,376 19,481 3,554 201,738
Effect on adoption of MFRS 16 – – – (3,554) (3,554)
At 1 July 2019, as restated 159,327 19,376 19,481 – 198,184
Cash flows (39,188) 221,578 (4,798) – 177,592
Non-cash flows:
– Effect of foreign exchange (105) (535) – – (640)
At 30 June 2020 120,034 240,419 14,683 – 375,136
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
88
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
16. BORROWINGS (continued)
(i) Reconciliation of liabilities arising from financing activities (continued)
Group
Bankers’
acceptances
RM’000
Islamic
term
financing
RM’000
Term
loans
RM’000
Hire
purchase
creditors
RM’000
Total #
RM’000
As at 30 June 2019
At 1 July 2018 209,507 16,775 8,864 7,764 242,910
Cash flows (50,286) 2,606 10,617 (4,579) (41,642)
Non-cash flows:
– Effect of foreign exchange 106 (5) – – 101
Other changes:
Purchase of property, plant and equipment – – – 369 369
At 30 June 2019 159,327 19,376 19,481 3,554 201,738
# Total borrowings excludes bank overdraft.
Company
Hire
purchase
creditors
RM’000
Total
RM’000
As at 30 June 2020
At 1 July 2019 318 318
Effect on adoption of MFRS 16 (318) (318)
At 1 July 2019, as restated – –
As at 30 June 2019
At 1 July 2018 130 130
Cash flows (130) (130)
Non-cash flows:
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 318 318
At 30 June 2019 318 318
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
89
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
17. TERM LOANS
Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Term loan I 88 268
Term loan II 463 768
Term loan III 1,410 1,588
Term loan IV 477 1,003
Term loan V 2,867 3,873
Term loan VI 2,620 2,624
Term loan VII 5,684 7,235
Term loan VIII 1,074 2,122
14,683 19,481
(a) Term loans of the Group are secured by legal charges over the freehold land, building and plant and machinery of a
subsidiary as disclosed in Note 5 to the financial statements.
In addition, the term loans of the Group are guaranteed by the Company and a negative pledge on the assets of a subsidiary.
(b) Term Loan I is repayable in hundred and eighty (180) equal monthly instalments, which commenced June 2006 and has no
fixed repricing period. The interest rate for the term loan is based on the Base Lending Rate (“BLR”) plus 0.60% per annum.
Interest rate charged during the financial year is 6.91% (2019: 7.41%).
(c) Term Loan II is repayable in hundred and eighty (180) instalments, which commenced July 2007. The term loan carries
interest at 3.00% per annum for the first year, BLR minus 1.00% per annum for the second year and thereafter at BLR plus
0.6% per annum. Interest rate charged during the financial year is 6.91% (2019: 7.41%).
(d) Term Loan III is repayable hundred and eighty (180) equal monthly instalments, which commenced May 2013 and has no
fixed repricing period. The interest rate for the term loan is based on the BLR minus 1.5% per annum. Interest rate charged
during the financial year is 4.81% (2019: 5.60%).
(e) Term Loan IV is repayable in sixty (60) equal monthly instalments, which commenced June 2016 and has no fixed repricing
period. The interest rate for the term loan is based on the BLR plus 0.6% per annum. Interest rate charged during the financial
year is 6.91% (2019: 7.26%).
(f) Term Loan V is repayable in seventy-two (72) equal monthly instalments, which commenced January 2019 and has no fixed
repricing period. The interest rate for the term loan is based on the bank’s Cost of Funds (“COF”) plus 1.80% per annum.
Interest rate charged during the financial year is 5.00% (2019: 6.00%).
(g) Term Loan VI is repayable in forty seven (47) equal monthly instalments, which commenced May 2020 and has no fixed
repricing period. The interest rate for the term loan is based on the bank’s COF plus 1.55% per annum. Average interest
rate charged during the financial year is 4.93% (2019: 5.33%).
(h) Term Loan VII is repayable in sixty (60) equal monthly instalments, which commenced March 2019 and has no fixed
repricing period. The interest rate for the term loan is based on the bank’s COF plus 1.55% per annum. Average interest
rate charged during the financial year is 4.27% (2019: 5.33%).
(i) Term Loan VIII is repayable in thirty six (36) equal monthly instalments, which commenced March 2019 and has no fixed
repricing period. The interest rate for the term loan is based on the bank’s COF plus 1.55% per annum. Average interest
rate charged during the financial year is 5.33% (2019: 5.33%).
(j) A covenant in relation to the secured term loans I, II, III, IV and V amounting to RM5,305,000 (2019: RM7,500,000) is
that the gearing ratio of a subsidiary in the Group shall not exceed 1.75 times throughout the tenure of the facilities and to
maintain Tangible Net Worth of at least RM43,500,000. A covenant in relation to the secured term loans VI, VII and VIII
amounting to RM9,378,000 (2019: RM11,981,000) is that the subsidiary shall not declare or pay dividends of more than
80% of profit after tax.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
90
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
18. HIRE PURCHASE CREDITORS
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Minimum hire purchase payments:
– not later than one (1) year – 1,632 – 71
– later than one (1) year but not later than five
(5) years – 2,205 – 283
Total minimum hire purchase payments – 3,837 – 354
Less: Future interest charges – (283) – (36)
Present value of hire purchase creditors – 3,554 – 318
Repayable as follows:
Current liabilities:
– not later than one (1) year – 1,461 – 58
Non-current liabilities:
– later than one (1) year but not later than five
(5) years – 2,093 – 260
– 3,554 – 318
(a) The carrying amounts of hire purchase creditors of the Group and of the Company as at the end of the reporting period
that do not approximate their fair values are as follows:
Group Company
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Fair value
RM’000
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Fair value
RM’000
At 30 June 2019 3,554 3,322 318 297
The fair value of hire purchase creditors is categorised as Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy. There is no transfer between
levels in the hierarchy during the financial year.
19. ISLAMIC TERM FINANCING
Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Secured
Islamic acceptance bills 149 690
Islamic trade facilities 240,270 18,686
240,419 19,376
(a) Islamic acceptance bills of the Group are secured by first legal charge over the land and building of a subsidiary as
disclosed in Note 5 and Note 6 to the financial statements.
(b) Islamic acceptance bills and Islamic trade facilities of the Group are guaranteed by way of a corporate guarantee by the
Company corporate guarantee and a negative pledge on the assets of certain subsidiaries as disclosed in Note 5 to the
financial statements.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
91
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
20. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
(a) The deferred tax liabilities are made up of the following:
Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
As at 1 July 2019/2018 1,145 (814)
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 27) (146) 1,959
As at 30 June 2020/2019 999 1,145
(b) The components and movements of deferred tax liabilities during the financial year prior to offsetting are as follows:
Deferred tax liabilities of the Group
Property, plant
and equipment
and rights-of-
use asset
RM’000
Unrealised
gain on foreign
exchange
RM’000
Others
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Balance as at 1 July 2018 (878) 1,164 (1,100) (814)
Recognised in profit or loss 3,125 (1,161) (5) 1,959
Balance as at 30 June 2019/1 July 2019 2,247 3 (1,105) 1,145
Recognised in profit or loss (950) (3) 807 (146)
As at 30 June 2020 1,297 – (298) 999
(c) Amounts of temporary differences for which no deferred tax assets have been recognised in the statements of financial
position are as follows:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Unabsorbed capital allowances 7
,146 6,897 447 420
Unused tax losses 7
,327 6,380 736 736
Other temporary differences (4,068) (1,738) 4,830 4,476
10,405 11,539 6,013 5,632
Deferred tax assets of the Company have not been recognised in respect of these items as these items were derived from
different business sources and it is not probable that taxable profits of the Company from the same business source would
be available against which the deductible temporary differences could be utilised.
Deferred tax assets of certain subsidiaries have not been recognised in respect of these items as it is not probable that
taxable profits of the subsidiaries would be available against which the deductible temporary differences could be utilised.
For the Malaysian entities, the unused tax losses for the year of assessment 2019 onwards will expire in 7 years.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
92
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
21. RETIREMENT BENEFIT OBLIGATIONS
The Group operates an unfunded defined benefit plan for non-executive staff who are entitled to a payment calculated
by reference to their length of service and earnings. Provision for retirement benefit obligations is calculated based on the
predetermined rate of basic salaries and length of service of the employees.
The amounts recognised in the statement of financial position are determined as follows:
Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Present value of unfunded retirement benefit obligations 538 500
Analysed as follows:
Non-current liabilities
– later than five (5) years 538 500
The total expenses recognised in profit or loss are as follows:
Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Current service cost 18 23
Past service cost 71 22
Interest cost 23 30
Expenses recognised in the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive
income included under administrative expenses 112 75
The movements during the financial year in the amounts recognised in the statement of financial position in respect of the
retirement benefit obligations are as follows:
Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
As at 1 July 2019/2018 500 782
Recognised in profit or loss 112 75
Re-measurement effects recognised in other comprehensive income – (113)
Contributions paid (74) (244)
As at 30 June 2020/2019 538 500
The principal actuarial assumptions used are as follows:
Group
2020
%
2019
%
Discount rates 4.5 4.5
Expected rates of salary increases 5.0 5.0
Price inflation 2.5 2.5
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
93
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
22. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Trade payables 81,858 82,759 – –
Other payables 27,905 17,959 2 6
Accruals 29,184 21,416 1,094 851
57,089 39,375 1,096 857
138,947 122,134 1,096 857
(a) Trade and other payables of the Group and of the Company are classified as financial liabilities measured at
amortised cost.
(b) Trade payables are non-interest bearing and the normal credit terms granted to the Group in respect of trade payables
ranged from 4 to 120 days (2019: 4 to 120 days) from the date of invoice.
(c) The maturity profile of the Group and of the Company’s trade and other payables at the end of each reporting period
based on contractual undiscounted repayment obligations is summarised in the table below:
On demand or
within one year
RM
One to
five years
RM
Over
five years
RM
Total
RM
Group
As at 30 June 2020 138,947 – – 138,947
As at 30 June 2019 122,134 – – 122,134
Company
As at 30 June 2020 1,096 – – 1,096
As at 30 June 2019 857 – – 857
(d) The currency exposure profile of payables is as follows:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
EUR 14,010 1 – –
USD 28,696 32,950 – –
SGD 3,557 3,443 – –
RM 92,620 85,569 1,096 857
Renminbi (“RMB“) 64 171 – –
138,947 122,134 1,096 857
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
94
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
22. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (continued)
(e) Sensitivity analysis of RM against foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period, assuming that all other variables
remain constant, are as follows:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Effects of 3% changes to RM against
foreign currency
Profit after tax
– USD/RM – strengthen (654) (751) – –
– USD/RM – weaken 654 751 – –
– EUR/RM – strengthen (319) (1) – –
– EUR/RM – weaken 319 1 – –
The exposures to the other currencies are not significant, hence the effects of the changes in the exchange rates are
not presented.
23. COMMITMENTS
(a) Operating lease commitments - the Group and the Company as a lessee
The Group and the Company had entered into non-cancellable lease agreements for office, equipment, leasehold land
and factory and staff housing, resulting in future rental commitments which can, subject to certain terms in the agreements,
be revised annually based on prevailing market rates.
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Future minimum lease payments:
– not later than one (1) year – 1,696 – 531
– later than one (1) year but not later
than five (5) years – 888 – 398
– 2,584 – 929
(b) Capital commitments
Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Capital expenditure in respect of purchase of property, plant and equipment:
– Approved but not contracted for 326 14,491
– Approved and contracted for 3,086 –
3,412 14,491
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
95
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
24. REVENUE
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Revenue from contracts with customers
– Sale of goods 2,572,493 2,272,914 – –
– Management fee from subsidiaries – – 3,600 3,600
2,572,493 2,272,914 3,600 3,600
Revenue from other sources
– Dividend income from subsidiaries – – 17,113 13,000
2,572,493 2,272,914 20,713 16,600
Timing of revenue recognition
Transferred at a point in time 2,572,493 2,272,914 – –
Transferred over time – – 3,600 3,600
Revenue from contract with customers 2,572,493 2,272,914 3,600 3,600
Disaggregation of revenue from contracts with customers
Revenue from contracts with customers is disaggregated by primary geographical market, major products and service lines and
timing of revenue recognition as disclosed in Note 4 to the financial statements.
(a) Sale of goods
Revenue from sale of goods are recognised at a point in time when the goods have been transferred to the customer and
coincides with the delivery of goods and acceptance by customers.
There is no material right of return and warranty provided to the customers on the sale of goods.
There is no significant financing component in the revenue arising from sale of goods as the sales are made on the normal
credit terms not exceeding twelve (12) months.
(b) Management fees
		 Management fees is recognised on a straight-line basis when subsidiaries simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits.
(c) Dividend income
		 Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established.
25. COST OF SALES
Cost of sales of the Group represents cost of inventories sold and other related expenses.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
96
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
26. PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, profit before tax is arrived at:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
After charging:
Auditors’ remuneration to BDO PLT:
– Statutory audit 274 266 62 61
– Non-statutory audit 13 13 13 13
Other auditors’ remuneration:
– statutory audit 55 31 – –
Bad debts written off 6,757 744 – –
Fair value adjustment on derivative instruments 7,902 2,873 – –
Property, plant and equipment written off 2 2 – –
Interest expense on:
– bank overdraft 12 10 9 10
– term loans 938 712 – –
– bankers’ acceptances 4,372 10,003 – –
– hire purchase creditors – 297 – 4
– islamic term financing 4,870 1,566 – –
– lease liabilities 290 – 61 –
– others 35 52 3 2
Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment 2 – – –
Net loss on foreign exchange:
– unrealised 942 – – –
– realised 8,520 – – –
And crediting:
Interest income received from:
– deposits with licensed banks 525 809 524 809
– short term investments 1,279 1,098 1,151 923
– subsidiaries – – 285 412
– others 81 129 – –
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment – 108 – 75
Gain on disposal of right-of-use asset 132 – – –
Net gain on foreign exchange:
– realised 14 7,696 – –
– unrealised – 737 – –
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
97
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
27. TAX EXPENSE
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Malaysian income tax:
Current tax expense based on profit for the
financial year 8,250 4,572 203 314
Over-provision in prior years (562) (988) (42) (14)
7,688 3,584 161 300
Foreign income tax:
Current tax expense based on profit for the
financial year 124 677 – –
Under-provision in prior year 90 – – –
7,902 4,261 161 300
Deferred tax (Note 20):
Relating to origination and reversal of
temporary differences 226 1,020 – –
(Over)/Under-provision in prior years (372) 939 – –
(146) 1,959 – –
7,756 6,220 161 300
(a) Malaysian income tax is calculated at the statutory tax rate of 24% (2019: 24%) of the estimated taxable profits for the fiscal
year. Tax expense for other taxation authorities are calculated at the rates prevailing in those respective jurisdictions.
(b) Certain subsidiaries of the Group have been awarded the following:
(i) Principal Hub status, which provides tax incentive to the subsidiary for a period of ten (10) years. The Principal Hub
status commenced in the Year of Assessment 2017 under the Income Tax Act 1967.
(ii) Automation capital allowance, of which capital allowance of 200% will be provided on the first RM4,000,000
expenditure incurred within three (3) years of assessment from 2015 to 2020. The automation capital allowance
commenced in the Year of Assessment 2018 under Income Tax Act 1967.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
98
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
27. TAX EXPENSE (continued)
(c) The numerical reconciliations between the tax expense and the product of accounting profit multiplied by the applicable
tax rate of the Group and of the Company are as follows:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Profit before tax 53,067 33,294 16,570 13,370
Tax at Malaysian statutory income tax rate
of 24% (2019: 24%) 12,736 7,991 3,977 3,209
Tax effects in respect of:
– non-allowable expenses 3,639 1,377 460 501
– non-taxable income (246) (606) (4,325) (3,355)
– different tax rates in foreign jurisdiction (60) (321) – –
– deferred tax assets not recognised 531 211 91 –
– utilisation of deferred tax assets previously
unrecognised (803) (317) – (41)
– tax incentives (7,197) (2,066) – –
8,600 6,269 203 314
Over-provision of income tax in
prior years (472) (988) (42) (14)
(Over)/Under-provision of deferred tax in
prior years (372) 939 – –
7,756 6,220 161 300
(d) Tax on each component of other comprehensive income is as follows:
Group
Before tax
RM’000
Tax effect
RM’000
After tax
RM’000
2020
Foreign currency translations 195 – 195
2019
Foreign currency translations 35 – 35
Re-measurement of defined benefit liability 113 – 113
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
99
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
28. EARNINGS PER SHARE
(a) Basic
		
Basic earnings per ordinary share for the financial year is calculated by dividing the profit for the financial year attributable
to equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the financial year.
Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Profit attributable to equity holders of the parent 30,114 19,037
Unit’000 Unit’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue 162,000 162,000
Sen Sen
Basic earnings per ordinary share 18.59 11.75
(b) Diluted
The Group has no potential ordinary shares in issue as at reporting date and therefore, the diluted earnings per ordinary
share equals basic earnings per ordinary share.
29. DIVIDENDS
Group and Company
2020 2019
Dividend
per share
sen
Amount of
dividend
RM’000
Dividend
per share
sen
Amount of
dividend
RM’000
In respect of the financial year ended
30 June 2019:
Final single-tier dividend, paid on
14 November 2019 8 12,960 – –
In respect of the financial year ended
30 June 2018:
Final single-tier dividend, paid on
14 November 2018 – – 10 16,200
A final dividend in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2020 of 10.0 sen per ordinary share, amounting to
RM16,200,000 has been recommended by the Directors after the reporting period for shareholders’ approval at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. The financial statements for the current financial year do not reflect this proposed
dividend. This dividend, if approved by shareholders, would be accounted for as appropriation of retained earnings in the
financial year ending 30 June 2021.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
100
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
30. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Salaries and wages 41,204 28,307 3,220 2,950
Social security contributions 238 188 15 15
Contributions to defined contribution plan 2,765 2,467 386 348
Defined benefits plan 112 75 – –
Other benefits 712 750 172 205
45,031 31,787 3,793 3,518
Included in employee benefits of the Group and of the Company is Executive Director’s and other key management personnel’s
remuneration as disclosed in Note 31(c) to the financial statements.
31. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES
(a) Identities of related parties
Parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party
or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the
Group and the party are subject to common control or common significant influence. Related parties could be individuals
or other parties.
Related parties of the Group include the following:
(i) Direct and indirect subsidiaries as disclosed in the Note 8 to the financial statements;
(ii) Corporation in which the Directors of the Group have substantial financial interests; and
(iii) Key management personnel are defined as those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing
and controlling the activities of the Group either directly or indirectly. The key management personnel include the
Executive Directors of the Group.
(b) In addition to the transactions and balances detailed elsewhere in the financial statements, the Group and the Company
had the following transactions with related parties during the financial year:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Subsidiaries
Management fee income – – 3,600 3,600
Interest income – – 285 412
Dividend income – – 17,113 13,000
Related parties
Advisory fee expense – 150 – 150
Management fee expense 480 180 480 180
The related party transactions described above were carried out on agreed contractual terms and conditions and in the
ordinary course of business between the related parties of the Group and the Company.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
101
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
31. RELATED PARTY DISCLOSURES (continued)
(c) Compensation of key management personnel
Key management personnel are those persons having the authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling
the activities of the entity, directly and indirectly, including any Director (whether Executive or otherwise) of the Group and
of the Company.
The remuneration of key management personnel during the financial year was as follows:
Group Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Executive Directors:
– salaries, bonus and allowances 11,024 5,447 1,090 960
– defined contribution plan 598 442 125 109
11,622 5,889 1,215 1,069
Non-Executive Directors:
– fees 435 458 225 238
– allowances 110 122 110 122
545 580 335 360
Total Directors’ remuneration 12,167 6,469 1,550 1,429
Other key management personnel of
the subsidiaries:
– salaries, bonus and allowances 2,894 1,656 – –
– defined contribution plan 281 179 – –
Total other key management personnel
remuneration 3,175 1,835 – –
Total compensation of key management personnel 15,342 8,304 1,550 1,429
The estimated monetary value of benefits-in-kind received by the Directors otherwise than in cash from the Group and from
the Company amounted to RM103,000 and RM32,000 respectively (2019: RM81,900 and RM29,000).
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
102
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
32. FINANCIAL GUARANTEE CONTRACTS
Company
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Secured
Financial guanrantees given to financial institution for banking facilities granted to
subsidiaries 749,342 532,771
Financial guarantee contracts are recognised as financial liabilities at the time the guarantees are issued. The liability is
initially measured at fair value and subsequently at the higher of the amount determined in accordance with the expected
loss model under MFRS 9 and the amount initially recognised less amortisation.
The fair value of financial guarantees is determined based on the present value of the difference in cash flows between the
contractual payments required under the debt instrument and the payment that would be required without the guarantees, or the
estimated amount that would be payable to a third party for assuming the obligations.
The financial guarantees have not been recognised since the fair value on initial recognition was not material as the financial
guarantees provided by the Company did not contribute towards credit enhancement of the subsidiaries’ borrowings in view of
the securities pledged by the subsidiary companies as disclosed in Note 16, Note 17 and Note 19.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
103
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
33. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT
(a) Capital management
The primary objective of the capital management of the Group is to ensure that entities of the Group would be able to
continue as a going concern whilst maximising return to shareholders through the optimisation of the debt and equity ratios.
The Group manages its capital structure and makes adjustments to it in response to changes in economic conditions. In
order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may adjust the dividend payout to shareholders, issue new
ordinary shares and redeem debts, where necessary. No changes were made in the objectives, policies or processes
during the financial years ended 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2020.
The Group monitors capital using a gearing ratio, which is net debt divided by equity. The Group includes within net debt,
borrowings, trade and other payables, other liabilities, less cash and bank balances. Equity represents equity attributable
to the owners of the parent. The net debt-to-equity ratios as at 30 June 2019 and 30 June 2020 are as follows:
Group
2020
RM’000
2019
RM’000
Borrowings 375,136 202,057
Trade and other payables 138,947 122,134
Other liabilities 23,196 7,653
Total liabilities 537,279 331,844
Less: Cash and bank balances (165,422) (120,145)
Net debt 371,857 211,699
Equity 227,663 210,392
Net debt to equity ratio 1.63 1.01
Pursuant to the requirements of Practice Note No. 17/2005 of the Bursa Malaysia Securities, the Group is required to
maintain a consolidated shareholders’ equity equal to or not less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the issued and paid-up
capital (excluding treasury shares, if any) and such shareholders’ equity is not less than RM40.0 million. The Group has
complied with this requirement during the financial year.
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies
Exposure to credit risk, liquidity and cash flow risk, foreign currency risk, interest rate risk and price fluctuation risk arises
in the normal course of the businesses of the Group. The overall financial risk management objective of the Group is to
minimise potential adverse effects on the financial performance of the Group.
The overall business strategies of the Group, its tolerance of risk and its general risk management philosophy are determined
by management in accordance with prevailing economic and operating conditions. Financial risk management is carried
out through risk reviews, internal control systems and adherence to the financial risk management policies of the Group. The
Group does not have any financial instruments for trading purposes.
The management policies of the Group for managing each of its financial risk are summarised below:
(i) Credit risk
		
		 Cash deposits and trade and other receivables could give rise to credit risk which requires the loss to be recognised
if a counterparty fails to perform as contracted. Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty would default on its
contractual obligations resulting in financial loss to the Group. The Group has adopted a policy of only dealing with
creditworthy counterparties. The exposure and the creditworthiness of the counterparties of the Group are continuously
monitored and the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread amongst approved counterparties.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
104
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
33. CAPITAL AND FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (continued)
(b) Financial risk management objectives and policies (continued)
(i) Credit risk (continued)
		 The primary exposure of the Group and of the Company to credit risk arises through its trade receivables and other
receivables. The carrying amount of financial assets as recorded in the financial statements, grossed up for any
impairment losses, represents the maximum exposure to credit risk of the Group.
		 The credit risk concentration profiles have been disclosed in Note 10 to the financial statements.
(ii) Liquidity and cash flow risk
		
		 Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group is unable to service its cash obligations in the future. To mitigate this risk,
management measures and forecasts its cash commitments, monitors and maintains a level of cash and cash equivalents
deemed adequate to finance the operations and development activities of the Group.
		 Based on management’s assessment, it is not probable that the counterparties to financial guarantee contracts will
claim under the contract. The analysis of financial instruments by remaining contractual maturities has been disclosed
in Note 16 and Note 21 to the financial statements respectively.
(iii) Foreign currency risk
		
		 Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument would fluctuate because
of changes in foreign exchange rates.
		 The Group is subject to foreign exchange fluctuations through the import of raw materials and packaging materials
and export of finished goods. The Group monitors the movement in foreign currency exchange rates closely to ensure
its foreign currency risk is minimised.
		 The foreign currency profile and sensitivity analysis have been disclosed in Note 10, Note 12, Note 13, Note 16 and
Note 22 to the financial statements respectively.
(iv) Interest rate risk
		
		 Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of the financial instruments of the Group and of the
Company would fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates.
		 The exposure of the Group to interest rates risk arises primarily from their borrowings and deposits placed with licensed
banks of the Group. The Group does not use derivative financial instruments to hedge this risk.
		 The interest rate profile and sensitivity analysis of interest rate risk have been disclosed in Note 13 and Note 16 to the
financial statements respectively.
(v) Price fluctuation risk
		
		 The edible oil segment of the Group is inversely exposed to price fluctuation risk on sales and purchases of palm oil
commodities. This segment enters into commodity forward contracts with the objective of managing and hedging their
respective exposures to price volatility in the commodity markets.
		 The objective of the Group on price risk management is to limit the exposure of the Group to fluctuations in market
prices and to achieve expected margins on revenue.
		 The Group manages its price fluctuation risk by having policies and procedures governing forward positions.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
105
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
34. SIGNIFICANT EVENT DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
The World Health Organisation declared the 2019 Novel Coronavirus infection (“COVID-19”) a pandemic on 11 March 2020.
This was followed by the Government of Malaysia issuing a Federal Government Gazette on 18 March 2020, imposing a
Movement Control Order (“MCO”) effective from 18 March 2020 to 31 March 2020 arising from the COVID-19 pandemic.
The MCO was subsequently extended until 12 May 2020, followed by Conditional MCO until 9 June 2020 and then,
Recovery MCO until 31 December 2020.
Based on the assessment and information available at the date of authorisation of the financial statements, the Group has
sufficient cash flows and undrawn facilities to meet its liquidity needs in the next 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
The Group does not anticipate significant supply disruptions and would continuing monitor its fund and operational needs.
35. ADOPTION OF NEW MFRSs AND AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs
35.1 New MFRSs adopted during the financial year
The Group and the Company adopted the following Standards of the MFRS Framework that were issued by the Malaysian
Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) during the financial year:
Title Effective Date
MFRS 16 Leases 1 January 2019
IC Interpretation 23 Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments 1 January 2019
Amendments to MFRS 128 Long-term Interests in Associates and Joint Ventures 1 January 2019
Amendments to MFRS 9 Prepayment Features with Negative Compensation 1 January 2019
Amendments to MFRS 3 Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2015 - 2017 Cycle 1 January 2019
Amendments to MFRS 11 Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2015 - 2017 Cycle 1 January 2019
Amendments to MFRS 112 Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2015 - 2017 Cycle 1 January 2019
Amendments to MFRS 123 Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2015 - 2017 Cycle 1 January 2019
Amendments to MFRS 119 Plan Amendment, Curtailment or Settlement 1 January 2019
Amendments to MFRS 16 Covid-19 – Related Rent Concessions 1 June 2020
(early adopted)
Adoption of the above Standards did not have any material effect on the financial performance or position of the Group
and of the Company except for the adoption of MFRS 16 as described in the following sections.
MFRS 16 Leases
MFRS 16 supersedes MFRS 117 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Lease, SIC-15 Operating
Leases-Incentives and SIC-27 Evaluating the Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease. MFRS 16
sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases and requires lessees to
recognise most leases on the financial statements.
Lessor accounting under MFRS 16 is substantially unchanged from MFRS 117. Lessors would continue to classify leases as
either operating or finance leases using similar principles as in MFRS 117. Therefore, MFRS 16 does not have a material
impact for leases for which the Group is the lessor.
The Group and the Company applied MFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach, for which the cumulative
effect of initial application is recognised in retained earnings as at 1 July 2019. Accordingly, the comparative information
presented is not restated.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
106
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
35. ADOPTION OF NEW MFRSs AND AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs (continued)
35.1 New MFRSs adopted during the financial year (continued)
MFRS 16 Leases (continued)
On adoption of MFRS 16, the Group and the Company recognised lease liabilities in relation to leases which had
previously been classified as “operating leases” under the principles of MFRS 117. These liabilities were measured at the
present value of the remaining lease payments, discounted using the incremental borrowing rate of the Group and the
Company as of 1 July 2019. The range of incremental borrowing rates of the Group and the Company applied to the
lease liabilities on 1 July 2019 ranged from 2.28% to 5.51% and 2.28% respectively.
In order to compute the transition impact of MFRS 16, a significant data extraction exercise was undertaken by management
to summarise all property and equipment lease data such that the respective inputs could be uploaded into management’s
model. The incremental borrowing rate method has been adopted where the implicit rate of interest in a lease is not
readily determinable.
For leases previously classified as finance leases, the Group and the Company recognised the carrying amount of the
lease asset and lease liability immediately before transition as the carrying amount of the right of use asset and the lease
liability respectively at the date of initial application. The measurement principles of MFRS 16 are only applied after
that date.
In applying MFRS 16 for the first time, the Group and the Company have used the following practical expedients
permitted by the standard:
(a) applying a single discount rate to a portfolio of leases with reasonably similar characteristics;
(b) relying on previous assessments on whether leases are onerous as an alternative to performing an impairment
		 review - there were no onerous contracts as at 1 July 2019;
(c) accounting for operating leases with a remaining lease term of less than 12 months as at 1 July 2019 and do not
			 contain a purchase option as short-term leases;
(d) excluding initial direct costs for the measurement of the right-of-use asset at the date of initial application; and
(e) using hindsight in determining the lease term where the contract contains options to extend or terminate the lease.
On transition to MFRS 16, the Group and the Company recognised right‑of‑use assets and lease liabilities. The impact on
transition is summarised below:
Note
As at
30.6.2019
RM’000
Impact
RM’000
As at
1.7.2019
RM’000
Group
Property, plant and equipment 84,951 (14,023) 70,928
Right-of-use assets (i) – 18,019 18,019
Lease liabilities (ii) – 7,550 7,550
Hire purchase creditors 3,554 (3,554) –
Company
Property, plant and equipment 445 (388) 57
Right-of-use assets (i) – 2,780 2,780
Lease liabilities (ii) – 2,710 2,710
Hire purchase creditors 318 (318) –
(i)		 The associated right-of-use assets for property leases were measured on a cumulative effect basis as if the new rules
			 had always been applied. Other right-of-use assets were measured at the amount equal to the lease liability,
			 adjusted by the amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments relating to that lease recognised in the financial
			 statements as at 30 June 2019.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
107
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
35. ADOPTION OF NEW MFRSs AND AMENDMENTS TO MFRSs (continued)
35.1 New MFRSs adopted during the financial year (continued)
(ii)		 Lease liabilities are measured as follows:
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Operating lease commitments as at 30 June 2019 as disclosed
under MFRS 117 2,584 929
Incremental borrowing rates as at 1 July 2019 2.28% to 5.51% 2.28%
Discounted operating lease commitments as at 1 July 2019 2,494 908
Recognition exemption for leases of low‑value assets (41) –
Recognition exemption for leases with less than 12 months of
lease term at transition (623) –
Extension options reasonably certain to be exercised 2,166 1,484
Contracts reassessed pursuant to MFRS 16 3,554 318
Lease liabilities recognised at 1 July 2019 7,550 2,710
35.2 New MFRSs that have been issued, but only effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1
January 2020
Title Effective Date
Amendments to References to the Conceptual Framework in MFRS Standards 1 January 2020
Amendments to MFRS 3 Definition of a Business 1 January 2020
Amendments to MFRS 101 and MFRS 108 Definition of Material 1 January 2020
Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 139 and MFRS 7 Interest Rate Benchmark Reform 1 January 2020
Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018 - 2020 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 3 Reference to the Conceptual Framework 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment - Proceeds before Intended Use 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 137 Onerous Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a Contract 1 January 2022
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current 1 January 2023
MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 4 Insurance Contract - Extension of the Temporary Exemption from
Applying MFRS 9
1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor
and its Associate or Joint Venture
Deferred
The Group and the Company are in the process of assessing the impact of implementing these Standards, Amendments
and Interpretation since the effects would only be observable in future financial years.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
108
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
36. FINANCIAL REPORTING UPDATE
IFRIC Agenda Decision - An assessment of the lease term (IFRS 16)
The IFRS Interpretations Committee (“IFRIC”) issued a final agenda decision on 26 November 2019 regarding ‘Lease term and
useful life of leasehold improvements (IFRS 16 and IAS 16)’.
The submission to the IFRIC raised a question pertaining the determination of the lease term of a cancellable lease or a
renewable lease based on the requirements of IFRS 16.B34.
Based on the final agenda decision, the IFRIC concluded that the determination of the enforceable period of a lease and the
lease term itself shall include broad economic circumstances beyond purely commercial terms.
The Group has implemented the requirements of this final agenda decision during the financial year ended 30 June 2020.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
109
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
LIST OF PROPERTIES
HELD BY THE GROUP AS AT 30 JUNE 2020
Tenure Location
Approximate
land area
(sq ft)
Approximate
age of
buildings
(year) Description
Date of
acquisition
2020
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Negeri Sembilan Darul Khusus
Leasehold 99
years expiring
2077
Land with building at
HS(D) 658 PT 1342,
Senawang Industrial Estate,
Seremban, Negeri Sembilan.
130,680
(Built-up Area)
40 Factory for
Manufacturing
Tap wares
10/06/1978 719
Freehold
(2 individual lots)
Land at
HS (D) 14031 PT 3272,
HS (D) 14036 PT 3277,
Mukim Si Rusa,
Daerah Port Dickson,
Negeri Sembilan Darul Khusus.
43,594
48,115
– Bungalow
Land for Future
Development of
Orchard and
Building
03/01/1999 –
Melaka
Leasehold 99
years expiring
2101
Land with building at
Lot No. 6672 – 6674
PM No. 567 – 569
Lot No. 6667 – 6669
PM No. 571 – 573
Mukim Sungei Baru Tengah,
Daerah Alor Gajah, Melaka.
93,099
(Built-up Area)
24 Factory for
Manufacturing
Sanitary wares
03/11/1995 4,872
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Freehold land Land with building at
GM 2514, Lot 2239, 9th Mile Telok
Lot 2239, Jalan Rajawali,
Batu 9, Kampung Kebun Baru,
42500 Telok Panglima Garang,
Kuala Langat, Selangor Darul Ehsan.
175,602 15 Industrial land 20/09/2005 13,417
Freehold land Land with building at
GM 4406, Lot 11202,
Mukim Teluk Panglima Garang,
Lot 11202, Jalan Rajawali,
Batu 9, Kampung Kebun Baru,
42500 Telok Panglima Garang,
Kuala Langat, Selangor Darul Ehsan.
88,016 7 Industrial land 30/12/2012 11,958
Freehold land Land with building at
GM6505, Lot 11203,
Mukim Teluk Panglima Garang,
Lot 11203, Jalan Rajawali,
Batu 9, Kampung Kebun Baru,
42500 Telok Panglima Garang,
Kuala Langat, Selangor Darul Ehsan.
89,984 2 Agricultural 15/3/2019 4,281
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
110
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
LIST OF PROPERTIES
HELD BY THE GROUP AS AT 30 JUNE 2020
(cont’d)
Tenure Location
Approximate
land area
(sq ft)
Approximate
age of
buildings
(year) Description
Date of
acquisition
2020
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Johor Darul Takzim
Leasehold 60
years expiring
2055
Land with building at
PTD 115556, HSD 221665,
Mukim of Plentong,
District of Johor Bahru,
Johor Darul Takzim
PLO 470, Jalan Keluli 1,
81700 Pasir Gudang,
Johor Darul Takzim.
87,120 12 Industrial land 20/02/2008 4,622
Leasehold 60
years expiring
2052
Land with building at
PTD 110329, HSD 200231,
Mukim Plentong, Daerah Johor Bahru,
No.18, Jalan Pekeliling,
Taman Perindustrian Pasir Gudang,
81700 Pasir Gudang,
Johor Darul Takzim.
99,876 2 Industrial land 30/04/2019 8,885
48,754
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
111
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 28 AUGUST 2020
Issued and fully paid-up share capital : 162,000,000 ordinary shares
Class of shares : Ordinary shares
Voting rights by show of hand : One vote for every member
Voting rights by poll : One vote for every share held
ANALYSIS BY SIZE OF SHAREHOLDINGS
Size of Shareholdings
No. of
Shareholders %
No. of
Shares %
1 - 99 151 6.48 1,728 0.00
100 - 1,000 827 35.46 664,350 0.41
1,001 - 10,000 1,023 43.87 4,102,402 2.53
10,001 - 100,000 268 11.49 8,093,210 5.00
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 60 2.57 72,301,210 44.63
5% and above of issued shares 3 0.13 76,837,100 47.43
Total 2,332 100.00 162,000,000 100.00
SUBSTANTIALSHAREHOLDERSASPERTHEREGISTEROFSUBSTANTIALSHAREHOLDERS
No. Name
Direct No. of
Shares Held %
Indirect No. of
Shares Held %
1 JAG Capital Holdings Sdn Bhd 53,400,000 32.96 – –
2 Continental Theme Sdn Bhd 12,922,100 7.98 – –
3 Lee Cheang Mei 10,515,000 6.49 – –
4 Fung Heen Choon 10,300,000 6.36 – –
5 Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani – – 53,400,000 32.961
6 Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof – – 34,344,900 21.202
Notes:
1 Deemed interest by virtue of his substantial shareholding in JAG Capital Holdings Sdn Bhd.
2 Deemed interest through Du Ain Sdn Bhd, Duclos Sdn Bhd, Syed Ibrahim Sdn Bhd, Leasing Corporation Sdn Bhd,Sisma Water Technology Sdn Bhd and Continental
Theme Sdn Bhd.				
DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS AS PER THE REGISTER OF DIRECTORS’ SHAREHOLDINGS
No. Name
Direct No. of
Shares Held %
Indirect No. of
Shares Held %
1 Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman 1,000,000 0.62 – –
2 Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy 2,143,200 1.32 – –
3 Lee Cheang Mei 10,515,000 6.49 – –
4 Fung Heen Choon (Alternate Director to Lee Cheang Mei) 10,300,000 6.36 – –
5 Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani – – 53,400,000 32.961
6 Datin Mariam Prudence Binti Yusof – – 34,344,900 21.202
7 Teh Bee Tein – – 230,900 0.143
Notes:
1 Deemed interest by virtue of his substantial shareholding in JAG Capital Holdings Sdn Bhd.
2 Deemed interest through Du Ain Sdn Bhd, Duclos Sdn Bhd, Syed Ibrahim Sdn Bhd, Leasing Corporation Sdn Bhd, Sisma Water Technology Sdn Bhd and
Continental Theme Sdn Bhd.
3 Indirect interest through shareholdings held by spouse.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
112
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 28 AUGUST 2020
(cont’d)
LIST OF THIRTY (30) LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS
No. Name No. of Shares %
1 Cimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB Bank for JAG Capital Holdings Sdn Bhd
53,400,000 32.96
2 Cimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB Bank for Continental Theme Sdn Bhd
12,922,100 7.98
3 Lee Cheang Mei 10,515,000 6.49
4 Fung Heen Choon 6,300,000 3.89
5 Duclos Sdn Bhd 5,360,000 3.31
6 Leasing Corporation Sdn Bhd 4,686,400 2.89
7 Casa Biz Sdn Bhd 4,654,810 2.87
8 Syed Ibrahim Sdn Bhd 4,540,000 2.80
9 Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Fung Heen Choon
4,000,000 2.47
10 MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Syarifah Anita Ibrahim
3,669,500 2.27
11 MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Syarifah Aminah Ibrahim Binti Syed Ibrahim
3,646,400 2.25
12 MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Azril Akmar Bin Attan Akmar
3,624,400 2.24
13 Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Erwin Selvarajah a/l Peter Selvarajah
3,580,000 2.21
14 Sisma Water Technology Sdn Bhd 3,507,400 2.17
15 Du Ain Sdn Bhd 3,329,000 2.05
16 Tiger Vest Sdn Bhd 3,009,300 1.86
17 AllianceGroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Erwin Selvarajah a/l Peter Selvarajah
2,400,800 1.48
18 Dato’ Sukumaran s/o Ramasamy 2,143,200 1.32
19 HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt An for Bank Vontobel AG
1,582,700 0.98
20 MIDF Amanah Investment Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for RDS Network Sdn Bhd
1,106,600 0.68
21 Megat Joha Bin Megat Abdul Rahman 1,000,000 0.62
22 Yip Kean Sung 880,800 0.54
23 Azri Bin Abdul Ghani 746,100 0.46
24 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt an for UOB Kay Hian Pte Ltd
637,700 0.39
25 Teh Cheong Hua 562,000 0.35
26 UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Exempt An for UOB Kay Hian Pte Ltd
511,600 0.32
27 HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt An for Bank Julius Baer & Co. Ltd.
500,000 0.31
28 HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt An for Credit Suisse
412,800 0.25
29 Tan Sri Abdul Ghani Bin Abdul Aziz 360,000 0.22
30 Lim Tow Kuang 272,300 0.17
143,860,910 88.80
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
113
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
ADDITIONAL COMPLIANCE INFORMATION
UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS RAISED FROM CORPORATE PROPOSALS
There were no proceeds raised from corporate proposals during the financial year.
AUDIT FEES
The total amount of audit and non-audit fees paid/payable to the external auditors and their associated companies by the Group
and the Company for the financial year ended 30 June 2020 were tabulated as follows:
Audit Fees Non-Audit Fees
Group
RM
Company
RM
Group
RM
Company
RM
i) BDO PLT 274,000 62,500 12,500 12,500
ii) BDO Tax Services Sdn Bhd – – 34,100 5,000
274,000 62,500 46,600 17,500
MATERIAL CONTRACTS
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’ and major shareholders’
interests, either still subsisting at the end of the financial year ended 30 June 2020 or entered into since the end of the previous
financial year.
ANNUAL REPORT 2020
114
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD 197801000889 (37918-A)
FORM OF PROXY
CDS Account No.
No. of Shares Held
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD (Company No.: 197801000889 (37918-A))
(Incorporated in Malaysia under the Companies Act, 1965)
NOTES:
1. The 42nd AGM will be conducted on a virtual basis through live streaming and online remote voting via Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities provided by
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at http://web.lumiagm.com. Please follow the procedures as set in the Administrative Guide in order to register, participate and vote
remotely via RPV facilities.
2. The venue of the 42nd AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires the Chairman of Meeting to be present
at the main venue. No shareholders/proxy(ies) shall be physically present at nor admitted to the Broadcast Venue.
3. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the Meeting, the Company will be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. in accordance
with Clause 72 of the Company’s Constitution to issue a General Meeting Record of Depositors as at 21 October 2020. Only a member whose name appears in the
Record of Depositors as at 21 October 2020 shall be entitled to attend the Meeting and to speak and vote thereat.
4. A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at the Meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy or proxies to attend and vote in his(her) stead. A proxy need
not be a member of the Company. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting shall have the same rights as the member to speak at the Meeting.
5. A member of the Company may appoint a proxy or proxies to attend the Meeting. Where a member appoints two or more proxies, he(she) shall specify the proportion
of his(her) shareholdings to be represented by each proxy.
6. The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hands of the appointor or of his(her) attorney duly authorised in writing or if the appointor is a corporation
either under its common seal or under the hand of its officer or its duly authorised attorney.
7. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991, it may appoint at least one proxy in
respect of each securities account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
8. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account
(“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. The
appointment of multiple proxies shall not be valid unless the proportion of its shareholdings represented by each proxy is specified.
9. To be valid, the Form of Proxy must be completed, signed and deposited at the Company’s registered office at Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157
Hampshire, No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time set for holding the meeting or adjourned meeting at which
the person named in the instrument proposes to vote and in the case of a poll, not less than twenty-four (24) hours before the time appointed in taking of the poll, and in
default the instrument of proxy shall be treated as invalid. Alternatively, the Form of Proxy can be deposited electronically through Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://
www.boardroomlimited.my before the Form of Proxy lodgement cut-off time as mentioned above.
10.Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all resolutions set out in the Notice will be put to vote on a
poll. Independent Scrutineers will be appointed to observe the polling process and to verity the results of the poll respectively.
I/We
(Full name in block letters, NRIC No. / Passport No. / Company No.)
of
Telefon No. Email Address
being a member/members of C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD, hereby appoint:
Full Name (in block letters) NRIC No. / Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Telefon No. Email Address
Address
and/or (delete as appropriate)
Full Name (in block letters) NRIC No. / Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Telefon No. Email Address
Address
or failing him/her, the Chairman as *my/our proxy to vote for *me/ us on *my/ our behalf at the Forty-Second Annual General Meeting of
the Company, to be held on a fully virtual basis at the broadcast venue at Suite A-11-1, Level 11, Hampshire Place Office, 157 Hampshire,
No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari, 50450 Kuala Lumpur on Wednesday, 28 October 2020 at 9:30 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof.
RESOLUTION NO. ORDINARY BUSINESS FOR AGAINST
Ordinary Resolution 1 To declare final single-tier dividend for the financial year end 30 June 2020
Ordinary Resolution 2 To approve the payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year end 30 June 2020
Ordinary Resolution 3
To approve the Directors’ benefits for the period from 1 November 2020
until the next Annual General Meeting to be held in 2021
Ordinary Resolution 4 To re-elect Datin Mariam Prudence binti Yusof as Director
Ordinary Resolution 5 To re-elect Datuk Haji Ariffin bin Imat as Director
Ordinary Resolution 6 To re-elect Ms. Teh Bee Tein as Director
Ordinary Resolution 7 To re-appoint Messrs BDO PLT as Auditors of the Company
SPECIAL BUSINESS FOR AGAINST
Ordinary Resolution 8
Authority for Directors to issue and allot shares pursuant to Sections 75 and
76 of the Companies Act, 2016
Ordinary Resolution 9
To retain Encik Nor Hishammuddin Bin Dato’ Mohd Nordin as an
Independent Non-Executive Director
Ordinary Resolution 10 To retain Ms. Teh Bee Tein as an Independent Non-Executive Director
Ordinary Resolution 11 To retain Mr. Kasinathan a/l Tulasi as an Independent Non-Executive Director
(Please indicate with a (“X”) in the appropriate box whether you wish your vote to be cast for or against the resolution. In the absence of specific direction, your
proxy will vote or abstain as he thinks fit.)
Signed this day of ,2020
Signature(s) of Shareholder/Attorney
(if shareholder is a corporation, this part should be executed under seal)
Fold this flap for sealing
Then fold here
1st fold here
The Company Secretary
C.I. HOLDINGS BERHAD
(Company no. 197801000889 (37918-A))
Suite A-11-1, Level 11,
Hampshire Place Office,
157 Hampshire,
No. 1, Jalan Mayang Sari,
50450 Kuala Lumpur
STAMP
