ANNUAL REPORT
Navigate The Storm
INTEGRATED
2021
We navigated the storm caused by COVID-19 by adapting to the new
norm. Guided by the SAIL’22 strategy, we remain committed to finding
effective and sustainable ways to optimise our business, while ensuring
that our people, consumers, customers and communities continued
to be well-supported. We are confidence that with continued focus on
cost optimisation, innovation and premiumisation, we will navigate the
uncharted waters in 2022.
NAVIGATE THE STORM
TOWARDS INTEGRATED REPORTING
This Integrated Annual Report marks the first year of our three-year
integrated reporting journey.
It is a significant move to ensure our sustainability strategies, priorities
and performance are communicated to stakeholders in a globally
recognised framework.
With a more integrated approach in thinking and reporting in line with
the International <IR> framework, we believe this report improves our
disclosure on the Company's allocation of capitals and values we created
in 2021.
We also present our Environment, Social & Governance (ESG)
commitment in a dashboard launched in 2021. It serves as our quarterly
performance review of Together Towards ZERO priorities with the
Board of Directors and Management; and annual communication
on our progress in supporting the United Nations Development Goals
(UN SDGs).
The cover of this report is printed on environmentally friendly paper.
Reporting Framework
Carlsberg Malaysia Group has commenced its journey into Integrated Reporting with the publication of this annual report. Guided by the Value Reporting Foundation's integrated reporting framework,
this report covers the Group’s activities between 1 January 2021 and 31 December 2021, and strives to present balanced and comprehensive information to our stakeholders regarding our strategic
process and financial performance. This report also details the Group's non-financial performance in 2021, which comprises our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) performance, details of
which are embedded throughout the report and framed by our Together Towards ZERO sustainability agenda.
ABOUT THIS
REPORT
Strategic Priorities
Enablers
Stakeholders
Strengthen The Core
Position For Growth
Deliver Value For Shareholders
NAVIGATION TOOLS
In the area of sustainability, we have developed our reporting in line with
Bursa Malaysia's Sustainability Reporting Guide 2nd Edition. This report
is also guided by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and the
Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
All information presented is as at 31 December 2021, unless otherwise
stated.
Board Approval
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for the integrity of the Group's
Integrated Report, achieved through good governance practices and
internal reporting procedures. The Board has oversight in this matter and
approved the Integrated Report on 2 March 2022.
Forward-Looking Statements
This report contains certain forward-looking statements with respect
to the business and financial performance of the Group and that, by
their nature, involve risk and uncertainty because they relate to events
and depend on circumstances that may or may not occur in the future.
Some of the factors that could cause actual results to differ from those
mentioned in the forward-looking statements are global, national and
regional economic conditions and changes to regulatory or tax regimes,
as well as the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic.
Scope and Boundaries
Carlsberg Malaysia Group is a public company listed on the Main Board
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. Besides reporting about the Group’s
activities in Malaysia, this report covers the business activities of our subsidiary
companies in Singapore and associate company in Sri Lanka. In the context of
sustainability, the Sustainability Statement covers only the key sustainability
initiatives and updates within our Malaysia and Singapore operations, as we
do not have management control of our associate company in Sri Lanka.
Guidelines and Standards
Throughout the preparation of this report, we have been guided by best
practices as prescribed by international integrated reporting frameworks.
Locally, we have adhered to:
• Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (MCCG 2021)
• Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s (Bursa Malaysia) Main Market Listing
Requirements (MMLR)
• Bursa Malaysia’s Corporate Governance Guide 4th edition
• Companies Act 2016
• Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards
• International Financial Reporting Standards and other regulatory
requirements as applicable
• Bursa Malaysia's Management Discussion & Analysis Guidelines
• Value Reporting Foundation
Cross-referencing information
in this report
Link to website
Customers Suppliers
Communities
Investors
Policymakers
and regulators
Industry
Consumers Journalists
Employees
Sustainability
Experts
Creating A Winning Culture
Defend Our License To Operate
We create value by applying six types of capitals: Financial, Manufactured, Intellectual, Human, Social & Relationship and Natural. Our long-term relevance as
a business depends on the availability of these capitals, their utilisation and the consequent values delivered.
OUR INTEGRATED APPROACH
KEY INTEGRATED CONCEPTS
Our skilled, diverse and innovative workforce drives
our strategies forward. We invest in our employees
so that they have the tools, capabilities and
opportunities to progress their careers with us.
Near-term: Training and development programmes
require financing and put pressure on our financial
capital.
Long-term: The new skills and knowledge acquired
by employees will result in greater profitability
later, thus refilling our financial capital.
Human
Our income and earnings are used to operate and
grow the business. We channel our financial funds
to pay relevant stakeholders, finance other types of
capitals and accelerate our innovations.
Near-term: Financial capital is used to grow the
other capitals, which temporarily lowers its stock.
Long-term: Improvements in the other capitals
ultimately replenishes and grows financial capital.
Financial
MATERIALITY
As a sustainable business, we
apply the principle of materiality
in formulating business decisions.
Our strategies are shaped by
the issues, opportunities and
challenges that materially impact
business and stakeholder value
creation.
VALUE CREATION
Our value creation extends beyond
profits. We leverage various capitals
to deliver both financial and non-
financial value for stakeholders.
Trade-offs between capitals are
necessary to balance the best
interests of all stakeholders.
Our value creation process is
integrated into our Value-Creation
Business Model as shown on
page 79.
A detailed description of our material
issues can be found on pages 71 to 78.
Our legacy as a global reputable brewer is what
stakeholders trust. We embrace innovation to
strengthen our value proposition and competitive
edge.
Near-term: Investments in R&D and new category
development reduce our immediate financial capital.
Long-term: New innovation boosts our competitive
advantage for improved financial performance. The
associated branding also improves our social and
relationship capital.
Our operations rely on energy and other natural
resources to run our premises. We strive to
continuously reduce the impact of our activities
on the environment through green initiatives and
investments.
Near-term: Green technology and initiatives
require capital expenditures that lower our financial
capital.
Long-term: Resource-efficient operations help
conserve both natural and financial capital in the
long term. They also improve public trust, which
strengthens social & relationship capital.
Intellectual
Our corporate citizenship and strong stakeholder
relationships allow us to meet our nation-
building agenda. We take pride in providing
platforms that build a resilient and thriving
society.
Near-term: Community and stakeholder
engagement programmes cause an outflow of
financial capital.
Long-term: The trust created with stakeholders
will provide opportunities to grow human,
intellectual and financial capital.
Natural
Our manufacturing operations and supply chain
are crucial to make sure we always provide
quality products.
Near-term: Manufacturing operations utilise
financial and natural capital.
Long-term: Increase in manufactured capital
will help deliver higher financial returns, which
can be channelled into environmental initiatives
to restock natural capital.
Manufactured
Social & Relationship
INSIDE THIS
REPORT
OUR BUSINESS
Purpose and Ambition 2
Our Business Model 3
Our Operations 4
Our Brand Portfolio 6
2–19
20–37
MESSAGE FROM
OUR LEADERS
Chairman’s Address 20
Managing Director’s Message 24
Management Discussion 27
& Analysis
• Delivering on Strategy
69–81
CREATING
SUSTAINABLE VALUE
Our Market Landscape 69
Determining Our 71
Material Issues
Our Value-Creation 79
Business Model
Managing Business Risk 80
38–68
COMMITMENT TO
SUSTAINABILITY
Our Approach 39
Our Sustainability Dashboard 41
ENVIRONMENT
ZERO Carbon Footprint 42
ZERO Water Waste 47
SOCIAL
ZERO Irresponsible Drinking 49
ZERO Accidents Culture 53
Responsible Business 56
People, Diversity 58
and Inclusion
Community Relations 63
GOVERNANCE
Live By Our Compass 65
Upholding Data Ethics 68
82–108
DELIVERING STRONG
GOVERNANCE
Management Team 82
Management Team Profiles 83
A Focused and 85
Accountable Board
Directors’ Profiles 86
Corporate Governance 90
Overview Statement
• Principle A: Leadership
& Effectiveness
• Principle B: Effective Audit
& Risk Management
• Principle C: Relationships
With Stakeholders
Statement on 102
Risk Management
& Internal Control
Audit Committee & 105
Risk Management
Committee Report
Responsibility Statement by 108
the Board of Directors
109–207
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS 109
OTHER INFORMATION
Carlsberg Malaysia’s 195
Sales Offices
Particulars of 196
Group Properties
Analysis of Shareholdings 197
Material Contracts 199
List of Recurrent Related 200
Party Transactions
Corporate Information 202
Notice of Annual 203
General Meeting
Form of Proxy
Discussion on the 6 Capitals of <IR> Framework Page
• Value-Creation Business Model 79
Together Towards ZERO Page
• ZERO Carbon Footprint 42
• ZERO Water Waste 47
• ZERO Irresponsible Drinking 49
• ZERO Accidents Culture 53
NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION
The table below, and the information it refers to, is intended to help stakeholders understand our position on these key non-financial matters. When determining what information to include in this
Integrated Report, we took into account these non-financial matters and disclosed them in the relevant sections.
Our policies and our standards are available at:
https://carlsbergmalaysia.com.my/sustainability/sustainability-at-carlsberg/download-our-policies/
Please scan the QR code to access the
Carlsberg Malaysia Group Integrated
Annual Report 2021
Responsible Business Page
• Economic Contributions 56
• People, Diversity & Inclusion 58
• Community Relations 63
• Stakeholder Engagement 99
Live By Our Compass Page
• Code of Ethics & Conduct
• Competitive Behaviour
• Data Protection
• Trade Sanctions
• Anti-Bribery & Corruption
• Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct
• Whistleblower system
• Upholding Data Ethics
65
65
66
66
66
67
67
68
Policy, Risk & Audit Page
• Managing Business Risk 80
• Statement on Risk Management & Internal Control 102
• Audit Committee & Risk Management 105
We welcome feedback on this Integrated Annual Report. Email us at mycorpaffairs@carlsberg.asia
facebook.com/CarlsbergMalaysia/ twitter.com/carlsbergmy
Follow us on: Carlsberg Group
instagram.com/carlsbergmalaysia/
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
2
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
We pursue perfection every day.
We strive to brew better beers – beers
that stand at the heart of moments
that bring people together. We do not
settle for immediate gain when we can
create a better tomorrow for all of us.
BREWING FOR A BETTER
TODAY AND TOMORROW
PURPOSE AND
AMBITION
WE DON'T
SETTLE FOR
IMMEDIATE
GAIN WHEN WE
CAN CREATE
A BETTER
TOMORROW
FOR ALL OF US
BEERS THAT
STAND AT THE
HEART OF
MOMENTS THAT
BRING PEOPLE
TOGETHER
WE PURSUE
PERFECTION
EVERY DAY
WE STRIVE
TO BREW
BETTER
BEERS
Our purpose is rooted in our heritage and in the mentality of our
founders, who left a rich legacy that still greatly influences how
we run our business today. Their pioneering spirit, passion for
brewing and proactive contribution to society are what makes us
who we are.
We live our purpose every day by focusing on our brands and the
art of brewing, exciting our consumers with quality brews that
strengthen our identity and pride as a brewer,and by continuously
aiming to do better.
Our purpose demonstrated its value in the face of the
unprecedented challenges of COVID-19. It was impressive
to witness the high level of employee engagement and the
innovative mindsets at all levels of the organisation to help local
communities, support our customers and minimise the impact of
the pandemic on our business, while at the same time finding
flexible and safe ways of working.
We will continue to live our purpose, as it is key to the successful
execution of our strategy and to achieving our ambition of being
successful, professional and attractive in our markets.
3
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
OUR
BUSINESS MODEL
Our business model is rooted in our purpose and ambition.
It takes its starting point in our focus on our brands and the art of brewing, how we excite our consumers with quality brews and our continuous striving to do better.
WE FOCUS ON THE MARKETS
WHERE WE HAVE MANAGEMENT
CONTROL…
Malaysia and Singapore operations are
our core business with 100% shareholding
and management control of our top- and
bottom-line.
… WHERE WE OFFER QUALITY BREWS
AND AN ATTRACTIVE BEER PORTFOLIO
TO OUR CONSUMERS...
The strength of our beer portfolio lies in the
strength our international brands supported
by our local power brands, combined with our
excellent craft & speciality brands.
… AND STRIVE TO EXCEL IN OUR SERVICE
TO ON- AND OFF-TRADE CUSTOMERS
AND E-COMMERCE PARTNERS...
Our customers range from on-trade to off-trade,
from online to offline. We aim to become their
preferred beer supplier, providing products and
services that deliver value growth for them
and us.
... BY OPTIMISING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN
AND IMPROVING PROCESSES AND
SYSTEMS.
Our Funding the Journey culture drives
efficiencies and reduces costs. The focus of our
supply chain is to optimise both asset utilisation
and cost while brewing high-quality beer and
enabling our commercial growth agenda.
BREWING FOR A BETTER
TODAY AND TOMORROW
We aim to lead in sustainability because it is
central to our purpose and we truly believe it
is the right thing to do in delivering tangible
benefits for our business and for society as
a whole.
BREWING FOR A BETTER
TODAY AND TOMORROW
Our reputable brands enable us to reach and
engage with consumers. Leveraging these
occasions, we advocate the importance of
moderate and responsible consumption of our
products. We also offer alcohol-free brews as
alternatives to our alcoholic brews.
BREWING FOR A BETTER
TODAY AND TOMORROW
We develop digital solutions and services to help
our customers grow their business. We engage in
developing sustainable packaging solutions and
implementing initiatives to increase collection
and recycling rates.
BREWING FOR A BETTER
TODAY AND TOMORROW
Recognising the need for strong action in the face
of complex sustainability challenges, Together
Towards ZERO sets clear and ambitious targets
for carbon emissions, water usage and health
& safety.
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
4
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
OUR
OPERATIONS
ESTABLISHED IN 1969, CARLSBERG
BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD
(CARLSBERG MALAYSIA GROUP/
THE GROUP) IS PART OF CARLSBERG
BREWERIES A/S (THE CARLSBERG
GROUP), ONE OF THE WORLD’S
LEADING BREWERS WITH STRONG
MARKET POSITIONS ACROSS ASIA
AND EUROPE.
RM1.8
billion
in 2021 vs 2020: RM1.8 billion
REVENUE
RM201.0
million
in 2021 vs 2020: RM162.2 million
NET PROFIT
65.74
sen
in 2021 vs 2020: 53.04 sen
EARNINGS PER SHARE
MALAYSIA
2021
RM188.8
million
Profit from
Operations
2020
RM135.4
million
Ownership
100% Carlsberg Marketing Sdn. Bhd.
2021
RM1.21
billion
Revenue
2020
RM1.26
billion
2021
RM58.0
million
Profit from
Operations
2020
RM64.6
million
2021
RM561.1
million
Revenue
2020
RM527.9
million
SINGAPORE
Ownership
100% Carlsberg Singapore Pte. Ltd. 51% MayBev Pte. Ltd.
2021
RM15.2
million
Share of
Profits
2020
RM14.9
million
Ownership
25% Lion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC
We are a dynamic brewer with operations in Malaysia and Singapore,
and with stakes in a brewery in Sri Lanka. We also have a regional
presence via exports and intercompany sales to regional markets such
as Hong Kong, Cambodia and Laos.
In 2021, the Carlsberg Malaysia Group posted a satisfactory result
with net profit up 23.9% to RM201.0 million year-on-year, on the
back of flat revenue of RM1.8 billion. The performance of its respective
operations and associate company is shown on the right table.
Our Malaysia operations continued to further build and enhance
our corporate reputation across our key stakeholders – the general
public, customers and employees. We monitored our progress via the
Reputation Institute, which uses RepTrak, a reputation intelligence
tracking solution that enabled us to have a holistic view of how our
product innovation, market reputation, organisational capability and
social responsibility are perceived by the three groups of stakeholders.
* Net profit refers to the Group's profit
attributable to Owners of the Company
** Profit from operations refer to the results from
operating activities
SRI LANKA
5
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
OUR OPERATIONS
These improvements indicate that we are on the right
track in fulfilling our ambition of becoming a successful,
professional and attractive brewer in our markets.
SUCCESSFUL in achieving a sustainable balance of
our top- and bottom-line.
PROFESSIONAL in being the preferred supplier for our
customers.
ATTRACTIVE in creating value for our shareholders,
facilitating a great working
environment and high-performance
culture for our employees and
being a responsible and sustainable
corporate citizen for society at large.
* Data compared to 2020 for General Public and to 2019 for Employees and Customers
POOR 0 - 39 WEAK 40 - 59 AVERAGE 60 - 69 STRONG 70 - 79 EXCELLENT 80+
indicates a significant positive/negative development
We are pleased to have recorded strong to excellent scores across all stakeholders in 2021 compared to the last surveys done in 2019 for
customers and employees; and in 2020 for general public.
REPTRAK@ REPUTATION SCORE ACROSS STAKEHOLDERS
General public
STRONG
74.9
Customers
EXCELLENT
80.5
Employees
EXCELLENT
83.3
+5.7  +1.8  +10.9 
Employees: Excellent 83.3 (+10.9pp);
perception increased significantly, an
indication that our “Leading with Care”
people initiatives, which included
bi-weekly swab tests, Company-wide
vaccinations and various types of
rewards and recognitions, were received
positively.
General public: Strong 74.9 (+5.7pp);
perception improved since 2020 and
this could have been driven by strong
leadership in crisis management and
our efforts in providing COVID-19-related
trade assistance and financial aid to our
consumers and communities.
Customers: Excellent 80.5 (+1.8pp);
perception remained favourable with
double-digit growth across all reputation
drivers despite several challenges we
faced together with our customers due
to business disruptions and COVID-19-
related restrictions on trade.
Year 2022 marks the final year
of SAIL’22, the Group’s seven-
year corporate strategy. With this
journey almost complete, and a
vast majority of our ambitions met,
we will be setting forth with the
next instalment of our
corporate strategy,
SAIL’27, from year
2023 onwards.
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
6
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
OUR BRAND
PORTFOLIO Scan for the full portfolio of
Probably the Best Beers,
Stouts and Ciders
Jing-A
Day Day Up
Danish
Royal Stout
King
of Stouts
SKOL
Cheers to
Brotherhood!
Carlsberg
Alcohol Free
Enjoy Great
Taste. Wherever.
Whenever
Carlsberg
Special Brew
Full-Bodied
Strong Lager
with a Hint of
Cognac
Carlsberg
Smooth Draught
Now You Can
POP A Draught
Anytime,
Anywhere
Carlsberg
Danish Pilsner
Probably the
Best Beer in the
World
Kronenbourg
1664 Blanc
Good Taste
With a Twist
Asahi
Japan’s No. 1
Premium
Beer
Somersby
No. 1 Cider in
Malaysia &
Singapore
Somersby
Hard Seltzer
Alcoholic
Sparkling Water,
With < 100
calories
Connor's
Stout Porter
Brewed with the
Great Blend of
4 Malts
Brooklyn
Lager
Award-
winning
Brooklyn
Lager
Our flagship brand Carlsberg Danish Pilsner is complemented by innovative brews such as Carlsberg
Smooth Draught and Carlsberg Special Brew, as well as Carlsberg Alcohol Free Pilsner and Wheat
variants.
Our range of premium craft and speciality brands features 1664 Blanc, Asahi Super Dry, Somersby
Cider, Connor’s Stout Porter, Brooklyn Breweries and Jing-A, while our value power brands include
Royal Stout and SKOL. Our portfolio of innovative brands also includes low-calorie drinks such as
Somersby Hard Seltzer.
When consumed in moderation, our quality brews are at the heart of moments that bring people together.
#CELEBRATERESPONSIBLY
Pledged RM2 million in
Food and Education Aid to
underprivileged Malaysians
Beautiful block displays setting
the festive mood to usher in the
Lunar New Year
More than 15,000
happy consumers
in Malaysia received
their 3-Litre Red
Bottles and
Luggage Bags
Scan the QR Code
to watch the
CNY video
CELEBRATING
PROSPERITY AND
CHEERS TOGETHER
FOR A FIERY,
GOLD OXPICIOUS
YEAR AHEAD
Scan the QR Code
to watch the
Harvest festival
video
Exclusive Harvest
design t-shirts and
umbrellas to celebrate
Gawai and Kaamatan
festivals
40 consumers received
Samsung Galaxy Tab
S7s to celebrate their
Harvest festival
Scan the QR Code
to watch the
Cheers To Football
Fans video
Collectible Jerseys and
Football Tees in 8 different
designs, inspired by country
flags, were up for grabs
20 consumers walked home
RM10,000 richer as they
emerged as the grand prize
winners
Scan the QR Code
to watch the
Carlsberg Smooth
Draught video
5x fresher taste for longer
with new fresh cap
Bringing the bar to
consumers via the
Fizzics Draught Beer
Machine, so they
could enjoy draught
beer in the comfort
of their homes
#LoveOurCoffeeshops
campaign in Singapore
continued in 2021, with
KOLs sharing their very
own stories on what
coffeeshops mean to them
Scan the QR Code
to watch our
Alcohol Free Beer
video
Driving the relevance of
Alcohol Free beers through a
new & refreshing occasion-
based campaign
Scan the QR Code to
visit our microsite
Bon Appetit-lah with
1664 Blanc
France meets Malaysia in a twist
of gastronomy featuring five
unique fusion recipes curated
by two award-winning chefs.
Over 1,500 prizes redeemed in
consumer promotion. Facebook
Watch Party with 70.5k views
Premium Festive Campaign
1,000 sets of Festive Beer
Advent Calendars sold out
in e-commerce. Consumer
promotion with 1,800 prizes
redeemed
Bonjour 1664 ROSÉ
Expand good taste
with the new 1664
ROSÉ – with a
refreshing twist of
raspberry. Now
available nationwide
in Malaysia. Over 100k
sampling trials in
two months
1664 BLANC
FASTEST GROWING PREMIUM BRAND IN MALAYSIA
Scan the QR Code
to watch the Shake
& Pour Ritual
Successful launch in April
- 50,000 samplings
- Thousands of displays
Unique serving ritual to
get a creamy head
Unique brew with double
dosing of nitrogen to get
cascading effect
New
communication
method to
increase
awareness
- 3.1 million
reach
Scan the QR Code
to visit our
Instagram page
The second best-selling
flavour after Apple within
three months of launch.
Available in 320 ml can and
330 ml pint bottle
Celebrated Apple
Day with consumer
promotion & contest in
October, giving out the
latest Apple gadgets and
limited edition Somersby
kombi van cooler box
THE NO.1 CIDER BRAND
IN MALAYSIA &
SINGAPORE.
THAT’S
WONDERFUL.
Scan the QR code
to Discover Tokyo
SCAN. SPIN.
DISCOVER
TOKYO
Limited Edition Discover
Tokyo Can & Promo Pack
Sold over 14,000 sets of Asahi
Discover Tokyo promo packs
featuring the limited edition can
and special Asahi glassware.
Over 3,600 participants in
consumer contest to win highly
sought-after Sony PlayStation 5
Asahi Discover Tokyo
Asahi’s focus campaign of the
year. Scan, spin and discover
Tokyo to unearth the four hidden
sides of food, art, fashion and
lifestyle in Tokyo
JAPAN’S NO.1 BEER
Scan the QR Code
to visit our website
Jing-A was launched in
Singapore as the premium
Asian craft beer pioneer,
first overseas market
outside China
ASIAN CRAFT BEER PIONEER JING-A DEBUTED IN
SINGAPORE AS 1ST OVERSEAS MARKET OUTSIDE
ITS COUNTRY OF ORIGIN
More than 70 modern on-trade outlets,
topped e-commerce chart in craft beer category
Tuborg Strong provides
a nice fruity aroma, low
and pleasing bitterness
for a smooth palate and
refreshing taste
Tuborg Strong, in 490 ml,
grew market share in the
value strong beer segment
since its launch in Singapore
PRESTIGIOUS CORPORATE & SUSTAINABILITY
AWARDS 2021
Our Malaysia operations clinched a hat-trick at the 2021 Employee
Experience Awards taking home Gold for Best Crisis Management and
Leadership, Silver for Best Succession Planning Strategy and Bronze
for Best First-Time Manager Programme.
The Safer School campaign
won us the “Company of
the Year” award under the
manufacturing of beverages
sector for the second time
at the 6th edition of the
Sustainability & CSR Malaysia
Awards presentation in
November 2021.
Scan the QR Code
to read our Press
Release
The Group won
“Highest Return-On-Equity”
at The Edge Billion Ringgit
Club Awards in December 2021.
This is our second consecutive
year winning the awards for
“Highest ROE over three years”
in the Consumer Products and
Services category.
PUTRA BRAND
AWARDS 2021
Carlsberg emerged
as Platinum Award
winner and marked its
12th consecutive win at
the prestigious awards.
Somersby, the only
cider that made
the cut, won Silver,
marking its fifth
consecutive win.
Connor's
Stout Porter
made its debut to
the hall of fame
by winning Silver.
Carlsberg Malaysia received three Putra Brand Awards – a Platinum Award for Carlsberg and a Silver Award each for Somersby Cider and
Connor's Stout Porter under the Beverage – Alcoholic category at the 2021 awards presentation ceremony in January 2022.
Scan the QR Code
to read our Press
Release
More information on 'Chairman's Address' on page 22.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
20
CHAIRMAN’S
ADDRESS
DATUK TOH AH WAH
Chairman
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS,
On behalf of the Board of
Directors, I am pleased to
present the integrated annual
report and audited financial
statements of Carlsberg
Brewery Malaysia Berhad
(Carlsberg Malaysia Group/
The Group) for the financial
year ended 31 December 2021.
If the year 2020 was unprecedented due to the pandemic, the unexpected
storm continued into 2021 as the global economy and public health
systems grappled with the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic. However,
I am pleased to report that we navigated the storm by assimilating and
pivoting our business according to the new norm.
Carlsberg Malaysia Group achieved a 100% vaccination
rate for all eligible Malaysian employees in August and for
Singaporean employees in October, and the brewery resumed
operations after 75 days of enforced shutdown due to the
Movement Control Order in Malaysia.
We took the lessons from 2020 and improvised our
strategic priorities in 2021, and as we mitigated the
impact of the pandemic, we continued to give back
to the community through our “Safer Together”
campaign.
In Malaysia and Singapore, the governments
started to relax some restrictions after their
respective adult populations achieved their
targeted vaccination rates. In Malaysia, the
reopening of all economic sectors and the
resumption of interstate travel in October
2021 was a welcome respite for many
businesses, including our own. In Singapore,
the restrictions were relaxed for most of the
year, but tightened periodically due to spikes
in cases.
As we entered the new year, the threat of
new variants once again put many parts of
the world, including Malaysia, on high alert.
However, a greater sense of optimism prevailed
compared to the sentiment felt at the tail-end
We are also proud
to announce that we
have achieved more
than 1,000 consecutive
days of Zero Lost-Time
Accidents.
of 2020, as vaccinations largely mitigated the more severe
health impacts on the populace.
BETTER PREPARED TO SUSTAIN GROWTH
We continued to be guided by the Carlsberg Group’s COVID-19
Leadership Triangle that balances Situational Leadership,
Defend Operating Profit and Cash and Prepare for the
Rebound. This guided approach, together with our strong
fundamentals, helped the Group to navigate the storm from
a business continuity standpoint and gave us the fortitude to
generate sustainable profits even during challenging times.
Health and safety, which have
always been one of our strategic
priorities, became more
prominent. We continued
to Lead with Care, as we
grouped our employees
into two teams with
separate work schedules
to ensure effective
physical distancing and
risk mitigation. In addition,
we implemented mandatory
swab tests every 14 days, with
13,467 tests carried out in 2021,
and accelerated the vaccination of our
entire workforce and other on-site contractors.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
21
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
CHAIRMAN’S
ADDRESS
DELIVERING VALUE DESPITE CHALLENGES
Committed to delivering sustainable shareholder
value, the Board of the Group has proposed a
final single-tier dividend of 46 sen per ordinary
share for the financial year ended 31 December
2021, subject to the shareholders’ approval at
the upcoming Annual General Meeting. This is
equivalent to a RM140.6 million payment of
the Group’s FY2021 net profit, to be paid on 12
May 2022, with the notice of entitlement to be
announced in due course. The total declared
and proposed dividend for FY2021 is 56 sen or
equivalent to RM171.2 million, an increase of
40% versus FY2020.
Just as in 2020, the Board has decided to
maintain a defensive stance on our financial
position in order to maintain a level of rationality
regarding COVID-19's impact on the economy
and our business. Dividends for the financial year
are not back to the levels of pre-COVID-19 years,
as we took the strategic decision to reinvest in
our brands, upgrade our production facilities to
deliver better sustainability performance and
maintain higher cash liquidity to support the
trade.
We are pleased to share that no COVID-19 clusters and related fatalities have been reported in the
Group. We are also proud to announce that we have achieved more than 1,000 consecutive days of
Zero Lost-Time Accidents.
We defended our operating profit and cash through better inventory, value and discount
management. The Off-Trade volume continued to surpass the On-Trade volume, a phenomenon
which we experienced for the first time in 2020. The pivot to Off-Trade, as well as the rapid growth
of e-commerce, helped the Group mitigate the impact of dine-in restrictions at F&B outlets during
the lockdowns.
Bolstered by the Carlsberg Group’s SAIL’22 strategy, which has just concluded its penultimate year,
we have remained committed to finding more effective and efficient ways to optimise our business,
while ensuring that our people, customers and business partners continued to be well-supported.
We continued to defend our core beer brand Carlsberg while accelerating the growth of our premium
brands. We are proud of our innovative portfolio and will continue to grow our category and variants
as they give us the agility and ability to leverage and market our wide array of products to a wider
consumer base, especially as our markets and consumer preferences evolve.
With these strategic measures in place, I am pleased to share that the Group has emerged from the
storm with RM1.8 billion in revenue in FY2021 (FY2020: RM1.8 billion) and net profit of RM201.0
million (FY2020: RM162.2 million).
For more information regarding the performance of the business, please refer to our
Managing Director’s message on page 24.
RM1.8 BILLION RM201.0 MILLION
REVENUE NET PROFIT
FY2020: RM1.8 billion FY2020: RM162.2 million
For more information regarding our
sustainability practices under Together
Towards ZERO, please refer to page 39.
ZERO
WATER
WASTE
ZERO
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
ZERO
ACCIDENTS
CULTURE
ZERO
IRRESPONSIBLE
DRINKING
As we evolve towards an ESG approach,
we have prioritised our Together
Towards ZERO sustainability agenda by
espousing four pillars:
85.2%
DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO
FY2020: 75.4%
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
22
CHAIRMAN’S
ADDRESS
Driving Sustainability Forward
As we move into the final year of SAIL’22
before transitioning over to SAIL’27, I would
like to share the significant progress we have
made each year in building a stronger and
more robust business while strengthening our
reputation as a responsible brewer. We have
strengthened our fundamentals and expanded
our focus beyond commercial operations, by
taking a more holistic view of the business.
We have integrated Environmental, Social
and Governance (ESG) considerations
into our strategies, in line with the United
Nations Sustainable Development Goals
(UN SDGs). In adopting the ESG approach,
we have prioritised our Together Towards
ZERO sustainability agenda by
espousing four pillars: ZERO
Carbon Footprint, ZERO
Water Waste, ZERO
Irresponsible Drinking
and ZERO Accidents
Culture.
And, without a doubt,
we have worked
closely with and will
continue to support the
communities in which we
operate. Through our “Safer
Together” initiative, the Group’s focus
was on ensuring our people and our communities
remained safe during the prolonged pandemic.
We launched the "Safer Schools" campaign
for the second year in a row as part of this
initiative, on which we spent RM1.6 million to
create a safer school environment through
our sponsorship of facial recognition infrared
thermometers and full disinfection services.
We continued to be recognised for our strong
commitment to responsible business practices,
transparency and robust disclosures on ESG
priorities, maintaining our presence in the FTSE
Russell FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia (F4GBM)
Index for the third consecutive year, being the
only brewer among F4GBM constituents.
We are also proud to have our Morgan Stanley
Capital International (MSCI) Ratings upgraded
to “AA” from “A” in August 2021. This rating
upgrade, our second in a row, was driven by our
carbon mitigation strategy as well as lower
water risk exposure.
In 2021, the Carlsberg Group
also joined major consumer
businesses and advertisers
from around the world in
signing up for the World
Federation of Advertisers'
Planet Pledge. Together, we
will deliver change in our own
organisations and supply chains
and contribute to the global Race
to Zero campaign to reach net zero
carbon emissions by 2050. In addition, we
will harness the power of our global brands to
inspire consumers to adopt more sustainable
behaviour.
Strengthening Our Governance Practices
In the year under review, the Group continued to
strengthen its governance practices, cognisant
of the growing calls to improve diversity and to
integrate ESG considerations within the fabric of
the organisation.
As part of this journey, I am pleased to share
that the Group has commenced its first steps
into Integrated Reporting, which will enable
us to demonstrate our value creation activities
more cohesively, as well as how they align with
our sustainability priorities.
The key principles of Integrated Reporting
compel organisations to discuss their operations
in a balanced and transparent manner, which is
important in maintaining the confidence of our
stakeholders.
With regards to diversity, we are ahead of the
curve with 56% of our senior leadership team
being female, while 29% of our Directors are
female.
Awards & Recognition
As a testament to our robust performance
over the years and deep-rooted commitment
to delivering long-term sustainable value to
our shareholders, the Group was once again
recognised at the prestigious The Edge Billion
Ringgit Club Awards. For the second year
running, we were accorded the top award for
highest return-on-equity over three years in the
Consumer Products & Services category. As one
of only two winners within this category, we
reported a strong track record for our return on
shareholders’ fund of 105.1% in 2020, 189.2% in
2019 and 122.5% in 2018.
The Group also won the Company of the Year
award under the manufacturing of beverages
sector at the 6th edition of the Sustainability &
CSR Malaysia Awards 2021. Our “Safer Schools”
campaign, in particular, was named as an
exemplary project that provided meaningful
intervention and solutions for the communities
it sought to assist.
Our human capital initiatives were also
recognised at the Employee Experience
Awards 2021 organised by Singapore-based
Human Resources Online. We took home three
awards: Gold for Best Crisis Management and
Leadership, Silver for Best Succession Planning
Strategy and Bronze for Best First-Time
Manager Programme.
Our marketing initiatives continued to shine as
well. At the Putra Brand Awards 2021, Carlsberg
bagged the Platinum Award while both
Somersby and Connor’s won Silver.
Through our “SAFER
TOGETHER” initiative,
the Group focused on
ensuring our people
and our communities
remained safe
during the prolonged
pandemic.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
23
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
CHAIRMAN’S
ADDRESS
OUTLOOK & PROSPECTS
We remain prudent regarding next year’s
prospects given the uncertainty surrounding
new COVID-19 variants. The possibility of
lockdowns remains, depending on the severity
of new variants and new cases, which we are
closely monitoring.
The World Bank estimates that global economic
growth will decrease by 4.1% in 2022. However,
in Singapore4, the economy expanded by 7.6%
in 2021, its fastest annual pace in over a decade,
and is expected to grow between 3 and 5% in
2022. Meanwhile, Malaysia's economy grew by
3.1% in 2021 and is set to grow 5.8% in 2022.
As economies rebound, we expect international
tourism to gradually return. This will, in turn,
boost demand, especially for our premium
brands, as well as craft and speciality offerings.
The increase in health awareness, driven by the
public health crisis, is expected to drive demand
for lower-alcohol and lower-calorie beverages.
We expect consumer sentiment, which has been
suppressed for close to two years, to rebound.
And we will definitely be well-positioned to
capitalise on the rebound with our numerous
new marketing campaigns and product
innovations.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Despite several headwinds related to our
operations and regulatory challenges, I would
like to express my highest appreciation to our
customers, shareholders, trade partners and
employees for helping the Group to navigate
the storm.
I would also like to express appreciation to the
Malaysian and Singaporean governments for
not raising excise duties for beer in their 2022
national budgets.
I am grateful that we have kept our employees
and their families safe throughout this period.
I would like to thank our employees for
their amazing dedication to their roles and
responsibilities.
To our distributors, suppliers and trade partners,
thank you for standing together with us as
we successfully navigated through these most
trying of times. I would also like to express my
appreciation to our loyal consumers for their
unwavering support.
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like
to extend our sincere gratitude to our Managing
Director, Stefano Clini, and his Management
Team for the strong and steadfast leadership
they have demonstrated in guiding the Group
to further success even within a difficult and
challenging operating environment.
DATUK TOH AH WAH
Chairman
Shah Alam
2 March 2022
Lastly, the Board and I would like to bid farewell
to Graham James Fewkes, Roland Arthur
Lawrence and Michelle Tanya Achuthan. We
will miss their strategic business acumen, wealth
of knowledge in finance and strong insights into
the beer industry. In their place, we warmly
welcome Leonard Cornelis Jorden Evers, Gavin
Stuart Brockett and Datuk Lee Oi Kuan.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
24
MANAGING DIRECTOR'S
MESSAGE
The past two years have been challenging, with economic and public
health recovery in 2021 being disrupted by the re-emergence of COVID-19
cases in both Malaysia and Singapore. Guided by the COVID-19 Leadership
Triangle that balances Situational Leadership, Defend Operating Profit and
Cash and Prepare for the Rebound, we weathered the storm and delivered
satisfactory financial results, improved sustainability performance and kept
all employees safe and engaged.
STEFANO CLINI
Managing Director
DEAR SHAREHOLDERS,
I am pleased to report that
Carlsberg Brewery Malaysia
Berhad (Carlsberg Malaysia
Group / The Group) was in a
state of good health in 2021,
delivering satisfactory financial,
people and sustainability
performance.
The resurgence of the pandemic led to large swathes of the
economy being required to shut down in Malaysia with the
strictest most prolonged lockdown taking place between
1 June and 15 August. In Singapore, intermittent lockdowns
and the imposition of stringent restrictions periodically
throughout the year also took a toll on our business.
FINANCIAL HEALTH
I am pleased to report that the Group posted a net profit
of RM201.0 million for the full financial year ended
31 December 2021, an increase of 23.9% on the back
of flat revenue of RM1.8 billion year-on-year. The
strong growth in bottom-line was driven by cost
optimisation, innovation and premiumisation, while
lower sales due to the suspension of brewery
operations and dine-in restrictions in both markets
affected top-line.
The Board of Directors have proposed a final single-
tier dividend of 46 sen per ordinary share, subject to
the shareholders’ approval at the upcoming Annual
General Meeting. This is in addition to the interim
single-tier dividend of 10 sen per ordinary share
declared in FY21. If approved, the total dividend payout will
represent RM171.2 million, equivalent to a dividend payout
ratio of 85.2% of the Group’s net profit for the year.
Detailed analysis of the Group’s results, market performance
in Malaysia and Singapore, earnings per share, dividends and
return on shareholders’ fund are reported under the strategic
lever of “Deliver Value for Shareholders” on pages 32 to 35.
PEOPLE HEALTH
In 2021, the Group suffered another suspension of operations
at our Shah Alam brewery for 75 days, far longer than the
47 days we experienced in 2020. All employees worked from
home except a handful of essential employees who worked
on-site to maintain the integrity of the brewery and ensure the
safety of the machinery and equipment.
Thankfully, our quick action to support the nation’s
vaccination drive enabled our Malaysia brewery to resume
operations when we reached a 100% full vaccination rate of
all eligible employees and third-party contractors in August.
For Singapore operations, all employees and sales promoters
were fully inoculated in October.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
25
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
MANAGING DIRECTOR'S
MESSAGE
We are happy to report that we did not have
any COVID-19 clusters or related fatalities since
the pandemic started in March 2020.
More information on our strict compliance
with the COVID-19 health and safety standard
operating procedures, including mandatory
bi-weekly swab tests in Malaysia, is disclosed
in the “ZERO Accidents Culture” section on
pages 53 to 55, and our people agenda , diversity
and inclusion are reported on pages 58 to 62.
STRATEGIC HEALTH
The implementation of the strategic levers and
priorities of year five of the SAIL’22 strategy and
disciplined execution of the business continuity
plans we developed and fine-tuned throughout
the two years of the pandemic held us in good
stead.
We improved our mitigation of operational and
commercial risks and effective implementation
of our “Funding the Journey” initiatives to
alleviate the impacts of supply disruptions on the
domestic market and on exports. Our decision
to intensify the acceleration of premium brands
with new variants and packaging launches
also helped to expand distribution and garner
new consumers, especially for our craft and
speciality brands.
BRAND PORTFOLIO HEALTH
Our premium brands' growth momentum
remained strong as consumers sought out
finer drinking experiences and experimented
with different types of beers, such as wheat
beer and stout, as they spent more time at
home, even celebrating festivals there. The
growth in premium brands complemented our
mainstream brands as Carlsberg Danish Pilsner
and Carlsberg Smooth Draught optimised their
visibility and built brand equity through several
nationwide campaigns and through-the-line
promotions.
Last year, we accelerated premiumisation by
offering a better premium mix in off-trade and
launching new variants and product innovations,
namely Connor’s Stout Porter in cans, Somersby
Watermelon Cider, 1664 Rosé and Tuborg Strong.
We doubled our total e-commerce sales in
Malaysia and Singapore, and we have plans
in place to expand touchpoints with e-tailers
while continuing to invest in advertising and
promotions to grow this channel in FY2022.
In the trade, market dynamics evolved, with
lockdowns skewing sales towards the off-trade
channel as entertainment outlets remained
closed, food and beverage (F&B) outlets suffered
reduced capacity for dine-ins and consumers
became accustomed to drinking in the comfort
of their homes. We responded quickly to seize
these opportunities with increased adoption
of digital marketing and sampling, customised
promotions for home consumption and by
accelerating e-commerce sales with exclusive
promotions.
Read about our accomplishments in the strategic
levers of “Strengthen Our Core” on pages 28 to 29
and “Position for Growth” on pages 30 to 31.
SUSTAINABILITY HEALTH
We believe profitability and sustainability can
work in tandem and in harmony. Over the
years, we have invested resources to achieve our
ambitious Together Towards ZERO (TTZ) targets
in carbon footprint, water waste, responsible
drinking and accident culture. Our aim is to
create sustainable value growth by shaping
our business to deliver on organisational,
commercial and social sustainability.
Considering the immense challenges in
executing our ESG priorities amid the suspension
of operations and other uncertainties, we are
proud to note that we remained a counter of
note within FTSE Russell’s FTSE4GOOD Bursa
Malaysia (F4GBM) Index, achieved an improved
Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI)
ESG ratings of “AA” and won the Company
of the Year award at the Sustainability & CSR
Malaysia Awards 2021.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
26
Specific projects and the progress of our ESG
performance, encompassing our TTZ, people,
community and responsible business priorities,
which are also priorities under the SAIL’22
enabler of “Defend Our Licence to Operate”, are
reported under “Commitment to Sustainability”
on pages 39 to 68.
Our sustainability priorities and programmes
are also in support of the United Nation’s
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs)
and the Ten Principles of United Nations Global
Compact.
BUSINESS RISK
In executing our strategy and operating our
business amid the disruptions last year, we
constantly reviewed regulatory changes, market
dynamics and macroeconomic developments to
manage, if not mitigate, risks to the best of our
ability.
In 2021, our businesses in Malaysia and
Singapore were subject to a number of risks and
uncertainties, namely the outbreak of COVID-19,
disruptions in the supply of raw materials,
disruptions to production and distribution, an
increase in contraband and online sales of illicit
alcohol.
OUTLOOK AND PROSPECTS
2022 will be another challenging year as it
presents a prudent outlook. Malaysia and
Singapore have forecast growth in GDP of
5.8% and 3% to 5%, respectively. Yet, the
emergence of new variants and a surge
in COVID-19 cases may take a toll on the
countries’ economic recoveries. We are also
mindful of headwinds in the form of cost
inflation.
We are proud of our strong Purpose read
page 2 and confident that our sustained efforts
in executing the 2022 priorities of the SAIL’22
strategy see page 37 will enable us to navigate
the uncharted waters of COVID-19 during the
thirdyearofthepandemic.Weremaincommitted
to delivering on our ambition read page 2
as we transition from the final year of the
SAIL’22 corporate strategy to a new five-year
strategy called SAIL’27.
In 2022, we will position our flagship brand,
Carlsberg, in the various celebrations that exist
in multicultural Malaysia, and we will continue
to focus on Malaysia's large football fanbase.
We will also continue building on the growth
momentum of our premium brands 1664 Blanc,
Somersby Cider, Connor’s Stout Porter and
Asahi Super Dry, while reigniting our value
segment brand, SKOL.
In line with global trends, we will also introduce
new craft and speciality brands and increase our
focus in the alcohol-free segment. Following
the introduction of alcohol-free pilsner and
wheat beer in Singapore in 2020, we have plans
to launch another alcohol-free beverage in
Malaysia this year. In addition, we intend to add
new variants to our existing portfolio in order
to provide consumers with more options and
lower-alcohol beverages.
In preparation for product innovation, we have
set aside RM110 million in capital expenditure
(capex) for our Shah Alam production facilities.
Scheduled to be completed by the end of the
year, this massive upgrade will improve the
filling capacity and enable greater flexibility
in packaging options, higher automation and
deliver greater sustainability performance in
energy, water and waste management.
APPRECIATION
I would like to convey my appreciation to the
governments of Malaysia and Singapore for
maintaining the rate of excise duties for beer in
their 2022 national budgets. The excise duties
for beer in these two markets are already the
joint-second highest in the world, and any
further increase may spur the growth of the
contraband market.
I would also like to express the Board of
Directors and Management Team's heartfelt
appreciation to everyone who has supported
us in being a healthier, safer and better brewer.
We have been impressed by the perseverance,
engagement and commitment of our
employees and would like to say thank you
to each and every one.
We sincerely appreciate our shareholders'
continued encouragement and trust in us, as
well as the cooperation and understanding of
all suppliers and customers, particularly our on-
trade customers, many of whom have supported
the Group throughout another difficult year.
STEFANO CLINI
Managing Director
Shah Alam
2 March 2022
Refer to “Managing Business Risk” on pages 80 to
81 for our mitigation actions and outcomes.
MANAGING DIRECTOR'S
MESSAGE
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
27
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
PERSISTENCE IN SAIL’22 MAKES US A RESILIENT BREWER
Our corporate strategy, SAIL’22, has served us well since its
launch in 2016, resulting in a strong, resilient and reputable
Company.
SAIL’22 has guided us towards our ambition of becoming
a successful, professional and responsible brewer in our
markets. It has focused on improving our business, setting
clear priorities and delivering a commercial and socially
sustainable brewer to bring to life our purpose of Brewing for
a Better Today and Tomorrow.
Over the years, we have continuously adjusted the application
of the strategy to reflect the lessons we have learned as well
as the market environment, which has significantly changed,
particularly due to COVID-19.
Our 2016-2017 headline was “Funding the Journey”, and our
main focus was on delivering efficiency and savings in order
to reinvest in the SAIL'22 priorities to drive long-term value
growth and improve operating profit.
From 2018 onwards, we shifted our focus to top-line growth
and delivering consistent shareholder value while instilling
a winning mindset and culture throughout our organisation.
Our investments and execution paid off with a strong track
record in our return on shareholders’ fund of 122.5% in 2018,
189.2% in 2019 and 105.1% in 2020.
The resilience of our strategic priorities was stress-tested and
proven during the significant challenges posed by COVID-19
across Malaysia and Singapore. Despite the setbacks and
volatility caused by the pandemic, our financial results in 2021
were satisfactory, with a growth of 23.9% in net profit on the
back of flat revenue, while profit from operations increased
by 23.4%.
Given below are the three strategic levers and seven priorities of SAIL’22, supported by two enablers.
In tandem with SAIL’22, we have been guided by the Carlsberg Group’s COVID-19 leadership triangle, which was introduced at the start of
the pandemic and balances Situational Leadership, Defend Operating Profit and Cash and Prepare for the Rebound. This has provided us
with adaptational strategies in addition to SAIL’22 to ensure we remain resilient as a business.
As we concluded FY2021, we progress into the final year of the SAIL’22 strategy, as 2022 is a year of transition to a new five-year strategy
known as SAIL’27, which will begin in 2023.
The SAIL’27 strategy is an evolution from SAIL’22. In developing SAIL’27, we aimed to maintain and sharpen our strategies, as well as our
organisational and financial dynamics, while also ensuring that our direction-setting was refreshed and that our new strategy reflected
projected consumer, customer, societal, regulatory, economic and geopolitical trends that are likely to have direct impacts on the beer
category.
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
CORPORATE
STRATEGY: SAIL’22
OUR TWO
ENABLERS
OUR SEVEN
STRATEGIC PRIORITIES
OUR THREE
STRATEGIC LEVERS
DEFEND OUR
LICENCE
TO OPERATE
CREATE A
WINNING
CULTURE
STRENGTHEN
THE CORE
POSITION
FOR GROWTH
DELIVER
VALUE FOR
SHAREHOLDERS
“Go Big in Premium” with Kronenbourg 1664 Blanc,
Somersby Cider, Asahi Super Dry and
Connor’s Stout Porter
“Innovate With Digital” to enhance the role of
digitalisation in our operations
Achieve “Growth in Net Profit”
Deliver Stable Dividend Yield for Shareholders
“Grow in Mainstream” with Carlsberg Danish Pilsner and
Carlsberg Smooth Draught
“Win in Each Store” with better in-store execution
“Funding the Journey” by delivering efficiencies in
Operating Expenses and Value Management
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
28
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The prolonged lockdown and various restrictions
continued to weigh on the true growth potential
of our mainstream brands as production,
distribution and consumption were severely
disrupted.
Our mainstream brands Carlsberg Danish Pilsner
and Carlsberg Smooth Draught continued to be
impacted with total volume for Malaysia and
Singapore declining by 11% compared to 2020.
With dine-in not permitted and entertainment
outlets remaining closed for almost two years,
we witnessed a shift in consumer behaviour and
purchase to off-trade.
Nevertheless, building on the experience gained
in 2020, we were better prepared to navigate the
market dynamics through value management
strategies, and defended brand equity through
a series of nationwide campaigns.
To kickstart the year, we boosted the annual
Chinese New Year (CNY) celebrations in
Malaysia and Singapore with the launch of
the “Celebrate Prosperity, Cheers Together”
campaign to CELEBRATE the Year of the
Golden Ox, despite a muted CNY celebration
with tightened restrictions imposed for dine-in,
reunions and social events.
For our consumers in East Malaysia, the
CELEBRATE Abundance Harvest campaign was
a stunning success, with almost 500 customers
walking away with electronic gadgets that
helped them to stay connected with their loved
ones during the pandemic. In addition, we
launched specially designed first-of-their-kind
festive cans to commemorate the Kaamatan
and Gawai festivals and celebrate Sabahan and
Sarawakians’ pride.
We also found it an opportune time to refresh
our Carlsberg Smooth Draught in Malaysia and
Singapore as we prepared for the market to
rebound. We unveiled the brand-new modernistic
look for the Carlsberg Smooth Draught brand
with the tagline “New Look, Same Smooth
Brew” and supported this packaging innovation
with promotions and advertising. Flaunting a
new bottle, fresher cap and new design, we also
introduced the Carlsberg Smooth Draught on
tap, completing the new refreshed look across
the entire product range.
To CELEBRATE the passion of our football
fans in Malaysia and Singapore, we launched
a limited edition CHEERS TO FOOTBALL
packaging to pay tribute to football fans for
their undying support and love for the sport.
Our limited edition Carlsberg tees were curated
with the intention of keeping the excitement
and frenzy for football alive so that they could
continue to cheer for their favourite teams at
home with Carlsberg limited edition bottles,
cans and exclusive merchandise.
In 2022, we will continue to CELEBRATE all
occasions, from cultural festivals to every goal
scored in international football. And speaking
of football, we will be toasting the longest
partnership in the English Premier League’s
history with a soon-to-be-unveiled special
edition Carlsberg X Liverpool set featuring six
Liverpool legends.
GROW IN MAINSTREAM
STRENGTHEN THE CORE
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
29
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
WIN IN EACH STORE
FUND THE JOURNEY
2021 marked the second year that on-trade
consumption was dampened by various
restrictions on dine-ins, social distancing and
operating hours, as well as the slower reopening
of bars, pubs and restaurants and the temporary
closure of entertainment outlets, which have yet
to be allowed to reopen.
This adversely affected our modern on-
trade channel and permanently changed the
behaviour of a segment of consumers who now
prefer to enjoy their drinks in the safety of their
homes.
Our response since the first year of the
pandemic has been agile, quick and consistent,
as we re-channelled our focus and investment
to the off-trade channel to capture the increased
demand. We reorganised internal resources and
re-strategised commercial activities to drive
sales through e-commerce, convenience stores,
mini markets, supermarkets and hypermarkets.
In 2020, off-trade sales surpassed on-trade and
this trend continued to grow in 2021. We believe
this will continue to be the case in 2022, despite
the vaccination-induced herd immunity and
relaxation of restrictions to allow for dine-in and
travel, as this behaviour has now become the
norm, especially in Singapore.
To capitalise on this trend in Malaysia, Carlsberg
Smooth Draught collaborated with Fizzics,
a draught beer dispenser manufacturer, and
launched our very own beer dispenser to enable
consumers to replicate the draught experience
at home. The Fizzics draught beer dispenser
utilises Micro-Foam Technology that converts a
can or bottle of Carlsberg Smooth Draught into
the perfect pour.
Towards the end of 2021, dine-in restrictions
were gradually lifted and we witnessed a
strong recovery in on-trade sales, especially in
Malaysia, and we are hopeful that this trend will
continue. The return of consumers to bars and
restaurants, as well as the reopening of local
tourism and, eventually, international travel, will
help to drive footfall to and accelerate the slow
recovery of on-trade outlets.
Despite the choppy waters, the Group continued
to navigate the storm and successfully emerged
with a higher bottom-line in 2021 compared
to the preceding year. This was mainly driven
by our discipline in executing cost control and
optimisation initiatives while reallocating our
investments to digital campaigns, e-commerce
and off-trade.
With the pandemic driving consumers to
off-trade and e-commerce, we rationalised
marketing spend by shifting away from our
usual large-scale samplings and on-ground
activations and redirected our efforts and
resources towards targeted samplings and
digital-led marketing and exclusive promotions
to grow retailers and channels.
We continued to realise savings from the
redundancies of part-time sales promoters in
Malaysia and Singapore stationed at coffee
shops, restaurants and food courts. These
unfortunate redundancies, equivalent to 757
full-time employees in 2020, was the result of
the dine-in prohibitions on on-trade during the
prolonged lockdowns.
Value management was also key to achieving
higher efficiency and savings, and we will
continue with this framework and step up our
premium mix offerings. We also optimised our
price and discount management, which helped
to absorb the effect of lower volume in revenue.
We will continue to exercise prudence in the
coming year to brace ourselves against any
headwinds due to cost escalation and COVID-19.
With years of disciplined implementation of
“Funding the Journey” initiatives, we have
embraced it as a way of life for the Group.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
30
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
POSITION FOR GROWTH
In 2021, we continued to pay close attention
to maximising the opportunities present in the
premium segment as many customers sought
finer or different drinking experiences. Last year,
our premium brands 1664 Blanc, Somersby
Cider, Connor’s Stout Porter and Asahi Super
Dry grew by 15%.
The launch of new variants and innovative
packaging captured new and wider consumer
groups. Our interesting portfolio offerings and
intensified digital marketing kept the brands
relevant, and their consumers rewarded
and engaged with us amid softer consumer
sentiment and limited samplings.
Riding on the growth momentum of 1664 Blanc
as the best-selling wheat beer in Malaysia and
Singapore, we launched the 1664 Rosé in 320 ml
pints and cans. Malaysia is the second country
in Asia to introduce this pink-amber brew that
has a hint of raspberry, making it the second
wheat beer in our portfolio. We are happy to
report that the new variant has almost achieved
its full-year 2022 volume target in just three
months since launch, and without cannibalising
the 1664 Blanc, which continues to grow.
Carlsberg Singapore is also set to launch the
1664 Rosé in 2022.
In Malaysia, the 1664 Blanc brand brought
French and Malaysian cuisine together during
the lockdowns through its Bon Appetit-lah
campaign. Five unique French-Malaysian fusion
recipes were created by French chef Nathalie of
Nathalie Gourmet Studio and Malaysian chef
Isadora Chai of Bistro à Table for consumers to
try on their own at home by referring to step-
by-step video demonstrations. A gastronomic
cook-off competition between the two chefs
was also featured on the brand’s social media
platform to drive reach and engagement amid
the lockdown.
Somersby Cider, Malaysia and Singapore’s
best-selling cider brand, released a new variant
– Somersby Watermelon Cider – in March to
further entrench its position in the cider market.
This innovation is also doing well, becoming
the second best-selling variant in our Somersby
portfolio within a few months of launch. In
Singapore, Somersby released the third variant
of its Hard Seltzer range – White Peach, further
cementing its brand image as an innovative
leader in the alcopop category.
Connor’s Stout Porter, which doubled its sales
in 2021 in both markets, hit a home run with
its brand-new innovation in can packaging that
recreates the draught stout drinking experience.
GO BIG IN PREMIUM Through an easy three-step process, consumers
can now enjoy the taste of draught Connor’s
stout right out of a can together with its creamy
head, the hallmark of a freshly pulled draught.
This innovation was a runaway success.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
31
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
INNOVATE WITH DIGITAL In addition to our flagship stores on Lazada
and Shopee, we launched new platforms on
ShopeeMart and SubPlace in Malaysia. Our
existing partner PotBoy extended its reach
with the opening of 50 PotBoy outlets, while
PandaMart expanded to East Malaysia.
In Singapore, our digital collaboration was
extended to SCommerce, Qoo10, Redmart,
Amazon and FoodPanda.
The way we work and learn has also changed,
with virtual meetings and town halls the new
norm as we continue to work on a split-team
basis to ensure physical distancing and business
continuity. The Group utilised digital measures
to ensure our people were able to remain in
constant contact while management issued
frequent, detailed and informative Group-
wide updates to keep us all abreast of Group
developments throughout the movement
controls in Malaysia and circuit breakers in
Singapore.
During this time, the Group did not neglect
the upskilling of our employees and leveraged
virtual and online methods to ensure that
training sessions could continue. In 2021, the
number of training hours clocked was 26.3
hours per employee, exceeding the 10.8 hours
and 18.2 hours logged per employee in 2020
and 2019, respectively.
The digital transformation of the Group has
been accelerated by the pandemic. We quickly
shifted online at the onset of the pandemic in
2020 – from the way we work to the way we
sell. In 2021, we further refined our digitalisation
efforts – ramping up marketing initiatives,
upskilling via online training and accelerating
the growth of e-commerce, among others.
The new and fast-growing e-commerce sector
continued to improve, as digital content
consumption and engagement grew beyond
the lockdown periods and stay-at-home
consumption further bolstered online orders
and delivery. With everyone staying home to
stay safe, e-commerce was a key platform for
us to reach out to consumers. Total e-commerce
sales in Malaysia and Singapore operations
doubled in 2021.
We will continue to drive targeted digital
campaigns, with exclusive e-commerce
promotions and gift sets like Somersby Cider’s
Apple Day merchandise, Connor’s Premium
Kits, Asahi’s Discover Tokyo limited edition
sets, Festive Advent Calendars and Carlsberg
Amazin’ Graze CNY gift packs activated in recent
months.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
32
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
The Group reported a net profit of RM201.0
million for the full financial year ended
31 December 2021 (FY2021), an increase of
23.9% compared to RM162.2 million, on the
back of flat revenue of RM1.8 billion.
The Group’s top-line was impacted by lower
sales due to the suspension of brewery
operations and several restrictions during the
lockdowns in both Malaysia and Singapore.
Its bottom-line growth was mainly driven
by stringent cost controls, lower sales and
administration expenses, coupled with better
premium mix.
In Malaysia, profit from operations grew by
39.4% to RM188.8 million in FY2021, compared
to the year before. Revenue declined by 3.6%
to RM1.21 billion, and despite the 2.5-month
shutdown of the brewery, we managed
to sustain a satisfactory performance by
implementing revenue management and driving
premiumisation. The higher earnings were a
result of lower costs sustained from restructuring
efforts carried out in 2020 and the absence of
the one-off RM6.4 million settlement paid to
the Royal Malaysian Customs Department of
Selangor in 2020.
DELIVER VALUE FOR SHAREHOLDERS
GROWTH IN NET PROFIT
In Singapore, revenue and volume grew but the
growth momentum was disrupted by various
COVID-19-related restrictions. However, profit
declined by 10.2% to RM58.0 million in FY2021,
despite revenue growth of 6.3% to RM561.1
million. This was mainly due to higher costs as
a result of having to source products from other
Carlsberg markets when the Malaysian brewery
was closed. Higher costs were also accrued
with the absence of the COVID-19 Job Support
Scheme (JSS) Grant that was received in 2020.
In Sri Lanka, the Group’s associate company,
Lion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC, registered growth
in share of profits of RM15.2 million in FY2021
compared to RM14.9 million the previous year,
mainly as a result of the reopening of the
country’s economy.
DELIVER STABLE DIVIDEND YIELD FOR SHAREHOLDERS
In our commitment to delivering sustainable shareholder value, the Board has proposed a final
single-tier dividend of 46 sen per ordinary share for FY2021, subject to shareholders’ approval at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting. This is equivalent to a RM140.6 million payment of the Group’s
FY2021 net profit. The total declared and proposed dividend for FY2021 is 56 sen or equivalent to
RM171.2 million, an increase of 40% versus FY2020.
The Board continued to exercise prudence in conserving cash and protecting the business.
As such, our dividend policy prioritised business sustainability while continuing to deliver
shareholder value. We took into account prospects and capital requirements of the business, as well
as possible expansion strategies.
Our cash flow and balance sheet remained strong. We have reduced our borrowings and strengthened
our net cash position. This allows us access to higher borrowings should we experience a crisis, and
also gives us the ability to set aside a capital expenditure (capex) of RM110 million to upgrade our
production facilities and cater for new product innovations and packaging complexity.
Revenue
(RM million)
Earnings per Ordinary Share
(sen)
Net Profit
(RM million)
1,785.0
2,256.6
2020
2019 2021
1,772.8
53.0
95.2
2020
2019 2021
65.7
162.2
291.0
2020
2019 2021
201.0
Return on Shareholders’ Fund
(%)
105.1
189.2
2020
2019 2021
107.9
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
33
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
EXCISE & CUSTOMS DUTIES PROPERTY, PLANT & EQUIPMENT AND RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS SHARE CAPITAL
2021: 35.6% 2020: 34.6% 2021: 24.0% 2020: 23.4%
2021: 47.6% 2020: 50.2%
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
PROFIT AFTER TAXATION RECEIVABLES, DEPOSITS AND PREPAYMENTS MINORITY INTEREST
2021: 11.5% 2020: 9.3% 2021: 21.7% 2020: 20.6% 2021: 0.7% 2020: 1.1%
SALES, DISTRIBUTION, ADMINISTRATION
& OTHER COSTS INVENTORIES RESERVES
2021: 18.6% 2020: 19.7% 2021: 12.7% 2020: 13.5% 2021: 9.9% 2020: 2.9%
ANALYSIS OF 2021
GROUP REVENUE
ANALYSIS OF 2021
TOTAL ASSETS
ANALYSIS OF 2021
TOTAL LIABILITIES
& SHAREHOLDERS'
EQUITY
RAW & PACKAGING MATERIALS COSTS CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS PAYABLES AND ACCRUALS
2021: 8.3% 2020: 8.0% 2021: 12.2% 2020: 14.8% 2021: 50.9% 2020: 44.2%
STAFF COSTS INVESTMENTS LOANS & BORROWINGS AND LEASE LIABILITIES
2021: 7.7% 2020: 8.0% 2021: 15.2% 2020: 14.5% 2021: 6.9% 2020: 20.2%
TAXATION INTANGIBLE ASSETS CURRENT TAX LIABILITIES
2021: 3.1% 2020: 2.4% 2021: 0.9% 2020: 1.1% 2021: 5.2% 2020: 5.3%
DEPRECIATION OTHER ASSETS DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
2021: 3.2% 2020: 2.4% 2021: 1.7% 2020: 0.9% 2021: 2.4% 2020: 2.9%
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
34
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (RM MILLION)
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Revenue 1,584.8 1,555.1 1,635.1 1,659.9 1,679.5 1,730.0* 1,982.3 2,256.6 1,785.0 1,772.8
Profit Before Taxation 245.7 236.4 274.2 283.6 283.8 294.8 361.3 382.2 209.8 259.6
Taxation 51.9 49.8 57.3 63.4 73.2 62.4 74.5 81.8 43.6 55.2
Profit for the Financial Year 193.8 186.6 216.9 220.2 210.6 232.4 286.8 300.4 166.2 204.4
* Adjusted 2017 Revenue had the Group applied MFRS 15.
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION (RM MILLION)
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Issued and Paid-up Share Capital 142.0 142.0 142.0 142.0 142.0 149.4 149.4 149.4 149.4 149.4
Retained Earnings 148.7 140.0 165.1 163.9 148.8 133.7 17.3 (6.2) 15.3 62.3
Call and Put Option Reserve - (20.1) (10.6) - - - - - - -
Non-Distributable Reserves 8.3 11.8 15.7 29.7 30.9 15.9 2.4 5.3 3.2 (0.5)
Shareholders' Fund 299.0 273.7 312.2 335.6 321.7 299.0 169.1 148.5 167.9 211.1
Deferred Taxation 19.8 17.1 13.5 10.2 12.1 16.6 12.4 24.9 15.8 7.9
Net Non-Current Liabilities - - - - 1.7 0.3 0.3 6.2 4.1 8.4
Minority Interest 7.8 10.5 19.0 7.0 8.4 13.4 11.9 8.2 6.8 4.5
326.6 301.3 344.7 352.8 343.9 329.3 193.7 187.8 194.6 231.9
Property, Plant and Equipment, Right-of-use Assets and
Intangible Assets (Net Book Value) 168.2 174.3 164.4 167.5 176.6 181.2 196.2 229.2 227.6 226.8
Investment in an Associate 34.7 40.9 58.2 80.2 73.1 64.3 73.0 84.7 92.5 94.7
Net Current Assets / (Liabilities) 123.7 86.1 122.1 105.1 94.2 83.8 (75.5) (126.1) (125.5) (89.6)
326.6 301.3 344.7 352.8 343.9 329.3 193.7 187.8 194.6 231.9
FINANCIAL RATIO
2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Earnings per Ordinary Share (Sen)* 62.68 60.16 69.20 70.62 67.04 72.34 90.65 95.18 53.04 65.74
Net Assets Backing per Ordinary Share (RM)* 0.98 0.90 1.02 1.10 1.05 0.98 0.55 0.49 0.55 0.69
Return on Shareholders' Fund (%)+ 66.3 65.2 74.0 68.0 64.1 74.9 122.5 189.2 105.1 107.9
Current Ratio 1.5 1.3 1.4 1.3 1.3 1.3 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.8
Bursa Securities Price at 31 December (RM) 12.52 12.18 11.74 11.70 13.92 15.30 19.68 29.40 23.24 20.08
Net Dividend Yield (%)^ 4.5 5.2 5.2 6.1 5.2 5.0 6.5 3.5 2.0 2.5
* Computed based on total number of shares net of Treasury shares. Treasury shares were cancelled on 17 May 2017.
+ Return on Shareholders' Fund was computed based on Group's Profit for the Financial Year over average Group's Shareholders' Fund.
^ Net dividend yield was computed based on dividend paid out and declared during the year divided by the share price at year-end.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
35
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
FIVE-YEAR DIVIDEND
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021
Group’s Net Profit (RM Million) 221.2 277.2 291.0 162.2 201.0
Dividend Amount Declared and Proposed for the Year (RM Million) 266.0 305.7 305.7 122.3 171.2
Dividend as % of Net Profit 120.3% 110.3% 105.1% 75.4% 85.2%
Dividend per Ordinary Share (Sen) 87.0 100.0 100.0 40.0 56.0
True to our commitment
of “Leading with Care”,
the Group strived to make
employees feel valued,
accepted and respected
within a high-performance
culture. Thus, we continued
to step up efforts to take
care of the health, both
physical and mental,
safety and welfare of our
employees, while ensuring
that we provided the
support and environment
they required to reach their
potential.
CREATE A WINNING CULTURE
In 2021, we enhanced the Group's diversity and
inclusion policies and practices, to cater to our
employees’ differing priorities & commitments
at different stages of life.
For instance, the Group had implemented
enhancements on the existing Flexi Working
Arrangements (FWA), including Work-From-
Home, Flexi Working Hours and also Time Off
arrangements. This FWA policy aims to support
the needs of the employees as they go through
different phases of their lives. By promoting a
flexible workplace, we believe that it will lead
to increased levels of employee engagement,
health and wellbeing of employees and
ultimately create a high performing workforce
who feels empowered and valued.
In addition, the upskilling of employees and
the grooming of future leaders remained an
important strategic thrust.
To read more about our people priorities, please
refer to pages 58 to 62 of this Integrated Report.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
36
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
REGULATORY DEVELOPMENTS
The Group will continue to build on its strong
stakeholder relationships to defend our licence
to operate. This includes consistent engagement
with the authorities, industry associations and
non-governmental organisations to convey
our views on matters relating to the right to
operate and trade, as well as to understand their
perspectives.
Some of the associations we are members
of include the EU-Malaysia Chamber of
Commerce and Industry (EUROCHAM)
Advocacy, the Malaysian Danish Business
Council (DANCHAM), the Federation of
Malaysian Manufacturers (FMM) and the
Malaysian International Chamber of Commerce
& Industry (MICCI), and the industry collective –
the Confederation of Malaysian Brewers Berhad
(CMBB) and the Singapore Beer Industry
Association (SBIA).
During the lockdown in Malaysia, a pressing
matter that we sought to discuss with the
authorities was the categorisation of the
alcohol industry as “non-essential”. The brewery
industry was asked to suspend its operations
and yet other beverage manufacturers were
allowed to operate. Through the CMBB, and
our own direct appeals, we persistently engaged
with the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry
of International Trade and Industry, as well as
other relevant ministries, to allow us to resume
operations.
The approval for us to resume operations
was granted in August after almost 100% of
our employees had received full vaccinations
in early August. The suspension of brewery
operations for 75 days was unprecedented and
made a dent in our operational efficiency and
financial performance.
The Group also maintained its position on other
important matters that directly affected the
industry and we constantly engaged with the
relevant stakeholders to ensure, for example,
that excise duties would not be increased
as it would lead to a significant increase in
contraband and online illicit trade.
We are of the view that there should be no
introduction of adverse legislation to restrict
the sale of alcohol. Regrettably, in 2021, some
local authorities and state governments decided
to curb alcohol sales. There were also plans
to impose a federal-level requirement on all
coffeeshops and restaurants to obtain a licence
to sell beer that would have severely affected
the industry. This plan has since been shelved,
and we are thankful to the Ministry of Finance
for stepping in to remedy the matter.
TOGETHER TOWARDS ZERO
We believe that our business and sustainability
performance go hand in hand. One cannot thrive
without the other. We conduct our business in a
way that is sustainable over the long term, as
well as optimise financial returns in the short
term.
We are convinced that our commitment to
sustainability bolstered our resilience through
another very difficult year. COVID-19 is just
one of the major crises the country faces. The
extreme weather, with floods and mini-tornados,
we experienced in different parts of Malaysia in
2021 underlines the need for urgent action to
tackle climate change. No one company can
tackle this global challenge alone – we need
businesses, governments, non-governmental
organisations and civil society to come together
for a better tomorrow.
Consumers also have a critical role to play in
a low-carbon future and it is encouraging that
more people want to buy from brands with strong
sustainability credentials. We are harnessing the
power of our brands to encourage people to
adopt more sustainable behaviour through the
Planet Pledge that the Carlsberg Group took in
September 2021, to which our Malaysian and
Singapore operations are committed and will
adapt into local campaigns to inspire consumers.
We do not just embrace the concepts of
sustainability; we have made it our mission to
influence our stakeholders to adopt sustainable
practices as well. Through our Together
Towards ZERO (TTZ) sustainability programme,
we stepped up to report on our commitment
towards ESG considerations, which also supports
10 out of the 17 United Nations Sustainable
Development Goals (UN SDGs).
DEFEND OUR LICENCE TO OPERATE
Read more on the Group’s most material ESG
issues and performance in the “Committing to
Sustainability” section on pages 39 to 68.
Read more on the Group’s contributions in human
capital, community and F&B industry in the
‘Responsible Business’ on pages 56 to 57, ‘People,
Diversity and Inclusion’ on pages 58 to 62 and
Community Relations on pages 63 to 64.
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS
The Group is also proud of its contributions to
the Malaysian and Singaporean economies. Our
direct and indirect economic impacts are able to
assist with the nations’ subsidies and recovery
from the COVID-19 pandemic. In 2021, the Group
contributed RM843.5 million in excise duties,
RM63.3 million in corporate taxes and RM79.2
million in sales and service taxes.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
Commitment to Sustainability
37
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION & ANALYSIS
DELIVERING ON STRATEGY
RESILIENCY AND DELIVERY The resilience of our SAIL’22 strategy was confirmed again in 2021. We saw strong progress on our strategic priorities despite the continuous challenges posed
by COVID-19 in both Malaysia and Singapore. The Group is pleased to register improved performance in the most vital and material priorities despite increased
business disruptions.
STRENGTHEN THE CORE
The Group continued to position the Carlsberg brand as the market
leader by growing Carlsberg Danish Pilsner, Carlsberg Smooth
Draught and Carlsberg Special Brew. Mainstream beer accounts for
a significant portion of our total revenue. Ensuring availability,
accessibility and quality is an important catalyst of growth in
mainstream beer. We measure our brand performance by a
combination of volume and gross brand contribution.
POSITION FOR GROWTH
We accelerated the growth of premium brands 1664
Blanc, Somersby Cider, Asahi Super Dry and Connor’s
Stout Porter. Driven by global trends of premiumisation,
our premium and craft portfolio brands had another
year of strong volume growth and contributed positively
to profitability.
DELIVER VALUE FOR SHAREHOLDERS
The Group reported a net profit of RM201.0 million in
FY2021, an increase of 23.9% on the back of flat revenue of
RM1.8 billion year-on-year.
The Group’s top-line was impacted by lower sales due to the
suspension of brewery operations and several restrictions during
the lockdowns in both Malaysia and Singapore. Its bottom-line growth
was mainly driven by stringent cost control, discount optimisation and better
premium mix through product innovation.
CREATE A WINNING CULTURE
Our MyVoice Engagement Score 2021 improved by 2pp to 77%
in Malaysia. Driven by our “Leading with Care” culture, the Group
implemented several enhancements to the existing work
arrangements, including Flexi Working Arrangements (FWA),
Work-from-home, Flexi Working Hours and also Time Off.
DEFEND OUR LICENCE TO OPERATE
Our Malaysian brewery operations were suspended
for a total of 122 days, (47 days in 2020 and 75 days
in 2021), due to COVID-19 lockdowns. With regular
stakeholder engagement, there has been no increase in
excise duty in Malaysia and Singapore since 2016 and
2014 respectively. For context, Malaysia and Singapore
impose the second-highest excise duty in the world on
alcoholic beverages.
Growth in
Mainstream
2019: +7%,
2020: -20%,
2021: -11%
Go Big in Premium
2019: +13%
2020: -17%
2021: +15%
Growth in Net Profit
Operations Disruption
2019: 0 days
2020: 47 days
2021: 75 days
Malaysia's MyVoice
Engagement Score
(conducted every
2 years)
2017: 70%
2019: 75%
2021: 77%
S
2019: RM291.0 million
2020: RM162.2 million
2021: RM201.0 million
BREWING FOR A BETTER
TODAY & TOMORROW
TOGETHER
TOWARDS
We believe that sustainability is central to our purpose
of Brewing for a Better Today & Tomorrow. Driven by our
purpose, we are committed to create meaningful impacts in
the areas of environment, social and governance to deliver on
our sustainability ambition of
ZERO
38
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
39
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
Sustainability
strategy
TOGETHER TOWARDS ZERO
Sustainability
priorities
ZERO
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
ZERO
WATER
WASTE
ZERO
IRRESPONSIBLE
DRINKING
ZERO
ACCIDENTS
CULTURE
2030 targets
ZERO carbon
emissions at
our breweries
30% reduction in
beer-in-hand
carbon footprint
50% reduction
in water usage at
our breweries
Partner to safeguard
shared water resources
in all high-risk areas
100% of our markets improve on
responsible drinking year-on-year ZERO lost-time accidents
Progress
in 2021
13.4%
reduction
since 2015
8.4%
reduction
from 2015-2019
21%
reduction
since 2015
100%
availability of
alcohol-free
brews
An estimated 1.1 million
people reached through
responsible drinking
campaigns
More than 1,000
days of ZERO lost-
time accidents in
2021 and counting
27%
reduction in
on-the-road
accidents in 2021
2022 targets 50% reduction
in carbon emissions
at our breweries
100% electricity from
renewable sources
at our breweries
ZERO coal at our
breweries
15% reduction
in beer-in-hand
carbon footprint
100% low-climate-
impact cooling
25% reduction in water usage
at our breweries
Explore going below 2.0 hl/hl
at all high-risk breweries
Partner to safeguard shared
water resources in high-risk areas
100% availability of alcohol-free brews
(AFBs)
100% responsible drinking messaging
through packaging and brand activations
100% of our markets run partnerships
to support responsible consumption
Reduction in accident rate year-on-year
Foundation
RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS
Live By Our Compass · Embracing diversity & inclusion · Developing & engaging with our people · Ensuring product quality, safety & human rights standards
OUR
APPROACH
Conducting business responsibly and sustainably
supports our purpose – and drives our efforts to
deliver value for shareholders and society.
At Carlsberg, we are committed to brewing for a better today and tomorrow by conducting business
responsibly and sustainably. This enables us to continue creating value for our shareholders and stakeholders
and ensure long-term sustainable growth. Our efforts are anchored on our transformative Together
Towards ZERO (TTZ) sustainability programme, which sets out our ambitions for ZERO carbon footprint,
ZERO water waste, ZERO irresponsible drinking and a ZERO accidents culture by 2030. The year 2021 marked the
fourth year of our journey and well on our way to achieving our interim targets by 2022.
BREWING FOR A BETTER TODAY & TOMORROW
Purpose
SAIL’22
priorities
STRENGTHEN THE CORE POSITION FOR GROWTH DELIVER VALUE FOR SHAREHOLDERS
CREATE A WINNING CULTURE DEFEND OUR LICENCE TO OPERATE
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
40
ZERO
WATER
WASTE
ZERO
ACCIDENTS
CULTURE
ZERO
IRRESPONSIBLE
DRINKING
ZERO
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
COMMITMENT TOWARDS ZERO
With the TTZ programme embedded in our
corporate culture, it has instilled a sense of
pride in our people while also generating
business opportunities. The TTZ programme
has enabled us to mitigate long-term risks,
navigate environmental and societal global
challenges and identify opportunities to develop
sustainable products and healthier choices for
consumers.
In 2021, the Carlsberg Group signed the World
Federation of Advertisers’ Planet Pledge,
together with other major and global consumer
businesses and advertisers, to transform our
organisation and supply chain to contribute
to the Race to Zero campaign and achieve net
zero carbon emissions by 2050. In our Malaysia
and Singapore operations, we support the
commitments and set to inspire consumers to
adopt more sustainable behaviour.
Carlsberg Malaysia Group is also a corporate
friend of Climate Governance Malaysia and a
participant of the UN Global Compact Network
Malaysia & Brunei and our sustainability
programme is aligned with the targets of
the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals
(UN SDG). The Group has been committed to
the UN Global Compact corporate responsibility
initiative and its principles in the areas of
human rights, labor, the environment, and
anti-corruption.
As such, we are proud to present to you
Carlsberg Malaysia Group’s 2021 Sustainability
Statement, which covers the progress of our
TTZ sustainability agenda. The scope and
boundaries, as well as the guidelines and
standards of the statement, are in About This
Report on page 2.
Key data are extracted from Enablon, an
online sustainability reporting platform used
by the Carlsberg Group of companies globally.
Reporting is done on policy areas on a monthly,
quarterly, half-yearly and annual basis,
providing visibility on Malaysia and Singapore,
as well as across the Carlsberg Group, on our
journey towards the TTZ goals.
We are proud that our efforts are being
recognised. In August 2021, Morgan Stanley
Capital International (MSCI) upgraded our ESG
ratings from “A” to “AA”.
The Group has been a constituent of the
FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia (F4GBM)
Index since 2019 following Bursa Malaysia's
biannual review concluded that year. Being
included among leading Malaysian public
listed companies is testament to our class-
leading commitments to responsible business
practices and our comprehensive disclosures
on environmental, social and governance (ESG)
impacts. To date, we are the only brewer among
the fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG)
organisations that are constituents of the
F4GBM Index.
We are grateful for the confidence placed in
us by the investment community and we will
continue to lead our business management
and operations with sound governance and
sustainability practices.
OUR APPROACH
TOGETHER
TOWARDS
ZERO
The Carlsberg Malaysia Group supports the UN Sustainable Development Goals and WFA’s Planet
Pledge; and is a corporate friend of Climate Governance Malaysia and a participant of the UN
Global Compact Network Malaysia & Brunei.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
41
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
DASHBOARD
ENVIRONMENTAL
NATURAL
SOCIAL
HUMAN, SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP
INDICES
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL,
MANUFACTURED,
INTELLECTUAL
2021 focus:
• Anti-bribery &
corruption
• Competition
compliance
• Trade sanctions
• Data protection
Milestones:
• 100% completion
of mandatory
e-learning in every
quarter of 2021.
• Zero cases reported
of breaches of ABC,
competition, trade
sanctions and data
protection.
Rating: Upgraded
to AA from A in the
August 2021 review.
Remained as one of
80 constituents of
FTSE4Good Bursa
Malaysia Index.
ZERO
WATER
WASTE
Total Water Usage
4.0 hl/hl
Target 4.1 (-4%)
ZERO
ACCIDENTS
CULTURE
Lost-Time-
Accidents
0
Target 0
(1.139 LTA free days
on 22/2/2022)
11
Target 0
(15 in 2020)
Traffic
Accidents
√
Awareness on COVID-19 related
H&S & workplace safety.
Life-Saving
Rules Commitment
ZERO
IRRESPONSIBLE
DRINKING
Drink Driving
Accidents
PRIMARY PACKAGING
0 √
Target 0
(Nil since 2019)
Nutrimalt in Malaysia; Carlsberg
Alcohol Free Pilsner and Carlsberg
Alcohol Free Wheat in Singapore.
1,566
subsidised e-hailing
rides redeemed
vs 1,500 rides in 2020.
#Celebrate
Responsibly campaign
Availability of
Alcohol-Free Brew
10%
Age Restriction
100%
of our products in
Malaysia carry legal
purchasing age symbol.
of our products in
Malaysia and Singapore
declare nutrition info.
100%
compliance by
Malaysia and Singapore
operations.
Responsible Consumption Nutrition Info
Communities
RM3.6 million
• RM2 million in Food & Education aid.
• RM1.6 million in Safer School
donations.
People
99.8%
• employees & contractors inoculated.
• 627 direct employment vs 638
in 2020.
ZERO
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
Thermal
19.8
kWh/hl
Target 19.8
(+0%)
10.6
kWh/hl
Target 9.15
(+16%)
Electricity
-8.3% (2019 vs. 2015)
Target -15%
by 2022 vs. 2015
Beer-in-Hand
Carbon Footprint
10.4 kg CO
2
/hl
Target 9.93 (+5%)
Carbon Emissions
ESG Rating history shows five most recent
rating actions
AAA
AA
A
BBB
BB
B
CCC
Dec-17 Dec-18 Nov-19 Jul-20 Aug-21
BBB BBB BBB
A
AA
Our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) commitment encompasses our ambitious sustainability programme Together Towards ZERO (TTZ), which guides us in delivering our operations,
commercial and social sustainability priorities, tackling global challenges such as climate change and developing more sustainable products and healthier choices. Beyond the TTZ, we look to
empower our employees and the communities around us while remaining committed to strong corporate governance.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
42
ZERO
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
PHYSICAL IMPACTS OF
CLIMATE CHANGE
The effects of climate change are
taking place in every part of the world,
affecting the environment, people and
economy. Global warming, which is
caused by heat-trapping greenhouse
gases (GHG) due to human activities,
impacts economic growth through
extreme weather events such as
frequent and intense droughts, storms
and rising sea levels.
Carlsberg Group is committed to
contributing towards the Paris
Agreement goal to limit global
warming to 1.5°C by setting
ambitious global targets that have
been approved by the Science Based
Targets initiative (SBTi) in 2017.
Carlsberg Group is set to achieve
ZERO carbon brewing by 2030 and is
making progress globally against its
2022 targets to cut carbon emissions
by half, to use renewable energy
and to eliminate the use of coal.
Removing carbon from the source of
the production of beer will cut beer-
in-hand emissions, which is the value
chain footprint from raw material
to the end-product that consumers
enjoy, as much as 30% by 2030 from
2015 levels.
At Carlsberg Malaysia, we are
committed to playing our part as
a responsible corporate citizen to
reduce our carbon footprint and
contribute to a low-carbon future.
We are committed to annual targets
based on Carlsberg Group’s ultimate
ambition of ZERO carbon emissions
at our brewery in Shah Alam and
the 2022 global targets. Our Supply
Chain Director, Management Team
and functional heads are responsible
for the implementation of our carbon
emissions reduction road map. We
are also guided by Carlsberg Group’s
Environmental Policy and Carlsberg
Group’s participation in the Task
Force for Climate-related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD) as well as the
Intergovernmental Panel on Climate
Change (IPCC).
2022 GLOBAL TARGETS
CARLSBERG MALAYSIA’S PROGRESS AGAINST THE
2022 GLOBAL TARGETS
50% reduction in carbon emissions at
our breweries
13.4% reduction in carbon emissions since 2015
100% electricity from renewable
sources at our breweries
Our electricity supply is from Malaysia's national utility company, Tenaga
Nasional Berhad. We are exploring options for renewable energy, such as
hydropower and solar energy.
Zero coal at our breweries Not applicable as we use natural gas instead of coal.
30% reduction in beer-in-hand carbon
footprint
-8.4% (2019 vs. 2015)
* No beer-in-hand studies were conducted in Malaysia in 2020 and 2021
Zero low-climate-impact cooling ZERO target achieved
Our buildings use environmentally friendly refrigerant R410. Our market
only buys new coolers/draught equipment that use natural refrigerants (no
HFCs with high global warming potential or ozone-depleting potential),
energy-efficient technology (lower energy consumption than previous
cooling equipment) and are installed with LED lighting.
ENVIRONMENT
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
43
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
BEER-IN-HAND CARBON EMISSIONS
The Carlsberg Group conducted a study on
beer-in-hand emissions and released market-
specific findings for ZERO Carbon Footprint
in 2020. The findings in 2019 against the
baseline of 2015 showed that Malaysia’s
beer-in-hand carbon footprint was higher
compared to Carlsberg Group’s beer-in-hand
emissions. However, the reduction, compared
to 2015, was 8.3%, an improvement of 1.3%
over Carlsberg Group’s average, albeit from
a higher base. The beer-in-hand studies
that we conduct are market-specific and
are performed periodically. No beer-in-hand
studies were conducted in Malaysia in 2021.
56.4
kg CO
2
e/HL
22%
3%
13%
41%
12%
9%
38%
20%
3%
16%
13%
10%
60.8
kg CO
2
e/HL
-7%
2015* 2019
CARLSBERG’S GLOBAL BEER-IN-HAND FOOTPRINT
(absolute emissions 2015: 7.1 million tonnes of CO
2
e)
MALAYSIA’S BEER-IN-HAND FOOTPRINT
(absolute emissions 2015: 0.13 million tonnes; 1.9% of total CO
2
e)
102.0
kg CO
2
e/HL
19%
3%
15%
45%
6%
11%
93.5
kg CO
2
e/HL
20%
3%
14%
48%
6%
10%
-8.3%
2015* 2019
Agriculture Malting
Breweries Packaging Cooling
Transportation & Distribution *updated baseline
The proportion of greenhouse gas emissions relating to each stage in the life cycle of our products:
AGRICULTURE & PROCESSING
Cultivation of ingredients such as
barley and rice, and processing of
grains, including malting
TRANSPORTATION
& DISTRIBUTION
Inbound transport of raw
materials and outbound
distribution of our
finished products from
our breweries and depots
COOLING
The chilling of our
drinks in bars and shops,
including refrigerants;
home cooling not included
2019 Malaysia
Upstream impacts are relative to production volumes (and location) Downstream values are relative to sales volumes (and location)
23% 14% 48% 6% 10%
BREWERIES
Brewing and manufacturing
of our products, including
refrigerants
PACKAGING
Production and disposal of all
packaging materials
ENVIRONMENT
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
44
AIR QUALITY & GREENHOUSE GAS (GHG)
EMISSIONS
Guided by Carlsberg Group’s global goals, we
have set out our own climate targets to reduce
carbon emissions. However, due to disruptions
caused by the COVID-19 pandemic, we revised
our 2022 targets slightly to account for factors
such as uncertainty surrounding production
planning, volatile operational environment and
costs and a changing production mix.
By 2022, we aim to:
• Achieve total energy usage of 28.6 kilowatt
hours per hectolitre (kWh/hl).
• Reduce carbon emissions to 3.4 kg CO
2
/hl.
• Achieve 5% reduction in thermal and
electricity usage year-on-year.
• Achieve 15% reduction in beer-in-hand
carbon footprint, with a target of 2% year-
on-year versus the 2015 restated benchmark.
The reduction of carbon emissions to 3.4 kg
CO
2
/hl can be achieved by reducing thermal
and electricity usage by 5%, while sourcing for
renewable energy sources. Based on our carbon
emissions and energy usage performance in
2021, we are on track to achieve our targets.
This year, we are disclosing our carbon emissions
according to Scope 1 and Scope 2 to enable us
to better track our carbon emissions towards
achieving our climate targets.
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
In the year under review, our
efficiencies were affected by the
2.5-month suspension of operations
at the brewery due to the lockdown.
However, our energy consumption
remained the same despite no output
during this period, resulting in the
same amount of carbon emitted as
the previous year. This was due to the
fact that we needed to keep our raw
ingredients in storage cool, as well
as ensure that semi-finished goods
in tanks were always kept in optimal
condition.
Our electricity usage increased
slightly in 2021, mainly due to the
lockdown periods. Although there
was no production activity, our base
electricity consumption remained
unchanged as the energy centre,
mainly the Cooling Plant and
Compressed Air system, was still in
operation to keep fermenter and beer
storage temperature low. However,
we continued with our initiatives such
as the cold insulation project and the
replacement of condenser coils and
optimisation of condenser discharge
pressure for the cooling plant.
TOTAL
CARBON EMISSIONS
(kg CO
2
/hl)
10.0
10.1
2020
2019 2021
10.4
SCOPE 1:
Direct carbon emissions from
sources that are owned or
controlled by Carlsberg Malaysia.
Carbon emissions from natural gas
(kg CO
2
/hl)
2020
2019 2021
3.4
3.5 3.4
SCOPE 2:
Indirect GHG emissions from
purchased electricity.
Carbon emissions from
purchased electricity
(kg CO
2
/hl)
2020
2019 2021
6.6
6.5
7.0
Electricity
(kWh/hl)
10.2
10.0
2020
2019 2021
10.6
17.2
4.3
17.0
3.8
17.0
2.8
2020
2019 2021
19.8
20.8
21.5
Thermal Energy
(kWh/hl)
Biogas
Natural Gas
ENERGY MANAGEMENT
ENVIRONMENT
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
45
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
WHAT WE MEAN BY
ZERO CARBON
FOOTPRINT
BREWERY EMISSIONS
Our brewery emissions include our
Scope 1 direct emissions and Scope 2
indirect emissions (for example, from
purchased electricity). They exclude
in-house logistics and distribution
operations, which are included in our
beer-in-hand target. By 2030, we aim
to eliminate carbon emissions from our
brewery. As an interim target, we aim to
halve emissions per hectolitre (hundred
litres or hl) of production from our
brewery between 2015 and 2022.
BEER-IN-HAND EMISSIONS: We aim
to reduce our value chain (beer-in-hand)
emissions per hl of beer produced by 15%
by 2022 and 30% by 2030, from a 2015
baseline. These targets include Scope 1
and 2 emissions from brewing, packaging,
distributing and chilling our products, as
well as handling used packaging.
Besides spent grains, this bioconversion process
also utilises kieselguhr and waste yeast from our
operations to cultivate black soldier flies. The
larvae of black soldier flies are then processed
into two main ingredients, insect meal and insect
oil, which are a source of protein for animal feed.
These insect proteins can be used to feed pets
and farm animals, in particular fish, poultry and
swine, and also as a substitute for fish meal.
PRODUCT DESIGN &
LIFE CYCLE MANAGEMENT
The iconic Carlsberg glass bottles are not only
designed to provide consumers with a better beer
experience but also to minimise environmental
impact. First introduced in 2019, Carlsberg
Malaysia was the first Carlsberg market in the
world to pioneer the use of a new wax emulsion
coating on its refillable glass bottles that helps
to double its lifespan. The coating reduces
scuffing, which extends the bottles’ longevity,
allowing them to look new and scratch-free for
longer and reducing the need for bottles to be
taken out of circulation for recycling.
Carlsberg is going greener by switching to Cradle
to Cradle Certified™ silver ink on its bottle labels,
which is produced using renewable energy. The
ink helps improve the recyclability of packaging.
In 2021, we implemented several energy-
optimisation initiatives to reduce total thermal
energy usage. This included optimising the water
usage in our bottle washer and pasteuriser,
which reduces the energy required for heating.
We also rolled out an insulation implementation
project for hot water piping and tanks, and
installed energy meters for better monitoring of
heat usage and improved distribution.
WASTE MANAGEMENT
A large portion of our production waste
comprises spent grains, kieselguhr and waste
yeast. We continuously reduce our production
waste, with 746 tonnes sent to the landfill in
2021. This was a significant drop from 4,897
tonnes in 2019 and 1,327 tonnes in 2020.
In 2021, we sent 12,644 tonnes of spent grains
to three contractors, compared to 18,787 tonnes
and 15,191 tonnes in 2019 and 2020 respectively.
Two of contractors use the spent grains as cattle
feed while another applies a bioconversion
process that transforms the spent materials into
a protein component for livestock feed.
ENVIRONMENT
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
46
TASK FORCE ON CLIMATE-RELATED FINANCIAL DISCLOSURES (TCFD) REPORTING RECOMMENDATIONS
Climate change is real and is happening fast. The extreme weather events taking place across the region
are impacting our operations and markets. Most recently, we witnessed first-hand the negative effects
of climate change when Malaysia was affected by one of the worst floods in decades in December 2021,
causing damage to property and even loss of lives.
At Carlsberg Malaysia Group, we are guided by our TTZ approach to reduce our carbon footprint and
contribute to the Paris Agreement on Climate Change to limit global average temperature rise to 1.5°C.
To further reflect our commitment towards climate change, we stepped up our disclosures this year by
aligning our ESG impacts with the TCFD reporting recommendations.
RECOMMENDATION OUR DISCLOSURE IN BRIEF REFERENCE
Governance
Disclose the organisation’s governance
around climate-related risks and
opportunities
At Carlsberg Group Malaysia, our sustainability governance is led by our Managing Director and overseen by the Group’s Board of
Directors, who are supported by Corporate Affairs & Sustainability Director and ESG Owners. The Board is responsible for demonstrating
leadership and integrating TTZ into our operations, ensuring progress towards our TTZ targets. Sustainability matters, including
climate-related risks, are discussed and reviewed during Board meetings.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement,
pages 90 to 101
Strategy
Disclose the actual and potential impacts of
climate-related risks and opportunities on
the organisation’s businesses, strategy and
financial planning, where such information
is material
Our sustainability efforts are premised on our transformative TTZ sustainability programme, which sets out our ambitions for ZERO
carbon footprint, ZERO water waste, ZERO irresponsible drinking and a ZERO accidents culture by 2030. The TTZ focus areas and
targets are based on a sustainability materiality assessment, which was conducted at the global level in 2020, ensuring we focus on the
sustainability risks and opportunities that are most relevant to our stakeholders, including those related to climate change and water.
The TTZ is an integral part of our SAIL ’22 strategy, and we are well on our way to achieving our interim targets by 2022 as we reach
the fourth year of our TTZ journey.
Together Towards
ZERO from pages
39 to 55
Risks
Disclose how the organisation identifies,
assesses and manages climate-related risks
Climate-related risks and opportunities are identified and reviewed by the Board. Climate Change and Energy & Carbon have been
identified as the most important sustainability issues for our organisation and stakeholders in the Carlsberg Group’s materiality
assessment. The assessment is a method we use to identify the risks, opportunities and impacts of the ESG issues that matter to us and
our stakeholders. Although the issues were identified at the global level, they are relevant to Carlsberg Malaysia Group and have been
adopted locally.
Carlsberg Group also updated its analysis of its beer-in-hand value chain footprint in 2020 to measure its progress from the 2015
baseline and identify areas where efforts to reduce emissions and mitigate risks would be required. The study also included Carlsberg
Malaysia Group.
In addition, Carlsberg Group conducted a water risk assessment of two key commodities, rice and barley, and used WWF’s Water Risk
Filter to identify the breweries that were in areas of high-water risk. Locally, the Group upgraded its water treatment plant, which helped
to reduce water consumption, and ensured that the effluent it discharged into nearby rivers was within regulations.
Zero Carbon Footprint
from pages 42 to 45
Zero Water Waste
from pages 47 to 48
Determining Our
Material Issues from
pages 71 to 78
Metrics and targets
Disclose the metrics and targets used
to assess and manage relevant
climate-related risks and opportunities,
where such information is material
The Group discloses its yearly ESG performance within the Annual Report. The sustainability report includes the Group’s approach,
progress against the TTZ targets for 2022 and 2030, key performance indicators and actions to support the UN Sustainable Development
Goals and the UN Global Compact.
The year under review saw the Group disclosing its three-year GHG emissions performance according to Scope 1 and 2 to better track its
carbon emissions towards achieving its climate targets. The Group also disclosed three-year water performance data.
Zero Carbon Footprint
from pages 42 to 45
ENVIRONMENT
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
47
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
ZERO
WATER
WASTE
2022 GLOBAL TARGETS
CARLSBERG MALAYSIA’S PROGRESS AGAINST THE
2022 GLOBAL TARGETS
25% reduction in water usage at our
breweries
Explore going below 2.0 hl/hl at all
high-risk breweries
21% reduction since 2015
ECOLOGICAL IMPACTS
The Carlsberg Group is committed to
eliminating water waste from brewing
through world-class efficiency and
safeguarding shared water resources
in high-risk areas.
Although Malaysia is not identified
as a high-risk market, we continue
to aim for a water waste reduction
of 30% by 2022 (3.4 hectolitres per
hectolitre produced [hl/hl]), far more
than the 25% target for 2022, and are
in progress to achieve the targeted
reduction of 50% by 2030.
Water is a very important resource
in our business. Needless to say,
without water, there will be no beer.
As such, we acknowledge that water
is a natural resource that will be
impacted by climate change. Water
stress is expected to intensify in
the near future due to urbanisation
and the physical impacts of climate
change. By 2040, 33 countries will
face extremely high water stress,
according to the World Resources
Institute.
Water is crucial to all manufacturing
plants, and even more important
to beverage producers. Poor water
management can lead to serious
implications such as disruptions
in production and the supply
chain, eventually impacting our
business revenue. For example, the
devastating floods in December
2021 greatly impacted economic
activities and reduced the economic
sector’s production by RM4 billion
to RM8 billion. As such, we employ
an integrated approach that includes
efficiency measures, the safe return
of wastewater from our operations
and mitigating risk in the supply.
We are guided by the Carlsberg
Group’s Environmental Policy.
We are in compliance with the
Environmental Quality (Industrial
Effluents) Regulations 2009. In 2021,
there was zero non-compliance with
environmental laws and regulations.
In 2021, we achieved a
significant improvement
in our total water
consumption due to
the completion of the
upgrading of our
water treatment plant
We reduced water
consumption by
0.8 hl
water per hl beer
ENVIRONMENT
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
48
WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT
We source our water from tube wells and
groundwater, as well as from municipal water.
To extract groundwater, we apply for an annual
licence from Lembaga Urus Air Selangor (LUAS)
and we are billed for each cubic metre extracted.
LUAS frequently monitors groundwater
extractions to mitigate any negative impact on
the environment.
Our water-saving initiatives are focused on
optimising usage and reducing waste by
improving our reverse osmosis operations
through the recycling and reuse of filtered water
discharge and backwash processes in progress
at our water treatment plant.
In 2021, we achieved a significant improvement
in our total water consumption due to the
completion of the upgrading of our water
treatment plant. Although the RM1.7 million
upgrade was fully operational only in October
2021, the initiative has helped to reduce water
loss by 13%. Through the water treatment
process (filtration, reverse osmosis), there is
about 20% of wastage in the form of sludge.
With our upgraded system, we can reduce the
20% wastage by as much as 70%.
With the water treatment plant upgraded, we
expect to see a continuous reduction in water
wastage in 2022. To date, we are reducing
water consumption by 0.8 hl water per hl beer.
This equates to equivalent to 46 Olympic-sized
swimming pools.
CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD) IN WASTEWATER AFTER TREATMENT
Due to the nature of our business, our operations may cause negative impacts on our water sources
if there is no proper water management. Hence, we constantly strive to minimise our water impact
throughout the production cycle of our products, from water withdrawal to water discharge. We are
committed to protecting the precious natural waterways where we operate by minimising the impact
of effluent discharged.
We discharge our wastewater into rivers that are near our operations. We comply with the local
rules and regulations and ensure that our effluent discharge is within the permissible limit of
80 mg/L. This is well below Standard B (200 mg/L) of the Environmental Quality (Sewage)
Regulations 2009, which is the standard the Department of Environment expects us to adhere to as
a food & beverage manufacturer.
We have in place several measures to curb the COD levels and they include maintaining reactor
efficiency and implementing aerobic stage improvements such as replacing conventional surface
aerators with diffuser-type aerators to improve efficiency. In 2021, our COD in wastewater after
treatment decreased to 0.015 kg/hl from 0.022 kg/hl the preceding year.
WATER USAGE
(hl/hl)
CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND
(COD) IN WASTEWATER
AFTER TREATMENT
(kg/hl)
2020 2021
2019
4.8
4.0
4.9
0.022
2020
0.019
2019 2021
0.015
WHAT WE MEAN BY
ZERO WATER WASTE
We work to reduce the amount of water
used to produce every hectolitre (hundred
litres or hl) of our beer and beverages.
All brewery operations are covered,
including on-site offices, production and
warehousing.
ENVIRONMENT
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
49
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
ZERO
IRRESPONSIBLE
DRINKING
RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION, SALES & MARKETING
Our commitment to ZERO irresponsible drinking
reflects who we are as a brewer, underpins our
efforts to collaborate with partners and enables
us to support consumers in making informed
and healthy choices.
We believe that every occasion should be
celebrated with probably the best brews in
moderation and responsibly. We advocate
responsible consumption, sales and marketing
of our brews, in support of the World Health
Organisation’s (WHO) objective of reducing
the harmful use of alcohol. This objective also
lines up with the United Nation’s Sustainable
Development Goal 3: Ensuring Healthy Lives
and Promoting Well-Being for All Ages.
We recognise that increasingly more consumers
in Malaysia and Singapore are embracing
healthy, balanced lifestyles and this trend
was accelerated during the pandemic. Beer
is relatively low in alcohol compared with
alternatives such as wine and spirits, and we are
pleased to see more consumers opting for our
alcohol-free brews in Singapore and a growing
interest in the category in Malaysia.
To cultivate and instil the practice of drinking
responsibly and in moderation, we have set
goals for ZERO Irresponsible Drinking. For
many years, we have dedicated ourselves to
the craft of brewing the finest beers, stouts and
ciders with the utmost care, pride and quality.
We want to share with our consumers the
exemplary taste, quality and natural ingredients
used in our products, not the intoxicating effects
and negative consequences of drinking alcohol
excessively.
In 2021, we continued to invest in our priorities to
mitigate irresponsible drinking as the COVID-19
pandemic changed some occasions and
behaviours of alcohol consumption. Although
COVID-19 restrictions hindered the scale of our
annual consumer-facing #CelebrateResponsibly
campaigns, we stepped up our efforts in tackling
the challenges in promoting responsible sales
and marketing through the implementation of
rigorous global alcohol marketing standards in
online sales (e-commerce) and advertising by
influencers set out by the International Alliance
for Responsible Drinking (IARD) and the World
Federation of Advertisers’ (WFA) Planet Pledge.
IARD’s marketing standards
Two new global standards in governing
online sales (e-commerce) and advertising
by influencers were launched by IARD, of
which Carlsberg Group is a member. Acting in
compliance with the standards, we, together
with our partners, are committed to adopting
five key safeguards in:
• Improving measures to prevent minors from
buying alcohol online;
• Putting in place mechanisms to prevent
alcohol delivery to minors;
• Giving drivers tools to empower them to
deny delivery to consumers;
• Enhancing consumer information and
control; and
• Promoting these standards to support the
development of local codes and practices.
We also implemented the necessary measures
to prevent minors from seeing alcohol
advertising by influencers online. Together
with our media agencies, we carefully screen
the influencers we employ and use age-
affirmation technology on platforms, where
available. Specific safeguards will ensure that
alcohol-related content involving influencers is
responsibly advertised and clearly aimed at an
audience over the legal purchasing age.
WFA’s Planet Pledge
In September, the Carlsberg Group signed the
WFA’s Planet Pledge, which aims to galvanise
global marketers' actions to encourage their
consumers to change their behaviours to be
more climate-friendly in support of the UN
SDGs. Aligning with this shared ambition, we
are committed to engaging with consumers in
four key areas:
• Commit to support the global UN Race to
Zero campaign;
• Scale the capability of marketing
organisations to lead for climate action;
• Harness the power of marketing
communications to drive more sustainable
consumer behaviours; and
• Reinforce a trustworthy marketing
environment, where sustainability claims can
be easily substantiated.
SOCIAL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
50
SOCIAL
Our objective of achieving ZERO Irresponsible Drinking consists of enabling, informing, educating
and encouraging consumers to make responsible choices. We set out practices and programmes to
educate our consumers on the practice of drinking in moderation, encouraging our consumers to
inculcate healthy behaviours and habits even before the first sip.
In Malaysia, the government enforced a
health statement label, “MEMINUM ARAK
BOLEH MEMBAHAYAKAN KESIHATAN”
(“CONSUMING ALCOHOL MAY ENDANGER
YOUR HEALTH”). The legal purchasing age of
21 and above symbol is visible on all our product
packaging.
It is also gratifying to see that our partners in
the industry and retailers are complying with
the alcohol restrictions enforced by the
government, especially with regards to the legal
purchasing age since it was implemented on
1 December 2017.
REACHING THE RIGHT PEOPLE
WITH OUR MARKETING
We maintain strict controls to ensure our
marketing maintains high ethical standards and
is not seen by minors. We follow the IARD’s
Digital Guiding Principles in how we market our
brews on online platforms and social media, and
track compliance through a robust centralised
system.
In 2021, we improved our compliance with
these principles across Malaysia and Singapore,
even as we extended our scope to more social
media channels. In Malaysia, we went a step
further by implementing an age-gate to prevent
individuals below the age of 21, and Muslims,
from accessing our consumer promotions,
marketing activities, on-ground events, websites
and social media sites.
In the few cases where we find problems, we
work with local media agencies and content
publishers to fix them quickly. In working with
the media, we always seek constructive and
fact-based dialogue with the journalists, and
value an open discussion on detailed subjects to
ensure that our approach and communications
are well understood and accurately reflected.
Last year, we also rolled out training to
relevant employees on our updated Marketing
Communication Policy. This policy tightens
control on our advertising, promotions and
communications with a focus on designing all
content to appeal to, and reach, adult audiences
only.
Signed the WFA’s Planet Pledge,
which aims to encourage our
consumers to change their
behaviours to be more
climate-friendly
Launched global alcohol
marketing standards
for influencers and
e-commerce platforms
through the International
Alliance for Responsible
Drinking (IARD)
Our product labels in
Malaysia show a symbol of
legal purchasing age of 21
and above
Our markets offer best-in-
class alcohol-free brews
(AFBs) as more people
embrace healthy lifestyles
and enjoy alcohol in
moderation
21+
INFORMING AND EMPOWERING CONSUMERS
People make their own choices about how they enjoy our products. We provide the information they
need to make responsible decisions.
Our product labels contain clear information on ingredients, while nutritional content is detailed on
some of our products. Our labels also include an icon warning consumers not to drink while driving,
the #CelebrateResponsibly tagline and state alcohol content by volume (ABV), in alignment with
our global pledge to the IARD.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
51
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
SOCIAL
We encourage positive drinking behaviour and
cultures everywhere we sell beer.
In our bid to promote responsible consumption
via the #CelebrateResponsibly campaign, we
have partnerships with relevant stakeholders for
targeted interventions, be they at point-of-sale,
during consumption or across all our marketing
communications. Our stakeholders are made
aware that we are taking measures to eradicate
drink-driving and underage drinking as we fully
support the local government’s efforts to reduce
their prevalence.
#CelebrateResponsibly –
If you drink, don’t drive!
#CelebrateResponsibly is our Malaysian
operations’ annual campaign, advocating
responsible consumption in conjunction with
Global Be(er) Responsible Day (GBRD).
In 2021, the campaign continued for its seventh
consecutive year as our nationwide initiative to
encourage the responsible enjoyment of beer.
Based on its singular, straightforward call to
action of “If you drink, don't drive!”, last year’s
campaign was launched in tandem with the
reopening of economic and social activities amid
the COVID-19 pandemic as we also encouraged
dine-in consumption and drove footfall to food
and beverage (F&B) outlets.
The campaign ran from 13 November 2021 to
2 January 2022, opportune time as it coincided
with year-end festivities such as Christmas and
New Year’s celebrations – festive events that are
commonly celebrated with alcohol. In addition,
increasing numbers of road users were seen on
the interstate roads during these festive events
as travelling restrictions were relaxed.
Through our campaign, consumers were advised
to plan ahead before a night out drinking to
avoid drinking and driving and to opt for safer
alternatives like e-hailing, chauffeur-on-call
services and designated drivers. For consumers,
one incentive for behavioural change regarding
drinking and driving is the availability of
subsidised and discounted rides.
With this in mind, we continued our partnerships
with e-hailing providers such as Grab, Riding
Pink and airasia ride – not forgetting chauffeur-
on-call service providers Lailah and Buddy
Driver. By simply using the promotional code
CELEBRATERESPONSIBLY, 1,566 discounted
rides were redeemed throughout the 1.5-month-
long campaign, in collaboration with over 3,000
Carlsberg Malaysia-affiliated bars, bistros and
restaurants.
Alternatively, by using the same promo code,
consumers were entitled to one hour free with
Buddy Driver on the TREVO app or 10% off on
Lailah’s chauffeur-on-call services.
Through a series of digital content and videos,
we drove awareness and education on the
consequences of driving under the influence, as
well as advocated ride-sharing and chauffeur-
on-call services. Our collaboration with media
and content creators helped us to reach more
than 1.1 million viewers digitally.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
52
OFFERING CHOICES WITH ALCOHOL-FREE BREWS
Drinking habits are changing as more people
embrace healthy lifestyles and enjoy alcohol in
moderation. With our constant pursuit of better
beer, we are well positioned to offer alcohol-free
brews (AFBs) in our markets.
In Singapore, Carlsberg Alcohol-Free Pilsner
and Carlsberg Alcohol-Free Wheat continue to
receive positive growth momentum since their
debut in 2020. These two variants cater to
WHAT WE MEAN BY
ZERO IRRESPONSIBLE
DRINKING
Tailored market-level approach: By
2030, our goal is for 100% of our markets
to improve on responsible drinking every
year. Each market will set a target and
prioritise actions based on local needs.
For example, a market may focus on
supporting a reduction in drink-driving
rates and measure progress according to
available national statistics.
Global programmes: Our 2022 targets
commit us to add responsible drinking
messages and consumer information to
all primary packaging (already achieved),
offer alcohol-free brews everywhere
we sell beer and launch partnerships
in every market to support responsible
consumption. These initiatives, together
with the implementation of our rigorous
global alcohol marketing standards,
support progress towards our 2030
target by helping all our markets tackle
irresponsible drinking.
LEADING BY EXAMPLE
Drinking responsibly is a value that we take
seriously.
It is something we not only believe in, but also
put into practice, which is critical given that
we have a corporate reputation to uphold.
We enforce a zero-tolerance policy towards
excessive alcohol consumption by all employees;
anyone caught drink-driving will be dismissed,
if proven guilty.
In Malaysia, we installed dashcams in all our
company sales vehicles as an extra control
measure to discourage reckless driving and to
keep a record of any accidents involving our
vehicles. A rear-facing camera is installed inside
the vehicle, and drivers are instructed to use the
breathalyser provided and display the results
to the camera as a record before starting the
vehicle, in case of an accident or for random
security checks.
This not only serves as proof of sobriety on the
job but also discourages drinking while driving
and keeps a record of any accidents that may
occur. To date, there have been no drink-driving
incidents reported.
different taste preferences, containing no more
than 0.5% alcohol by volume (ABV), perfect for
all occasions.
Great taste has always been a priority for
Carlsberg, and we are applying our brewing
expertise to create best-in-class alcohol-free
brews and fruit-flavoured beverages. Our
Malaysia operations will see the introduction of
a new alcohol-free variant in 2022.
SOCIAL
