Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
53
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
ZERO
ACCIDENTS
CULTURE
ANY INJURY IS ONE TOO MANY.
PROGRESS TOWARDS ZERO.
Taking care of our people and contractors is our
top priority. We follow stringent safety standards
across our operations, and our Life Saving Rules
guide us in keeping everyone safe at work, in
our breweries, warehouses and offices, on the
road and even when working from home.
We work hard to eliminate lost-time accidents
as we believe the health and safety of our
people remains a fundamental cornerstone of
our business sustainability. To achieve this, we
engage with everyone – managers, employees,
contractors and temporary workers – to play
their part by adopting safe behaviours and
encouraging others to do so.
GuidedbyourHealthandSafetyPolicy,weadopt
a vigilant mindset of safety and compliance with
all relevant rules and regulations, including the
Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994 (Act
514), Factories and Machinery Act 1967 (Act 139)
and the Fire Services Act 1988 (Act 341).
We understand that any untoward incident may
adversely impact our reputation, while impairing
the efficiency and productivity of our operations
and resulting in life-threatening safety
consequences. With that in mind, we set out
to deliver zero accidents and zero drink-driving
incidents as part of our Together Towards ZERO
sustainability ambition by empowering our
employees with the information and tools to
effectively prevent injuries and avoid accidents,
as well as by having partners to proactively
identify and report potential hazards and
provide possible solutions.
MANAGING SAFETY RISK
Our Health & Safety Policy includes our
commitment to create a robust ZERO accidents
culture as well as key elements of our approach
to managing risks, including our Life Saving
Rules, which comprise five important imperatives
that all employees, especially those within our
Supply Chain operations, are required to always
follow. Any deliberate attempt to disobey our
Life Saving Rules may result in disciplinary
action.
All relevant health and safety incidents must be
recorded. It is supported by detailed standards,
guidance and induction training for all new
employees, temporary workers and contractors,
as well as training on risks relevant to specific
roles.
To ensure compliance, our health and safety
initiatives are overseen by the Management
Team and a Safety and Health Committee of
16 members, comprising both employer and
employee representatives. To further bolster
communication and management across the
Group, we have 10 safety ambassadors located
at our sales offices across the country, charged
with coordinating safety-related activities and
issuing timely reminders to colleagues at their
locations.
In 2021, we expanded our training and safe
behaviour programmes, and reinforced our Life
Saving Rules to target the most serious risks
we identified. All our employees, temporary
workers and contractors are encouraged to
follow the Life Saving Rules at all times and
understand that failing to follow the rules will
put them in danger.
SOCIAL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
54
1,000 DAYS ZERO LOST-TIME ACCIDENTS
3,850
observations on safety risks
and unsafe behaviours made
by our employees
396
safety walks conducted
by our leaders
94%
compliance with our
Life Saving Rules
132
company drivers (56%)
completed practical road
safety training in 2021
97%
compliance with our
temporary labour
standard for seasonal
employees
Through our behaviour-based safety
programme, we encourage employees to look
out for themselves and each other by training
them to spot and report safety risks and unsafe
behaviours. We want to empower our people to
raise any safety concerns with their colleagues
and managers via peer-to-peer observations
and feedback on all aspects of safety, reinforced
through regular safety walks by site or team
leaders.
In 2021, a key initiative in this area was the
launch of a robust risk reporting framework that
empowers employees to identify the biggest
risks, propose solutions to reduce the possibility
of mishaps and plan interventions accordingly.
Last year, we also introduced quick risk
prediction training to alert employees to take
extra care during our busiest production season.
All such near-miss and safety concern reports
received last year were handled swiftly and
effectively and this reduced the possibility of
accidents or injuries before they affected our
people, operations and business sustainability.
In this regard, the Group is pleased to report
that we have once again surpassed our previous
safety record, achieving a total of 1,140 days
without lost-time accidents (LTA) and counting,
as of 23 February 2022.
KEEPING DRIVERS AND PEDESTRIANS SAFE
Traffic collisions are among the biggest safety
risks for our people, both on public roads and
at our sites. All employees and contractors who
use company vehicles, including truck drivers
and sales, distribution and marketing staff,
are required to follow our road traffic safety
standards.
At our Malaysia production site, we conducted
a full-day Practical Safe Driving Training course
for 123 sales and marketing colleagues in
Johor Bahru, Kota Kinabalu, Kuching, Penang,
Ipoh, Kuantan and Malacca. We also held two
online sessions on safe driving, which saw 100%
participation from the Sales and Marketing
team, as well as completed a Group-wide
refresher course on the Life Saving Rules.
Embedding safe behaviour is central to building a
ZERO accidents culture.
SOCIAL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
55
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
WHAT WE MEAN BY
ZERO ACCIDENTS
ACCIDENTS: We define these as
workplace accidents that result in an
injured or ill person being medically
considered unable to work for at least a
day, starting the day after the incident
and ending the day before return to
work, and including time away from
work for rest, recovery or treatment. We
report total accidents for employees and
contractors. We are aiming for ZERO lost-
time accidents by 2030.
HEALTH &
SAFETY
Scan the QR Code to view
our Return to Work Health &
Safety Guidelines
With numerous safety courses held last year
to upskill and raise awareness on road safety,
we saw a reduction in on-the-road accidents
involving our company vehicles, from 15 cases in
2020 to 11 cases in 2021.
Last year, we completed competency courses
for our forklift drivers (conducted annually) and
authorised gas tester and entry supervisors,
as well as authorised entrant and standby
supervisors. Working-at-height training for our
supply chain employees and a safety walk
programme for our Safety Committee were also
conducted with 100% participation. We also
provided first aid training to our 23 certified first
aiders, who are required to undertake refresher
courses every two years.
In addition, we introduced a new safety standard
specifically related to on-site traffic to protect
pedestrians and ensure industrial vehicles
are handled safely. This sets out mandatory
procedures relating to topics such as traffic flow,
loading and unloading, hazardous areas, vehicle
towing and emergency situations. Third-party
trucks entering our sites must pass an inspection
by a specially trained employee.
BREWERY SAFETY AND INTEGRITY
AMID LOCKDOWNS
To uphold the integrity of our production site
at all times, especially during lockdowns when
workers on-site were limited, we upskilled our
capability and undertook various monitoring
exercises, namely for chemical exposure, noise
exposure, ergonomic study and indoor air
quality monitoring.
No compliance issues were detected via these
exercises, but we did identify ways in which our
practices could be improved, such as enhanced
storage of chemicals, improved signages and
additional training courses to further enhance
safety.
Throughout the pandemic, all employees in
Malaysia and Singapore worked based on
Team A and B shifts to reduce density and risk
of infection in the office and sales offices.
Our Malaysia operations also registered for the
Ministry of International Trade and Industry’s
(MITI) Safe@Work initiative with strict
adherence to standard operating procedures
(SOPs) issued by the National Security Council
(MKN) pursuant to the Prevention and Control of
Infectious Diseases Act 1988. We also enforced
strict COVID-19 prevention measures, including
bi-weekly on-site swab tests administered by
medical officers, which was a control measure
more stringent than the SOPs stipulated. Other
on-site prevention measures centred on five key
areas – hygiene rules, hand sanitisers, social
distancing, face masks and regular disinfection
of shared surfaces.
REPORTING AND COMPLIANCE
All reports of accidents are taken seriously and
follow a stringent procedure that ensures the
root cause is identified and corrective measures
are taken to reduce such future incidents.
Importantly, we also monitor the effectiveness
of our corrective actions and make adjustments
where necessary.
If an accident occurs, the Head of Department
(HOD) and OSH committee are charged with
classifying the severity of the accident. If there
is a fatality, a report will be sent to DOSH and
the Carlsberg Group, while minor accidents only
require a report to be filed by the HOD.
Following our ISO 45001:2018 certification in
2020, we completed the ISO 45001 Surveillance
Audit in 2021 without any non-compliances.
Meanwhile, we once again exceeded
expectations in the Health & Safety Compliance
audit conducted by our global team. We
achieved a score of 95%, which was higher
than our score of 93% the previous year, and
comfortably above the Group’s 90% compliance
rate expectation.
For our Behaviour Observation Programme,
we achieved a participation rate of more than
90%, as well as a more than 90% closure rate
on findings, with more than 30% of reported
concerns being behaviour-related.
SOCIAL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
56
RESPONSIBLE
BUSINESS
Doing business responsibly is
fundamental to our Purpose of Brewing
for a Better Today and Tomorrow
5.1 & 5c 8.1, 8.7 & 8.8
10.2 & 10.3 16.5
Carlsberg was founded almost 175 years ago
with a strong sense of social responsibility that
has driven our actions ever since. Today, our
commitment to responsible business underpins
the success of our financial, people and portfolio
brand health, which are all aligned with our ESG
priorities.
For our operations in Malaysia and Singapore,
this means contributing to the economies we are
part of, acting with integrity, investing in human
capital, embracing diversity and inclusion, giving
back to communities, sourcing responsibly and
ensuring product safety.
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
56
61,000
627 people
100%
65%
17,190 hours
indirect jobs in
Malaysia pre-
pandemic based on
industry estimate.
employed as of 31 Dec
2021 (554 in Malaysia,
73 in Singapore) (638
people on 31 Dec 2020)
of our top 14
leaders have
completed training
on unconscious bias
in the workplace.
Updated, published and
rolled out training on
our refreshed Code of
Ethics & Conduct and
Human Rights Policy.
of our people
are satisfied with
Carlsberg as a
place to work in
Malaysia and
Singapore.
of training provided to
employees in 2021.
SOCIAL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
57
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS
The Group currently operates 15 sales offices
across Peninsular Malaysia, Sabah and
Sarawak, on top of our Singapore operations
based in Zhongshan Park.
Our economic contribution is twofold. Our
operations create value for the local workforce
through employment opportunities while also
contributing to the national economies of
Malaysia and Singapore via direct and indirect
taxes, excise duties and support of the local
food and beverage industry.
In Malaysia, the Confederation of Malaysian
Brewers Berhad (CMBB) – of which our
Malaysia operations is a founding member,
– estimated in pre-pandemic year 2019 that
the brewing industry supported 61,000 people
in direct or indirect employment with taxes,
salaries and profits contributing significantly
to nation-building. Similarly in Singapore, the
brewing industry has created jobs throughout
the whole F&B value chain.
Excise duties
RM843.5 million
paid on our products brewed and sold in both
Malaysia and Singapore
-6% in 2021 vs 2020
Corporate taxes
RM63.3 million
in the form of corporate taxes with RM54.6 million
for Malaysia and RM8.7 million for Singapore
+18% in 2021 vs 2020
Indirect taxes
RM79.2 million
in SST and GST paid/collected
on behalf of the Malaysia and
Singapore governments
-12% in 2021 vs 2020
Like many industries reliant on consumer
sentiment and demand, these contributions
were heavily impacted by the advent of
COVID-19 and the concurrent national
lockdowns and social distancing measures
introduced to curb the spread of the pandemic
in 2021.
We also applaud the Malaysian and Singapore
governments for not raising excise duties on beer
for year 2022 as both countries’ excise for beer
rank second-highest in the world, behind only
Norway. We also note that Malaysia’s gross
domestic product (GDP) per capita remains
one-seventh that of Norway and a sixth of
Singapore, yet excise duties on beer remain on
par with these wealthy nations.
Nonetheless, through our Malaysian and
Singaporean operations, we remain vigorous
contributors to UN SDG 8 targets by supporting
economic prosperity, higher productivity and
innovation by providing decent work and
economic growth in the markets we operate in.
SOCIAL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
58
PEOPLE, DIVERSITY
AND INCLUSION
In progressing our role as
a responsible business,
we place great emphasis
on safeguarding our
people, the development
of our talent and the
provision of support to
the communities in which
we operate.
Under our “Healthy, Thriving Organisation”
pillar, we focus on upskilling employees and
building their management skills, leading with
care to nurture employee well-being and overall
organisational health and building a culture of
diversity and inclusion.
Our third pillar of “Developing Our People” is a
strategic “Know, Grow, Flow” approach to talent
management that empowers us to unleash
the potential of our employees and emphasise
internal promotion, thus providing our people
with valuable career progression opportunities
across the organisation.
At Carlsberg Malaysia Group, we recognise
and acknowledge that our people are the
backbone of our success. We therefore leverage
a robust framework of policies, best practices
and guidelines to enable us to cultivate a high-
performance workforce that remains motivated
and works collectively towards a shared vision.
At an overarching level, we are guided by
three fundamental pillars that empower us to
“Deliver Today” and “Take Care of Tomorrow”
– objectives that are closely aligned with our
central purpose of “Brewing for a Better Today
and Tomorrow”.
The first pillar, which is to “Drive High
Performance”, helps us inspire our employees
to consistently deliver their best every day. To
this end, we emphasise setting clear objectives
and KPIs and establishing continuous dialogue
to review performance and gain feedback, as
well as providing a supportive and flexible
working environment that values and rewards
accomplishments and dedication.
The next two pillars are designed to ensure the
long-term sustainability of our human capital
so that we remain prepared to take on future
challenges.
Through this comprehensive and holistic
approach to nurturing our people, we have been
able to successfully attract and retain the best
talent to achieve the Group's business objectives,
while at the same time effectively safeguarding
and supporting them through the uncertainties
posed by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Our commitment to Leading With Care has
resulted in better MyVoice scores, with Carlsberg
Malaysia recording 77% in our employee
engagement survey in 2021. This survey is
conducted every two years, with Carlsberg
Malaysia recording 75% and 70% in 2019 and
2017, respectively. Carlsberg Singapore scored
54% in 2021 and we will continue to implement
our people leadership framework to drive
improvement.
OUR PEOPLE LEADERSHIP FRAMEWORK
DELIVER TODAY TAKE CARE OF TOMORROW
DRIVE HIGH
PERFORMANCE
HEALTHY, THRIVING
ORGANISATION
DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE
• Setting Clear Objectives
• Holding Continuous
Dialogues
• Rewarding Performance
• Inculcating Leadership
through Alignment,
Accountability and Action
• Leading with Care
• Building a Diverse and
Inclusive Culture
• Employee Engagement
• Knowing our People
• Growing their Competencies
• Enabling the Flow of Talent
across the Organisation
SOCIAL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
59
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
LEADING WITH CARE THROUGHOUT
THE PANDEMIC
As the effects of the pandemic continued to
impact our business and our people throughout
2021, our Management Team, supported by
our Health, Safety, Security and Environment
(HSSE) and Human Resources teams, continued
to Lead With Care, safeguarding the health,
financial security and holistic well-being of our
people.
To curb the spread of the virus,
we ensured that all health and
safety SOPs and practices
were stringently adhered to
and tightened restrictions
whenever COVID-19 cases in
the community escalated. To
enable more effective social
distancing within the premises,
we grouped our employees into two
teams with separate work schedules. In
addition, we implemented mandatory swab tests
every 14 days, with 13,467 carried out in 2021,
and accelerated the vaccination of our entire
workforce and other on-site contractors under
the Selangor Vaccination Programme (SelVAX).
We closely monitored the well-being of our
on-site third-party contractors by mandating
weekly reporting, limiting hostel occupancy and
segregating transport. Consequently, we are
pleased to report that we had zero COVID-19
work clusters within our premises and recorded
no deaths due to COVID-19 during the year.
To support the financial security of our staff,
we continued to honour variable performance
bonuses for all eligible employees, while also
providing an ad hoc allowance to subsidise
employees’ additional expenses incurred during
the lockdown period. At the same time, we
afforded subsidies to employees who tested
positive for COVID-19 to assist in covering their
quarantine expenditures. In December, 73 of
our employees were affected by the floods.
To support them, we provided them with a
RM2,000 flood-relief subsidy each.
CARLSBERG MALAYSIA’S MYVOICE
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT SURVEY SCORE
2019 2021
2017
75%
77%
70%
100%
of our brewery
workforce was
fully vaccinated
by July 2021
Our comprehensive and holistic approach
towards safeguarding employee well-being
encompassed a wide variety of initiatives that
reflected our understanding of their ongoing
concerns. During the year, we significantly
bolstered the leave benefits available to our
staff, including introducing a new benefit of
family care leave for those who had sick family
members, increasing the number of days for
paternity and maternity leave and converting
existing overseas leave into annual leave in line
with travel restrictions. We also enhanced our
Flexible Work Arrangements (FWA) policy to
provide more flexibility to staff members who
had family and personal commitments.
When employees returned to the office after
11 weeks of lockdown, we organised a warm
welcome breakfast party with pre-packed
breakfast sets, freshly picked fruits and hand-
brewed coffee for employees on their first day
back. Recognising the psychological impact
of the pandemic, with issues such as anxiety,
separation from loved ones and pandemic
fatigue coming to the fore, we took the initiative
to support their mental well-being by organising
a series of mental wellness talks by clinical
psychiatrist Dr Eugene Koh.
Other initiatives implemented to prevent a
workplace outbreak included the distribution of
free face masks, the establishment of one hand
sanitiser station for every 15 employees and one
handwashing station for every 20 employees,
daily uniform washing and sanitisation and an
upgraded locker room with shower facilities.
SOCIAL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
60
These arrangements were intended to reduce
the risk of pathogen transmissions via body
surfaces and clothing, and controlled people
flow and zoning within the brewery.
Throughout the year, we maintained timely
and frequent communication and engagement
with all employees, while enhancing our virtual
working platforms to implement more efficient
and flexible processes. We are proud to report
that our efforts to Lead With Care were well
appreciated by our workforce, as evidenced by
our swift and successful resumption of brewery
operations on 16 August despite the last-minute
announcement, as well as the high marks we
received in our employee surveys. The “Leading
With Care” question received the highest
score of 91% in the MyVoice 2021 Employee
Engagement Survey, while the “Concern for
Employees” question received a score of 82.2
in our 2021 Reputation Survey, which was 16.5
points higher than in the previous year.
A PROGRESSIVE COMMITMENT TOWARDS
DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
In 2021, we further cemented our commitment
towards championing diversity, equity and
inclusion (DE&I) within our workforce, as we
believe this to be a fundamental strategy towards
achieving a healthy and thriving organisation.
The Carlsberg Group established a Diversity
& Inclusion Council to act as ambassadors for
diversity and inclusion, and to provide input to
the Executive Committee to define our approach
on this topic.
Operating with a diverse workforce has proven
to be a crucial driver of Carlsberg Malaysia
Group's ongoing success, and this was
especially important during the pandemic.
We established DE&I key measures as part
of our HR Dashboard, and conducted an
awareness campaign throughout the year. Our
broad range of ages, backgrounds, cultures and
viewpoints empowered us to think differently,
offer innovative and balanced insights and
approach problem-solving in creative new ways.
Our commitment to diversity flows from the top
down. Of the nine members of the Management
Team, who are aged between 36 and 55
years, there are four male and five female
Directors. This makes us a proud member
of the 30% Club Malaysia, a local chapter of
the global business-led campaign to promote
DE&I and gender balance within boards and
C-suites.
While five out of the nine Management Team
members are Malaysian, the four other Directors
are from Italy, France and Germany and bring
to the table a greater global perspective. At
the same time, two out of the five Malaysians
are local university graduates, a fact that
underscores our dedication to promoting equal
opportunity for all employees, regardless of
their educational backgrounds.
One of the initiatives Carlsberg Malaysia Group
has taken in this respect is the introduction of a
referral programme that incentivises employees
who refer a female candidate who is successfully
hired, a move that has seen a 16% increase in
the proportion of females hired through referrals
this year.
During the year, we also looked into enhancing
our inclusivity policies and practices to enable
employees to feel valued, accepted and
respected in a high-performance-based culture
like in Carlsberg Malaysia and Singapore.
In addition to the family-friendly leave policies
and flexible work arrangements covered earlier,
we continued to build DE&I awareness through
training and monthly learning sessions, with a
total of three to four topics related to diversity
and inclusion delivered throughout the year.
We also started a buddy system in 2021 to
help new hires acclimatise and feel welcomed,
as we recognised the potential difficulty they
may face in forming social bonds due to the
implementation of virtual onboarding and social
distancing measures. Meanwhile, we continued
our efforts to make the office inclusive for
pregnant or new moms, with dedicated car
parks and lactation rooms.
SOCIAL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
61
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
Thanks to our practice of a flat hierarchy,
encouraging honest feedback and a culture that
promotes and welcomes diversity and inclusion,
we are proud of our growing reputation as an
employer of choice within the industry. We
are also pleased to report that there were zero
reported cases of discrimination recorded during
the year.
EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT
As the Group grows and achieves its business
objectives, we want our people to similarly
advance their careers with us and achieve their
professional objectives. Such a commitment
empowers us to develop a loyal, competent
and committed workforce that will enhance the
sustainability of our business in the long term.
We thus utilise a strategic KNOW, GROW,
FLOW approach to talent management that
enables us to assess the strengths of our
talents (KNOW), develop their competencies in
alignment with their ambitions and our business
objectives (GROW), and subsequently, expand
our organisational strength and resilience
by providing these next-generation leaders
with career progression opportunities across
the Carlsberg Group, both domestically and
internationally (FLOW).
To identify and assess talent capabilities and
uncover potential successors in business-critical
roles, we undertake a structured talent review
process at both the Group-wide and functional
NUMBER OF DIRECT
EMPLOYEES
CAREER PROGRESSION
OPPORTUNITIES
GENDER
WOMEN IN THE GROUP TRAINING (MALAYSIA)
2020
638
2021
627
Male
466
Female
161
Total Training Hours
16,527
Average Hours of
Training per Employee
Per Year
29.8
No. of Training
Programmes
993
2021
42%
Internal
movements
58%
External hires
Management
Team
56%
Promoted to
Managerial
Positions
50%
Regional
Assignments
20%
Managerial
Positions
35%
levels. Through understanding and assessment
of performance, ability and aspirations, we can
delineate the readiness of employees into four
categories – Ready Now, Ready Later, Future
Potential and Interim Successor – and undertake
personalised initiatives to accelerate their
development accordingly. From a management
perspective, this enables all departments to
have a clear understanding of all their talents’
capabilities and arm themselves with the
knowledge required for succession planning
and/or expansion activities.
Inculcating a learning culture is a key priority, as
we believe it is crucial that the individual talent
remains in the driver’s seat when it comes to
their own career. We thus advocate and enable
a wide array of initiatives to meet their diverse
needs, such as setting individual learning hours
targets for each employee, providing regular
bite-sized learning opportunities via our Learning
Bites programme, encouraging self-learning via
access to LinkedIn Learning, holding leadership-
sharing forums for talents to inspire them and
instilling a culture of continuous coaching and
open feedback.
At Carlsberg Malaysia, our employees were
very enthusiastic about their career growth,
and racked up 16,527 hours of learning, which
averaged to 29.8 hours per employee. At
Carlsberg Singapore, our employees clocked
663 learning hours, which averaged to 9.33
hours per employee, just shy of our target of 10
hours per pax.
SOCIAL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
62
HUMAN RIGHTS & LABOUR PRACTICES
The Carlsberg Group maintains its commitment
to upholding human rights as a signatory of
the UN Global Compact, and as a supporter of
the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights
and the UN Guiding Principles on Business
and Human Rights. In Malaysia, we are a
participating member of the UN Global Compact
Malaysia and Brunei effective February 2022.
We continue to train people managers on our
Labour & Human Rights Policy, which lays out
our commitment to respecting the human rights
of all our employees and contract workers.
It covers topics such as working hours and
wages, freedom of association, discrimination,
harassment and child and forced labour.
Our efforts to Lead With Care extend beyond
our employees, as we continuously monitor the
well-being of our on-site third-party contractors.
In 2021, this was done by reviewing weekly
reports from the vendor, as we were unable to
conduct physical inspections due to COVID-19
public health policies.
Besides ensuring compliance with COVID-19
standard operating procedures, the Group also
looked after the health and safety of third-party
contractors by scrutinising their living conditions.
To prevent overcrowding, the vendor was asked
to limit hostel occupancy to a maximum of six
people per unit. The same approach was applied
to the transportation of staff, with each trip only
transporting the residents of the same hostel.
This not only prevented overcrowding in the
van, but also reduced the interaction among
inter-hostel residents in the confined cabin of a
vehicle.
DASHBOARD FY2021 FY2020
Internal Movement vs External Hires 67:33 62:38
Succession Bench Strength 61% 55%
Key Talent Retention 92% 91%
Learning Hours (Malaysia) 29.8 hours 10.8 hours
Young Talent Programmes Interns - 26
Apprentices – 11
Interns - 42
Apprentices – Not applicable,
as Apprenticeship Programme only
started in 2021
CARLSBERG
GROUP AWARDS
HEALTHY & THRIVING
ORGANISATION
GLOBAL AWARD 2021
EMPLOYER BRANDING
TOP 3
BEST CASE
PRACTICES 2021
EXTERNAL ACCOLADES
GRADUATES' CHOICE AWARD (GCA)
MOST PREFERRED GRADUATE EMPLOYERS TO
WORK FOR IN 2022 – CHAMPION (LIQUOR)
EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE AWARDS 2021
GOLD
in Best Crisis
Management
and Leadership
SILVER
in Best Succession
Planning Strategy
BRONZE
in Best First-
Time Manager
Programme
When first-time managers commence their
position at Carlsberg Malaysia Group, whether
they are promoted internally or hired externally,
they are given special attention to help them
succeed. Under the umbrella of our Leadership
Excellence Accelerated Development (LEAD)
framework, we provide special courses to boost
their knowledge of Carlsberg fundamentals,
personal coaching by their very own line
managers, e-learning courses on leadership-
related topics and continuous and constructive
feedback to ensure that they are best equipped
for long-term success.
Talent development is also a key priority for
us, and while our Carlsberg LEAD Business
Diploma and Carlsberg Management Trainee
Programmes were put on hold due to the
pandemic, we continued to undertake various
other initiatives. These included the Carlsberg
Apprenticeship Programme, which saw an
intake of 11 apprentices during the year, and
our internship programme, which enrolled
26 interns in 2021.
We are humbled to have received numerous awards and recognitions for our leadership
strategies, people management practices and working culture during 2021, both from the
Carlsberg Group as well as from independent committees. We will continue to strive to lead
our people with care, promoting diversity and inclusivity and empowering our employees to
achieve their goals and objectives as part of the Carlsberg family.
SOCIAL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
63
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
SAFER SCHOOLS
Encouraged by the success of our “Safer
Together” initiatives in 2020, we repeated the
Safer Schools campaign in 2021. We pledged
RM1.6 million to the second consecutive Safer
Schools campaign, which aimed to provide a
safer learning environment for both teachers
and students as physical classes resumed in
October 2021.
Many parents were still concerned and wary
about sending their children back to school as
there were no vaccinations for children yet and
there was the risk of children catching COVID-19
and passing it on to those at home.
To alleviate these fears and reduce the chances of
infection, we initiated a campaign advocating the
strict health and safety procedures implemented
to fight COVID-19 in a fun and exciting way.
The campaign was launched with a catchy Safer
Schools song with lyrics in Bahasa Malaysia,
English, Mandarin and Tamil. Coupled with
simple dance moves, the song could be easily
learned and taught by teachers and parents
of schoolgoing children – infusing COVID-19
hygiene and protection measures with a sense
of fun.
COMMUNITY
RELATIONS
In addition, we upped the ante with sponsorship
of contact-free facial recognition infrared
thermometers to help schools keep a digital
record of attendance and contact tracing and
also monitor students’ temperatures upon
arrival at the school premises.
Moreover, we joined hands with WonderKlean,
a CUCKOO Healthy Home brand under
CUCKOO International (M) Sdn Bhd, to provide
deep cleaning and disinfection services to
schools in the event of any report of COVID-19
positive cases made within 48 hours.
We will continue to seek opportunities to help
the communities around us, and we are grateful
that we can do our part as we strive to help
those in the present so that they can have a
brighter future.
“UNICEF estimated a staggering in-class
learning loss of 1.8 trillion hours since the global
pandemic began. Our Safer Schools campaign
helped schools to reduce risk of infection and
educated students the importance of personal
hygiene to promote physical and mental health,”
Pearl Lai, Corporate Affairs & Sustainability
Director said.
Scan to watch
SAFER SCHOOLS video
Safer Schools
RM1.6 million
Food Aid
RM1.0 million
Education Fund
RM1.0 million
OUR CONTRIBUTIONS IN 2021
SOCIAL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
64
Breakdown of benefitted schools by states
1 Johor 295
2 Kedah 123
3 Kelantan 30
4 Kuala Lumpur 73
5 Melaka 91
6 Negeri Sembilan 112
7 Pahang 100
8 Penang 98
9 Perak 216
10 Perlis 16
11 Selangor 266
12 Terengganu 12
13 Sabah 114
14 Sarawak 205
1
5
7
12
13
14
3
2
10
8 9
6
11 4
CELEBRATE PROSPERITY, CHEERS FOR TOMORROW
In conjunction with the Chinese New Year
celebration, Carlsberg Malaysia participated
in the act of giving to the underprivileged
through its “Celebrate Prosperity, Cheers for
Tomorrow” initiative in January 2021, with a
total contribution of RM2.0 million.
Organised to assist and support Malaysians
impacted by the pandemic and flood disasters,
the initiative saw an initial RM1 million worth
of food aid channelled to 2,000 underprivileged
families. Carlsberg joined forces with the
Malaysian press, comprising theSun, Star
Foundation, Yayasan Nanyang Press, The
Borneo Post and See Hua Daily News, to reach
out to these families, regardless of race and
creed, across the nation. Priority was given to
orphans, single parents, those with disabled
(OKU) family members and individuals from the
B40 category.
Carlsberg Malaysia believes that every
Malaysian should have equal access to a good
education. In a collaboration between The
Federation of Chinese Associations Malaysia
(Huazong) and Carlsberg Malaysia, RM1 million
was given out to aid 333 tertiary students in their
education via the Carlsberg-Huazong Education
Fund.
1,751
schools benefitted in 2020 and 2021.
SOCIAL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
65
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
At Carlsberg Group, we are guided by a strict Code of Ethics and Conduct in
avoiding any incidences of non-compliance that can negatively affect our reputation
and business. This important discipline is outlined in “Live By Our Compass”,
a programme that stresses the importance of integrity and offers guidance on
ethical behaviour as part of our “Create a Winning Culture” initiative.
LIVE BY
OUR COMPASS
CODE OF ETHICS & CONDUCT
As our employees also play the part of
ambassadors for the Carlsberg Group, their
individual actions are a reflection of our
reputation as a global business leader. It
is imperative that our people and business
associates have a clear understanding of the
principles and values that we uphold via our
Code of Ethics and Conduct (Code).
The Code was updated in October 2021 and now
includes an Ethical Decision-Making Guide to
assist employees to make decisions, in line with
ethical values and the Carlsberg Group’s culture
of compliance.
The Code ensures that everyone, from
Management Team down to all levels within
the organisation, follows ethical and responsible
behaviour and has the understanding that
non-compliance with codes and policies carries
consequences, including sanctions, financial
repercussions and reputational damage.
In accordance with the Code, employees must
make a report of any incidents that violate
Group codes or policies to their supervisors, the
Group’s compliance representative, the Group’s
legal counsel or through the whistleblower
system.
Mandatory e-learning for new employees or as
a refresher saw a 100% completion rate in 2021.
COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR
We prioritise compliance always, and this is fully
endorsed by the Executive Committee (ExCom)
of Carlsberg Group, the Carlsberg Malaysia
Group Board of Directors and the Management
Team in both our Malaysian and Singaporean
operations. We make certain our employees
are fully aware of and totally comprehend
this fact via meetings/talks held during our
employee town halls, internal communication
memos, training and e-learning and through an
accessible central database containing manuals,
policies and procedures on compliance.
In 2021, we achieved 100% completion rate for
all relevant employees for trainings, e-learnings
and/or declarations.
The Carlsberg Group actively supports fair play
and endeavours to gain the upper hand through
the premium quality of our products, not
through unscrupulous business practices that
breach competition laws.
In the event of a breach in competition law,
some of the consequences are hefty fines,
imprisonment and reputational damage.
GOVERNANCE
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
66
The policy applies to all our people, especially
those who hold Management Team positions,
as their responsibilities may include pricing,
developing marketing plans, attending trade
association meetings or even keeping in touch
with customers and suppliers.
If we ensure that we adhere to the practice
of playing by the rules where competitors
are concerned, we will surely make the best
business decisions independently of our
competitors, fulfilling our pledge not to conspire
with competitors in terms of business strategy,
pricing and production. We promise that we
will always be transparent and objective in
our business operations to the benefit of our
customers, who have the last say in resale
pricing.
DATA PROTECTION
We take measures to ensure that all personal
data collected during the course of our business
operations is safeguarded from being misused
and is secure from third-party fraud, scams and
identity theft.
Personal data that can be linked to any person,
including name, address, banking information,
social media posts, date of birth, IP address
and other information, carries the risk of
infringement of an individual’s privacy and
personal security.
The personal data collected by Carlsberg
Malaysia and Carlsberg Singapore may be
subject to the European Union’s General Data
Protection Regulation (GDPR) as they are part
of the Carlsberg Group based in Denmark. The
regulation applies when there is a transfer of
personal data outside the European Union (EU)
and the European Economic Area (EEA).
Our privacy policy sets out clearly the types
of data collected, the purpose of any data
collection and the legal basis for such collection,
as well as the objective of data processing, how
long the data will be kept and if it will be shared
with any third parties outside the EEA.
TRADE SANCTIONS ANTI-BRIBERY & CORRUPTION
It is essential that our people be aware of
existing trade sanctions as these sanctions
regulate and impact who we do business with
and provide products, services and technology
to, in the context of Carlsberg Group’s global
business.
Compliance with all relevant sanctions and
export controls in our global operations is an
important company policy as it forms part of
our global compliance programme, which also
covers anti-bribery and corruption, competition
law and data protection.
All employees are trained in the basic
knowledge of trade sanctions, as well as in the
relevant procedures required for compliance
with applicable sanctions in the countries that
Carlsberg Group operates in directly or indirectly.
Relevant employees are also required to stay
up to date with the country list that outlines
the risk that particular countries and territories
represent to the Carlsberg Group.
Managing our business with sound ethics
and the utmost integrity throughout all our
operations worldwide is something Carlsberg
Group is fully committed to. We are well aware
that corruption is a major hurdle to reducing
poverty and raising standards of living all over
the globe and is an issue that goes beyond the
financial and reputational implications of non-
compliance we have a zero-tolerance approach
towards corruption.
In our practice of zero tolerance towards bribery
and corruption, we have an Anti-Bribery &
Corruption policy and manual that cover
payments, gifts and hospitality, donations and
expenses related to government officials and
sponsorships and charitable donations, as well
as the prohibition of facilitating payments. The
policy requires management, employees and
contract workers of the Carlsberg Group to
comply with all applicable laws and regulations
on bribery and corruption, including, but not
limited to, the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act
GOVERNANCE
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
67
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
Via email to a secure mailbox at whistleblow.cbmb@carlsberg.asia (to report directly to
the Whistleblowing Committee).
Via email to a secure mailbox at speakup@carlsberg.com (to reach out directly to the
Speak Up Review Team).
Via phone call to the Speak Up system, operated by an independent third party, by
calling the toll-free telephone lines (+60(0)15 4877 0383 for Malaysia and 800-852 3912
for Singapore).
Via the internet through the Carlsberg SpeakUp Line, powered by Convercent. Options are
available to provide details of the reportin the reporter’s local language.
Reports using Speak Up enable the reporter to remain anonymous should they wish to
do so.
To learn more about the whistleblower system, visit
carlsbergmalaysia.com.my/who-we-are/corporate-governance/whistleblower-system/
Read and download our policies here:
https://carlsbergmalaysia.com.my/sustainability/sustainability-at-carlsberg/download-our-policies/
SUPPLIER AND LICENSEE CODE OF CONDUCT
Under the Carlsberg Group’s policy, all our
suppliers and licensees must sign up and abide
by our Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct
(“Code of Conduct”). It is therefore mandatory
that all contracts with our suppliers and licensee
include the Code of Conduct and the obligation
on our business partners to comply with it. Our
suppliers and licensees bear the responsibility of
ensuring that their employees, sub-contractors
and all other third parties acting on their behalf,
observe and comply with the Code of Conduct.
The Code of Conduct stipulates that our suppliers
and licensees must comply with applicable
laws and regulations, including labour and
human rights, health and safety, environmental
sustainability, business ethics including anti-
bribery and anti-corruption, competition and fair
trade and data protection. Carlsberg Group will
periodically review the adequacy and continuing
effectiveness of the Code of Conduct and notify
our business partners of any resulting revisions.
CARLSBERG’S WHISTLEBLOWER SYSTEM
Carlsberg Group has implemented a
comprehensive whistleblowing framework
and policy to safeguard our Group and ensure
our business is carried out in a principled and
compliant manner.
1
2
3
4
(FCPA), the UK Bribery Act 2010 (UKBA) and
other applicable national anti-bribery statutes
and regulations implemented where we operate,
including in Malaysia and Singapore.
For business operations in both Malaysia and
Singapore, anti-bribery laws are crucial, and
they must be strictly complied with to avoid
serious reputational and financial consequences.
In addition to the Anti-Bribery & Corruption
Policy, a Gift, Entertainment & Donations
Manual has been specifically developed for the
Malaysian and Singaporean markets, which
is disseminated through in-house memos
and email our reminders and is available for
reference in central compliance depository.
The manual includes monetary limits for gifts,
allowable hospitality and SOPs to record and
report inappropriate gifting or receiving to or
from external parties.
All Directors and employees, as well as
our suppliers, consultants, customers and
distributors, have signed the Anti-Bribery and
Corruption declaration as of 31 December 2021.
We have also continued with the mandatory
e-learning for relevant employees, with a 100%
completion rate in 2021.
GOVERNANCE
The whistleblowing system provides employees, customers, suppliers, business partners or any
individual the freedom to report any unethical, illegal or non-compliant practice, breach or suspected
breach of the Code during the course of business. Anyone who speaks up in good faith is protected
– we do not tolerate any form of retaliation against the whistleblower.
The Whistleblowing Policy & Procedures are accessible on the Group’s corporate website and any
reports can be made either directly to Carlsberg Malaysia Group’s Whistleblowing Committee or
through Carlsberg Group’s Speak Up system:
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
68
UPHOLDING
DATA ETHICS
The Carlsberg Group is committed
to earning and retaining the trust of
our consumers, business partners,
employees and other stakeholders as
we strive to Brew for a Better Today
and Tomorrow.
As explained in our Data Ethics
Policy, which can be found on
carlsbergmalaysia.com.my, one way
in which we live up to this commitment
– within a globalised and digitalised
business environment – is to only use
personal data in accordance with the
principles set out in the policy:
KEEPING
DATA SAFE
We take measures to ensure
that any data shared and used –
whether personal or business data
– is protected through robust security
features, effective processes for
their implementation and reliable
IT applications and providers.
Through these actions, we protect
the digital well-being of our many
stakeholders by safeguarding all of
their data in our care, including in
our information systems, from the
exponentially growing risks of illegal
and damaging conduct by individuals
or groups acting either carelessly or
intentionally for financial gain or
other pernicious reasons.
COMPLYING WITH
DATA PROTECTION LAWS
The Carlsberg Group has effective
and meaningful privacy and data
protection standards in place, not only
to comply with the many evolving
regulatory requirements across our
global markets, but also to promote
the trust of those countries’ citizens,
leaders and business communities.
To comply with local requirements,
the Carlsberg Group directs that
all personal data, however and
wherever used in our business
operations, must be handled in strict
accordance with the global privacy
and data protection standards set out
in our internal policies.
USING DATA
RESPECTFULLY
The Carlsberg Group respects
individual privacy as part of our
greater commitment to ethical
business conduct and stakeholder
dignity. For our workers, our
commitment to a fair, respectful, safe
and non-discriminatory workplace
includes the lawful, fair and limited
handling of their data as part of our
working relationship. When collecting
and using consumer data to better
produce and market our products, the
Carlsberg Group does so ethically, for
example by not acting in any way
to promote drinking to minors, by
enabling consumers’ autonomy over
how their data is processed through
transparent privacy notifications and
by reducing the privacy impact of
digital technologies that we use.
EMBEDDING DATA ETHICS
IN THE ORGANISATION
The Group is committed to prioritising
data ethics and this is embedded
throughout the organisation in various
polices and manuals, which detail the
Group’s high standards of data ethics
and integrity. These ethical standards
are promoted and safeguarded by
subject matter experts in various
relevant functions, such as Group
Integrated Information Technology
and Group Legal & Compliance,
and are embedded throughout
the organisation through, for
example, regular employee training,
communications and evolving best
practices.
GOVERNANCE
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
69
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
OUR MARKET
LANDSCAPE
OVERVIEW
The second year of the COVID-19
pandemic continued to disrupt economic
recovery, as a resurgent virus forced
countries around the world to implement
lockdowns once again to break the
chain of infection.
In Malaysia, the government enforced
an 11-week lockdown between June and
August 2021, longer than the seven-
week lockdown seen in 2020, to reduce
the strain on the health system as
new COVID-19 cases were recorded in
unprecedented numbers.
Similarly, in Singapore, the period
of May up to November saw the
government implementing intermittent
lockdown-like restrictions that initially
barred dine-in operations and limited
outdoor gatherings before being
gradually eased. 3.1%
GDP GROWTH
MALAYSIA
7.6%
GDP GROWTH
SINGAPORE
The lockdown’s effect on production, distribution, consumption and entire value chains was certainly felt across many
sectors, especially the retail and food & beverage sectors, which were particularly hard hit.
In terms of economic growth, what was expected to be a strong recovery for Malaysia in 2021 was derailed, with GDP
growth coming in at 3.1% compared to the 5-6% expected at the beginning of the year. Singapore fared better, however,
returning GDP growth of 7.2% in 2021, which was largely in line with expectations.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
70
In 2020, the Malaysian and Singaporean
governments had devoted enormous amounts
of resources to cushion the impact of the
lockdowns on lives and livelihoods. It was no
different in 2021 as the government once again
rolled out economic stimulus packages, albeit
with slightly more targeted programmes and
mechanisms.
More importantly, however, was the aggressive
rollout of vaccinations with Malaysia reaching
the key milestone of 90% of the country’s adult
population being fully vaccinated by 1 October,
while Singapore had about 82% of its entire
population being fully vaccinated at the same
point.
Reaching this milestone was highly significant
for Malaysia as it allowed the resumption of
interstate travel, the reopening of economic
sectors and the easing of many movement
restrictions. With this, there has been a rapid
improvement in business and consumer
sentiment, with pent-up demand driving growth
and a sustained recovery seen going into 2022.
INDUSTRY
The food & beverage (F&B) industry faced
incredible challenges in 2021 as the lockdown
took a toll on its ability to attract footfall and
generate sales. Many F&B outlets had to once
again turn to delivery and takeaways, while
many were also forced to close altogether as
business became untenable. Meanwhile, the
operations of entertainment outlets continue to
be suspended.
For the brewery sector, this was certainly a
difficult situation for the entire modern and
traditional on-trade channel, as it is known in
industry circles, which has traditionally been our
top sales contributor.
However, although demand fell in this channel,
it was redirected to the off-trade channel
comprising convenience stores, mini markets,
supermarkets and hypermarkets as consumers
became used to enjoying their drinks at home.
In line with this change in consumer preferences,
there was also a notable shift to online purchases
of beverages. We have devoted resources and
developed business plans to capitalise on this
trend to expand further.
The main challenge therein was to ensure
sufficient supply as the prolonged lockdown
and closure of our brewery led to shortages of
certain products in selected channels in Malaysia
and in exports to Singapore. With restrictions on
production lifted in mid-August, the industry
resumed operations quickly to replenish stocks
and meet the export orders.
In terms of commodities, aluminium prices rose
steeply in 2021 but we were able to mitigate
the effect by hedging the raw material in 2020.
Alumina prices remained relatively unchanged
in the first half of last year but increased 30-
40% in the second half due to higher cost of
production and reduction in manufacturing
globally.
Furthermore, alumina prices are expected to
rise in 2022 compared to 2021 due to limited
supply and high cost of production. We will
continue to leverage on Carlsberg Group's global
procurement capability to hedge our prices to
mitigate the impact to our business.
OUTLOOK
With the relaxation of movement restrictions
in the fourth quarter of 2021, there has been
a significant uptick in consumer spending,
especially in the on-trade channel. Barring any
disruptions or lockdowns, we are confident of
delivering a modest growth in 2022.
With the threat of the Omicron variant lingering,
we expect consumers to continue practising
restraint and caution when socialising; as such,
we believe the off-trade channel, together
with e-commerce, will continue to lead in sales
as many consumers are expected to drink in
smaller groups in the comfort and safety of
their homes. The recovery of on-trade channel,
however, will rely on the restrictions on dine-in
and operating conditions, as well as local and
international tourism, assuming no lockdowns
this year.
The approach adopted by most countries to live
with the pandemic is a sensible one, especially as
greater numbers of people are being vaccinated,
which should also lend greater protection
against new variants. By the late February 2022,
about 79% and 91% of the entire populations
of Malaysia and Singapore, respectively, had
been fully vaccinated. Singapore also began
vaccinating children between 5 and 11 years old
in January 2022, with Malaysia following suit in
February 2022.
From a wider industry perspective, we are
happy to note that there has been no excise
duty increase since 2017, and are grateful that
no adverse legislation to restrict the sales of
alcohol has been implemented.
OUR MARKET
LANDSCAPE
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
71
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
DETERMINING OUR
MATERIAL ISSUES
IDENTIFYING
OUR PRIORITIES
At the Carlsberg Group, we are committed to
ensuring that the value we create, as well as the
way this value is created, considers the impact on
our business and all our stakeholders. Assessing
the issues that are most material to us and our
stakeholders in the environmental, social and
governance contexts will enable us to continue to
operate effectively and sustainably.
The Together Towards ZERO programme was
supported by a materiality assessment conducted
in 2016, which is a clear example of how an
accurate and comprehensive assessment has
helped us deliver sustainable value. With the
evolving operating landscape and the emergence
of the COVID-19 pandemic creating new concerns
and challenges, we conducted a new materiality
assessment in 2020 with support from experts at
GlobeScan.
Analysis of existing data and research from both
within and outside our business, combined with
insights from a digital listening platform, informed
an initial issues list. This was used to support
focused consultation to gain internal and external
perspectives. We conducted a survey of employees
representing a range of geographies and functions,
and in-depth interviews with external stakeholders
representing groups including non-governmental
and intergovernmental organisations, industry
associations, investors, customers, suppliers and
academics.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
72
THE FINDINGS
Four interconnected environmental themes
formed the most material issues for Carlsberg:
climate change adaptation; energy and carbon;
water stewardship; and sustainable packaging.
These were also priority issues in 2016, but the
scale and nature of stakeholder expectations
have evolved. Sustainable packaging is more
prominent among these top issues, while
climate change adaptation is now as important
as we seek to mitigate against environmental
risks. Water stewardship remains a high
strategic and reputation risk, but is also seen as
an opportunity for Carlsberg to show leadership.
Supporting equality and caring for employees
have risen in prominence. Diversity, inclusion
and equity is a high priority. Employee safety,
health and wellness is also a critical issue and
will remain so as we emerge from the COVID-19
crisis. Looking forward, areas for potential
future consideration are the future of work and
the need for upskilling or reskilling (talent and
development), as well as Carlsberg’s role in
supporting social justice and economic equality
(community impact and investment).
Stakeholders also see an opportunity for
Carlsberg to show leadership in product health
impact and social impacts (preventing harmful
use of alcohol) through innovating and widening
the availability of products (such as low-/no-
alcohol or low-sugar options), bolder marketing
and working with the industry and others to
define the role of beer in a “healthy” society.
The prominence of sustainable agriculture
and ecosystem health is rapidly increasing
and expected to become more of a high-
profile issue for the whole food and drinks
sector. Stakeholders also highlighted the
interconnection between biodiversity, water and
climate.
Carlsberg’s extended responsibility across
the whole supply chain was prominent in
stakeholder feedback (responsible supply
chain management), with human rights and
labour standards being key components. Other
issues identified as highly material included
product quality and safety, ethical behaviour
and governance, waste management and
circular resource use in production, responsible
marketing and economic impact and tax.
The identified material matters and our ESG
performance have been mapped against the
specific targets set within the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals. Although the
material issues were identified at the global
level, the issues are relevant to Carlsberg
Malaysia and we localised the reported
performance data where relevant and
applicable. This enabled us to measure our
ESG performance according to the prioritised
material matters.
ISSUE DEFINITIONS
ISSUE DEFINITION
Responsible supply
chain management
High social (including workers) and environmental standards for
sourcing and partners. Supporting partners to develop strategies for
improvement (on environmental and social impacts) and monitoring
their performance through audits, etc.
Human rights and
labour standards
Ensuring human rights are protected within own operations and
throughout the value chain, including implementing governance and
systems to identify, address and remedy issues. Eliminating all forms
of forced and compulsory labour, child labour and human trafficking.
Upholding the right of freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Sustainable packaging Reducing, reusing, recycling and rethinking packaging materials, as
well as developing sustainable packaging innovations and advocating
circular packaging systems (e.g. return schemes).
Preventing harmful
use of alcohol
Working with others (e.g. policymakers, partners within and beyond
the industry and customers) to raise awareness, promote moderation,
tackle misuse and reduce alcohol-related harm in society (e.g. violence
and abuse, underage drinking, drink-driving).
Responsible marketing Marketing alcoholic and non-alcoholic products in a responsible manner.
Effective and relevant
consumer information
Providing the information consumers need to make informed decisions
about their consumption of alcohol. Transparency through provision of
consumer information on ingredients and alcohol content.
Sustainable consumer
behaviour
Labelling and transparency about environmental impacts on products
and in communications.
Product quality
and safety
Ensuring traceability, safety and consistency of products through high-
quality standards and procedures.
Energy and carbon Reducing carbon emissions and improving energy efficiency across own
operations, distribution and full value chain, including investing in clean
low-carbon technologies and renewable energy.
DETERMINING OUR
MATERIAL ISSUES
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
73
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
ISSUE DEFINITION
Adapting to climate
change
Developing strategies to protect against climate-related hazards
(e.g. water shortages).
Waste management
and circular resource
use in production
Designing out waste and pollution, while keeping products and resources
in use within own operations and supply chain. Responsible disposal
of any waste, including discharge of brewery effluent, spent grain and
treatment of wastewater.
Chemical and hazardous
material management
Appropriate systems and procedures for the continuous reduction
of chemicals in products and processes, and appropriate disposal of
chemical and hazardous waste.
Ethical behaviour and
internal governance
Ethical approach to the legal and regulatory environment, including
ensuring compliance with all local laws. Good governance systems, rules
and procedures, including executive oversight. Rigorous action against
corruption, misconduct, negligence and anti-competitive behaviour.
Corporate lobbying Responsible lobbying practices that are fully aligned with the Company's
sustainability commitments and strategy.
Data security and
privacy
Protecting the right to privacy and ensuring security of data for
customers, consumers, employees and business partners. Including via
social media and other communication outlets.
Diversity, inclusion
and equity
A workplace where all employees are treated fairly and without
discrimination. Working towards equality internally (gender, age, race,
sexual orientation, disabilities, faith, etc.) and advocacy with partners
and externally.
ISSUE DEFINITION
Employee safety,
health and wellness
A safe working environment across all operations. Protecting the health
and well-being of employees, including work/life balance, stress and
mental health, flexible working arrangements and support for physical
health issues.
Talent and development Good pay, benefits and services for workforce (e.g. health insurance,
retirement contributions). Maximising employee engagement and
talent recruitment/retention through career development, training and
opportunities.
Community impact
and investment
Creating shared economic value with communities and other
stakeholders in all operational locations (e.g. through access to
opportunities, investment, programmes and partnerships to support
development, inclusion and environmental protection).
Economic impact
and tax
Positive economic impact across all markets through job creation/
security, investment and supporting the wider value chain. Fulfilling
taxation responsibilities to the economies in which we operate.
Product health impact Supporting healthy consumption of alcohol and other beverages,
including innovation for healthier products (e.g. low-/no-alcohol or low-
sugar options).
Threats to
commercial freedom
Potential threats to the business (e.g. linked to the COVID-19 pandemic)
through demonisation of alcohol via government restrictions, illicit trade
in alcohol or threats to the wider hospitality industries.
External risks to
supply chain
Challenges to the supply chain, including raw material availability,
as well as import and export restrictions caused by trade wars or
pandemic-related labour and travel restrictions.
Air pollution Reduction in pollutants with negative impacts on public health,
particularly nitrogen oxide and sulphur dioxide.
DETERMINING OUR
MATERIAL ISSUES
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
74
CONTRIBUTING TO THE UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS
SDG TARGET ACTIONS FOCUS AREA PAGES
3.5 Strengthen the prevention and treatment of substance
abuse, including harmful use of alcohol.
3.6 By 2020, halve the number of global deaths and injuries
from road traffic accidents.
Alcohol-free options available in Malaysia and Singapore.
Maintained commitment to the Digital Guiding Principles alongside
member companies of the International Alliance of Responsible Drinking
(IARD).
Continued implementation of actionable advice on responsible drinking,
including age-restriction messaging.
Continued to encourage responsible behaviour, including campaigns to
tackle drink-driving in Malaysia and Singapore.
All field sales employees are equipped with breathalysers and car
camcorders.
49 to 52
5.1 End all forms of discrimination against all women and
girls everywhere.
5c Adopt and strengthen sound policies and enforceable
legislation for the promotion of gender equality and
the empowerment of all women and girls at all levels.
The Carlsberg Group established a Diversity & Inclusion Council to act
as ambassadors for diversity and inclusion and to provide input to the
Executive Committee to define our approach on this topic.
Established Diversity & Inclusion key measures as part of HR Dashboard.
An awareness campaign comprising a series of activities was conducted
throughout the year.
Continued to build a pipeline of female talent, with women accounting for
56% of the Management Team and 35% of managerial positions within
the Group.
Respecting
Human Rights
Embracing Diversity
& Inclusion
58 to 62
6.3 By 2030, improve water quality by reducing pollution,
eliminating dumping and minimising release of hazardous
chemicals and materials, halving the proportion of untreated
wastewater and substantially increasing recycling and safe
reuse globally.
6.4 By 2030, substantially increase water-use efficiency and
ensure sustainable withdrawals and supply of fresh water to
address water scarcity.
Reduced water usage by 17% in 2021 compared to 2020.
Upgraded water treatment plant to reduce water wastage. The plant
started operating in October 2021.
Wastewater treated to 70-80 mg/l, which is within Standard B
(under 200 mg/l) of Environmental Quality (Sewage) Regulations 2009.
Optimisation of water usage in bottle-washing process.
47 to 48
DETERMINING OUR
MATERIAL ISSUES
ZERO
IRRESPONSIBLE
DRINKING
ZERO
WATER
WASTE
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
75
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
DETERMINING OUR
MATERIAL ISSUES
SDG TARGET ACTIONS FOCUS AREA PAGES
7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the share of renewable
energy in the global energy mix.
7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of improvement in energy
efficiency.
Reduced carbon emissions from 10.8 kg CO
2
/hL in 2018 to 10.04 kg CO
2
/
hL in 2020, but the figure increased to 10.4 kg CO
2
/hL in 2021 as efficiency
was impacted by the suspension of brewery operations due to COVID-19.
Thermal energy consumption from natural gas and biogas usage reduced
to 19.81 kWh/hL in 2021 from 20.75 kWh/hL in 2020.
42 to 46
8.1 Sustain per capita economic growth in accordance with
national circumstances and, in particular, at least
7 per cent gross domestic product growth per annum
in the least developed countries.
8.5 By 2030, achieve full and productive employment and
decent work for all women and men, including for young
people and persons with disabilities, and equal pay for
work of equal value.
8.3 Promote development-oriented policies that support
productive activities, decent job creation, entrepreneurship,
creativity and innovation, and encourage the formalisation
and growth of micro-, small- and medium-sized enterprises.
8.8 Protect labour rights and promote safe and secure working
environments for all workers.
Directly employed 627 people in Malaysia and Singapore.
Contributed RM986 million in direct taxes, indirect taxes and excise duties
to the governments of Malaysia and Singapore.
Maintained our commitment to upholding internationally recognised
human rights as a signatory to the UN Global Compact and as a supporter
of the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Guiding
Principles on Business and Human Rights.
Continued to train people managers on our Labour & Human Rights
Policy.
Reduced the number of lost-time accidents to zero for more than 1,000
days and counting.
The Near Miss and Safety Concern Reporting programme recorded 3,850
reports in 2021, up from 3,454 in 2020.
Contributing to
Economies
Respecting
Human Rights
53 to 55
56 to 57
58 to 62
ZERO
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
ZERO
ACCIDENTS
CULTURE
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
76
SDG TARGET ACTIONS FOCUS AREA PAGES
10.2 By 2030, empower and promote the social, economic and
political inclusion of all, irrespective of age, sex, disability,
race, ethnicity, origin, religion or economic or other status.
10.3 Ensure equal opportunity and reduce inequalities of
outcome, including by eliminating discriminatory laws,
policies and practices and promoting appropriate legislation,
policies and action in this regard.
The Carlsberg Group established a Diversity & Inclusion Council to act
as ambassadors for diversity and inclusion and to provide input to the
Executive Committee to define our approach on this topic.
Established Diversity & Inclusion key measures as part of HR Dashboard.
An awareness campaign comprising a series of activities was conducted
throughout the year.
Continued to train people managers on our Labour & Human Rights
Policy, which covers non-discrimination.
Respecting
Human Rights
Embracing Diversity
& Inclusion
62
58 to 61
12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable management and
efficient use of natural resources.
12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce waste generation through
prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse.
12.6 Encourage companies, especially large and transnational
companies, to adopt sustainable practices and to integrate
sustainability information into their reporting cycle.
12.9 Support developing countries to strengthen their scientific
and technological capacity to move towards more
sustainable patterns of consumption and production.
Improved recyclability of packaging by using Cradle to Cradle Certified™
silver ink that is produced using renewable energy across our bottle labels.
Doubled the lifetime of refillable glass bottles by using new wax emulsion
coating. This extends the bottles’ longevity and reduces the need for
bottles to be taken out of circulation for recycling.
We send our spent materials to three contractors, where it is converted to
livestock feed. This reduces the amount of waste to landfill.
42 to 46
DETERMINING OUR
MATERIAL ISSUES
ZERO
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
77
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
SDG TARGET ACTIONS FOCUS AREA PAGES
13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to
climate-related hazards and natural disasters.
13.3 Improve education, awareness-raising and capacity on
climate change mitigation, adaptation, impact reduction
and early warning.
Made progress towards our climate targets, which have been approved by
the Science Based Targets initiative as being line with the latest climate
science to limit global warming to 1.5°C.
Carlsberg Group conducted our most extensive analysis yet of our global
beer-in-hand value chain carbon footprint, with input from suppliers
representing more than 60% of our spend. In 2019, Carlsberg Malaysia
showed a 7% reduction in relative emissions since 2015.
100% of newly purchased fridges and beer coolers use low climate impact
technology.
42 to 46
16.5 Substantially reduce corruption and bribery in all
their forms.
Continued online training on anti-bribery and corruption, which was,
completed by all employees.
Implemented the Whistleblower Framework to encourage reports of
suspected misconduct, including those related to business integrity.
65 to 67
17.16 Enhance the global partnership for sustainable development,
complemented by multi-stakeholder partnerships.
17.17 Encourage and promote effective public, public-private
and civil society partnerships.
We send our spent materials to three contractors, where it is converted to
livestock feed. This reduces the amount of waste to landfill.
Partnered with e-hailing providers such as Grab, Riding, Pink and airasia
ride and chauffeur-on-call service providers Lailah and Buddy Driver to
produce responsible drinking.
Joined as a corporate friend of Climate Governance Malaysia and
a participant of the UN Global Compact Network Malaysia & Brunei.
Our sustainability programme is aligned with the targets of the UN’s
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and we work with our
stakeholders to adopt sustainable practices and deliver impacts via our
pledge to the UN SDGs and our ESG commitment.
42 to 55
DETERMINING OUR
MATERIAL ISSUES
ZERO
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
ZERO
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
ZERO
WATER
WASTE
ZERO
IRRESPONSIBLE
DRINKING
LIVE BY
OUR COMPASS
ZERO
ACCIDENTS
CULTURE
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
78
UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX
We support the UN Global Compact and this report is our Communication on Progress in implementing its Ten Principles.
The index below sets out where to find information on our approach and performance in relation to each principle.
GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLE OUR APPROACH PAGE
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Respecting Human Rights 62
Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Respecting Human Rights 62
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Engaging With Employees 59
Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Respecting Human Rights 62
Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Respecting Human Rights 62
Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Live By Our Compass
Respecting Human Rights
Embracing Diversity & Inclusion
65 to 67
62
58
Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Zero Carbon Footprint
Zero Water Waste
42 to 46
47 to 48
Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Zero Carbon Footprint
Zero Water Waste
42 to 46
47 to 48
Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Zero Carbon Footprint
Zero Water Waste
42 to 46
47 to 48
Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Live By Our Compass 65 to 67
DETERMINING OUR
MATERIAL ISSUES
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
79
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
INPUTS
BUSINESS OPERATIONS
ACTIVITY MANUFACTURING
Our beers and beverages
DISTRIBUTION
Our products via land and sea
SALES
To bars, restaurants and stores
MARKETING
To consumers to enjoy responsibly
TOGETHER
TOWARDS ZERO
SUSTAINABILITY GOALS & TARGETS OUTPUTS
Optimising manufacturing capabilities while adhering to the most stringent hygiene and safety standards, and pioneering new
technology for product innovation.
OUR VALUE-CREATION
BUSINESS MODEL
Financial Capital
as of 31 December 2021
Financial
Capital
• Market capitalisation:
RM6.1 billion
• Shareholder equity:
RM211.1 million
• Share capital:
RM149.4 million
• Total assets:
RM621.5 million
Human
Capital
Human
Capital
• Embedding the Diversity and
Inclusion culture in 627 direct
employees across the organisation
• Building a succession pipeline by
retaining key talents and increasing
succession coverage ratio
• Comprehensive suite of offline and
online training and development
initiatives
• 1 Brewery in
Malaysia, 16 offices
across Malaysia
and Singapore
Social and
Relationship Capital
Social and
Relationship
Capital
• New Products & Category Development
• Product and Packaging Innovations
• Extensive and Effective
Route-to-Market
• Build brand equity and top-of-mind
awareness
• Robust consumer insights and
marketing campaigns
• Strong long-term relationships
with all our stakeholders,
including customers, partners,
employees, investors,
governments, regulators, trade
and industry associations and
the communities within which
we operate
• Accelerate efforts to reduce
carbon footprint and water waste
• Review, reduce and replace the
non-recyclable materials used
in packaging
• Direct resources to tackle climate
change across our
value chain
COMPONENTS
OF VALUE
CREATION
Manufactured/
Operational capital
Manufactured/
Operational
capital
Natural
Capital
Natural
Capital
Intellectual
Capital
Intellectual
Capital
DELIVER
VALUE FOR
SHAREHOLDERS
ZERO
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
ZERO
IRRESPONSIBLE
DRINKING
ZERO
WATER
WASTE
ZERO
ACCIDENTS
CULTURE
PEOPLE &
COMMUNITY
LIVE BY
OUR COMPASS
Refer to page 41 for our
Sustainability Dashboard.
• Tuborg Strong, Somersby Watermelon 1664 Rosé and
Jing-A launched in 2021
• Carlsberg Smooth Draught's improved packaging that keeps
beer fresher for longer; launched in draught format and
Carlsberg limited-edition Harvest and Football-themed
packaging and Connor’s in can
• Improvised route-to-market amid lockdowns and improved
e-commerce footprint
• Winner of Putra Brand Awards in Malaysia for Carlsberg (Platinum)
and Silver for Somersby and Connor’s
Leading with Care to build high-performing, engaging, diverse and inclusive culture.
• 92% in key talents retention and 76 employees received promotion
and 5 employees posted overseas
• Rolled out 993 training programmes, with each employee in
Malaysia undergoing an average of 29.8 hours of training
• Winner of the Employee Experience Awards 2021 in three categories
• Carlsberg Malaysia scored 77% in MyVoice employee
engagement survey in 2021
• 56% women's representation in Management Team, 35%
women's representation in managerial positions and 26%
female employee in Carlsberg Malaysia Group
Delivering on our commitments on environmental sustainability.
• Thermal energy consumption from natural gas and
biogas usage reduced to 19.81 kWh/hL in 2021 from
20.75 kWh/hL in 2020
• Reduced water usage by 17% in 2021 compared to 2020
Accelerating actions to promote safer communities amid the COVID-19 pandemic and advocacy of responsible drinking.
• Winner of the Company of the Year award
(manufacturing of beverages sector) at the Sustainability
& CSR Malaysia Awards 2021
• RM1.6 million spent on “Safer Schools” campaign to
ensure cleaner and safer school environment for pupils
• More than 3,000 outlets participated as pick-up locations for
subsidised rides under the #CelebrateResponsibly campaign
• Spent RM2 million on food and education aid to underprivileged
Malaysians
• Constant engagement with regulators and stakeholders to
mitigate systemic risks
STRATEGIC LEVERS
STRENGTHEN
THE CORE
POSITION
FOR GROWTH
Delivering resilient business performance in a challenging environment.
• Proposed Capital Expenditure of RM110 million to upgrade packaging
facilities
• Winner of The Edge Billion Ringgit Club Award for Highest
Return-On-Equity Over Three Years
• Net profit: RM201 million
• Revenue: RM1.8 billion
• Earnings per share: 65.7 sen
• Total dividend declared and proposed: 56 sen per share
CREATE A
WINNING CULTURE
DEFEND OUR LICENCE
TO OPERATE
ENABLERS
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
80
MANAGING
BUSINESS RISK
In conducting its operations in Malaysia and Singapore and executing the SAIL’22 strategy, the Group seeks to manage
risks in such a way as to minimise their threats while making the best use of their opportunities.
The RMC provides counsel, monitors and ensures that plans are in place for managing
business-critical and ESG-related risks, including strategic, operational, financial, compliance and
sustainability-related risks.
Refer to the Audit Committee and Risk Management Committee Report on pages 105 to 107 for more information.
In 2021, we faced a number of risks and uncertainties that could have both short-term and
long-term implications for the Group. Our risk management approach guided us to conduct timely
reviews, reporting and mitigation of risks with the highest potential impacts and likelihood.
The Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for risk management and has appointed the Risk
Management Committee (RMC) to act on its behalf in monitoring the effectiveness of the Group’s
risk management. The Chief Financial Officer and Legal & Compliance Director also attend all
the meetings for the purpose of briefing the RMC on the activities involving their areas of
responsibility, supported by the Head of Internal Audit.
Last year, we identified several risks within the areas of supply chain, health & safety, commercial &
competition, governance, reputation, advertising and climate change. Of all these risks, the four risks
reported below were the most material, with either the highest likelihood or urgency, and mitigating
actions were executed within our SAIL’22 execution capabilities.
RISKS RISK MOVEMENT MITIGATION
OUTBREAK OF COVID-19 AT WORKPLACE
In the second year of the pandemic, the RMC, Management
Team and Internal Audit team had constant reviews and timely
updates on the health & safety of our people in the brewery and
marketplace. Business continuity plans were also carried out
diligently in mitigating the impacts on our people and operations.
Decreased in
2021 versus 2020.
Our top priority remained the health and safety of
our employees. Operationally, all employees worked
based on Team A and B shifts to reduce density and
risks of infection in the office. Our Malaysia operations
also registered for the Ministry of International Trade
and Industry’s (MITI) Safe@Work initiative with strict
adherence to standard operating procedures (SOPs)
issued by the National Security Council (MKN)
pursuant to the Prevention and Control of Infectious
Diseases Act 1988.
In addition, we sponsored COVID-19 vaccinations for
all employees, on-site contractors and workers, and
bi-weekly COVID-19 swab tests, since January 2021,
as well as the cost of hotel quarantine for employees
to ensure they were comfortable and had access to
medical care while undergoing quarantine.
Other initiatives implemented to mitigate a
workplace outbreak included the provision of free
face masks, setting up 1 hand sanitiser station for
every 15 employees and 1 handwash station for
every 20 employees, daily uniform washing and
sanitisation, as well as upgraded locker rooms with
shower facilities. These arrangements were intended
to reduce the risk of pathogen transmissions via body
surfaces and clothing, and to control people flow and
zoning within the brewery.
The Group is pleased to record zero workplace clusters
or deaths related to COVID-19 since the pandemic
began in 2020.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
81
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
MANAGING
BUSINESS RISK
RISKS RISK MOVEMENT MITIGATION
RISING INPUT COSTS
In 2021, many of our raw materials, including, but not limited to,
barley and malt and various packaging materials, saw significant
price increases.
Increased in
2021 versus 2020.
Being well-hedged in our major commodities, we managed to reduce the impacts of the input cost headwind,
which enabled us to determine the right balance between input cost and product price. In addition, our
“Funding the Journey” initiatives like value management, channel and category mix and cash flow management
helped us to reduce the impacts of cost inflation and forex exposure.
OPERATIONS AND PRODUCTION DISRUPTIONS
Prolonged lockdowns and intermittent changes to COVID-19
restrictions disrupted our operations in Malaysia and Singapore.
While government interventions varied in the two markets, the
measures implemented affected supply chain efficiency and
consumer off-take in all channels.
Increased in
2021 versus 2020.
Brewing is a biochemical process involving live yeast
cultivation and natural raw ingredients handling.
During the suspension of operations, we applied for
and were granted approval from MITI to keep our
brewery on “warm-idle” with 10% of the workforce
throughout the 75-day lockdown. Our marketing and
trading subsidiary also received a permit to carry out
sales to off-trade channels and for distribution despite
no movement of stocks to and from the brewery.
These enabled us to avoid the total loss of yeast and
the write-off of raw materials and unpackaged beers
kept fresh in production.
We also improved our sales and operation planning
(S&OP) practices to enable fast adaptation and timely
response to changing market demand and supply
chain conditions and held more frequent commercial
meetings to continuously improvise new methods for
our promotions and route-to-market.
From a production standpoint, we increased work
shifts and rotations to recover the time lost during
lockdowns and substituted for out-of-stock products
in kegs with cans or other types of packaging.
For contract manufacturing and exports, we made
the tough decision of asking our Singapore operations
and other markets to import their supplies from other
Carlsberg Group markets to make up for the supply
shortfalls. Our actions and measures will continue
to be tailored to different channels and regions to
ensure an adequate supply for the domestic market
and exports.
ILLICIT BEER TRADE
Pre-COVID-19, illicit beer, which comprised contraband, counterfeit
and unregulated beer, was a huge threat to the economy and a
serious public health risk.
In Malaysia, the Confederation of Malaysian Brewers Berhad
(CMBB), of which we are a member, estimated that the illicit
industry had grown by 5% – from 25% before 2020 – to over
30% in 2021. The prolonged lockdowns and closures of legitimate
businesses paved the way for the illicit market to grow amid
shortages of legitimate duty-paid beers, and more rampant online
sales of illicit alcohol were noted on social media platforms.
Increased in
2021 versus 2020.
Through the CMBB, we thanked the Ministry of Finance (MOF) for the formation of a Working Committee on
Illicit Beer under the Multi-Agency Task Force (MATF) to prioritise strategies and actions in addressing smuggling
and the illicit beer trade. The CMBB extended support to the government by contributing to the enforcement
strategies of the various agencies and generating more consumer awareness on identifying contraband and
counterfeit alcohol. The CMBB also urged the government to look into the increasingly alarming online illicit
trade and devise the necessary policies and laws to address it.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
82
MANAGEMENT
TEAM
From left to right: Olivier Dubost, Koh Poi San, Caroline Moreau, Vivian Gun Ling Ling, Stefano Clini, , Peter Wachenschwanz, Pearl Lai Ming Choo, Pauline Lim Maan Heong, and Gary Tan Sim Huan
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
83
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
MANAGEMENT
TEAM PROFILES
STEFANO CLINI VIVIAN GUN LING LING
Date of Appointment:
26 October 2019
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Bachelor’s Degree in Business and Economics,
Libera Università Internazionale degli Studi
Sociali Guido Carli (LUISS)
Work Experience:
Mr. Clini has overall responsibility for the Carlsberg
Malaysia Group, covering our operations in
Malaysia and Singapore and overseeing the
Group’s investment in Sri Lanka.
He joined the Carlsberg Group in September 2017
as the Managing Director of Carlsberg Vietnam
Breweries Ltd. and was previously Managing
Director of British American Tobacco Malaysia
from 2013 to 2016.
He has more than 30 years of experience in the
global consumer goods industry with leadership
and commercial roles in Italy, Belgium, Switzerland
and Turkey.
Date of Appointment:
19 October 2020
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Bachelor of Commerce and Admin (Accounting)
(Hons), Victoria University of Wellington, New
Zealand
• Bachelor of Commerce and Management,
Lincoln University, New Zealand in collaboration
with Universiti Tenaga Nasional (UNITEN)
• Member of CPA Australia; previous member of
Chartered Institute of Management Accounting
(CIMA)
Work Experience:
Ms. Gun is responsible for finance and investor
relations, as well as IT functions.
Ms. Gun joined Carlsberg Group in 2018 as Chief
Financial Officer at Myanmar Carlsberg Co. Ltd..
Prior to joining Carlsberg, she held senior Finance
roles with established Malaysian corporations,
including GlaxoSmithKline, British American
Tobacco, BMW and KPMG. She has worked in
Malaysia and other Southeast Asian countries
including Myanmar and Vietnam.
She graduated from Victoria University of
Wellington, New Zealand, majoring in Accounting
and having been awarded the Tenaga Nasional
Berhad scholarship to study there.
Age: 55 Age: 45
Managing Director Chief Financial Officer
KOH POI SAN PEARL LAI MING CHOO
Date of Appointment:
19 February 2020
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• LLB (Hons), University of London, United
Kingdom
• Certificate in Legal Practice
• Diploma in Investment Analysis, Research
Institute of Investment Analysis Malaysia &
Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology
• Licensed Secretary under Section 20G of the
Companies Commission of Malaysia Act 2001
Work Experience:
Ms. Koh is responsible for legal and compliance
matters in both Carlsberg Malaysia and Singapore,
as well as helming the debt recovery function in
Malaysia. She is also the Company Secretary of
Carlsberg Malaysia Group.
She has more than 20 years of experience as a
partner of a law firm and in her last role as Vice
President, Legal Compliance & Land Management
and Company Secretary of an established company
in the cement industry.
Date of Appointment:
1 July 2014
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Bachelor of Social Science (Hons)
Communication Studies, Universiti Malaysia
Sarawak
Work Experience:
Ms. Lai first joined the Carlsberg Malaysia Group
in September 2005 and was previously the
Corporate Affairs Director prior to her current
position effective 1 February 2022.
She is currently responsible for strengthening
the overall reputation of the Carlsberg Malaysia
Group through purpose-driven profiling via
internal communications, external affairs including
regulatory affairs, sustainability, marketing
activation and the brewery visit experience within
the Malaysian operations.
She represents the Group on the committee of the
Confederation of Malaysian Brewers Berhad and
on the Board of the Malaysian Danish Business
Council.
She also oversees key communications and
sustainability priorities in the Singapore operations.
Age: 46 Age: 41
Legal & Compliance Director
and Company Secretary
Corporate Affairs &
Sustainability Director
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
84
PETER WACHENSCHWANZ PAULINE LIM MAAN HEONG OLIVIER DUBOST
Date of Appointment:
1 February 2020
Academic/Professional
Qualification(s):
• Master Brewer and State-certified
Production Manager for Brewing
and Beverage Technology, Doemens
Akademie, Germany
Work Experience:
Mr. Wachenschwanz is responsible
for leading the Carlsberg Malaysia
Group’s Supply Chain operations,
including security and health & safety.
He first joined Carlsberg in 2008 and
subsequently held various roles in
Europe and Asia within Supply Chain.
Prior to joining the Group, he was
Director, Global Manufacturing Process,
for the Carlsberg Group. He has 16 years’
experience in the brewing industry,
having been involved in initiatives in
over 40 manufacturing sites across 15
countries.
Date of Appointment:
25 November 2019
Academic/Professional
Qualification(s):
• BA (Hons) in Human Resource
Management & Marketing,
Middlesex University
• Master’s degree in HR Management
& Industrial Relations, University of
Newcastle, Australia
Work Experience:
Ms. Lim is responsible for HR operations,
talent management and organisational
development for the Malaysia
operations. She also oversees the HR
function of the Singapore operations.
Ms. Lim brings with her almost 20
years of experience in HR management
in diverse industries, including locally
listed and multinational organisations.
Date of Appointment:
6 February 2018
Academic/Professional
Qualification(s):
• MBA, ESCP, Management Business
School of Paris
Work Experience:
Mr. Dubost has been the General
Manager for Singapore since 2018.
Mr. Dubost joined Carlsberg Group in
2011 as Vice President of Marketing
(Kronenbourg) in France, and was
appointed Vice President – Commercial
of Carlsberg Asia Region from 2016 to
2018, based in Hong Kong.
He has more than 25 years’ experience
in global FMCG and luxury goods with
commercial leadership functions in
Spain, UK, France and Asia.
Age: 36 Age: 44 Age: 48
Senior Supply
Chain Director
Human Resources
Director
General Manager,
Carlsberg Singapore
Pte. Ltd.
MANAGEMENT
TEAM PROFILES
GARY TAN SIM HUAN
Date of Appointment:
17 August 2009
Academic/Professional
Qualification(s):
• BA (Hons) Economics, University of
Malaya
Work Experience:
Mr. Tan oversees the sales and
distribution functions of the duty-paid,
duty-free & exports businesses within
the Malaysia operations.
He has 26 years of experience in the
fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG)
business.
Prior to joining the Group, he was the
Customer Development Director of
Unilever Malaysia.
Age: 51
Sales Director
CAROLINE MOREAU
Date of Appointment:
7 January 2019
Academic/Professional
Qualification(s):
• Master’s degree (ESCP-EAP), PSB
Paris School of Business, France
Work Experience:
Ms. Caroline oversees the brand and
channel marketing, market research,
market intelligence and business
development functions.
She has been with the Group since 2007
and her last role was as Commercial
Director of Global Craft and Specialty
Beer. She has more than 20 years of
international experience in the FMCG
industry.
Age: 46
Marketing Director
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
85
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
THE ROLES OF CHAIRMAN AND MANAGING DIRECTOR
ARE SEPARATE AND CLEARLY DEFINED
ALL OF THE NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTORS ARE
CONSIDERED BY THE BOARD TO BE INDEPENDENT OF
MANAGEMENT AND FREE OF ANY RELATIONSHIPS
THAT COULD INTERFERE WITH THE EXERCISE OF THEIR
INDEPENDENT JUDGEMENT.
CHAIRMAN
• Responsible for the leadership, effectiveness, conduct and
governance of the Board.
• Collectively with the Board, holds the Managing Director
and Management Team accountable for meeting strategic
objectives of Carlsberg Malaysia.
MANAGING DIRECTOR
• Responsible for the day-to-day management of the
operations of Carlsberg Malaysia Group as well as
the implementation of the Board’s policies, directives,
strategies and decisions.
• Accountable to the Board for ensuring the Management
Team perform based on approved strategic and operational
plans and key performance indicators.
NON-EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR
• Provides a sounding board for the Chairman and serves as
an intermediary for other Directors and shareholders.
• Provides the Chairman with support in the delivery of
objectives, where necessary.
• Works closely with the Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, leads the process for the evaluation of
the Chairman and ensures orderly succession of the
Chairman’s role.
• Acts as an alternative contact for shareholders, providing
a means of raising concerns other than with the Chairman
or Management team.
• The Non-Executive Directors play a key role in
constructively challenging and scrutinising the performance
of the management of the Group and helping to develop
proposals on strategy.
DATUK TOH AH WAH P.M.W.
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
1
1
2 3 4
5 6 7
STEFANO CLINI
Managing Director
2
CHEW HOY PING
Independent Non-Executive Director
3
CHAN PO KEI KAY
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
6
GAVIN STUART BROCKETT
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
5
LEONARD CORNELIS JORDEN EVERS
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
4
DATUK LEE OI KUAN
Independent Non-Executive Director
7
A FOCUSED
AND ACCOUNTABLE BOARD
BOARD DIRECTORS’ EXPERIENCE AND SKILLS
NONE OF THE BOARD MEMBERS HOLD MORE THAN FIVE DIRECTORSHIPS in listed issuers, which complies with Paragraph 15.06 of the
MMLR. Their directorships in listed issuers and public companies are set out in the Directors’ Profiles on pages 86 to 89 of this report.
The Directors have skills and experience relevant to the sector in which the Group operates in order to effectively set the strategic direction and
purpose of the Group.
Board Directors’ Composition 7 Independent
3 Non-Independent
4
Board
Diversity
Female
2
Male
5
Ethnicity
Malaysian
3
Hong Kong
1
South African
1
Dutch
1
Italian
1
Age
Group
56 – 60
3
61 – 65
3
50 – 55
1
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
86
Date of Appointment
17 May 2017
Length of Service
(as of 16 March 2022)
4 years 10 months
(Chairman since 12 April 2018)
Date of Last Re-Election
Re-elected 14 April 2021
Academic/Professional
Qualification(s)
• Bachelor of Commerce from
Concordia University of
Montreal, Canada
Date of Appointment
26 October 2019
Length of Service
(as of 16 March 2022)
2 years 4 months
Date of Last Re-Election
Re-elected 9 July 2020
Academic/Professional
Qualification(s)
• Bachelor’s Degree in Business
and Economics, Libera Università
Internazionale degli Studi Sociali
Guido Carli (LUISS)
DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
DATUK TOH AH WAH
P.M.W.
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
STEFANO CLINI
Managing Director
Work Experience and Present Directorship(s)
Datuk Toh Ah Wah joined Rothmans of Pall Mall (Malaysia) Berhad in
July 1981 and stayed with this organisation throughout his professional
career – this included being merged into British American Tobacco
(Malaysia) Berhad (BAT Malaysia) in 1999. He retired from BAT
Malaysia at the end of June 2013.
Datuk Toh spent the first 10 years in sales and marketing in Malaysia.
He subsequently began a succession of increasingly challenging line
roles throughout the Asia Pacific region, including China, Hong Kong,
Taiwan, New Zealand, South Asia and Southeast Asia.
This culminated in his appointment as Managing Director of BAT
Malaysia in October 2009, the first and only Malaysian to have ever
held this position.
Datuk Toh also sits on the board of Petronas Chemicals Group Berhad
and is a trustee of the CHOICE Foundation.
Work Experience and Present Directorship(s)
Mr. Stefano Clini is responsible for Carlsberg’s Southeast Asia subregion,
comprising Malaysia and Singapore, and oversees the Group’s
investment in Sri Lanka.
Prior to his current appointment, Mr. Clini was Managing Director of
Carlsberg Vietnam Breweries Ltd. from 2017 to 2019 where he led a
successful turnaround with record growth in both top- and bottom-
line. He was previously Managing Director of British American Tobacco
(Malaysia) Berhad from 2013 to 2016, overseeing operations in Malaysia
and Singapore.
He has 30 years of experience in the global consumer goods industry
and has held various senior leadership and commercial roles within H.J.
Heinz in Italy from 2005 to 2013 and Procter and Gamble (P&G) in Italy,
Belgium, Switzerland and Turkey from 1990 to 2005.
Mr. Clini is currently the Chairman of Carlsberg Singapore Pte. Ltd. He
is also on the boards of Carlsberg Marketing Sdn Bhd, a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Group, the Malaysian Danish Business Council and
Maybev Pte. Ltd., a 51%-owned subsidiary of Carlsberg Singapore Pte.
Ltd., Lion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC and Ceylon Beverage Holdings PLC.
He is also a member of the Governing Council of the Confederation of
Malaysian Brewers Berhad.
Age
64
Age
55
AC
NRC
RMC RMC
AC Audit Committee NRC Nomination & Remuneration Committee RMC Risk Management Committee Solid background signifies Committee Chair
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
87
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
Date of Appointment
23 May 2014
Length of Service
(as of 16 March 2022)
7 years 9 months
Date of Last Re-Election
Re-elected 10 April 2019
Academic/Professional
Qualification(s)
• Member of the Malaysian
Institute of Accountants
• Member of the Malaysian
Institute of Certified Public
Accountants
Date of Appointment
23 July 2021
Length of Service
(as of 16 March 2022)
7 months
Date of Last Re-Election
N/A
Academic/Professional
Qualification(s)
• Masters in Business
Administration, Erasmus
University, Rotterdam
CHEW HOY PING
Independent Non-Executive Director
LEONARD CORNELIS
JORDEN EVERS
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Work Experience and Present Directorship(s)
Mr. Chew Hoy Ping had mainly a professional background through
PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC), where he served for 30 years in various
capacities starting in 1976, including 15 years as a partner of the firm.
His professional career with PwC encompassed a range of disciplines,
from accounting and auditing to corporate finance and business
restructuring. He also held leadership roles such as Chair of Financial
Advisory Services for the Asia Pacific region, Risk Management
Leader and Deputy Chair of the Governance Board. Mr. Chew’s work
experience also included secondments to PwC Houston, Texas
(1982-1984) and Bank Negara Malaysia (1986-1988).
Mr. Chew is currently the Chairman of Ge-Shen Corporation Berhad and
a member of its Audit Committee. He is also the Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director of Mulpha International Berhad and Mudajaya
Group Berhad where he is also the chair of their respective Audit
Committees.
Work Experience and Present Directorship(s)
Mr. Evers was appointed as the Executive Vice President for Carlsberg
Asia Region with effect from 1 July 2021. He is also a member of the
Executive Committee of Carlsberg Group.
Mr. Evers has extensive experience in the food and beverage industry,
having been with Heineken since 1990 in several managerial positions.
His last role with Heineken was as Regional Managing Director of
Heineken APAC.
Age
64
Age
57
AC
NRC
RMC
DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
AC Audit Committee NRC Nomination & Remuneration Committee RMC Risk Management Committee Solid background signifies Committee Chair
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
88
DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
AC Audit Committee NRC Nomination & Remuneration Committee RMC Risk Management Committee Solid background signifies Committee Chair
Date of Appointment
17 February 2022
Length of Service
(as of 16 March 2022)
1 month
Date of Last Re-Election
N/A
Academic/Professional
Qualification(s)
• Bachelor of Accountancy
& Bachelor of Commerce,
University of Witwatersrand
GAVIN STUART BROCKETT
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Work Experience and Present Directorship(s)
Prior to joining the Carlsberg Group, Mr. Brockett was the Senior Vice
President and Global Controller of Levi Strauss & Co.
He has many years of experience in the consumer beverage industry,
having been employed by SABMiller Plc initially in South Africa in 1991
and thereafter the SABMiller subsidiaries in the Czech Republic and then
in Italy. He also held various leadership positions in the Carlsberg Group
between 2010 and 2013, and again from 2014 to 2016.
Mr. Brockett was appointed as the Vice President Finance, Asia of
Carlsberg Breweries A/S with effect from 1 January 2022.
Age
60
Date of Appointment
16 December 2020
Length of Service
(as of 16 March 2022)
1 year 3 months
Date of Last Re-Election
Re-elected 14 April 2021
Academic/Professional
Qualification(s)
• Masters, Training & Human
Resources Management,
University of Leicester, UK
• Diploma, Training Management,
The Chinese University of Hong
Kong /Institute of Training &
Development, UK
• Degree, Bachelor of Business
Administration, The Chinese
University of Hong Kong
CHAN PO KEI KAY
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Work Experience and Present Directorship(s)
Ms. Chan is a seasoned Human Resources practitioner with over
28 years’ experience in Hong Kong and China. She is currently Vice
President Human Resources Asia of Carlsberg, leading the HR function
in Asia.
Prior to joining Carlsberg Group, Ms. Chan was the VP HR Asia Pacific
for over 10 years with Vertiv Asia Pacific and in other multinationals in
country and regional HR coverage roles.
Age
56
NRC
AC
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
89
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
DIRECTORS'
PROFILES
Date of Appointment
28 February 2022
Length of Service
(as of 16 March 2022)
17 days
Date of Last Re-Election
N/A
Academic/Professional
Qualification(s)
• Bachelor of Law,
University of Malaya
DATUK LEE OI KUAN
Independent Non-Executive Director
Work Experience and Present Directorship(s)
Datuk Lee served at the Attorney General's Chambers of Malaysia in
the Prosecution, Advisory and Internal Law Divisions from 1983 to 1993.
Thereafter, she joined Hong Leong Industries Berhad and Malaysian
Pacific Industries as the Head of Legal and Company Secretary from
1993 to 2001.
In 2001, Datuk Lee joined British American Tobacco (Malaysia) Berhad
and served as its Legal and External Affairs Director until her retirement
in 2018. She is currently the Non-Independent and Non-Executive
Director of British American Tobacco (Malaysia) Berhad and also a
member of its Sustainability Committee.
Age
63
Other information on Directors:
• Each Director does not have any family relationships with any Directors and/or major
shareholders of the Group.
• Each Director does not have any conflict of interest with the Group.
• Each Director has not been convicted of an offence in the last five years, nor has any public
sanction or penalty been imposed on them by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
year 2021 other than traffic offences, if any.
• Details of the Directors’ attendance at Board meetings are set out in the Corporate Governance
Overview Statement on pages 90 to 101 of this Annual Report.
AC Audit Committee NRC Nomination & Remuneration Committee RMC Risk Management Committee Solid background signifies Committee Chair
NRC
RMC
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
90
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS
THIS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT SETS OUT OUR REPORT TO
SHAREHOLDERS ON THE STATUS OF OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE ARRANGEMENTS.
IT IS TO BE READ IN TANDEM WITH OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT, WHICH
DETAILS OUR APPLICATION OF THE PRINCIPLES CONTAINED IN THE MALAYSIAN CODE ON
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 2021 (MCCG 2021). THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CAN
BE VIEWED ONLINE AT WWW.CARLSBERGMALAYSIA.COM.MY.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the activities of the Group and its various businesses
are conducted in compliance with the law, regulatory requirements and rules and good practices,
ethically and with appropriate and proper governance and standards. This includes reviewing internal
RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE
Key Roles and Responsibilities:
To oversee financial and accounting
reporting, evaluate audit processes, assess
internal control systems and review related
party transactions (RPTs) & conflict of
interest situations.
Key Roles and Responsibilities:
To review the remuneration matters of
Directors and Management Team, oversee
the Directors' selection process and annual
Board and Board Committees’ performance
assessment, evaluate the performance
of the Managing Director and ensure
management succession planning.
Key Roles and Responsibilities:
To review the adequacy and effectiveness
of the risk management framework and
internal control systems of Carlsberg
Malaysia Group.
AUDIT
COMMITTEE
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION
COMMITTEE
CHEW HOY PING
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Chairman
CHEW HOY PING
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Chairman
CHEW HOY PING
Independent
Non-Executive Director
CHAN PO KEI KAY
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
MICHELLE TANYA ACHUTHAN
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Chairperson
DATUK TOH AH WAH
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Member
DATUK TOH AH WAH
Independent
Non-Executive Director
ROLAND ARTHUR
LAWRENCE
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
Member
5/5
5/5
5/5
DATUK TOH AH WAH
Independent
Non-Executive Director
MICHELLE TANYA ACHUTHAN
Independent
Non-Executive Director
STEFANO CLINI
Managing Director
Member
4/4
3/4
4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4
4/4
BOARD ATTENDANCE IN 2021
controls, ensuring that there is an appropriate balance of skills and experience represented on the
Board, compliance with the MCCG 2021 and maintaining appropriate relations with shareholders and
other stakeholders.
There were some changes to the Board in FY2021 and up to the date of this report. Leonard
Cornelis Jorden Evers joined the Board on 23 July 2021, replacing Graham James Fewkes. This
was followed by the retirement of Roland Arthur Lawrence on 17 February 2022 and he was
replaced by Gavin Stuart Brockett, the new Vice President Finance of Carlsberg Asia. Lastly,
we bade farewell to Michelle Tanya Achuthan on 28 February 2022 and at the same time,
welcomed Datuk Lee Oi Kuan to the Board.
DATUK TOH AH WAH
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
4/4
MICHELLE TANYA ACHUTHAN
Independent Non-Executive Director
3/4
STEFANO CLINI
Managing Director
4/4
ROLAND ARTHUR LAWRENCE
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
4/4
CHEW HOY PING
Independent Non-Executive Director
4/4
CHAN PO KEI KAY
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
4/4
LEONARD CORNELIS JORDEN EVERS
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
*Appointed on 23 July 2021
1/2
GRAHAM JAMES FEWKES
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
*Resigned on 23 July 2021
1/2
BOARD COMMITTEES AND ATTENDANCE IN 2021
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
91
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
OUR FRAMEWORK IS GOVERNED BY THE FOLLOWING GUIDELINES:
- Main Market Listing Requirements
- Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021
- Companies Act 2016
- Bursa Malaysia’s Corporate Governance Guidelines 4th Edition
LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS
GOVERNANCE
CARLSBERG GROUP SUSTAINABILITY
Drives strategic initiatives/partnerships,
supports Sustainability Champions
CARLSBERG GROUP
SUPERVISORY BOARD
CARLSBERG GROUP
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Accountable for TTZ performance
CARLSBERG SUSTAINABILITY
ADVISORY BOARD
Provides external perspective
TOGETHER TOWARDS ZERO (TTZ) AREA OWNERS
Responsible for TTZ implementation in their area
ZERO
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
ZERO
WATER
WASTE
ZERO
IRRESPONSIBLE
DRINKING
ZERO
ACCIDENTS
CULTURE
EVP Integrated Supply Chain EVP Integrated Supply Chain Chief Commercial Officer EVP Integrated Supply Chain
CARLSBERG MALAYSIA GROUP
Responsible for demonstrating leadership and integrating TTZ
Led by Managing Director, overseen by Board of Directors
ZERO
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
ZERO
WATER
WASTE
ZERO
IRRESPONSIBLE
DRINKING
ZERO
ACCIDENTS
CULTURE
GOVERNANCE PEOPLE
Supply Chain
Director
Supply Chain
Director
Corporate Affairs &
Sustainability
Director
Supply Chain
Director
Legal & Compliance
Director
Human Resources
Director
Head of PMO,
Utilities & Site
Services (Group)
Head of PMO,
Utilities & Site
Services (Group)
Corporate Affairs &
Sustainability
Director (Malaysia)
Director of
Human Resources
(Singapore)
Manager,
Health, Safety,
Security &
Environment
(Group)
Legal & Compliance
Director (Group)
Human Resources
Director (Malaysia)
Director of
Human Resources
(Singapore)
Corporate Affairs & Sustainability Director
ESG OWNERS
Responsible for local implementation of sustainability initiatives
MATTERS RESERVED FOR THE BOARD
There is an agreed list of matters reserved for the Board’s consideration,
which is formalised in the Board Charter. This is reviewed and
updated as appropriate. The Board Charter was last reviewed by the
Board on 9 December 2021 and is available on the Group’s website,
www.carlsbergmalaysia.com.my.
HOW WE GOVERN THE GROUP
Our governance structure comprises the Board and various Committees,
supported by the Group’s standards, policies and risk management and
internal control framework, which are described in more detail in this
report. The Board leads the Group’s governance structure and is assisted
by three principal Committees (Audit, Nomination and Remuneration
and Risk Management), each of which is responsible for reviewing and
dealing with matters within its own Terms of Reference. The minutes of
all Committee meetings are circulated prior to scheduled Board meetings.
The Company Secretary acts as Secretary to all Board committees.
CONDUCT OF
THE BOARD
REMUNERATION
OPERATIONAL
PERFORMANCE
FINANCIAL
PERFORMANCE
OTHER MATTERS
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
92
Board meetings are an important mechanism by which the Directors discharge their duties. Board meetings are also an important platform for the Board to debate robustly and challenge management
on elements of the Group’s performance, specific projects or areas of strategic significance. Meeting agendas, agreed in advance by the Chairman and Company Secretary, combine a balance of regular
standing items, such as reports on current operational and financial performance.
All Directors are briefed through comprehensive papers circulated in advance of Board meetings and by presentations at those meetings, in addition to receiving minutes of previous meetings. Their
understanding of the Group’s business is enhanced by business specific presentations and operational visits to the Group’s businesses. Separate strategy meetings and meetings with senior executives and
representatives of specific functions, brands or business units are also held throughout the year. Members of the Board may take independent professional advice in the furtherance of their duties and the
Board has approved a formal process for such advice to be made available. Members of the Board also have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary, the Company’s legal and other
professional advisers and its external auditor.
BOARD ACTIVITIES
• Quarterly financial results
• Interim/Final Dividend considerations
• Capex investments
• Related party transactions
• Corporate governance considerations
• Sustainability updates
• Stakeholder management
OPERATIONAL MATTERS
• Supply chain update
• Sales update
• Marketing activities
• Corporate affairs/regulatory matters
• Legal cases/disputes/recovery update
• HR updates including on DE&I initiatives
• Major capex investments project
monitoring
• Insurance update
• IT and cybersecurity update
• Statutory compliance for licences
and permits
YEARLY ACTIVITIES
• Strategic and commercial review
• Budget for the coming financial year
• Remuneration for Management Team
and Executives
• Talent Management Update and
Succession Planning
• Review of the Objectives of the
Management Team
• Reviewing disclosures in the Company’s
Annual Report and Circular to
Shareholders
• Reviewing the Board Effectiveness
Evaluation findings
• Reviewing the Internal Audit and External
Auditor's evaluation findings
RISK MATTERS
• Quarterly risk register review
(including ABC risk register)
• Quarterly compliance activities
• Quarterly internal audit reports
• Progress reporting on Speak Up matters
(whistleblowing cases)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
93
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
QUALIFIED AND COMPETENT COMPANY SECRETARIES
The Board is supported by two qualified and competent company secretaries
as follows:
(a) Ms. Koh Poi San
Ms. Koh Poi San was appointed as the Company Secretary with
effect from 19 February 2020. She is also the Legal & Compliance
Director, leading both functions in the Group, and a member of the
Management Team.
(b) Ms. Chia Cai Jin
Ms. Chia Cai Jin was appointed as the Assistant Secretary with
effect from 11 October 2021. She has been an Associate member of
the Malaysian Institute of Corporate Secretaries and Administrators
(MAICSA) since 2021 and is also currently the Legal Manager of the
Group.
The Group also engages the services of Tricor Corporate Services Sdn Bhd, an external consultant on corporate secretarial matters and regulatory compliance,
to provide additional advice on issues pertaining to compliance and corporate governance.
GENDER DIVERSITY
The Board is supportive of gender
diversity in the Board composition
and Management Team. For FY2021,
two out of the seven Board members
were women, i.e. 29%, with one of
the female Board members being
an Independent Director and the
Chairperson of the Nomination
& Remuneration Committee. The
Management Team comprised a
majority (56%) of women leaders.
The Board, through Nomination and Remuneration Committee (NRC)
will continue to consider gender diversity as part of its future selection of
Board representation. The Board recognises that a diverse Board in the
Group can offer greater depth and breadth of perspectives, and diversity in
Management Team will lead to better collective decisions.
With the recent resignation of Ms. Michelle Tanya Achuthan on
28 February 2022, the NRC recommended, for the approval of the Board,
the appointment of Datuk Lee Oi Kuan as a new Board member effective
28 February 2022, reconfirming the gender diversity measures for new
Board appointments.
DIVERSE BOARD AND MANAGEMENT TEAM
Appointment of Board members and Management Team is based on
objective criteria and merit, and besides gender diversity, due regard is given
to diversity in skills, experience, age and cultural background.
Directors
Management
Team
2
Female
56%
Female
5
Male
44%
Male
Ensure compliance
with listing and related
statutory obligations as
well as provide updates on
regulatory requirements,
codes, guidance and
relevant legislation;
Ensure adherence to Board
policies and procedures,
rules, relevant laws and
best practices on corporate
governance;
Attend Board, Committee
and General Meetings,
ensure the proper recording
of minutes and follow up on
matters arising;
Ensure proper upkeep of
statutory registers and
records and maintain a
secure retrieval system
which stores meeting
papers and minutes of
meetings; and
Assist the Chairman in the
planning and execution
of meetings in terms of
policies and procedures,
as well as updates on
regulatory requirements,
codes, guidance, and
relevant legislation.
A B C D E
The profiles of the Directors and
Management Team are set out on
pages 82 to 89 of this Annual Report.
Please refer to the profiles of the Directors and the Management Team on pages 82
to 89 for further information.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS
Both Company Secretaries have the requisite credentials and are qualified to act as company secretaries under Section 235(2) of the Companies Act 2016.
The role of the Company Secretaries is to provide the following support to the Board:
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
94
ICDM FINDINGS
There is openness and debate in Board and
Committee meetings. The Board works as a team
with emphasis on honest open communication,
trust and respect, as well as driving the right
level of accountability and integrity. Board
Director relationships are friendly and collegial
and members are professional and respectful of
one another. The Managing Director manages
the Board relationships well, is supportive and
serves as a bridge to the Management Team.
There is a consensus that the Board is very
responsive to Management Team when urgent
matters are brought to its attention and will do
the necessary to make the required decisions in
a timely manner.
CHAIRMAN
Board members see the
Chairman as an effective leader
who is open-minded, and who
provides the room, time and
platform for all Directors to
voice out ideas and concerns.
It was observed that the
Chairman is a fully engaged
Chair who initiates additional
ideas and robust discussions.
ANNUAL EVALUATION OF BOARD EFFECTIVENESS
The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of the Board’s
effectiveness and periodically engages independent experts
to facilitate objective and candid Board evaluations. The
2021 external Board and Directors Effectiveness Evaluation
was facilitated by the Institute of Corporate Directors of
Malaysia (ICDM). ICDM has no other connection with the
Group.
THE EVALUATION PROCESS
Access to Board and Committee papers was provided to
ICDM through a secure portal with strict controls. Detailed
interviews were conducted with each Board member in
Q4 2021, as well as with a number of Management Team
members. A comprehensive report was compiled by the
evaluation team based on the information and views
supplied by those interviewed and observations from the
Board and Committee meetings. The draft conclusions
were discussed with the Chairman and subsequently with
the Board. Following the Board discussion, feedback was
provided to each of the Committee Chairs on the performance
of each Committee. In addition, the Chairman received a
report with feedback on each Director. The key observations
were discussed by the Board and its Committees ahead of
finalising action plans.
THE OUTCOME
As a result of the process, the Board concluded that it was operating in an effective manner, benefiting from positive dynamics, strong
engagement and relationships with Management Team and a boardroom culture that allows for open and constructive challenge.
Each Director contributes effectively to the Board. The Board benefited from the annual review process, the results of which help guide the
future focus of meeting agendas and behaviours.
”
As a result of the effectiveness
evaluation process carried out
in 2021, the Board concluded
that both it and its Committees
were operating effectively.
“
BOARD ACTION PLAN 2022
The Board deliberated on and agreed to undertake the following activities, as proposed by ICDM, for FY2022:
• Formalise the appointment of a Senior Independent Director
• Establish a Board Succession Plan
• Establish a more structured yet bespoke and comprehensive onboarding process
• Establish a more structured annual training & development plan for the Board
• Enhance the structure of Board meetings to limit presentation time and allow more time for debate or discussion
• Directors to continuously keep abreast of sustainability issues, including climate change and ESG topics
• Enhance the sustainability targets in the performance evaluation of the Management Team – revisit weightage, monitor achievements
and consider cascading the same to all levels of talent.
BOARD REVIEW INSIGHTS
Discussions elicit very active
participation by Independent
Directors and individual Board
members demonstrate a high level
of commitment to their fiduciary
duties. The Board comprises a good
mix and balance of experience, skill
sets and diversity, and comprises
qualified members in its composition.
The Board meets the standards
of corporate governance and has
established processes to undertake
its duties and responsibilities.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
95
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
DIRECTORS' INDUCTION AND TRAINING
The Chairman leads the Board and is responsible for its overall effectiveness
in directing the Group. In this light, and in accordance with best practice, the
Chairman addresses the developmental needs of the Board as a whole, with
a view to further developing its effectiveness as a team, and ensures that
each Director refreshes and updates his or her individual skills, knowledge
and expertise. Directors are also provided with updates as necessary on
relevant legal, regulatory and financial developments, changes in best
practice and environmental, social and governance matters, delivered by
the Company Secretary and others.
Meetings between the Non-Executive Directors, both with and without
the presence of the Chairman and the Managing Director, are scheduled
in the Board’s annual programme. Board meetings are also held at Group
business locations when possible, to help all Board members gain a deeper
understanding of the business, and to provide senior managers from
across the Group with the opportunity to present to the Board, as well
as to meet and interact with the Directors in more informal settings. This
was somewhat curtailed in FY2021 given the COVID-19 pandemic and most
Board meetings during this period took place online, but it is hoped that this
valuable practice will resume when circumstances allow.
A formal, comprehensive and tailored induction is provided to all Non-
Executive Directors following their appointment, including visits to key
locations within the Group and meetings with members of the Management
Team and other key senior executives. The induction also covers a review of
the Group’s governance policies, structures and business, including details
of the risks (including environmental, social and governance risks) and
operating issues facing the Group to ensure that the new Non-Executive
Directors understand the main areas of business activity and the key risks
and issues facing the Group.
GOVERNANCE
AND RISK
21
TRAINING SESSIONS/
COURSES
TRAINING SESSIONS/
COURSES
STRATEGY
1
TRAINING SESSIONS/
COURSES
FINANCE AND
ACCOUNTING
6
TRAINING SESSIONS/
COURSES
SUSTAINABILITY
20
TRAINING SESSIONS/
COURSES
LEADERSHIP
28
TRAINING SESSIONS/
COURSES
OPERATIONS
11 TRAINING
TOPICS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
96
REMUNERATION
The objective of the Group’s remuneration policy is to attract and
retain the Directors required to lead and control the Group effectively.
In the case of Executive Directors, the components of the remuneration
package are linked to corporate and individual performance.
For Non-Executive Directors, the level of remuneration is reflective of
their roles, experience and level of responsibilities.
Under the Group’s current remuneration policy, the fees payable
to Non-Executive Directors are paid to Independent Non-Executive
Directors only and include fees for their roles, if any, as the AC
Chairman, RMC Chairman, NRC Chairman and as Members of these
Board Committees. The remuneration for Non-Executive Directors who
are Non-Independent and are representatives of the Carlsberg Group is
not paid by the Group but is paid by the Carlsberg Group.
REMUNERATION OF DIRECTORS AND MANAGEMENT TEAM
Details of Directors’ Remuneration
The remuneration payable in respect of Directors’ fees for FY2021 is
categorised as below:
Remuneration for Directors’ fees
Amount per annum
(RM)
Chairman of the Group 120,000
Each Independent Non-Executive Director 75,000
AC Chairman 20,000
AC Member 8,000
NRC Chairman 2,500
NRC Member 2,000
RMC Chairman 2,500
RMC Member 2,000
Meeting allowance per meeting 1,500
The Board has proposed the adoption of the same Directors’ fee structure and rates for 2022 and for the fees to be paid monthly.
The Directors’ fees are subject to the approval of the shareholders of the Group.
The remuneration of the Directors of the Group for 2021 was as follows:
Fees
(RM)
Salaries
(RM)
Allowances
(RM)
Benefits
-in-kind
(RM)
Others
Emoluments
(RM)
Total
(RM)
Independent Non-Executive Directors
Datuk Toh Ah Wah 132,068 - 27,000 1,776 - 160,844
Chew Hoy Ping 99,500 - 27,000 393 - 126,893
Michelle Tanya Achuthan 79,432 - 19,500 1,659 - 100,591
Executive Director
Stefano Clini - 2,069,212 121,855 44,197 1,492,347 3,727,611
Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors
Roland Arthur Lawrence - - - - - -
Chan Po Kei Kay - - - - - -
Leonard Cornelis Jorden Evers
(appointed on 23 July 2021) - - - - - -
Graham James Fewkes
(resigned on 23 July 2021) - - - - - -
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
97
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
The NRC develops, maintains and reviews the criteria for recruitment and annual assessment of the
Directors.
The Terms of Reference of the NRC are set out in Appendix C of the Board Charter and are
available on the corporate website at www.carlsbergmalaysia.com.my. In this regard, the NRC key
responsibilities are as follows:
Reviewing the Board composition and recommending new nominees to the Board and to the
Committees, as well as the appointment and resignation of the Managing Director, for the
Board’s consideration.
Assessing the effectiveness of the Board, the Committees and the contribution of each Director
(including the Independent Non-Executive Directors and Managing Director) every year, taking
into consideration the required mix of skills, knowledge, expertise and experience and any other
requisite qualities, including core competencies for Non-Executive Directors. All assessments
and evaluations are documented for proper records.
Reviewing and recommending to the Board the remuneration of the Executive Directors, and
determining the Managing Director’s perks and benefits.
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
The NRC, which is charged with the responsibility of, among others, recommending the appointment of new Directors to the Board, comprised a majority of Independent Non-Executive Directors.
The current members are:
Appointment Process
The Board, through the NRC, is responsible for ensuring that there is effective and orderly succession
planning in the Group. The Committee reviews candidates and formulates nomination, selection
and succession policies for members of the Board. The Board then deliberates on the Committee’s
recommendations.
In respect of the appointment of all Directors, the NRC considers shortlisted candidates based on
their profiles, professional achievements and personality assessments. Appropriate candidates for
Independent Directors are sourced through recommendations as well as external search firms based
on the needs of the Board. The NRC then ensures that the candidates are suitable and of sufficient
calibre for recommendation to the Board for approval by reviewing the profiles of the candidates
and, where deemed appropriate, conducting interviews with the shortlisted candidates.
Upon the appointment of a Director, the particular Director will receive a letter of appointment
enclosing the Board Charter, which outlines his/her duties and responsibilities.
The Company Secretary will facilitate an induction and education programme for new Board
members, which includes a visit to the Group’s brewery and discussions with the Managing Director,
Department Heads and Key Section Heads to better understand the operations, business and
policies of the Group, so as to enable the new Directors to contribute effectively from the onset of
their appointment. The relevant sections of the MMLR, particularly in relation to their responsibilities
as Directors, are also conveyed to them. All new Directors are also expected to attend, if they have
not done so, the Mandatory Accreditation Programme (MAP) as prescribed by Bursa Malaysia.
DATUK LEE OI KUAN
Independent Non-Executive Director
DATUK TOH AH WAH
Independent Non-Executive Director
MR. CHEW HOY PING
Independent Non-Executive Director
MS. CHAN PO KEI KAY
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
CHAIRPERSON MEMBERS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
LEADERSHIP & EFFECTIVENESS
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
98
The Board has overall responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control and risk management
and determines our strategic approach to risk.
The Board and the Risk Management Committee review the effectiveness of the system and ensure
that there is a process in place for identifying, evaluating and managing the significant risks to
the achievement of the Group’s strategic objectives. While the Board as a whole is responsible for
the Group’s system of internal control, the Board has delegated responsibility for monitoring the
effectiveness of the Company’s risk management and internal control systems to both the Audit and
Risk Management Committees. The Committees oversee a risk-based internal audit programme,
including periodic audits of the risk processes across the Group.
This provides assurance on the management of risk and receives reports on the efficiency and
effectiveness of internal controls. Each of the individual business units and functional Management
Teams drive the process through which principal and emerging risks and uncertainties are identified.
The Board understands that the individual business units and functional Management Teams are
best placed to identify the principal and emerging risks and uncertainties associated with their
respective areas of business. Risks identified and associated mitigating controls are subject to review
by the Board and the Committees on a regular basis.
The process for identifying, evaluating and managing risk has been in place throughout the financial
year. This system of internal control is designed to manage and mitigate, rather than eliminate, the
risk of failure to achieve business objectives. The internal control systems can only provide reasonable
assurance, rather than absolute assurance, against material misstatement or loss.
The Board’s approach to risk management is set out on pages 105 to 107.
In analysing and reviewing risks, the Committees and the Board consider:
• The nature and extent of the risks, including principal risks facing the Group, as well as emerging
risks;
• The extent and categories of risks it regarded as desirable or acceptable for the Group to bear;
• The likelihood of the risk concerned materialising and the impact of associated risks materialising
as a consequence;
• The Group’s ability to reduce the incidence and impact on its business of risks that do materialise;
• The operation of the relevant controls and control processes;
• The costs of operating particular controls relative to the benefits in managing related risks; and
• The Group’s risk culture.
The key elements of the Group’s system of internal control are as follows:
• Clearly defined organisation structures and lines of authority;
• Corporate policies for financial reporting, treasury and financial risk management, information
technology and cybersecurity, project appraisal, capital expenditure and corporate governance;
• Annual budgets and strategic business plans for all business units, identifying key risks and
opportunities;
• Monitoring of performance against budgets and forecasts and reporting thereon to the Directors
on a regular basis; and
• The Audit and Risk Management Committees, which approve audit plans, monitor performance
against plans and deal with significant control issues raised by the external auditor.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
EFFECTIVE AUDIT & RISK MANAGEMENT
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
99
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
RELATIONSHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS
OUR PURPOSE-LED STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Our aim is to create a brighter future for all through effective engagement and to understand
the needs of all our stakeholders in order to deliver value and build a better, more resilient and
sustainable business. The Board is aware that the Group’s actions and decisions impact all of our
stakeholders and it strives to ensure that there is regular dialogue taking place with stakeholders.
Our sustainability section sets out how our purpose and sustainability strategy are interlinked
with stakeholders in mind. The Group also has a Code of Ethics and Conduct which set outs the
fundamental principles and values directly applicable to our stakeholders.
The importance of our relationships and regular dialogue with stakeholders was brought to the
fore as we navigated through the challenges associated with the COVID-19 pandemic. The table
below sets out the Board and Management Team’s approach to stakeholder engagement, why
stakeholders matter and some key decisions made during 2021.
LISTENING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Dialogue with stakeholders helps us understand what matters most to them and respond. This
is essential for fostering open communications and building trust. Their input helps us define and
prioritise our sustainability efforts. And our partnerships with stakeholders enable us to drive progress
Together Towards ZERO.
How we engage with stakeholders on sustainability topics
STAKEHOLDER HOW WE ENGAGE TOPICS OF INTEREST OUR RESPONSE REFERENCE PAGE
Consumers
Marketing campaigns
Social media
Local websites
Responsible drinking initiatives
Consumer demand for healthier and
more sustainable options is growing.
Sustainable packaging is the most
tangible aspect of sustainable products
for consumers.
We are developing products and packaging that are more sustainable
for the planet through our TTZ targets on carbon and water. We are
also developing a process to implement sustainability in each of our
brands. We place a strong emphasis on enjoying our beers responsibly
in our marketing campaign, in particular our efforts to create
awareness on drink-driving. Our responsible drinking initiatives also
connect directly with consumers.
Read more on
carbon and water
on pages 42 to 48
and responsible
drinking on pages
49 to 51
Customers
Sales and marketing channels
Responsible drinking partnerships
Customers’ supplier requirements,
questionnaires and audits
Customer satisfaction surveys
Customers want to know how we
can help them achieve their own
sustainability goals and meet consumer
demand for more sustainable options.
In addition to our own response to consumers, we partner
with customers such as bars and retailers on campaigns like
#CelebrateResponsibly. We also help customers reduce sustainability
risks in their supply chain through our TTZ programme and by
conducting business responsibly.
Read more on
pages 49 to 51
Employees
Biennial global employee survey
Regular dialogue and feedback
Twice-yearly performance reviews
Formal consultation with employee
representatives
Feedback from our latest employee
survey in 2021 showed improved
employee engagement and highlighted
several areas where we could improve,
including more frequent feedback and
recognition, career opportunities and
support for well-being.
We have responded to what employees told us in 2019 by building
more continuous feedback into our people processes and encouraging
managers to focus more on supporting development and well-being.
As a result, our MyVoice Employee Engagement Score improved by
2 percentage points in 2021 to 77% in Malaysia operations.
Read more on
pages 58 to 62
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
100
STAKEHOLDER HOW WE ENGAGE TOPICS OF INTEREST OUR RESPONSE REFERENCE PAGE
Industry
Engagement through industry
organisations, such as the
Confederation of Malaysian Brewers
Berhad (CMBB), and the Singapore
Beer Industry Association (SBIA)
Industry peers are keen to work
together to tackle common challenges
and protect the reputation of brewing
companies and the wider beverage
industry.
Together with other members of the CMBB and SBIA, we are
committed to accelerating measures to tackle irresponsible drinking,
in particular drink-driving.
Read more on
page 49
Investors
Annual Report
Annual General Meeting
Analyst briefing
Individual meetings
Investor questionnaires
Investors have been showing increasing
interest in ESG and want to know that
we meet their ESG requirements. They
want to understand how investments in
sustainability will support our business
goals and help deliver sustainable
financial returns in the long term.
We respond to investor questionnaires to demonstrate compliance
with ESG requirements, and we explain the business case for our TTZ
programme. Our strong scores in ratings such as MSCI and F4GBM
demonstrate our business is low risk for investors.
See also our Annual Report and Investor Relations at
https://carlsbergmalaysia.com.my/#investor-relations
Read more on
page 40
Journalists
Individual meetings and calls
Direct engagement by email
Journalists’ questions give us an insight
into wider trends across and beyond
the industry.
We always seek constructive and fact-based dialogue with the media
and journalists, and value an open discussion on detailed subjects to
ensure that our approach and communications are well understood
and accurately reflected.
Read more on
page 50
Suppliers
Supplier & Licensee Code of Conduct
Integrated quality audits
Partnerships to support progress on
our value chain carbon targets
Suppliers want to know what our
priorities are in relation to sustainability
so they can play their part in helping
us achieve our targets and meet our
sustainability criteria in order to secure
access to business opportunities
with us.
We communicate our requirements on sustainability through our
Supplier & Licensee Code of Conduct, which enables us to monitor
compliance through audits if necessary. We pursue partnerships to
reduce our shared carbon footprint in areas like packaging, transport
and refrigeration. At the global level, we also engage with suppliers to
gather data at product level to support our beer-in-hand value chain
carbon footprint analysis.
Read more on
page 67
Sustainability
Experts
Carlsberg Sustainability Advisory
Board (CSAB)
Consultations and partnerships with
NGOs and issue experts
Sustainability experts want to
understand how our TTZ programme
aligns with our business strategy and
responds to global challenges. They
also want to see ambitious targets,
strong performance and transparent
reporting.
Sustainability experts also provide
valuable input on our approach to
issues such as human rights.
We are a corporate friend of Climate Governance Malaysia and a
participant of the UN Global Compact Network Malaysia & Brunei.
Our sustainability programme is aligned with the targets of the UN’s
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and we work with our
stakeholders to adopt sustainable practices and deliver impacts via our
pledge to the UN SDGs and our ESG commitment.
Read more on
page 40
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
RELATIONSHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
101
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
STAKEHOLDER HOW WE ENGAGE TOPICS OF INTEREST OUR RESPONSE REFERENCE PAGE
Policymakers and
regulators
Engagement through Ministries
of Finance, International Trade
and Industry, Health and Transport
as well as Customs and local town
councils
Governments want to know that we
comply with laws and contribute to
economies through job creation and
taxes. They also want to understand
how we support their strategies on
sustainability and their battle against
illicit trading of alcohol.
Carlsberg Group’s Public & Government Affairs Manual, updated in
2020, sets out clear guidance on how we engage with governments
globally. We have controls in place to ensure compliance with all
applicable laws. We report our total economic contribution, including
taxes generated and jobs created, every year we engage with
governments on sustainability and combatting illicit alcohol through
industry associations such as the CMBB and also directly as a Group.
Read more on
pages 36 and 57
Communities
Local community engagement
programmes
Communities near our operations want
us to be a responsible neighbour and to
understand how we can support them.
Our business creates jobs for the people we directly employ as well as
many more in related sectors. In 2021, we provided targeted support
for communities around us through our “Safer Schools” campaign,
which students and teachers nationwide benefited from cleaner and
safer schools through our sponsorship of facial recognition infrared
thermometers and full disinfection services. In addition, RM2million
worth of food and education aid was given to communities whose
livelihoods were impacted by the pandemic.
Read more on
pages 63 and 64
ANNUAL REPORT &
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
16 MARCH 2022
Date of issuance of Notice of 52nd Annual
General Meeting
14 APRIL 2022
Date of 52nd Annual General Meeting
STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE
The Board shall continue to strive for high standards of CG
throughout the Group. The Board is of the view that apart
from the noted departures as disclosed and explained in the
CG Report, the Group has satisfactorily complied with the
main principles and recommendations of the Code.
This Statement was approved by the Board on 2 March 2022.
OTHER INFORMATION
Utilisation of Proceeds
There were no proceeds raised from any corporate proposal during the financial
year ended 31 December 2021.
Non-Audit Fees
The non-audit fees paid to the external auditors, Messrs PricewaterhouseCoopers
PLT, by the Group during the financial year ended 31 December 2021 amounted to
RM9,487. This amount was incurred in relation to the review of the Statement on
Risk Management and Internal Control.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
RELATIONSHIPS WITH STAKEHOLDERS
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
102
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
& INTERNAL CONTROL
RESPONSIBILITY AND COMMITMENT OF THE BOARD
The Board has always placed significant emphasis on sound risk management and internal control
frameworks, which are necessary to safeguard the Group’s assets and shareholders’ investment.
To this end, the Board affirms its overall responsibility for the identification and mitigation of the
Group’s key risks, which are categorised in its risk registers according to the nature of the risk, namely
strategic, operational, financial and compliance. Meanwhile, the Group maintains an internal control
framework to prevent, detect and monitor any significant control gaps. In addition, the Board has
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Under the risk management framework, the Group is required to put in place a continuous process to identify, evaluate, monitor and manage key risks that could hinder the achievement of the
Group's business objectives.
The Risk Management Process Risk Category
Throughout the year, the Internal Audit team coordinates discussions and meetings with all the
risk owners and heads of department to assess and update the existing risks in the Group’s risk
registers (separate risk registers are maintained for the Malaysian and Singaporean businesses).
Such exercises are also meant to identify any potential new risk areas. Prior to the quarterly
Risk Management Committee (RMC) meeting, a meeting led by the Managing Director is
conducted at the working-level risk management committee (this committee comprises all
the risk owners). The main objective of this meeting is to obtain updates from risk owners
pertaining to all the key risks reported in the risk registers. Mitigating plans and activities are
also discussed and deliberated before adoption. On a quarterly basis, the RMC evaluates and
reviews the key risks reported by the Group. A dedicated risk report is prepared for this purpose
and relevant members of the Management Team are invited to join the quarterly meetings, as
and when necessary.
The Group maintains a register of key risks together with corresponding mitigating activities
and risk ratings. These risks are grouped according to the nature of the risk, as follows:
• Strategic: Risks that hinder the business from achieving its strategic objectives due to events
that occur both internally and externally.
• Operational: Risks that impact the business's day-to-day operations.
• Financial: Risks that are generally associated with misstatements in financial reporting and/
or breakdowns in financial controls, including adverse events that result in financial losses.
• Compliance: Risks that are related to legal and statutory requirements, as well as corporate
governance.
effective oversight of the audit findings and recommendations highlighted by both the Internal Audit
function and the external auditors. However, it should be noted that the risk management process
and internal control systems, by definition, can only manage but not completely eliminate all risks,
and thus can only provide reasonable, not absolute, assurance against misstatement, loss or fraud,
as well as any other adverse event.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
103
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
The key elements of the Group’s internal control framework are described as follows:
Control Environment Control Activities
The Board and Management have established an organisational structure with clearly defined
lines of accountability and delegated authority. This includes well-defined responsibilities for the
Board Committees and various management levels. The authority limits that govern the day-
to-day business operations are spelt out in the Group’s Chart of Authority, which is endorsed
by the Board. Emphasis is placed on adherence to the Carlsberg Group’s Code of Ethics &
Conduct by all employees and business partners. Meanwhile, merit-based incentive schemes
and rigorous key performance indicators are put in place to ensure that the competency of the
workforce is continuously maintained.
As part of the framework, the Group has established standard operating procedures to safeguard
the integrity of the business operations and financial reporting. These procedures are subject to
regular reviews to cater for changes in business processes and risks or for further improvements.
Preventive, detective and monitoring controls are also embedded in the core business processes
to ensure that the risk of deviation is adequately mitigated. Meanwhile, segregation of duties is
implemented where required and possible.
Communication Monitoring Mechanism
The Group also maintains effective communication channels to provide as well as to solicit
feedback in relation to business performance, critical issues and other key business matters.
Policies and directives are regularly communicated to employees and business partners through
company memos, emails and official documents, so that control responsibilities and business
ethics and conduct are taken seriously. Meanwhile, training and refresher programmes, in
particular in the form of e-learning, are periodically rolled out to create a high level of awareness
and instil a culture with a strong sense of ethics and integrity within the Group.
The Management constantly reviews key performance indicators set for various functions
within the Group to ensure the efficiency and effectiveness of operational activities in achieving
business objectives. Independent reviews are carried out throughout the year by the Internal
Audit function to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control framework.
Audit results from reviews performed in accordance with the approved annual audit plan,
including the findings and recommendations, are reported to the AC on a quarterly basis. In
addition, external audit findings, including any key control matters, are highlighted by the
external auditors to the AC and the Board. The Group has also implemented periodic self-
assessment initiatives in relation to financial controls, in which the results are reviewed and
monitored by Carlsberg Group.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
& INTERNAL CONTROL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
104
ADEQUACY OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board has reviewed and believes that the risk management and internal control frameworks
are adequate. Appropriate mitigating activities and control procedures have been put in place to deal
with any identified weaknesses.
In recent times, the Group took all necessary precautions relating to health, safety and business
continuity to mitigate the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic that affected businesses globally.
As “work-from-home” arrangements for employees increasingly became the norm, necessary
adjustments were made to various processes without compromising the internal control systems.
Additional emphasis was also placed on cybersecurity to address the trend of increasing cyber
threats around the world. Additionally, the Group considered sustainability risks and opportunities in
its business operations and regularly discussed them on a quarterly basis. During the year, various
deficiencies in internal control were identified by the external auditors during their statutory audit,
as well as through internal audit reviews. Corrective actions were duly implemented to address all
such deficiencies.
The Board has also received assurance from the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer that
the Group’s risk management and internal control systems are operating adequately and effectively
in all material aspects.
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control did not deal with the associated company
as the Group did not have management control over its operations.
REVIEW OF THE STATEMENT BY THE EXTERNAL AUDITORS
As required by Paragraph 15.23 of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Main Market Listing
Requirements, the external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Control. Their limited assurance review was performed in accordance with Audit and Assurance
Practice Guide 3 (AAPG3) issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. AAPG3 does not require
the external auditors to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management
and internal control systems of the Group.
Based on the review, the external auditors have reported to the Board that nothing has come to
their attention that cause them to believe that the Statement intended to be included in the Annual
Report of the Group, in all material respects:
a. has not been prepared in accordance with the disclosures required by paragraphs 41 and 42 of
the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed
Issuers, or
b. is factually inaccurate.
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control was made in accordance with the
resolution of the Board dated 2 March 2022.
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT
& INTERNAL CONTROL
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
105
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AUDIT COMMITTEE & RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE REPORT
The Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer, Legal & Compliance Director and Head of Internal Audit
(IA) attended all the meetings for the purpose of briefing the AC on the developments and issues relating
to their areas of responsibility.
The AC was also briefed by the external auditors, PwC, on the audit plan and the findings of the external
audit during three of the 2021 AC meetings. In the meetings with PwC, the AC also had private sessions
with the external auditors without the presence of any executive Board members or Management.
SUMMARY OF WORK PERFORMED BY AUDIT COMMITTEE
The main activities undertaken by the AC during the financial year ended 31 December 2021 were as follows:
the internal control systems based on findings identified by the internal auditors. On a quarterly basis.
the AC Chairman also had private sessions with the Head of IA to discuss the operations of the IA
function as well as other related matters.
• Reviewed the audited financial statements of the Group prior to submission to the Board for its approval.
The review was to ensure that the audited financial statements were drawn up in accordance with the
provisions of the Companies Act 2016 and the applicable accounting standards as set by the Malaysian
Accounting Standards Board.
• Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results and Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (Bursa)
announcements before recommending them for the Board’s approval. Such reviews were conducted
together with the Managing Director and the Chief Financial Officer.
• Throughout the financial year, the AC Chairman and other members of the AC also had frequent
discussions with the Chief Financial Officer on any potential material issues that could affect financial
reporting and disclosure. This included the Group’s compliance with relevant legal and statutory
requirements, such as the Bursa Listing Requirements.
• Reviewed pertinent issues of the Group that could significantly impact the results and future cash
flows of the Group, including enhancements of and investments in products, capital expenditures, cost
rationalisation measures and human resource development.
• Reviewed the reports on related party transactions and recurrent related party transactions to ensure
these transactions were executed in compliance with Bursa Listing Requirements, as well as within the
shareholders’ mandate.
• Reviewed the Group’s compliance with the provisions set out under the Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance for the purpose of the Corporate Governance Overview Statement, pursuant to Bursa
Listing Requirements.
CHEW HOY PING
Independent
Non-Executive
Director
5/5
Chairman
5/5
ROLAND ARTHUR
LAWRENCE
Non-Independent
Non-Executive
Director
Member
DATUK TOH
AH WAH
Independent
Non-Executive
Chairman
5/5
Member
AUDIT COMMITTEE
• Reviewed the external auditors’ scope of work, audit risks and focus areas, materiality thresholds,
audit methodology, key milestones and other relevant matters. The Chairman and members of the
AC periodically held informal discussions with the external auditors to ensure audit issues were
addressed on a timely basis.
• Reviewed the results of the external audit, the audit report and the management representation
letter, including the Management’s responses. Further to that, the AC scrutinised potential key audit
matters raised by the external auditors and ensured that adequate work was done to support the audit
conclusions and overall impact on the financial statements. The sole key audit matter vetted by the AC
(please see the Independent Auditors’ Report on pages 191 to 194 for details) related to the accounting
for trade discounts and volume rebates accruals as part of revenue recognition, as this involved the use
of critical accounting estimates and the Management’s assumptions. As noted by the external auditors,
the Management accrued the trade discounts and volume rebates based on the estimated sales volume
to be achieved multiplied by the agreed rates with the customers. On the AC’s part, trade discounts and
volume rebates were regularly reviewed as part of the financial reports presented by the Management
in each quarterly meeting as well as through relevant IA reports during the year following the approved
IA plan.
• Assessed the performance, competency and professionalism demonstrated by the external auditors
during the year. Obtained the assurance of independence from the external auditors and recommended
the audit fees payable to the Board for approval.
• Considered and assessed the independence and objectivity of the external auditors during the year and
also prior to engaging the external auditors for non-audit-related services. The non-audit fees paid to
the member firms of external auditors in 2021 amounted to RM9,487.
• Reviewed IA reports, recommendations and the Management’s responses, including relevant activities
performed by Group IA from Carlsberg Group. Discussed actions taken with the Management to improve
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
106
The Chief Financial Officer, Legal & Compliance Director
and Head of IA attended all the meetings for the purpose
of briefing the RMC on the activities involving their areas
of responsibility.
DATUK TOH AH WAH
Independent
Non-Executive
Chairman
4/4
Member
CHEW HOY PING
Independent
Non-Executive
Director
4/4
Chairman
3/4
MICHELLE TANYA
ACHUTHAN
Independent
Non-Executive
Director
Member
STEFANO CLINI
Managing
Director
4/4
Member
AUDIT COMMITTEE & RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE REPORT
SUMMARY OF WORK PERFORMED BY RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
The main activities undertaken by the RMC during the financial year ended 31 December 2021 were as follows:
RISK MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE
• Reviewed the Group’s Risk Management Framework and policies for approval and adoption by the
Board. On a regular basis, reviewed the effectiveness and relevance of the framework and policies.
• Reviewed the quarterly risk updates and provided recommendations to the Board in relation to the
monitoring of principal risks and the corresponding risk mitigating plan. The RMC also performed
regular scanning for potential new risks.
• Made recommendations to the Board concerning risk appetite and risk tolerance. In addition, the RMC
ensured that key risks were adequately monitored and managed within the tolerance levels that were
acceptable to the Board.
• Reviewed and reported to the Board on any significant issues arising from the risk management
programmes and the corresponding mitigating actions taken by the Group.
• Continuously monitored the effectiveness of the measures taken by the Group to mitigate the impacts
of the Covid-19 pandemic. Key updates in relation to health, safety and business continuity were
provided by the Management to the RMC on a quarterly basis.
• Reviewed the anti-bribery and anti-corruption risks concerning the Group and the corresponding
mitigating activities.
• Reviewed the updates to compliance-related programmes as per the report prepared by the Legal &
Compliance Director.
• Reviewed and discussed the enterprise risk management activities and policies, including the updates
to key risks.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
107
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
STRUCTURE, RESPONSIBILITIES AND APPROACH
The Group maintains an in-house IA function, which is independent of the
business operations. Adequate independence is always maintained for the
IA function so that it can perform its duties objectively. The Head of IA
is Mr. Lim Tiong Eng @ Allan Lim, who is a chartered accountant under
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants as well as a certified practising
accountant under CPA Australia. The Head of IA is assisted by three internal
auditors and has a functional reporting line to the AC Chairman. He has
full access to the AC and maintains regular communication with the AC
Chairman for discussion of audit matters as well as other matters concerning
the IA function. All members of the IA function, like any other employee of
the Group, are subject to an annual declaration of any potential conflict of
interest. No member of the IA function was reported to the AC and Board to
have any element concerning conflict of interest during the year.
The scope of work for the IA function is laid out in the annual audit plan
that is endorsed by the Managing Director and approved by the AC.
The contents of the annual audit plan are determined by an annual risk
assessment performed independently by the IA function. Various aspects
of the business are covered by the audit plan, such as key internal control
processes, risk management, corporate governance & compliance and
recurring related party transactions. The progress and status of the audit
plan are presented to the AC on a quarterly basis.
The work conducted by the IA team is guided by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) framework
in general and the COSO 5 components of internal control specifically.
The IA team also refers to the standards of the International Professional
Practices Framework (2017) issued by the Institute of Internal Auditors.
All audit observations and the corresponding remedial action plan are
presented by the Head of IA at the quarterly AC meetings. The progress
and implementation status of action plans are also tabled at each meeting.
A dedicated reporting deck that includes all the individual audit reports is
prepared for the purpose of the quarterly meetings.
The total cost incurred by the IA function during the year amounted to
RM874,880.
INTERNAL AUDIT
• Performed risk assessments on all auditable areas for the
purpose of annual audit planning. A number of elements were
considered in the planning, which included financial impact,
perceived state of controls, feedback from the Management
Team, past audit findings, control matters raised by the external
auditors or Group IA from Carlsberg Group and recent changes
in the business environment.
• Shared the proposed annual audit plan with the Managing
Director and subsequently presented it to the AC for review and
approval.
• Performed audit reviews based on the approved audit plan
and prepared audit reports (for quarterly issuance to the
Management and the AC) in which the audit observations,
root-cause analyses and remedial recommendations were
detailed. During the year, areas related to insurance coverage
& claims management, travel & entertainment expense
statements, petty cash management, duty-free & export sales,
customs & excise-related documentation, credit management
& receivables monitoring, modern off-trade rebate and
claims processes, recurring related party transactions, tender
activities, risk management activities and marketing campaigns
were audited. Numerous special reviews that included the
investigation of whistleblowing cases were also carried out. All
finalised audit reports were tabled at the quarterly AC meetings
for review, discussion and implementation.
• During the year, the IA team also performed a risk assessment
on the anti-bribery and anti-corruption risk register, whereby
preliminary meetings were held with different risk owners
to review the existing risks and solicit feedback on the
recommended changes to the register. Changes recommended
by the IA involving new & existing risks and corresponding
control mitigants were discussed and adopted in the focus
group discussions led by the Managing Director.
• Conducted meetings throughout the year with the relevant
stakeholders to discuss and align audit-related matters.
SUMMARY OF WORK PERFORMED BY INTERNAL AUDIT
The main activities undertaken by the IA function during the financial year ended 31 December 2021 were as follows:
AUDIT COMMITTEE & RISK MANAGEMENT
COMMITTEE REPORT
Such meetings were also intended to solicit feedback
from stakeholders with regards to the practicality of audit
recommendations and adoption.
• Regularly followed up on outstanding audit issues, especially
on the implementation and continuity of management action
plans in addressing control gaps identified.
• Provided advice in relation to internal control issues arising
from the day-to-day business operations. Where necessary, the
IA function also collaborated with the Management to promote
a culture of practising good internal controls and governance to
strive for business efficiency and internal control effectiveness.
• Managed the Group’s official whistleblowing mailbox and
liaised with the Whistleblowing Committee as well as the Group
Investigation Team of Carlsberg Group on the appropriate
responses and actions in relation to reports received from
whistleblowers.
• Participated as an independent observer in the end-to-end
tendering process of the Group. The IA team reviewed all the
tenders carried out for purchases above RM100,000 in the
areas of tender briefs, scoring criteria and weightage, actual
submission by suppliers, selection justification and exception
handling.
• Coordinated more than 30 meetings during the year with all
the risk owners and functional heads to discuss and solicit
updates to the risk registers. This included the regular practice
of scanning for new risks together with stakeholders.
• Facilitated the quarterly risk management meetings with the
risk working committee (consisting of risk owners and risk
responsible parties). Prepared the minutes and followed up on
matters arising and outstanding issues.
• Maintained the Group’s risk registers and ensured that the
contents were regularly updated with the relevant information
and status of risk-mitigating activities.
• Prepared the risk management reporting deck and presented
it at the quarterly RMC meetings for review, discussion and
comments.
Our Business Message from Our Leaders Commitment to Sustainability Creating Sustainable Value Delivering Strong Governance Financial Statements Other Information
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2021
108
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT
BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
In the course of preparing the annual financial
statements for the Group and the Company, the
Directors are collectively responsible for ensuring
that these financial statements are drawn up
in accordance with the requirements of the
applicable Approved Accounting Standards in
Malaysia, the provisions of the Companies Act
2016 and the Main Market Listing Requirements
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
It is the responsibility of the Directors to ensure
that financial statements for each financial
year present a true and fair view of the state
of affairs of the Group and the Company at the
end of the financial year and of the results and
cash flows of the Group and the Company for
the financial year.
In preparing the financial statements for
the financial year ended 31 December 2021,
the Directors have applied appropriate and
relevant accounting policies consistently and
in accordance with applicable accounting
standards and made judgements and estimates
that are reasonable and fair.
The financial statements are prepared on a
going concern basis and the Directors have
ensured that proper accounting records are kept
which enable the preparation of the financial
statements with reasonable accuracy. The
Directors have the general responsibility for
taking such steps as are reasonably open to
them to safeguard the assets of the Group and
the Company to prevent and detect fraud and
other irregularities.
This statement is made in accordance with
a resolution of the Board of Directors dated
2 March 2022.
