Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
111
MARKET LANDSCAPE AND OUTLOOK
2023, down from 3.8% in the previous year, amid a challenging global
trade environment and the tightening of monetary policy worldwide.
Commodity prices remained volatile throughout 2023, with periods
of sharp increases in energy and food prices, reflecting the complex
interplay of supply constraints and geopolitical tensions. Companies
worldwide, including those in Malaysia and Singapore, faced the
challenge of managing rising input costs without disproportionately
affecting consumer prices. As a result, consumer sentiment in 2023 was
cautious, influenced by the cost of living concerns and the uncertain
global economic outlook.
ECONOMIC
ADJUSTMENT AND
CHALLENGES
2023 was a year
of adjustment and
challenges as the world
economy navigated
through inflationary
pressures, geopolitical
tensions and the
aftereffects of the
pandemic.
The global economy in 2023 was impacted by continued inflationary
pressures, largely due to supply chain disruptions, the ongoing conflict
between Russia and Ukraine, and fluctuating energy prices. These
factors contributed to heightened costs of living and doing business
worldwide, prompting central banks globally to tighten monetary
policy in an effort to curb inflation.
Malaysia’s economic growth in 2023 moderated to 3.7% from the
8.7% recorded in 2022, lower than initial forecasts, reflecting the global
economic slowdown, persistent inflation and weak external demand.
Singapore experienced a further deceleration in GDP growth to 1.1% in
3.7%
Malaysia
GDP GROWTH
in 2023
1.1%
Singapore
GDP GROWTH
in 2023
| CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
112
growth dynamics could emerge, emphasising innovation,
digital marketing strategies and catering to evolving consumer
preferences towards premium and craft beer segments.
However, the Company remains cautious, acknowledging the
challenges posed by the current economic climate, including
high interest rates, ongoing inflationary pressures and currency
fluctuations. As announced in Budget 2024, the introduction
of the Sales and Services Tax (SST) increase from 6% to 8%
in Malaysia, which takes effect from 1 March 2024, along with
its extension to include logistics services, adds another layer
of complexity which may potentially impact overall consumer
sentiment. However, we acknowledge that the Malaysian
government has also adopted a nuanced approach to the tax
adjustment by exempting the eateries from the increase in
SST, so as to not overburden consumers.
Over in Singapore, the government raised the Goods and Services
Tax (GST) by 1% to 9% as of 1 January 2024 and this increase is
expected to put some economic pressure on consumers.
As Carlsberg Malaysia Group navigates through these
challenges and opportunities, the company’s strategic focus
on innovation, targeted marketing and adapting to consumer
preferences will be crucial. The evolving landscape of the beer
industry in Malaysia and Singapore presents a complex mix
of growth prospects tempered by economic uncertainties. Yet,
with careful planning and adaptability, Carlsberg Malaysia
Group is well-positioned to capitalise on emerging trends and
maintain its growth trajectory in 2024.
MARKET LANDSCAPE AND OUTLOOK
Cautious Consumer Sentiment Weighs on the F&B Sector
Malaysian consumers remained cautious due to concerns
over a potential economic downturn, with a significant
portion anticipating a recession. Concerns about a potential
recession led to cautious financial behaviours, shifting away
from discretionary spending towards essentials like groceries
and utilities. Despite this, there was an optimistic outlook
on economic recovery, supported by government budgetary
initiatives aimed at stimulating growth.
Like Malaysia, consumers in Singapore showed a mix of
optimism and caution, influenced by regional economic trends.
The resilience in consumer sentiment was supported by a
stable economic outlook, though concerns about inflation and
higher expenses persisted.
There was, however, a significant difference in terms of
retail F&B sales performance between the two countries
with Malaysia recording a solid year-on-year growth of
13.3%, while Singapore recorded a slower year-on-year growth
of 4.1%.
General Industry Trends
The issue of illicit beer sales in Malaysia continues to pose a
significant challenge to the industry and the authorities, with
estimates indicating that these sales account for approximately
60% of beer consumption in Sabah and Sarawak, and
20% in the Peninsular region. Consequently, the Malaysian
government faces an estimated annual shortfall of RM1.5
billion in tax revenues.
Since the onset of the pandemic, the illicit beer market has
experienced an approximate 5% growth annually, fuelled
by widespread online sales of illegal alcohol. The surge in
contraband, fake and unregulated beer on social media and
online shopping sites can be attributed to the absence of
regulations covering online alcohol sales within the current
legal framework.
In response, through collaboration with the authorities and
online retailers, e-commerce platforms have introduced
measures requiring sellers to obtain licenses for alcohol
sales, thereby significantly reducing the online distribution of
unauthorised alcohol.
The Confederation of Malaysian Brewers Berhad (CMBB), and
with Carlsberg as a key founding member, is actively engaged
in efforts to curb the illicit beer market, which adversely affects
the government, the industry and consumers. The CMBB also
plays a supportive role in enhancing the enforcement strategies
employed by various agencies within the Multi-Agency Task
Force (MATF).
Additionally, there is a noticeable shift towards premium beer
products in the market, as consumers increasingly view beer as
an accessible luxury, choosing quality over quantity for their
occasional indulgence. Furthermore, the trend towards health
and wellness is gaining traction, influencing consumers to
make more conscious lifestyle decisions, potentially increasing
the acceptance of Alcohol-Free Brew options in the market.
2024 Outlook
For 2024, the outlook of the beer industry in Malaysia
and Singapore remains challenging, given the prevailing
uncertainties in the economic landscape. We will expand
our product portfolios, targeting consumers who are more
discerning and health-conscious. Marketing efforts are
anticipated to intensify, focusing on brand engagement and
attracting new, younger consumers. In Singapore, similar
-7.1%
Malaysia
-4.3%
Singapore
Carlsberg Malaysia Group
REVENUE
in 2023 vs 2022
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
113
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND ADVOCACY
Why It Is Important
AtCarlsbergMalaysiaGroup,weengagewithstakeholders
by understanding their needs so we can deliver value and
build a better, more resilient and sustainable business.
Our interactions and conversations with stakeholders
are vital in gaining insights into their priorities, whereby
such open lines of communication are fundamental
to nurturing trust, allowing us to tailor our responses
effectively. The feedback we receive is instrumental in
shaping the focus of our sustainability initiatives. Through
collaborations, we are empowered to advance Together
towards ZERO and Beyond.
The Group manages our stakeholders responsibly
and effectively through proactive engagement with
our consumers, customers, employees, investors
and communities as we recognise the importance of
consistently strengthening trust and demonstrating our
appreciation for their support. We also communicate
closely with our suppliers to ensure that their operating
standards are aligned with ours.
Going forward, as we continue to live our purpose
of ‘Brewing for a Better Today and Tomorrow’, we
are inspired to develop more inclusive and effective
engagement activities to identify, understand and
address what matters most to our stakeholders.
Ipsos Corporate Reputation Tracker
In 2023, the Carlsberg Group embarked on a Corporate
Reputation Tracker, working with Ipsos. Carlsberg
Malaysia was one of the four markets in Asia invited to
participate in the survey which involved monthly online
interviews with the general population.
Ipsos measures corporate reputation based on their
Reputation Model and looks at four pillars – Familiarity,
Favourability, Trust and Advocacy.
The survey, which took place between May and
December 2023, revealed that Carlsberg Malaysia has a
strong and robust reputation, underpinned by innovation
as a key driver of trust within the company. Notably,
we have won the trust of 58% of survey respondents
in Malaysia, placing it ahead in the key reputation
metrics of favourability and advocacy compared to other
competitors.
Carlsberg Malaysia's reputation benefits from a blend
of emotional and rational trust drivers. Emotionally,
the company resonates with consumers through shared
values and a commitment to environmental stewardship.
Rationally, we are perceived as innovative, with a clear
vision for the future, and a sound investment choice,
reflecting our financial management acumen.
Moreover, Carlsberg’s products emerge as the strongest
drivers of advocacy behaviour, suggesting that its
offerings resonate well and encourage recommendations
among consumers.
RESUMPTION OF BREWERY VISITS
‘RAIKAN KEBANGGAAN SABAH & SARAWAK’
CONSUMER CAMPAIGN
March 2023 onwards
April – June 2023
Significance of event and what was achieved:
We resumed Brewery Visits to Probably the Best Lounge in March 2023,
welcoming key stakeholders such as our customers, trade partners, consumers,
members of the business fraternity, industry groups and institutions of higher
learning. We also received 289 of our shareholders, who enjoyed learning
about the company through a tour of the brewery and by engaging with our
colleagues. In 2023 alone, we received 7,801 visitors to the brewery.
Significance of event and what was achieved:
The ‘Raikan Kebanggaan Sabah & Sarawak’ campaign connected with beer
lovers in East Malaysia during the Harvest and Kaamatan Festivals. Our East
Malaysian consumers stood a chance to win cool gadgets including the iPad
Air, iPhone and AirPods with purchase of Carlsberg Danish Pilsner or Carlsberg
Smooth Draught. This campaign was well received by our consumers. Bars,
pubs, food courts, coffee shops, super and hypermarkets and other retail
outlets participated in the campaign.
Noteworthy Stakeholder Engagement Activities of 2023
2023 was a year of reconnecting with our key stakeholders face-to-face
post-pandemic. We would not have made it this far without the support of
our stakeholders, thus we organised various initiatives so that they could
join us in our engagement activities, and forge even closer ties with us.
Familiarity
86%
55%
58%
45%
Favourability Trust Advocacy
These scores represent the percentage of sampled
respondents who provided positive responses on these
four key reputation metrics.
| CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
114
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND ADVOCACY
LISTENING TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Stakeholder engagement is a core part of our approach to sustainability. It enables our stakeholders to understand our needs and priorities, and for us to also understand the needs and priorities of our
stakeholders – our consumers, customers, employees, shareholders and local communities—and plays a big part in our efforts to prioritise sustainability in our operations and drive the progress of TTZAB.
Engagement
Method
Frequency Top Issues and Concerns Our Efforts Alignment with
UN SDGs
Material Matter(s)
Consumers
· Marketing campaigns
· Product launches and
sampling
· Advertising and
promotions, events and
trips
· Active and regular
basis
· The consistent quality, relevance and attractiveness of our
products
· How our products are packaged with sustainability and
health-conscious principles in mind to align with consumers'
growing awareness of personal well-being and climate-
change
· The need to raise awareness, promote moderation in
consumption, tackle misuse and reduce alcohol-related harm
in society
· To engage with and excite consumers, we launched
#BestWithCarlsberg campaign with a luxury gateaway trip
to Langkawi and continued celebrating the Kaamatan and
Gawai festivals with limited-edition packaging
· Launched Alcohol-Free Brew (AFB) Somersby Apple 0.0 in
Malaysia and Singapore to complement the Carlsberg 0.0
Pilsner and Carlsberg 0.0 Wheat AFBs in Singapore.
· Expanded the annual #CELEBRATERESPONSIBLY campaign
to Sabah and Sarawak
· Upcycled the consumed bottles of Carlsberg Smooth
Draught and 1664 as photo display and fairy light lamps at
consumer-facing events
· Product Quality and
Safety
· Preventing Harmful
Use of Alcohol
· Product Health
Impact
Customers
· Trade and market visits
· Distributors' conferences
and trips
· Responsible drinking
partnerships
· Scheduled on a
weekly or regular
basis, except
annual trips
· The consistent quality, relevance and attractiveness of our
products in comparison to our peers
· How we can partner with customers to raise awareness and
prevent the harmful use of alcohol at their outlets
· Constant engagement with key customers via joint business
plans, trips and discussions
· Supported customers with impactful promotions and
activities to drive footfall
· Helped mitigate the risks of irresponsible drinking with the
rollout of #CELEBRATERESPONSIBLY initiatives at outlets
· Product Quality and
Safety
· Preventing Harmful
Use of Alcohol
Employees
· Global employee survey on
employee engagement
· Performance reviews
· Town halls
· Company conference and
dinner
· Internal communications,
contests and activities
· Consultations, dialogues
and feedback
· Biennial
· Twice a year
· Monthly
· Annual
· Regular
· Regular
· How we are able to recognise and hone the potential of our
employees and continuously engage with them
· How we build a workplace culture where all employees are
treated fairly and embrace diversity, equity and inclusiveness
· Our increased focus on employees’ overall well-being and
ensuring a safe working environment across all operations
· Conducted the annual strategy conference and monthly
town halls to keep employees informed and engaged
· Implemented several development and leadership
programmes to identify, grow and retain talent
· Carried out ‘Results to Action’ survey based on team
feedback and focus groups
· Hosted awareness programmes to promote gender and
ethnic diversity in the workplace
· Took part in several career fairs to recruit undergraduates
and talents in Malaysia and Singapore
· Won several HR-related awards that strengthened the
Group's employer value propositions
. Talent and Talent
Development
. Diversity, Equity and
Inclusion
· Employee Safety,
Health and Wellness
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
115
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND ADVOCACY
Engagement
Method
Frequency Top Issues and Concerns Our Efforts Alignment with
UN SDGs
Material Matter(s)
Policymakers and Business Councils
· Engagement by the Group and/or through
industry organisations, such as CMBB and SBIA
· Involvement in the EUROCHAM, DANCHAM,
FMM and MICCI
CMBB: Confederation of Malaysian Brewers Berhad
SBIA: Singapore Beer Industry Association
EUROCHAM: European-Malaysian Chamber of
Commerce
DANCHAM: Danish Chamber of Commerce Malaysia
FMM: Federation of Malaysian Manufacturers
MICCI: Malaysian International Chamber of
Commerce and Industry
· On
scheduled
and as
needed basis
· Our ability to tackle the sale of illicit alcohol under our
brand, which may not meet safety standards
· Our ability to tactfully navigate domestic concerns
with regard to the sale of alcohol
· Our ability to operate sustainably and meet the
country's transition roadmap to low energy, and
carbon disclosure and legislation
· Conducted roundtable dialogues with the Ministry of
Finance and the Multi-Agency Task Force (MATF), Ministry
of Domestic Trade and Costs of Living, and Ministry of
Health to address smuggling and the illicit alcohol trade
· Proactive engagement with policymakers and authorities,
as well as discussions with industry associations and NGOs,
on our economic impact and taxes, alongside product
quality and safety
· Published our annual report with our financial and non-
financial performance
· Threats to
Commercial
Freedom
Shareholders and Investors
· Annual Report
· Annual General Meeting
· Analyst briefings
· Investor calls
· Investor section on website
· Annual
· Annual
· Biannual
· Our commitment to going beyond financial
performance to focus on ESG compliance and
aspirations
· Our ability to create positive economic impact through
our business activities and support the wider value
chain
· How we continuously fulfil our taxation responsibilities
in the economies which we operate
· Our ability to deliver dividends and shareholders' value
· Published our ESG dashboard and reported on our ESG
initiatives, targets and results
· Published our annual report with our financial and non-
financial performance
· Economic Impact
and Tax
· Threats to
Commercial
Freedom
Suppliers and Vendors
· Code of Conduct and Policy
· Integrated quality audits
· Partnerships to support progress in our value
chain carbon targets
· ESG-related engagements
· On
scheduled
and as
needed basis
· Our partnerships with them to improve adherence to
human rights and labour standards
· Our partnerships with them to improve adherence to
environmental standards
· Communicated and ensured compliance with our Supplier
and Licensee Code of Conduct and Sourcing Policy,
supported by scheduled audits
· Explored partnerships to reduce our shared carbon footprint
in areas like packaging, transport and refrigeration
· Enrolled three suppliers in the AIM-Progress forum to support
our responsible sourcing programme
· Involved our suppliers in the glass bottle recycling and
community engagement programmes
· Human Rights and
Labour Standards
· Adapting to
Climate Change
· Energy and Carbon
· Waste
Management
· Sustainable
Packaging and
Materials
Non-Governmental Organisations and Sustainability Council
· Consultations
· Partnerships
· Learning Programmes
· Ongoing · Our partnerships with them to fine-tune our ESG
strategy and value-add to society
· Pledged to improve our sustainability governance through
Climate Governance Malaysia
· Supported the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global
Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-
corruption
· Partnered with Ripple Sabah to operate Project CarlsBot
· Consulted Bursa Malaysia to improve our inclusivity and
transparency in sustainability reporting
· Community,
Social Impact and
Investment
· Adapting to
Climate Change
| CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
116
VALUE CREATION MODEL
• Market capitalisation: RM5.9 billion
• Shareholder equity: RM229.1 million
• Share capital: RM149.4 million
• Total assets: RM1,017.3 million
FINANCIAL (as of 31 December 2023)
• Brand equity
• Industry experience and knowledge
• Extensive route-to-market strategy
• Demand-and-supply planning system (OnePlan)
• AI-powered sales insights and measurement tool
(Image Recognition)
INTELLECTUAL
• 1 corporate office each in Malaysia and Singapore
• 1 brewery in Malaysia
• 18 sales offices across Malaysia and Singapore
• 1 bonded warehouse within the brewery and 2
external bonded warehouses, all located in Shah
Alam. 1 bonded warehouse in Jurong, Singapore
MANUFACTURED
• 637 driven and future-ready employees in Malaysia
and Singapore
• Diverse, equitable and inclusive team
• 109 contract workers in the brewery
• 111 merchandisers in Malaysia
• 237 sales promoters in Singapore
HUMAN
• Water for beverages production and brewing facilities
• Trees for product packaging and point-of-sales
materials
• Energy for production and logistics
• 29.63 acres of land for premises and facilities
NATURAL
• Strong long-term relationships with key stakeholders
SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP
INPUTS KEY ACTIVITIES OUTPUTS
MARKETING
to consumers to
#CELEBRATERESPONSIBLY
SALES
to on-trade and off-trade
retailers and e-commerce
operators
DISTRIBUTING
our products in Malaysia,
Singapore and other markets
in Asia
BREWING AND BOTTLING
our beverages
KEY
DIFFERENTIATORS
Evolving consumption
habits and trends
Highly regulated
operating environment
Restricted advertising
and marketing
Increased expectations in
sustainability
Price disparity with
contraband and illicit beers
MARKET
CONTEXT
• Proud brewing heritage and
expertise
• Leading brands in beer,
stout, cider and alcohol-
free brews
• Quality and innovative
brews
• Sustainability-focused
• Purpose-driven team
FINANCIAL (as of
31 December 2023)
INTELLECTUAL
MANUFACTURED
HUMAN
NATURAL
SOCIAL AND
RELATIONSHIP
Carlsberg Malaysia Group (the Group) is guided by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) framework under the IFRS Foundation when preparing this Value Creation Model. The Group made responsible
choices and decisions in its capital allocations, which were made to support its SAIL'27 corporate strategy and Together towards ZERO and Beyond ESG programme to generate sustainable value for its key stakeholders,
as aligned with its pledge towards the UN Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
OPERATIONAL SUPPORT
to meet listing requirements
and business sustainability
OUR
PURPOSE OUR
AMBITION
OUR EXECUTION
EXCELLENCE
OUR PORTFOLIO
CHOICES
FUNDING OUR
JOURNEY
OUR WINNING
CULTURE
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
117
OUTCOMES
VALUE CREATION MODEL
• Net profit: RM327.3 million
• Revenue: RM2.3 billion
• Earnings per share: 107.03 sen
• Total dividend declared and proposed:
93 sen per share
• Contribution of RM1.2 billion in excise duties
and taxes
• Winner of The Edge Billion Ringgit Club
Award for Highest Return-On-Equity for four
consecutive years
• New packaging for 1664 and SKOL beer
• Launched limited-edition 1664 Prestige in
Malaysia and Singapore
• Alcohol-free beverages Somersby Apple
0.0 and Somersby Passionfruit & Orange
launched in Singapore
• Delisted Asahi in both Malaysia and Singapore
on 31 December 2023
• Announced new partnership with Sapporo
effective 1 January 2024
• Brewery transformation: Upgraded state-
of-the-art production facilities
• Workplace enhancement: Open office
concept with ergonomic desks, upgraded
carpark facilities with sheltered pedestrian
walkway, cafeteria
• Upgraded hospitality lounge
• Strong female representation in the senior
leadership team
• Healthy succession pipeline
• A highly engaged team with low turnover
rates
• Enhanced gender diversity across the company
with an increased total female population
• Won awards in Employee Experience, being
the Employer of Choice and the Most Preferred
Graduate Employers to work for in 2022
• 2.1% increase in energy consumption vs
2022
• Zero use of coal
• Zero waste to landfill
• 6% reduction in water usage and 13% reduction
in water loss through the production process
compared to 2022
• Engaged with over 7,490 consumers who
pledged to #CELEBRATERESPONSIBLY
• Received Recognition award for UNGCMYB’s
Forward Faster Sustainability Awards 2023 for
our partnership with Ripple Sabah for Project
CarlsBot
• Consumers
Wide range of beverage choices that meet the highest
safety and quality standards
• Customers
Undisrupted supply and professional service for on-trade
and off-trade retailers and e-commerce operators
• Employees
Safe and inclusive work environment that prioritises the
team’s well-being, including professional development
• Suppliers and Vendors
Knowledge-sharing on improving ESG capabilities and
cooperative efforts to enhance the responsible sourcing of
the value chain
• NGOs, Industry Groups and Local Communities
Partnerships established to support local communities
via awareness on ZERO Irresponsible Drinking, ZERO
Packaging Waste, and initiatives focused on capacity
building and quality education
• Government Agencies and Regulators
Strong relationships built on trust that will enable business
continuity and empower economic growth
STAKEHOLDER GROUPS
• Investors
Attractive investment proposition, with consistent total
shareholder returns and long-term, sustainable growth
REFERENCES
• Read more about SAIL’27 in our Management Discussion and Analysis on page 46
• To understand who our stakeholders are and their primary concerns, see pages 113-115
| CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
118
RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Risk Management
The Management assesses each risk based on its probability of occurrence and impact, guiding the formulation of appropriate mitigating activities. Our aim is to mitigate risks impacting our strategic
objectives, while also managing our risk appetite to ensure sustainable shareholder value. In practice, new or emerging risks are proposed by the risk owner in quarterly meetings led by the Managing
Director. Enclosed are five key risks we have identified in 2023 and their corresponding mitigating measures.
Key Risks Risk Description Mitigating Activities Link to Material Matter(s)
Economic
Uncertainty
Risks
The depreciation of the Malaysian ringgit,
combined with the volatility in commodity prices,
disruption to logistics, inflationary pressures on
fuel and transportation expenses, leading to the
increase in input costs.
With the support from the Carlsberg Group, we secure long-term contracts with key suppliers
and implement hedging on selected commodities to mitigate price risks and ensure stability.
Additionally, we expand our vendor coverage of key materials to ensure continuity of supply and
competitiveness, even in volatile economic conditions.
Economic Impact and Tax,
Responsible Supply Chain
Management
Supply Chain-
Related Risks
Interruptions in water supply, machinery
breakdowns, natural disasters or fire incidents
could lead to significant production disruptions
and downtime.
We implement preventive maintenance plans and long-term capital expenditure plans for plant
upgrades as part of our brewery transformation project. We also optimise tube well utilisation and
provide technical capability training for our employees on machinery operation. Furthermore, we
conduct monthly safety and fire risk assessments, as well as annual fire drills as precautionary
measures.
Adapting to Climate Change;
Responsible Supply Chain
Management
The disruption in the supply of materials can
severely impact production processes, causing
delays in fulfilling orders and meeting customer
demands.
We ensure that we appoint multiple vendors that can supply key materials and simultaneously,
identify backup suppliers to further safeguard against supply chain disruptions. We also maintain
adequate buffer stocks of raw and packaging materials, taking into consideration extended lead
times required, especially for items transported via sea freight.
Taxes and Illicit
Beer Risks
The rise in smuggled beer and parallel imports
will lead to significant revenue and profit
reductions.
Through the Confederation of Malaysia Brewers Berhad (CMBB), we engage with government
agencies such as the Ministry of Finance and the Royal Malaysian Customs to address the issue
of contraband beer products. Additionally, we actively participate in the Multi-Agency Task Force
(MATF) to further strengthen enforcement on the illicit alcohol trade. The MATF is led by the
Finance Minister, which includes representatives from the Royal Malaysian Customs, the Ministry
of Domestic Trade and Costs of Living, the Ministry of Health, the Police, the Marine Department,
and the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission. As for Singapore, we regularly
monitor the movements of parallel imports and ensure that competitive pricing, promotions and
marketing activities are in place.
Economic Impact and Tax,
Threats to Commercial
Freedom
Any rise in excise duty will result in the increase
in consumer price that will negatively impact
sales volumes and will also pave the way for an
increase in contraband beer products.
We maintain regular communication with authorities via CMBB to advocate for the retention of
excise duties, expressing our viewpoints on the economic viability of local beer manufacturers.
In Singapore, we actively engage in discussions with authorities through the Singapore Beer
Industry Association to advocate for policies that balance the government's revenue needs with
the industry's sustainability and competitiveness.
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
119
RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES
Key Risks Risk Description Mitigating Activities Link to Material Matter(s)
IT and
Cybersecurity
Risks
Security breaches like email phishing,
ransomware, malware and viruses can
jeopardise sensitive data, posing a substantial
risk to our organisation. Financial implications
include costs of investigation, remediation, legal
fees, regulatory fines and revenue loss due to
operational disruptions.
We enforce strict policies to prevent unauthorised application installations and utilise advanced
security tools to monitor administrators and prevent privilege misuse. Regular software updates are
conducted, and breach reporting is facilitated through the Carlsberg Group’s Security Operations
Centre. Additionally, routine penetration tests on our IT infrastructure and annual evaluations of
our user access matrix are conducted to ensure continuous cybersecurity effectiveness.
Data Security and Privacy
Legal and
Regulatory
Compliance
Risks
The potential for bribery and corrupt practices
poses significant threats to our company.
Under Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-
Corruption Commission Act 2009, officers,
senior management and company directors
bear personal liability for the company’s corrupt
practices.
We perform quarterly compliance risk assessments on all functions, which are documented in
risk registers. Additionally, we implement relevant policies and manuals in areas involving Gifts,
Entertainment and Donations, Third Party Screening, and Trade Sanction Screening. Employees
are provided training periodically.
Anti-Bribery, Corruption and
Competition;
Corporate Governance and Risk
Management
Failure to adhere to statutory requirements
may result in severe consequences, including
substantial penalties and the potential revocation
of our manufacturing license.
We conduct quarterly compliance checks and stay updated on regulations from government
agencies and authorities. We also conduct regular training sessions to ensure continual awareness
and adherence to compliance standards.
Opportunities
In line with our SAIL’27 strategy, the Management constantly reviews market dynamics and conducts market research to leverage opportunities for growth. We are guided by our strategic priorities to innovate
our brewing capabilities and expand our portfolio while also tapping into climate-related opportunities to meet our carbon neutral targets.
Opportunities Description Link to Material Matter(s)
Brewery
Transformation
As part of our brewery transformation journey, we installed a state-of-the-art bottle filling line in the second half of 2022. It enabled us to improve
our production capabilities and packaging complexities. In 2024, we will further enhance our production with a new canning line and upgrade our beer
filtration plant to improve production efficiency and ensure that we are future-ready for higher production capacity.
Economic Impact and Tax
Brand
Premiumisation
Despite a 15% sales decline in 2023 vs 2022 due to the poor consumer sentiments, we remain committed to our strategy to accelerate premiumisation.
Our premium portfolio remains attractive with stable growth potential in recent years. We are committed to continue increasing our marketing
investment to drive premiumisation while developing our execution capabilities to accelerate growth.
Economic Impact and Tax
Expansion of
Alcohol-Free
Brews (AFBs)
Our leadership in the Alcohol-Free Brews (AFBs) category is further supported by variant innovation of Somersby Apple 0.0. In 2023, Somersby
Apple 0.0 was introduced in Singapore, in addition to the existing AFB offering of Carlsberg 0.0 Pilsner and Carlsberg 0.0 Wheat. Committed to offer
AFBs to consumers in line with our ZERO Irresponsible Drinking programme, we aim to promote this category through increased investments in brand
building, sampling and leveraging our strong route-to-market.
Product Health Impact
Sustainable
Packaging
Aspiring to deliver ZERO Packaging Waste, we use more sustainable materials for our primary and secondary packaging to reduce our environmental
footprint. We are cognisant that investments in circular handling of packaging may result in higher operation costs, hence we strive to collaborate with
our vendors and suppliers to minimise costs while maximising the life-span of our packaging. This will contribute to the reduction of carbon emissions
and water consumption. In Singapore, we are also supportive of the Beverage Container Return Scheme that is expected to commence in 2025.
Sustainable Consumer
Behaviour, Sustainable
Packaging and Material
| CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
120
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
ABOUT THIS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement is prepared in compliance with the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and sets out our
report to shareholders on the status of the Group’s corporate governance practices. It is to be read in tandem with our Corporate Governance Report 2023, which details our
application of the principles contained in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (MCCG 2021). The Corporate Governance Report 2023 can be viewed online at
www.carlsbergmalaysia.com.my.
The Board holds the responsibility for ensuring that the Group
and its businesses adhere to regulatory requirements and
uphold high standards of corporate governance, all in the
pursuit of safeguarding and enhancing shareholders’ value. In
the best interests of the Group, the Board actively engages in
key responsibilities, encompassing the review of the Group’s
strategic plans and internal controls, sustainable business
practices, risk management, and succession planning.
With a composition of Directors from varied backgrounds,
diverse skillsets, and expertise, the Board is well-equipped
to effectively fulfil its duties. Delegating specific
responsibilities to committees such as the Audit Committee
(“AC”), Nomination & Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) and
Risk Management & Sustainability Committee (“RMSC”), the
Board ensures focused attention on strategic and material
matters in the business. For detailed insights into the terms of
reference of both the Board and its committees, please refer to
our corporate website: www.carlsbergmalaysia.com.my.
On 1 May 2023, the Group welcomed Eric Ooi Lip Aun as the
new chairman for both AC and RMSC, succeeding Chew Hoy
Ping, who retired after a commendable nine year directorship
with the Group. His retirement is in alignment with the Group’s
Board Charter, which stipulates that an independent director
should not exceed a cumulative term of nine years.
Board Composition
As at the date of this report, the Board has a total of seven Directors, led by an Independent Non-Executive Chairman. The
current size and composition of the Board allows for objective and independent deliberation, review and decision-making.
The Non-Independent Directors are nominated by the major shareholder, Carlsberg Breweries A/S, which allows the Group to
fully leverage the skills and experience of the Carlsberg Group in the best interests of the Group and its stakeholders.
OVERVIEW OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ("BOARD") INFORMATION ON THE BOARD
DIRECTOR
50-55
1
Italian
1
Portuguese
1
South African
1
Hong Konger
1
Male
5
Female
2
56-60
2
61-65
66-70 Malaysian
2
2 3
AGE GROUP NATIONALITY
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
121
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Roles of Chairman and Managing Director are separate and clearly defined
In compliance with Practice 1.3 of MCCG 2021, the roles of the Chairman and Managing Director are held by two different individuals and their roles and responsibilities are made clearly distinct
to enhance the existing balance of power and authority. The role of Chairman is held by Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Chor Chee Heung while the role of Managing Director is held by Stefano Clini. The
respective roles and responsibilities of the Chairman and Managing Director are set out as below:
• Responsible for the leadership, effectiveness, conduct and governance of the Board
• Collectively with the Board, holds the Managing Director and Management Team
accountable for meeting strategic objectives of Carlsberg Malaysia Group
• Responsible for the day-to-day management of the operations of Carlsberg Malaysia Group
as well as the implementation of the Board’s policies, directives, strategies and decisions
• Accountable to the Board for ensuring the Management Team performs based on
approved strategies
CHAIRMAN MANAGING DIRECTOR
Independence of Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Executive Directors play an instrumental role in the establishment of a solid foundation for good corporate governance. All of the Non-Executive Directors are considered by the Board
to be independent of Management and free from any relationships that could interfere with the exercise of their independent judgement. The Non-Executive Directors have a diverse range of
business, financial and management skills and experiences which contribute significantly to the Group’s corporate strategy.
Other information on Directors
• Each Director does not have any family relationships with any other Director and/or major shareholders of the Group.
• Each Director does not have any conflict of interest with the Group.
• Each Director has not been convicted of an offence in the last five years, nor has any public sanction or penalty been imposed on them by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial
year 2023, other than traffic offences, if any.
• Details of the Directors’ attendance at Board and Committees’ meetings are set out in the Corporate Governance Overview Statement on page 122 of this report.
INFORMATION ON THE BOARD
| CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
122
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board considered and reviewed the following matters in FY 2023:
• Quarterly financial results
• Interim/Final dividend
• Capex investments
• Related party transactions and recurrent
related party transactions
• Budget for the coming financial year
• Quarterly internal audit reports
Financial Matters
• Supply chain updates
• Sales updates
• Marketing activities updates
• Corporate affairs/regulatory matters
• Litigation /recovery updates
• HR updates, including DE&I initiatives
• Major capex investments project
• Insurance updates
• IT and cybersecurity updates
• Statutory compliance for licences and
permits
Operational Matters
• Strategic and commercial updates in
quarterly Board meetings
• The Group’s strategy
• Remuneration for Management Team
and Executives
• Talent management updates and
succession planning
• Key performance objectives of the
Management Team
• Board Effectiveness Evaluation findings
• Corporate governance updates
Strategic and Governance Matters
• Quarterly risk register updates (including
ABC risk register)
• Quarterly compliance activities
• Progress reporting on Speak Up matters
(whistleblowing cases)
• Sustainability strategies and policies,
including the implementation of the
Carlsberg Group's Together towards
Zero and Beyond (TTZAB) ambitions
Risk and Sustainability Matters
Matters reserved for the Board
There is an agreed list of matters reserved for the Board’s collective decision, formalised in the Board Charter as follows:
• Conduct of the Board – appointment and removal of Directors and Company Secretaries, appointment of Board Committees’ members and their terms of references;
• Remuneration – remuneration structure and policy for Directors (including Managing Director);
• Operational – business strategies and operational plan, capital expenditure, annual budgets and investment or divestment in business/capital projects/undertakings;
• Financial – financial statements, dividends and accounting policies.
BOARD ACTIVITIES
BOARD ATTENDANCE IN FY 2023
Directors
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri
Chor Chee Heung
Independent Non-Executive
Chairman
Stefano Clini
Managing Director
Eric Ooi Lip Aun
Independent Non-Executive
Director
*appointed as at 1 May 2023
Datuk Lee Oi Kuan
Independent Non-Executive
Director
João Miguel
Ventura Rego
Abecasis
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
Gavin Stuart
Brockett
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
Chan Po Kei Kay
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
Chew Hoy Ping
Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director
*resigned as at 1 May 2023
Attendance Record
4/4 4/4 3/3 4/4 4/4 4/4 4/4 1/1
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
123
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ INDUCTION AND TRAINING
A comprehensive and tailored induction is provided to all new Directors following their
appointment to the Board to enable the new Director to contribute effectively from the onset of
his/her appointment. This includes meetings with the Managing Director, Management Team
and key senior executives to gain an understanding of the Group’s businesses as well as a visit
to the brewery.
The NRC has the mandate to ensure that the Board receives continuous training on topics which
are relevant to the Group and the individual Director’s roles. To this end, a training list setting
out the relevant training programmes, seminars and conferences is shared with the Directors on
a quarterly basis as well as ad hoc training, seminars and conferences.
The Company Secretaries also provide the Board with updates on relevant legal and regulatory
developments and changes in environmental, social and governance matters in the quarterly
Board meeting.
The training programmes attended by the Board in FY 2023 are set out by topic below:
Subject Matter Training Sessions
Leadership 31
Governance and Risk Management 4
Cybersecurity 2
Sustainability 7
Operational 13
The governance framework of the Group is anchored by the Board and complemented by its
diverse Committees, underpinned by the Group’s standards, policies, and a comprehensive risk
management and internal control framework all elaborated upon in this report. At the forefront of
the governance structure, the Board oversees and directs these mechanisms, entrusting specific
duties to key Committees: the Audit Committee, Risk Management & Sustainability Committee,
and Nomination & Remuneration Committee. Regular updates on Committee proceedings are
delivered to the Board during its meetings by the respective Chairman or Chairperson.
Playing a pivotal role in coordinating these governance facets, the Company Secretaries serve
as the secretarial support for both the Board and its Committees.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
MANAGING DIRECTOR
MANAGEMENT TEAM
AUDIT
COMMITTEE
NOMINATION AND
REMUNERATION
COMMITTEE
Oversees financial and
accounting reporting, evaluates
audit control framework,
ensures independence of
Internal Audit Function
RISK MANAGEMENT
AND SUSTAINABILITY
COMMITTEE
Oversees development and
review of the Group’s Risk
Management Framework and
sustainability agenda of the
Group
Reviews the remuneration of
the Board and recommends
candidates for all directorships,
evaluate performance of the
Board, Board Committees and
Directors
GOVERNANCE CHART
| CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
124
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board is supported by two qualified and competent Company Secretaries as follows:
(a) Ms Koh Poi San was appointed as the Company Secretary with effect from 19 February 2020. She is also the Legal & Compliance Director, leading both functions in the Group, and a member
of the Management Team.
(b) Ms Chia Cai Jin was appointed as the Assistant Secretary with effect from 11 October 2021. She is an Associate member of the Malaysian Institute of Corporate Secretaries and Administrators
(MAICSA) since 2021, and is also currently the Legal Manager of the Group.
Both Company Secretaries have the requisite credentials and are qualified to act as company secretaries under Section 235(2) of the Companies Act 2016. The role of the Company Secretaries
is to provide the following support to the Board and the Committees:
• Ensure compliance with listing and related statutory obligations as well as provide updates on regulatory requirements, codes, guidance and relevant legislation;
• Ensure adherence to Board and Committees’ policies and procedures, rules, relevant laws and best practices on corporate governance;
• Ensure the Directors are provided with the relevant agendas and sufficient information prior to meetings;
• Attend Board, Committee and General Meetings and ensure the proper recording of minutes and follow up on matters arising;
• Advise the Board and Committees on corporate administration and governance matters;
• Ensure proper upkeep of statutory registers and records and maintain a secure retrieval system which stores meeting papers and minutes of meetings; and
• Assist the Chairman in the planning and execution of meetings in terms of policies and procedures, as well as updates on regulatory requirements, codes, guidance, and relevant
legislation.
The Company Secretaries are supported by an external consultant, Tricor Corporate Services Sdn Bhd, which provides support on corporate secretarial matters and regulatory compliance as well
as additional advice on issues pertaining to compliance and corporate governance.
COMPANY SECRETARIES
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
125
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Attendance
Record
Chairman
Datuk Lee Oi Kuan
Independent Non-Executive Director
4/4
Member
Eric Ooi Lip Aun
Independent Non-Executive Director
1/1
Chan Po Kei Kay
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
4/4
Chew Hoy Ping
Senior Independent Non-Executive
Director
*resigned as at 1 May 2023
3/3
Tan Sri Dato' Seri Chor Chee Heung
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
*resigned as at 24 February 2023
2/2
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
The NRC is responsible for, among others, succession
planning, determination of Directors’ remuneration
package and annual assessment of the Board and
Board Committees. It comprises three members with the
majority being Independent Non-Executive Directors,
including the Chairperson.
The Managing Director attended all the meetings for the
purpose of briefing the NRC on the activities involving
his areas of responsibility. The NRC held a total of four
meetings in FY2023.
Summary of Work Performed by the Nomination
and Remuneration Committee
The main activities the NRC undertook during FY2023
were as follows:
• Interviewed and assessed candidates for the new
independent director who would also be appointed
as the new chairman of the AC and RMSC.
Appropriate candidates were sourced from internal
recommendations as well as external recruitment
firms;
• Reviewed the Managing Director and Management
Team's key performance objectives and their annual
performance;
• Reviewed and assessed the effectiveness of the
Board, the Board Committees and the contribution
of each existing individual Director, and reported its
findings to the Board. The annual Board and Directors
Effectiveness Evaluation for FY2023 was conducted
in-house and facilitated by the Company Secretaries;
and
• Conducted the fit and proper assessment on the person
identified to be appointed as Director and for Directors
who were proposed for re-election at the upcoming
AGM.
The Terms of Reference of the NRC are set out in
Appendix C of the Board Charter and are available on
the corporate website at www.carlsbergmalaysia.com.my.
Remuneration of the Directors and Management Team
Details of Directors’ Remuneration
The Directors’ remuneration matters fall within the purview of the NRC,
which is responsible for reviewing and making recommendations to the
Board.
The objective of the Group’s remuneration policy is to attract and retain
the right calibre of Directors required to lead and manage the Group
effectively. The remuneration for the Directors is reflective of their roles,
experiences and level of responsibility in the Board and the Board
Committees.
Under the Group’s current remuneration policy, only the Independent
Non-Executive Directors receive remuneration for their roles as Directors
as well as members of the Board Committees. The remuneration
payable in respect of the Independent Non-Executive Directors’ fees in
FY2023 is categorised as below:
Remuneration for Directors’ fees Amount per
annum (RM)
Chairman of the Group 200,000
Each Independent Non-Executive Director 115,000
AC Chairman 20,000
AC Member 8,000
RMSC Chairman 2,500
RMSC Member 2,000
NRC Chairman 2,500
NRC Member 2,000
Meeting allowance (per meeting) 1,500
| CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
126
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
NOMINATION AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT
The Board has proposed the adoption of the same Directors’ fee structure and rates for FY2024 and for the fees to be paid on a
monthly basis. The Directors’ fees for FY2024 are subject to the approval of the shareholders of the Group at the upcoming AGM.
The details of the remuneration of the Board for FY2023 were as below:
Fees
(RM)
Salaries
(RM)
Allowances
(RM)
Benefits-in-
kind
(RM)
Other
Emoluments
(RM)
Total
(RM)
Independent and Non-Executive
Directors
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Chor Chee Heung 201,668 - 13,500 1,671 - 216,839
Datuk Lee Oi Kuan 127,209 - 25,500 1,377 - 154,086
Eric Ooi Lip Aun
*Appointed on 1 May 2023 95,043 - 16,500 1,059 - 112,602
Chew Hoy Ping
*Resigned on 1 May 2023 46,500 - 10,500 546 - 57,546
Executive Director
Stefano Clini - 2,317,121 589,197 61,401 2,009,485 4,977,204
Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director
João Miguel Ventura Rego
Abecasis - - - - - -
Gavin Stuart Brockett - - - - - -
Chan Po Kei Kay - - - - - -
Details of Management Team’s Remuneration
The remuneration of the top four members of the Management
Team for FY2023 was as below. The details of the Management
Team’s remuneration were not disclosed by name due to
confidentiality and sensitivity of each remuneration package.
Range of Remuneration
(RM)
Top four
Management
Team
1,100,001 – 1,200,000 1
1,200,001 – 1,300,000 0
1,300,001 – 2,000,000 3
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
127
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
The Board, through the Nomination
& Remuneration Committee (“NRC”),
conducts an annual evaluation of the
Board and Board Committees’ performance
and effectiveness. For FY2023, the Board
and Board Committees Effectiveness
Evaluation was conducted in-house and
facilitated by the Company Secretaries.
BOARD AND BOARD COMMITTEES EFFECTIVENESS EVALUATION 2023
ACTION PLANS FOR 2024
The evaluation was carried out by online
questionnaires derived from Bursa
Malaysia’s Corporate Governance Guide
which covered the areas of:
The skills matrix assessment was one of the key
action plans for FY2023 where the Board agreed
to formalise a skills matrix to facilitate succession
planning.
The NRC reviewed results of the Board and Board
Committees' Effectiveness Evaluation and Skills
Matrix Assessment before they were presented to
the Board for consideration. An action plan was
formulated based on the results of the evaluation
(as detailed below).
The overall results of the evaluation were
satisfactory. It was concluded that the Board and
the Board Committees have the necessary skills
and expertise to continue to drive and manage the
business effectively in a sustainable manner.
In addition, the Board also undertook a self
and peer assessment on skills matrix which
focused on four key areas:
The Board deliberated on the evaluation undertaken and agreed to the following action plans for 2024:
Board mix and composition
Industry knowledge and experience
Quality of information and decision
making
Technical skills
Boardroom activities
Corporate governance
competencies
Effectiveness of Board Committees
Behavioural competencies.
To formalise a Board succession plan based on the results of the Board's skills matrix assessment.
To formalise a strategic framework for effective engagement with stakeholders.
To continue focus on emerging trends in the training curricular for the Board and Board Committees.
| CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
128
SUMMARY OF WORK PERFORMED BY AUDIT COMMITTEE
The main activities the AC undertook during FY 2023 were as
follows:
• Reviewed the external auditors’ scope of work, audit risks and
focus areas, materiality thresholds, audit methodology, key
milestones, and other relevant matters. The Chairman and
members of the AC periodically held informal discussions with
the external auditors to ensure audit issues were addressed on
a timely basis.
• Reviewed the results of the external audit, the audit report, and
the management representation letter, including Management’s
responses. Furthermore, the AC scrutinised potential key audit
matters raised by the external auditors and ensured that
adequate work was done to support the audit conclusions and
overall impact on the financial statements. The sole key audit
matter vetted by the AC (as mentioned in the Independent
Auditors’ Report on pages 212 to 215 in detail) related to the
accounting for trade discounts and volume rebates accruals as
part of revenue recognition, as this involved the use of critical
accounting estimates and Management's assumptions. As
noted by the external auditors, Management accrued the trade
discounts and volume rebates based on the estimated sales
volume multiplied by the agreed rates with the customers.
On the AC’s part, trade discounts and volume rebates were
regularly reviewed as part of the financial reports presented by
Management at each quarterly meeting and through relevant
Internal Audit ("IA") reports during the year, following the
approved IA plan.
• Assessed the performance, competency and professionalism
demonstrated by the external auditors during the year. Obtained
the assurance of independence from the external auditors and
recommended the audit fees payable to the Board for approval.
• Considered and assessed the independence and objectivity of
the external auditors during the year and prior to engaging the
external auditors for non-audit-related services. The non-audit
fees paid to the member firms of external auditors in 2023
amounted to RM123,543.
• Reviewed IA reports, recommendations, and Management
responses, including relevant activities performed by Group IA
from Carlsberg Group. Discussed actions taken with Management
to improve the internal control systems based on findings
identified by the internal auditors. On a quarterly basis, the AC
Chairman also had private sessions with the Head of IA to discuss
the operations of the IA function and other related matters.
• Reviewed the audited financial statements of the Group prior
to submission to the Board for its approval. The review was to
ensure that the audited financial statements were drawn up in
accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 and
the applicable accounting standards as set by the Malaysian
Accounting Standards Board.
• Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results and Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (Bursa) announcements before
recommending them for the Board’s approval. Such reviews
were conducted together with the Managing Director and the
Chief Financial Officer.
• Throughout the financial year, the AC Chairman and other
members of the AC also discussed frequently with the Chief
Financial Officer on any potential material issues that could
affect financial reporting and disclosures. This included
the Group’s compliance with relevant legal and statutory
requirements such as the Bursa Listing Requirements.
• Reviewed pertinent issues of the Group that could significantly
impact the Group's results and future cash flows, including
enhancements and investments in products, capital expenditure,
cost rationalisation measures and human resource development.
• Reviewed the reports on recurrent related party transactions to
ensure these transactions were executed in compliance with the
Bursa Listing Requirements and arm's length principle, as well
as were within the shareholders’ mandate.
• Reviewed the Group’s compliance with the provisions set out in
the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance for the purpose
of the Corporate Governance Overview Statement, pursuant to
the Bursa Listing Requirements.
The AC is responsible to review and monitor the accounting
and financial results, including all associated matters,
recurrent related party transactions, the internal control
framework and systems, audit reports and annual audit
plan, as well as compliance matters. The committee
comprises three Non-Executive Directors, with the
majority represented by Independent Directors, including
the Chairman.
The Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer, Legal &
Compliance Director and Head of Internal Audit attended
all the meetings for the purpose of briefing the AC on
the developments and issues relating to their areas of
responsibility.
The AC was also briefed by the external auditors, PwC, on
the audit plan and the findings of the external audit during
four of the 2023 AC meetings. In these meetings with PwC,
the AC had private sessions with the external auditors
without the presence of any executive Board members or
Management.
Attendance
Record
Chairman
Eric Ooi Lip Aun
Independent Non-Executive Director
*appointed as at 1 May 2023
3/3
Chew Hoy Ping
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
*resigned as at 1 May 2023
2/2
Member
Datuk Lee Ooi Kuan
Independent Non-Executive Director
*appointed as at 24 February 2023
4/4
Gavin Brockett
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
5/5
Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Chor Chee Heung
Independent Non-Executive Chairman
*resigned as at 24 February 2023
1/1
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
129
SUMMARY OF WORK PERFORMED BY THE RISK
MANAGEMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
The main activities the RMSC undertook during FY 2023 were as
follows:
• Reviewed the Group’s Risk Management Framework and
policies for approval and adoption by the Board. Reviewed the
effectiveness and relevance of the framework and policies on a
regular basis.
• Reviewed the quarterly risk updates and provided
recommendations to the Board in relation to the monitoring of
principal risks and the corresponding risk-mitigating plans. The
RMSC also conducted regular scanning for potential new risks.
• Made recommendations to the Board concerning risk appetite
and risk tolerance. In addition, the RMSC ensured that key risks
were adequately monitored and managed within the tolerance
levels acceptable to the Board.
• Reviewed and reported to the Board any significant issues arising
from the risk management programmes and the corresponding
mitigating actions taken by the Group.
• COVID-19 infection cases and mitigating activities were closely
monitored during this endemic phase. Key updates in relation
to health, safety and business continuity were provided by the
Management to the RMSC on a quarterly basis.
• Oversight of the implementation of the sustainability framework,
policies & strategies and ESG initiatives across the Group to
meet market and global expectations. Received and reviewed
key updates in relation to ESG developments and results of ESG
integration into the Group’s operations & principles, as part of
building a sustainable business model.
• Reviewed and monitored the Group’s targets and key
performance indicators. Reported timely to the Board on any
current and emerging topics pertaining to ESG subject matters
that could materially affect the business, performance, or
reputation of the Group.
• Reviewed the anti-bribery and anti-corruption risks relating to
the Group and the corresponding mitigating activities.
• Reviewed the updates to compliance-related programmes in the
quarterly report prepared by the Legal & Compliance Director.
The RMSC is responsible for overseeing the risk
management framework, policy and activities, as well
as reviewing the sustainability initiatives and related
matters within the Group. The committee comprises
two Non-Executive Directors and one Executive
Director, with the majority represented by Independent
Directors, including the Chairman.
The Chief Financial Officer, Chief Sustainability Officer,
Legal & Compliance Director and Head of Internal Audit
attended all the meetings for the purpose of briefing
the RMSC on the activities involving their areas of
responsibility.
Attendance
Record
Chairman
Eric Ooi Lip Aun
Independent Non-Executive Director
*appointed as at 1 May 2023
3/3
Chew Hoy Ping
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
*resigned as at 1 May 2023
1/1
Member
Datuk Lee Ooi Kuan
Independent Non-Executive Director
*appointed as at 24 February 2023
4/4
Stefano Clini
Managing Director
4/4
RISK MANAGEMENT AND SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE REPORT
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
| CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
130
SUMMARY OF WORK PERFORMED BY INTERNAL AUDIT
The main activities the IA function undertook during FY 2023 were
as follows:
• Performed risk assessments on all auditable areas for the
purpose of annual audit planning. A number of elements were
considered in the planning, which included financial impact,
perceived state of controls, feedback from the Management
Team, past audit findings, control matters raised by external
auditors or Group IA from Carlsberg Group and recent changes
in the business environment.
• Shared the proposed annual audit plan with the Managing
Director and subsequently presented it to the AC for review and
approval.
• Performed audit reviews based on the approved audit plan
and prepared audit reports (for quarterly issuance to the
Management and AC) in which the audit observations, root-
cause analyses and remedial recommendations were detailed.
During the year, reviews related to on-trade and off-trade sales
processes, third party transporters, marketing research projects
and recurrent related party transactions. Numerous special
reviews, which included the assessment of potential fraud and
ABAC risks and investigation of whistleblowing cases, were also
carried out. All audit reports were tabled at the quarterly AC
meetings for review, discussion, and implementation.
• Conducted meetings throughout the year with the relevant
stakeholders to discuss and align audit-related matters. Such
meetings also intended to solicit feedback from stakeholders
with regard to the practicality of audit recommendations and
adoption.
• Regularly followed up on outstanding audit issues, especially
on the implementation and continuity of Management action
plans in addressing control gaps that were identified.
• Provided advice in relation to internal control issues arising from
the day-to-day business operations. Where necessary, the IA
function also collaborated with Management to promote a
culture of practising good internal controls and governance to
strive for business efficiency and internal control effectiveness.
• Managed the Group’s official whistleblowing mailbox and
liaised with the Whistleblowing Committee and the Speak Up
Review Team of Carlsberg Group on the appropriate responses
and actions in relation to reports received from whistleblowers.
Carried out investigations as and when necessary and
appropriate.
• Participated as an independent observer in the end-to-end
tendering process of the Group. The IA team reviewed all
tenders carried out for purchases above RM200,000 in terms of
tender briefs, scoring criteria and weightage, actual submission
by suppliers, selection justification and exception handling.
• Coordinated more than 21 meetings during the year with the risk
owners and functional heads to discuss and solicit updates to
the risk registers. This included the regular practice of scanning
for new risks together with stakeholders.
• Facilitated the quarterly risk management meetings with the
risk working committee (consisting of risk owners and risk
responsible parties). Prepared the minutes and followed up on
matters arising and outstanding issues.
• Maintained the Group’s risk registers and ensured that the
contents were regularly updated with the relevant information
and status of risk-mitigating activities.
• Prepared the risk management reporting deck and presented
it at the quarterly RMSC meetings for review, discussion, and
comments.
• As per Main Market Listing Requirement, the Group was required
to disclose whether the sustainability statement was subjected
to internal review or independent assurance. It was decided that
the Statement of Assurance on the Sustainability Statement for
FY 2023 would be provided by the IA function.
• IA developed the ESG assurance framework and aligned the
selected subject matters with Management and Sustainability
Steering Committees, prior to presenting the project proposal to
RMSC for endorsement.
• IA performed the necessary validation on all the selected subject
matters, with specific geographical location as well as financial
year prior to the issuance of the Statement of Assurance (as
mentioned on pages 230 to 231 in detail).
STRUCTURE, RESPONSIBILITIES AND APPROACH
The Group maintains an in-house IA function, which is independent
of the business operations. Independence is always maintained
by the IA function so that it can perform its duties objectively.
The Head of IA is Mr Lim Tiong Eng @ Allan Lim, who is a
chartered accountant registered with the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants and a certified practising accountant under CPA
Australia. The Head of IA is assisted by three internal auditors and
has a functional reporting line to the AC Chairman. He has full
access to the AC and maintains regular communications with the
AC Chairman to discuss audit matters, in addition to other matters
concerning the IA function. All members of the IA function, like any
other employee of the Group, are subject to an annual declaration
of any potential conflict of interest. No member of the IA function
was reported to the AC and Board to have any element of conflict
of interest during the year.
The work conducted by the IA team is guided by the Committee
of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission (COSO)
framework in general and the COSO 5 components of internal
control specifically. The IA team also refers to the standards of the
International Professional Practices Framework (2017) issued by
the Institute of Internal Auditors.
The scope of work for the IA function is laid out in the annual
audit plan determined in consultation with the Managing Director
and approved by the AC. The contents of the annual audit
plan are determined by an annual risk assessment performed
independently by the IA function. Various aspects of the business
are covered by the audit plan, such as key internal control
processes, risk management, corporate governance & compliance
and recurrent related party transactions. The progress and status
of the audit plan are presented to the AC on a quarterly basis. All
audit observations and the corresponding remedial action plans
are presented by the Head of IA at the quarterly AC meetings.
The progress and implementation status of action plans are also
tabled at each meeting. A dedicated reporting deck that includes
all the individual audit reports is prepared for the purpose of the
quarterly meetings.
The total cost incurred by the IA function during the year
amounted to RM933,562.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
131
RESPONSIBILITY AND COMMITMENT
OF THE BOARD
The Board has always placed significant
emphasis on sound risk management
and internal control frameworks that are
necessary to safeguard the Group’s assets
and shareholders’ investments. To this end,
the Board affirms its overall responsibility
for the identification and mitigation of the
Group’s key risks, which are categorised in
its risk registers, according to the nature
of the risk, namely strategic, operational,
financial and compliance. Meanwhile,
the Group maintains an internal control
framework to prevent, detect and monitor
any significant control gaps. In addition, the
Board has effective oversight of the audit
findings and recommendations highlighted
by the Internal Audit (IA) function and the
external auditors. However, it should be
noted that the risk management process
and internal control systems, by definition,
can only manage, but not eliminate, all
risks and thus can only provide reasonable,
and not absolute assurance against
misstatement, loss or fraud or any other
adverse event.
This Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control was made in accordance
with the resolution of the Board dated
7 March 2024.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Under the risk management framework, the Group is required to put in place a continuous process to identify, evaluate, monitor and manage key risks that
could hinder the achievement of the Group’s business objectives.
The Risk Management Process
The IA team coordinates discussions and meetings with all the risk
owners and heads of department to assess and update the existing
risks in the Group’s risk registers (separate risk registers are maintained
for the Malaysian and Singaporean businesses). Such exercises are
also meant to identify any potential new risk areas. Prior to the
quarterly Risk Management and Sustainability Committee (RMSC)
meeting, the Managing Director convenes a risk management working
committee meeting (this committee comprises all the risk owners). The
main objective of this meeting is to obtain updates from risk owners
pertaining to all the key risks reported in the risk registers. Mitigating
plans and activities are also discussed and deliberated before adoption.
The RMSC evaluates and reviews the key risks reported by the Group
on a quarterly basis. A dedicated risk report is prepared for this purpose
and relevant members of the Management team are invited to join the
quarterly meetings, as and when necessary.
Risk Category
The Group maintains a register of key risks together with corresponding
mitigating activities and risk ratings. These risks are grouped according
to the nature of the risk, as follows:
Risks that hinder the business from achieving its strategic objectives
due to events that occur both internally and externally.
Strategic
Risks that are related to legal and statutory requirements and
corporate governance.
Compliance
Risks that impact the business’ day-to-day operations.
Operational
Risks that are generally associated with misstatements in financial
reporting and/or breakdowns in financial controls, including adverse
events that result in financial losses.
Financial
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
| CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
132
INTERNAL CONTROL FRAMEWORK
The key elements of the Group’s internal control framework are described as follows:
The Board and Management have
established an organisational structure
with clearly defined lines of accountability
and delegated authority. This includes
well-defined responsibilities for the Board
Committees and various management
levels. The authority limits that govern
the day-to-day business operations are
spelt out in the Group’s Chart of Authority,
which is endorsed by the Board. Emphasis
is placed on adherence to the Carlsberg
Group’s Code of Ethics and Conduct by
all employees and business partners.
Meanwhile, merit-based incentive
schemes and rigorous key performance
indicators are put in place to ensure
that the competency of the workforce is
continuously maintained.
Control Environment
As part of the framework, the Group has
established standard operating procedures
to safeguard the integrity of the business
operations and financial reporting. These
procedures are subject to regular reviews
by the Management, Legal & Compliance
team and internal auditors to cater for
changes in business processes and risks
or for further improvements. Preventive,
detective and monitoring controls are also
embedded in the core business processes
to ensure that the risk of deviation
is adequately mitigated. Meanwhile,
segregation of duties is implemented
where required and possible.
Control Activities
The Group maintains effective
communication channels to provide and
solicit feedback in relation to business
performance, critical issues and other key
business matters. The Group has also
put in place and communicated policies
and manuals that govern critical areas
of the business, namely Code of Ethics &
Conduct, Anti-Bribery & Corruption, Gift,
Entertainment & Donation, Competition
Compliance, Trade Sanction and Third
Party Screening. Such directives are
regularly communicated to employees
and business partners for strict adherence
and compliance. Meanwhile, training and
refresher programmes, particularly in
the form of e-learning, are periodically
rolled out to create awareness and instil
a desirable culture within the Group.
As an additional safeguard, the Group
has implemented various channels for
employees and third parties to speak
up on any misconduct or behaviour that
deviates from the Group's policies and
principles.
Communication
The Management constantly reviews key
performance indicators set for various
functions within the Group to ensure the
efficiency and effectiveness of operational
activities in achieving business objectives.
Independent reviews are carried out
throughout the year by the IA function
to assess the adequacy and effectiveness
of the internal control framework.
Audit results from reviews performed in
accordance with the approved annual
audit plan, including the findings and
recommendations, are reported to the AC
on a quarterly basis. In addition, external
audit findings, including any key control
matters, are highlighted by the external
auditors to the AC and the Board. The
Group has also implemented periodic
self-assessment initiatives in relation to
financial controls, the results of which are
reviewed and monitored by the Carlsberg
Group.
Monitoring Mechanism
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
133
ADEQUACY OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board has reviewed and believes that the risk management and internal control framework is
adequate. Appropriate mitigating activities and control procedures have been put in place to deal with
any identified weaknesses.
With the transition towards the endemic phase for COVID-19, the Group has continued to maintain
a hybrid work model. As ‘work-from-home’ arrangements for employees has become the norm,
necessary adjustments are made to various processes without compromising internal control
systems. Various processes are also automated to improve efficiency and effectiveness. Nevertheless,
the Group remains vigilant in monitoring COVID-19 cases and any other emerging pandemic disease
that could adversely affect the business operations.
Additional emphasis is also placed on cybersecurity to address the trend of increasing cyberthreats
around the world. In recent times, numerous initiatives were implemented to mitigate such threats
and risks. During the year, deficiencies in internal control were identified by both external and internal
auditors as part of the statutory audit as well as internal audit reviews, respectively. Corrective actions
were duly taken to address such deficiencies.
The Board has also received assurance from the Managing Director and Chief Financial Officer that
the Group’s risk management and internal control systems are operating adequately and effectively
in all material aspects.
This Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control does not deal with the associated company
as the Group does not have management control over its operations. However, the Group maintains
oversight and has significant influence over the financial reporting process and operating policies,
through two representatives from the Group in the associated company’s Board.
REVIEW OF THE STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS
As required by Paragraph 15.23 of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Main Market Listing
Requirements, the external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Control. Their limited assurance review was performed in accordance with Audit and Assurance
Practice Guide 3 (AAPG3) issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. AAPG3 does not require
the external auditors to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk management
and internal control systems of the Group.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
| CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
134
The Directors are collectively responsible for ensuring that the financial statements for the Carlsberg Malaysia Group are prepared in accordance with the applicable Approved Accounting
Standards in Malaysia, the provisions of the Companies Act 2016 and the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
It is the responsibility of the Directors to ensure that financial statements for each financial year present a true and fair view of the state of affairs of the Carlsberg Malaysia Group at the end of
the financial year and of the results and cash flows of the Carlsberg Malaysia Group for the financial year.
In preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2023, the Directors have applied appropriate and relevant accounting policies consistently, and in accordance with
applicable accounting standards, and made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and fair. The financial statements have been prepared on a going concern basis and the Directors have
ensured that proper accounting records have been kept that enable the preparation of the financial statements with reasonable accuracy.
The Directors have the general responsibility for taking such steps as are reasonably open to them to safeguard the assets of the Carlsberg Malaysia Group and to prevent and detect fraud and
other irregularities. This statement is made in accordance with a resolution of the Board of Directors dated 7 March 2024.
RESPONSIBILITY STATEMENT BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE LEADERSHIP MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OTHER INFORMATION
135
Directors’ Report 136
Statements of Comprehensive Income 140
Statements of Financial Position 141
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity 142
Statement of Changes in Equity 144
Statements of Cash Flows 145
Notes to the Financial Statements 149
Statement by Directors 211
Statutory Declaration 211
Independent Auditors’ Report 212
Financial
Statements
136
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
The Board of Directors has pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company for
the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
DIRECTORS OF THE COMPANY
The Directors in office during the financial year and during the period from the end of the financial year to the date of the report are:
Chan Po Kei Kay
Stefano Clini
Gavin Stuart Brockett
Datuk Lee Oi Kuan
Tan Sri Dato' Seri Chor Chee Heung
João Miguel Ventura Rego Abecasis
Eric Ooi Lip Aun (Appointed on 01.05.2023)
Chew Hoy Ping (Resigned on 01.05.2023)
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in the production of beer, stout, cider, shandy and non-alcoholic beverages for distribution in the
domestic market and for export while the other Group entities are primarily involved in the marketing and distribution of beer, stout, cider,
shandy, liquor and non-alcoholic beverages. There have been no significant change in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Profit for the financial year attributable to:
- Owners of the Company 327,256 304,198
- Non-controlling interests 7,602 -
Profit for the financial year 334,858 304,198
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
All material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year are shown in the financial statements.
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
There were no shares or debentures issued by the Company during the financial year.
DIRECTORS' BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled to receive any benefit (other than
the benefits shown under Directors’ Remuneration) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director
or with a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest.
Neither during nor at the end of the financial year was the Company or any of its subsidiaries a party to any arrangements whose object
was to enable the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body
corporate.
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE COSTS
The Directors and Officers of the Group and the Company are covered by Directors and Officers Liability Insurance in respect of liabilities
arising from acts committed in their respective capacity as, inter alia, Directors and Officers of the Company subject to the terms of the
policy. The total amount of premium paid was RM62,533.
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
137
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES
According to the Register of Directors’ shareholdings required to be kept under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016, none of the Directors
who held office at the end of the financial year held any shares in the Company and its related corporations (other than wholly-owned
subsidiaries).
DIVIDENDS
The dividends paid since the end of the previous financial year were as follows:
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2022:
Date of payment
Sen per
ordinary share RM million
18 May 2023 Final single-tier dividend 25.0 76.4
In respect of financial year ended 31 December 2023:
Date of payment
Sen per
ordinary share RM million
8 June 2023 First interim single-tier dividend 21.0 64.2
13 Oct 2023 Second interim single-tier dividend 22.0 67.3
29 Dec 2023 Third interim single-tier dividend 19.0 58.1
The Board of Directors recommended for shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a final single-tier dividend
of 31.0 sen per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023. The total amount payable for the proposed final
single-tier dividend is RM94.8 million.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Details of Directors’ remuneration of the Group and the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 were as follows:
Group and
Company
RM’000
Directors:
- Fees 470
- Defined contribution plan 192
- Short-term employee benefits (including estimated monetary value of benefits-in-kind) 4,207
4,869
- Share-based payment expense 649
5,518
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
138
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
HOLDING COMPANIES
The Directors regard Carlsberg Breweries A/S and Carlsberg A/S, companies incorporated in Denmark, as the immediate holding company
and ultimate holding company respectively.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
(a) Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the Directors took reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of allowance for
doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that adequate allowance had been
made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets, which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including the values
of current assets as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company had been written down to an amount
which the current assets might be expected so to realise.
(b) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would render the amounts written off for bad debts or the amount of the allowance for doubtful debts inadequate to
any substantial extent; or
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
misleading; or
(iii) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group and of
the Company misleading or inappropriate.
(c) At the date of this report:
(i) there are no charges on the assets of the Group and of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year which
secures the liabilities of any other person; and
(ii) there are no contingent liabilities in the Group and in the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year.
(d) No contingent or other liability of any company in the Group has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable within the
period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the Directors, will or may affect the ability of the
Company and its subsidiaries to meet their obligations when they fall due.
(e) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company which would render any amount stated in the respective financial statements
misleading.
(f) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) the results of the operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year were not substantially affected by any
item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature except for those disclosed in the financial statements; and
(ii) there has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report any item, transaction
or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the results of the operations of the Group and of the
Company for the financial year in which this report is made.
 
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
139
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
SUBSIDIARIES
Details of subsidiaries are set out in Note 12 to the financial statements.
AUDITORS
The auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT (LLP0014401-LCA & AF1146), have expressed their willingness to accept re-appointment as
auditors.
Auditors’ remuneration of the Group and the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 were as follows:
Group
RM’000
Company
RM’000
Audit fees:
- Payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT 372 237
- Payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited 270 -
Audit related services:
- Payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT 11 11
653 248
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2024.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors:
TAN SRI DATO’ SERI CHOR CHEE HEUNG STEFANO CLINI
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE MANAGING DIRECTOR
CHAIRMAN
Selangor Darul Ehsan
7 March 2024
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
140
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
The notes on pages 149 to 210 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Note
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Revenue 5 2,260,899 2,412,465 1,107,980 1,258,065
Cost of sales (1,483,948) (1,616,373) (1,077,125) (1,236,372)
Gross profit 776,951 796,092 30,855 21,693
Other income 2,061 2,044 24,206 24,500
Sales and distribution expenses (292,850) (286,669) (3,980) (5,763)
Administrative expenses (84,442) (79,206) (46,068) (42,602)
Other expenses (2,916) (7,152) (2,601) (8,280)
Results from operating activities 398,804 425,109 2,412 (10,452)
Dividend income - - 300,371 232,255
Finance income 556 784 1 2
Finance costs (5,764) (3,007) (8,628) (6,397)
Operating profit 6 393,596 422,886 294,156 215,408
Share of profit of equity-accounted associate, net of tax 23,457 21,519 - -
Profit before taxation 417,053 444,405 294,156 215,408
Taxation 7 (82,195) (119,544) 10,042 3,293
Profit for the financial year 334,858 324,861 304,198 218,701
Other comprehensive income/(loss), net of tax
Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss:
Cash flow hedge – fair value changes:
Change in fair value of effective portion of cash flow hedges (1,247) (5,152) (1,247) (5,152)
Gain/(loss) in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to
the income statement 5,917 (1,889) 5,917 (1,889)
Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 15,118 (39,884) - -
Other comprehensive income/(loss) for the financial year,
net of tax 19,788 (46,925) 4,670 (7,041)
Total comprehensive income for the financial year 354,646 277,936 308,868 211,660
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company 327,256 317,046 304,198 218,701
Non-controlling interests 7,602 7,815 - -
Profit for the financial year 334,858 324,861 304,198 218,701
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company 347,044 270,121 308,868 211,660
Non-controlling interests 7,602 7,815 - -
Total comprehensive income for the financial year 354,646 277,936 308,868 211,660
Basic/Diluted earnings per ordinary share (sen) 8 107.03 103.70
STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
141
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
Note
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
ASSETS
Non-current assets
Property, plant and equipment 9 322,214 306,730 294,008 286,223
Intangible assets 10 5,239 4,581 1,820 799
Right-of-use assets 11 17,328 10,716 14,529 6,272
Investments in subsidiaries 12 - - 391,572 391,572
Investment in an associate 13 88,642 66,873 25,164 25,164
Deferred tax assets 14 6,071 6,170 2,652 -
Total non-current assets 439,494 395,070 729,745 710,030
Current assets
Inventories 15 97,535 124,440 49,402 39,171
Receivables, deposits and prepayments 16 384,785 447,015 85,530 58,114
Tax recoverable 461 414 461 412
Cash and cash equivalents 17 95,036 91,251 28,583 6,639
Total current assets 577,817 663,120 163,976 104,336
Total assets 1,017,311 1,058,190 893,721 814,366
EQUITY AND LIABILITIES
Equity
Share capital 18 149,363 149,363 149,363 149,363
Reserves 18 79,736 (1,708) 217,620 174,383
Total equity attributable to owners of the Company 229,099 147,655 366,983 323,746
Non-controlling interests 5,498 6,462 - -
Total equity 234,597 154,117 366,983 323,746
LIABILITIES
Non-current liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 14 3,628 8,870 - 8,592
Provision 19 376 355 - -
Lease liabilities 11 6,364 2,660 6,061 -
Loans and borrowings 20 2,331 4,046 - -
Total non-current liabilities 12,699 15,931 6,061 8,592
Current liabilities
Payables and accruals 19 605,610 721,433 402,708 366,906
Current tax liabilities 41,764 47,639 - -
Lease liabilities 11 5,571 2,138 2,854 -
Loans and borrowings 20 117,070 116,932 115,115 115,122
Total current liabilities 770,015 888,142 520,677 482,028
Total liabilities 782,714 904,073 526,738 490,620
Total equity and liabilities 1,017,311 1,058,190 893,721 814,366
STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2023
The notes on pages 149 to 210 are an integral part of these financial statements.
142
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
Note
Attributable to owners of the Company
Share
capital
RM’000
Exchange
reserve
RM’000
Cash flow
hedge
reserve
RM’000
Capital
reserve
RM’000
Equity
contribution
reserve
RM’000
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Non-
controlling
interests
RM’000
Total
equity
RM’000
Group
At 1 January 2023 149,363 (48,790) (4,734) 3,931 2,420 45,465 147,655 6,462 154,117
Profit for the financial year - - - - - 327,256 327,256 7,602 334,858
Other comprehensive income:
- Exchange differences on translation of
foreign operations - 15,118 - - - - 15,118 - 15,118
- Fair value gain on cash flow hedge - - 4,670 - - - 4,670 - 4,670
Total comprehensive income for the
financial year - 15,118 4,670 - - 327,256 347,044 7,602 354,646
Dividends to owners of the Company 22 - - - - - (266,001) (266,001) - (266,001)
Dividends to non-controlling interests - - - - - - - (8,566) (8,566)
Effects of share-based payment - (39) - - 820 (380) 401 - 401
Total transactions with owners of the
Company - (39) - - 820 (266,381) (265,600) (8,566) (274,166)
At 31 December 2023 149,363 (33,711) (64) 3,931 3,240 106,340 229,099 5,498 234,597
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
143
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
Note
Attributable to owners of the Company
Share
capital
RM’000
Exchange
reserve
RM’000
Cash flow
hedge
reserve
RM’000
Capital
reserve
RM’000
Equity
contribution
reserve
RM’000
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Non-
controlling
interests
RM’000
Total
equity
RM’000
Group
At 1 January 2022 149,363 (8,906) 2,307 3,931 2,131 62,300 211,126 4,456 215,582
Profit for the financial year - - - - - 317,046 317,046 7,815 324,861
Other comprehensive income:
- Exchange differences on translation of
foreign operations - (39,884) - - - - (39,884) - (39,884)
- Fair value loss on cash flow hedge - - (7,041) - - - (7,041) - (7,041)
Total comprehensive income for the
financial year - (39,884) (7,041) - - 317,046 270,121 7,815 277,936
Dividends to owners of the Company 22 - - - - - (333,265) (333,265) - (333,265)
Dividends to non-controlling interests - - - - - - - (5,809) (5,809)
Effects of share-based payment - - - - 289 (616) (327) - (327)
Total transactions with owners of the
Company - - - - 289 (333,881) (333,592) (5,809) (339,401)
At 31 December 2022 149,363 (48,790) (4,734) 3,931 2,420 45,465 147,655 6,462 154,117
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
144
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
Note
Non-distributable Distributable
Share
capital
RM’000
Equity
contribution
reserve
RM’000
Cash flow
hedge
reserve
RM’000
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
equity
RM’000
Company
At 1 January 2023 149,363 2,029 (4,734) 177,088 323,746
Profit for the financial year - - - 304,198 304,198
Other comprehensive income:
- Fair value gain on cash flow hedge - - 4,670 - 4,670
Total comprehensive income for the financial
year - - 4,670 304,198 308,868
Dividends to owners of the Company 22 - - - (266,001) (266,001)
Effects of share-based payment - 696 - (326) 370
Total transactions with owners of the Company - 696 - (266,327) (265,631)
At 31 December 2023 149,363 2,725 (64) 214,959 366,983
Company
At 1 January 2022 149,363 1,659 2,307 292,124 445,453
Profit for the financial year - - - 218,701 218,701
Other comprehensive income:
- Fair value loss on cash flow hedge - - (7,041) - (7,041)
Total comprehensive income for the financial
year - - (7,041) 218,701 211,660
Dividends to owners of the Company 22 - - - (333,265) (333,265)
Effects of share-based payment - 370 - (472) (102)
Total transactions with owners of the Company - 370 - (333,737) (333,367)
At 31 December 2022 149,363 2,029 (4,734) 177,088 323,746
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
The notes on pages 149 to 210 are an integral part of these financial statements.
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
145
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
Note
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES
Profit before taxation 417,053 444,405 294,156 215,408
Adjustments for:
Amortisation of:
- Intangible assets 10 1,221 2,237 623 592
- Right-of-use assets 11 4,550 2,413 2,139 118
Dividend income from:
- Unquoted subsidiaries - - (282,524) (224,705)
- A foreign quoted associate - - (17,847) (7,550)
Finance costs:
- Interest on borrowings 5,396 2,849 3,958 1,667
- Interest on lease liability 368 158 268 -
- Interest on cash pooling - - 4,402 4,730
Finance income (556) (784) (1) (2)
Inventories:
- (Reversal)/allowance for written down 15 (2,417) 4,314 945 1,894
- Finished goods written off 15 5,661 3,658 263 324
Loss on unrealised foreign exchange 124 1,577 153 1,638
Trade and other receivables:
- Loss/(reversal) of allowance, net 108 (153) - -
- Written off 161 - - -
Property, plant and equipment:
- Depreciation 9 56,685 41,705 48,006 34,224
- Impairment losses 85 2,445 85 2,445
- Net gain on disposal (388) (1,037) (10) (588)
- Written off 1,260 7,020 1,102 7,014
Share-based payment expense 1,869 1,341 1,575 1,172
Share of profit of equity-accounted associate, net of tax (23,457) (21,519) - -
Operating profit before changes in working capital 467,723 490,629 57,293 38,381
Changes in working capital:
Inventories 23,661 (53,459) (11,439) (1,768)
Receivables, deposits and prepayments 68,393 (134,691) (21,143) (26,655)
Payables and accruals (137,766) 216,911 (75,862) 82,564
Cash generated from operations 422,011 519,390 (51,151) 92,522
Tax (paid)/refund (96,147) (104,884) (49) 2,434
Net cash generated from/(used in) operating activities 325,864 414,506 (51,200) 94,956
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
146
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
Note
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 9 (54,374) (147,752) (37,787) (139,506)
Acquisition of intangible assets 10 (1,127) (504) (930) (12)
Dividends received from unquoted subsidiaries - - 282,524 224,705
Dividends received from a foreign quoted associate, net of
withholding tax 13 15,170 7,550 15,170 7,550
Interest received 556 784 1 2
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 732 1,522 10 693
Net cash (used in)/generated from investing activities (39,043) (138,400) 258,988 93,432
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
Dividends paid to owners of the Company (266,001) (333,265) (266,001) (333,265)
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 12 (8,566) (5,809) - -
Interest paid (5,403) (2,727) (8,367) (6,275)
Repayment of loans and borrowings (258,868) (157,640) (240,000) (110,000)
Drawdown of loans and borrowings 256,194 239,702 240,000 215,000
Repayment of lease liabilities (4,414) (2,264) (1,749) -
Advances from a subsidiary - - 90,186 47,603
Net cash used in financing activities (287,058) (262,003) (185,931) (186,937)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (237) 14,103 21,857 1,451
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 4,022 1,562 87 (936)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 91,251 75,586 6,639 6,124
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 17 95,036 91,251 28,583 6,639
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
The notes on pages 149 to 210 are an integral part of these financial statements.
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
147
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
Reconciliation of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities
The following table summarises the changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows
and non-cash changes during the financial year:
Group
Lease
liabilities
RM’000
Borrowings
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2023
At 1 January 2023 4,798 120,978 125,776
Cash flows from financing activities:
Drawdown from borrowings - 256,194 256,194
Repayment of borrowings - (258,868) (258,868)
Repayment of lease liabilities (4,414) - (4,414)
Finance costs paid - (5,403) (5,403)
Non-cash changes:
Finance costs 368 5,396 5,764
Recognition of additional lease liabilities 10,396 - 10,396
Foreign exchange movement 787 1,104 1,891
At 31 December 2023 11,935 119,401 131,336
2022
At 1 January 2022 3,911 38,794 42,705
Cash flows from financing activities:
Drawdown from borrowings - 239,702 239,702
Repayment of borrowings - (157,640) (157,640)
Repayment of lease liabilities (2,264) - (2,264)
Finance costs paid - (2,727) (2,727)
Non-cash changes:
Finance costs 158 2,849 3,007
Recognition of additional lease liabilities 1,140 - 1,140
Adjustment for lease modifications 1,954 - 1,954
Foreign exchange movement (101) - (101)
At 31 December 2022 4,798 120,978 125,776
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
148
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR ENDED 31 DECEMBER 2023
Reconciliation of changes in liabilities arising from financing activities (continued)
The following table summarises the changes in liabilities arising from financing activities, including both changes arising from cash flows
and non-cash changes during the financial year: (continued)
Company
Amount due
to a subsidiary
(non-trade)
RM’000
Lease
liabilities
RM’000
Borrowings
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2023
At 1 January 2023 142,364 - 115,122 257,486
Cash flows from financing activities:
Advances from a subsidiary 90,186 - - 90,186
Drawdown from borrowings - - 240,000 240,000
Repayment of borrowings - - (240,000) (240,000)
Repayment of lease liabilities - (1,749) - (1,749)
Finance costs paid (4,402) - (3,965) (8,367)
Non-cash change:
Finance costs 4,402 268 3,958 8,628
Recognition of additional lease liabilities - 10,396 - 10,396
At 31 December 2023 232,550 8,915 115,115 356,580
2022
At 1 January 2022 94,761 - 10,000 104,761
Cash flows from financing activities:
Advances from a subsidiary 47,603 - - 47,603
Drawdown from borrowings - - 215,000 215,000
Repayment of borrowings - - (110,000) (110,000)
Finance costs paid (4,730) - (1,545) (6,275)
Non-cash change:
Finance costs 4,730 - 1,667 6,397
At 31 December 2022 142,364 - 115,122 257,486
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
149
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1 GENERAL INFORMATION
Carlsberg Brewery Malaysia Berhad is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on the
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The address of its registered office and principal place of business is as follows:
No. 55, Persiaran Selangor,
Section 15, 40200 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
The consolidated financial statements as at and for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 comprise the Company and its
subsidiaries (together referred to as the "Group" and individually referred to as "Group entities") and the Group's interest in an associate.
The financial statements of the Company as at and for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 do not include other entities.
The Company is principally engaged in the production of beer, stout, cider, shandy and non-alcoholic beverages for distribution in the
domestic market and for export while the other Group entities are primarily involved in the marketing and distribution of beer, stout,
cider, shandy, liquor and non-alcoholic beverages.
The immediate and ultimate holding companies during the financial year are Carlsberg Breweries A/S and Carlsberg A/S respectively.
Both companies are incorporated in Denmark.
These financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 7 March 2024.
2 BASIS OF PREPARATION
The financial statements of the Group and the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards ("MFRS"), International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost basis except as disclosed in the material accounting policy
information.
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with MFRS requires the use of certain critical accounting estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
of the financial statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. It also requires Directors
to exercise their judgement in the process of applying the Group’s and Company’s accounting policies. Although these estimates and
judgement are based on the Directors’ best knowledge of current events and actions, actual results may differ. The areas involving
a higher degree of judgement or complexity, or areas where assumptions and estimates are material to the financial statements are
disclosed in Note 4.
(a) Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations that are effective
The Group and the Company have applied the following standards and amendments for the first time for the financial year
beginning on 1 January 2023:
• MFRS 17 ‘Insurance Contracts’ and its amendments
• Amendment to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts - Initial Application of MFRS 17 and MFRS 9 - Comparative Information
• Amendments to MFRS 101 and MFRS Practice Statement 2 ‘Disclosure of Accounting Policies’
• Amendments to MFRS 108 ‘Definition of Accounting Estimates’
• Amendments to MFRS 112 ‘Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction’
• Amendments to MFRS 112 ‘International Tax Reform—Pillar Two Model Rules’
The adoption of the new standards and amendments to published standards did not have any impact on the current period or
any prior period and is not likely to affect future periods.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
150
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
2 BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(b) Amendments to published standards and interpretations that have been issued but not yet effective
Amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for financial year beginning after 1 January 2024:
• There are two amendments to MFRS 101 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’. The first amendments, ‘Classification of
liabilities as current or non-current’ clarify that liabilities are classified as either current or non-current, depending on the
rights that exist at the end of the reporting period. Classification is unaffected by the entity’s expectations or events after
the reporting date (e.g. the receipt of a waiver or a breach of covenant).
The second amendments, ‘Non-current Liabilities with Covenants’ specify that covenants of loan arrangements which
an entity must comply with only after the reporting date would not affect classification of a liability as current or
non-current at the reporting date. However, those covenants that an entity is required to comply with on or before the
reporting date would affect classification of a liability as current or non-current, even if the covenant is only assessed
after the reporting date.
Both amendments are effective for the annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024.
The amendments shall be applied retrospectively.
• Amendments to MFRS 16 ‘Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback’ (effective 1 January 2024) specify the measurement
of the lease liability arises in a sale and leaseback transaction that satisfies the requirements in MFRS 15 ‘Revenue
from Contracts with Customers’ to be accounted for as a sale. In accordance with the amendments, the seller-lessee
shall determine the “lease payments” or “revised lease payments” in a way that it does not result in the seller-lessee
recognising any amount of the gain or loss that relates to the right of use it retains.
The amendments shall be applied retrospectively to sale and leaseback transactions entered into after the date when the
seller-lessee initially applied MFRS 16.
• Amendments to MFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosure and MFRS 107 Statements of Cash Flows - ‘Supplier Financing
Arrangements’ (effective 1 January 2024) introduce additional disclosure requirements that allow financial statement
users to assess how supplier finance arrangements affect an entity’s liabilities and cash flows as well as understanding
the liquidity risk exposure and how the entity might be affected if the arrangements were no longer available.
The amendments shall be applied retrospectively.
• Amendments to MFRS 121 ‘Lack of Exchangeability’ (effective 1 January 2025) specify how an entity should assess
whether a currency is exchangeable and how it should determine a spot exchange rate when exchangeability is lacking.
In accordance with the amendments, the entity estimates the spot exchange rate as the rate that would have applied
to an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date and that would faithfully reflect the
economic conditions prevailing when a currency is not exchangeable.
The amendments shall be applied retrospectively.
These amendments to these published standards will be adopted on the respective effective dates. The Group is currently
assessing the financial impact that may arise from the adoption of the above amendments to published standards.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
151
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
3 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION
The list of material accounting policy information applied in the preparation of these consolidated financial statements are set out
below:
(a) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Company. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the
consolidated financial statements from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the entity
and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over the entity. Potential voting rights are considered when
assessing control only when such rights are substantive. The Group also considers it has de facto power over an investee
when, despite not having the majority of voting rights, it has the current ability to direct the activities of the investee that
significantly affect the investee's return.
Investments in subsidiaries are measured in the Company's statement of financial position at cost less any impairment
losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The cost of investments includes transaction
costs.
(ii) Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method from the acquisition date, which is the date on
which control is transferred to the Group.
(iii) Associates
Associates are entities, including unincorporated entities, in which the Group has significant influence, but not control, over
the financial and operating policies.
Investments in associates are accounted for in the consolidated and the Company’s financial statements using the equity
method less any impairment losses, unless it is classified as held for sale or distribution. The cost of the investment
includes transaction costs. The consolidated financial statements include the Group's share of the profit or loss and other
comprehensive income of the associates, after adjustments if any, to align the accounting policies with those of the
Group, from the date that significant influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
(iv) Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period, being the equity in a subsidiary not attributable directly or
indirectly to the equity holders of the Company, are presented in the consolidated statement of financial position and
statement of changes in equity within equity, separately from equity attributable to the owners of the Company. Non-
controlling interests in the results of the Group is presented in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income as an
allocation of the profit or loss and the comprehensive income for the year between non-controlling interests and owners
of the Company.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-controlling interests even if
doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit balance.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
152
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
3 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(a) Basis of consolidation (continued)
(v) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions,
are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity-accounted associates are eliminated against the investment to the
extent of the Group's interest in the investees. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but
only to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
(b) Foreign currency
(i) Functional and presentation currency
Items included in the financial statements of each of the Group’s entities are measured using the currency of the primary
economic environment in which the entity operates (the “functional currency”). The financial statements are presented in
Ringgit Malaysia, which is the Company’s functional and presentation currency.
(ii) Foreign currency transactions
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss.
In the consolidated financial statements, when settlement of a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign
operation is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable future, foreign exchange gains and losses arising from
such a monetary item are considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised in other
comprehensive income, and are presented in the exchange reserve ("ER") in equity.
(iii) Operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia ("RM")
The assets and liabilities of operations denominated in functional currencies other than RM, including fair value
adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated to RM at exchange rates at the end of the reporting period. The income
and expenses of foreign operations are translated to RM at average exchange rates.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in the ER in equity. However,
if the operation is a non-wholly owned subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate share of the translation difference is
allocated to the non-controlling interests.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
153
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
3 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(c) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Recognition and measurement
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any accumulated
impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and any other costs directly
attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for its intended use, and the cost of dismantling and removing
the items and restoring the site on which they are located. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes the cost of
materials and direct labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are capitalised in accordance with the accounting
policy on borrowing costs. Cost also may include transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges
of foreign currency purchases of property, plant and equipment.
Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of that equipment.
Where individual components of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are accounted
for as separate items.
The gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined by comparing the proceeds from
disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and is recognised net within "other income" and
"other expenses" respectively in profit or loss.
Subsequent costs, for example in connection with replacement of components of property, plant and equipment, are
recognised in the carrying amount of the asset if it is probable that the costs will result in future economic benefits for the
Group and the Company. The replaced components are derecognised to profit or loss. Costs incurred for ordinary repairs
and maintenance are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
(ii) Depreciation
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each component of
an item of property, plant and equipment from the date that they are available for use. Freehold land is not depreciated.
Assets in-progress are not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows:
• Buildings 15 - 50 years
• Renovation 10 years
• Plant and machinery 3 - 20 years
• Motor vehicles 5 years
• Furniture and office equipment 3 - 5 years
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of the reporting period and adjusted as
appropriate.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
154
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
3 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(d) Leases
(i) Accounting by lessee
Leases are recognised as right-of-use (“ROU”) asset and a corresponding liability at the date on which the leased asset
is available for use by the Group and the Company (i.e. the commencement date).
Leased assets (including leasehold land) are presented as a separate line item in statement of financial position.
Lease term
In determining the lease term, the Group considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic incentive to
exercise an extension option, or not to exercise a termination option. Extension options (or periods after termination
options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be extended (or not to be terminated).
The term is reassessed if a significant change in event or circumstances occurs. A revision in lease term results in
remeasurement of the lease liabilities. See accounting policy on reassessment of lease liabilities.
ROU assets
ROU assets are initially measured at cost which consists of the initial lease liability and initial direct costs less any lease
incentives received.
ROU assets are subsequently measured at cost, less accumulated amortisation and impairment loss (if any). The ROU
assets are generally amortised over the shorter of the asset’s useful life and the lease term on a straight-line basis. If
the Group and the Company is reasonably certain to exercise a purchase option, the ROU asset is amortised over the
underlying asset’s useful life. In addition, the ROU assets are adjusted for certain remeasurement of the lease liabilities.
The Group has applied the practical expedient option allowed under standards by using a portfolio approach for the
recognition of lease contracts related to assets of the same nature and with similar lease terms, i.e. cars.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows:
• Leasehold land 40 – 99 years
• Buildings 3 - 10 years
Lease liabilities
Lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at that date.
Lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be readily determined,
which is generally the case for leases in the Group and the Company, the lessee’s incremental borrowing is used.
Lease payments are allocated between principal and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or loss over the
lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability for each period.
The Group and the Company present the lease liabilities as a separate line item in the statement of financial position.
Interest expense on the lease liability is presented within the finance cost in profit or loss in the statement of comprehensive
income.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
155
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
3 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(d) Leases (continued)
(i) Accounting by lessee (continued)
Reassessment of lease liabilities
A remeasurement of the lease liability, for example a change in the assessment of an option to extend, results in a
corresponding adjustment of the related right-of-use assets.
The Group and the Company reassess the circumstances leading to it not recognising extension or termination options
on an ongoing basis.
Short-term leases and leases of low value assets
Short-term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less without a purchase option. Low-value assets includes
the lease of copy and printing machines. Payments associated with short-term leases and leases of low-value asset are
recognised on a straight-line basis as an expense in profit or loss.
(ii) Accounting by lessor
As a lessor, the Group or the Company determines at lease inception whether each lease is a finance lease or an
operating lease.
Operating leases
The Group or the Company classified a lease as an operating lease if the lease does not transfer substantially all the risks
and rewards incidental to ownership of an underlying asset to the lessee. The Group or the Company recognises lease
payments received under operating lease as lease income on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
When assets are leased out under an operating lease, the asset is included in the statement of financial position based
on the nature of the asset. Initial direct costs incurred in obtaining an operating lease are added to the carrying amount
of underlying asset and recognised as an expense over the lease term on the same basis as lease income.
(e) Intangible assets
(i) Goodwill
Goodwill arises on business combinations is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. In respect of
equity-accounted associates, the carrying amount of goodwill is included in the carrying amount of the investment
and an impairment loss on such an investment is not allocated to any asset, including goodwill, that forms part of the
carrying amount of the equity-accounted associates.
(ii) Customised computer software
Customised computer software that is not integral to the functionality of the related equipment is recognised as an
intangible asset. These intangible assets that are acquired by the Group or the Company are stated at cost less any
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
156
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
3 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(e) Intangible assets (continued)
(iii) Amortisation
Goodwill is not amortised but are tested for impairment annually and whenever there is an indication that they may be
impaired.
Other intangible assets are amortised from the date that they are available for use. Amortisation is based on the cost of
an asset less its residual value. Amortisation is recognised in administrative expenses in profit or loss on a straight-line
basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets.
The estimated useful life of customised computer software is 3-10 years.
(f) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is calculated using the weighted average method, and includes expenditure incurred in acquiring the
inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing them to their existing location and condition. In
the case of work-in-progress and finished goods, cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal
operating capacity.
(g) Trade and other receivables
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold performed in the ordinary course of business. Other
receivables generally arise from transactions outside the ordinary course of business of the Group and the Company. The Group
enters into factoring agreements on a non-recourse basis, which involves selling trade receivables to a factor. Trade receivables
subject to factoring agreements are derecognised once the criteria for derecognition have been met and all substantial risk and
rewards transferred. The Group does not have any continuing involvement once the receivables have been derecognised.
Trade receivables are recognised initially at the amount of consideration that is unconditional unless they contain significant
financing components, where they are recognised at fair value. Other receivables are recognised initially at fair value.
Trade and other receivables are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method and fair value
through other comprehensive income, less loss allowance. Details on the Group’s and the Company’s impairment policies of
trade and other receivables are provided in Note 3(s).
(h) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, balances and deposits with banks and highly liquid investments which have
an insignificant risk of changes in fair value with original maturities of three months or less, and are used by the Group and the
Company in the management of their short term commitment. For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash and cash
equivalents are presented net of bank overdrafts.
(i) Equity instruments
Instruments classified as equity (ie. ordinary shares) are measured at cost on initial recognition and are not remeasured
subsequently.
(i) Dividend distribution
Liability is recognised for the amount of any dividend declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer at the
discretion of the Group, on or before the end of the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the reporting period.
Distributions to holders of an equity instrument is recognised directly in equity.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
157
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
3 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(j) Employee benefits
(i) Short-term employee benefits
Short-term employee benefit obligations in respect of salaries, annual bonuses, paid annual leave and sick leave are
measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
(ii) State plans
The Group's and the Company’s contribution to the statutory pension funds are charged to profit or loss in the financial
year to which they relate. Once the contributions have been paid, the Group and the Company have no further payment
obligations.
(iii) Share-based payment transactions
Certain employees of the Group and the Company are entitled to a share-based incentive programme established by
Carlsberg A/S that is categorised as performance shares. Entitlement to performance shares requires fulfilment of service
in the vesting period (2-3 years). The shares are transferred to the recipients based on the KPIs attached to the shares.
The number of performance shares granted is the maximum number of performance shares that can vest. The number
of shares outstanding at the end of the period is the numbers to vest, based on the extent to which the vesting conditions
are expected to be met. The numbers of shares expected to vest is revised on a regular basis.
Any reimbursement to Carlsberg A/S in relation to the share-based incentive programme is treated as a capital distribution
and would be recorded directly in equity.
(k) Payables
Payables represent liabilities for sales tax payable to customs and goods or services provided to the Group and the Company
prior to the end of financial year which are unpaid. Payables are recognised initially at fair value. Payables are subsequently
measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
(l) Borrowings and borrowing costs
(i) Borrowings
Borrowings are initially recognised at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently measured
at amortised cost. Any difference between the proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption amount is
recognised in profit or loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group and the Company have an unconditional right to defer
settlement of the liability for at least 12 months after the reporting period.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
158
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
3 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(m) Revenue and other income
Revenue from contracts with customers
(i) Goods sold
Revenue from contracts with customers comprises sales of beverages, sales of by-products and others.
Revenue from the sale of own-produced finished goods and by-products is recognised at the point in time when the
control of goods and products is transferred to the customer with a right of return within a specified period, the Group
and the Company consider the timing of recognition.
Revenue from contracts with customers is measured at an amount that reflects the consideration to which the Group and
the Company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods. Amounts disclosed as revenue is net of discounts and
trade offers.
Excise duties are imposed by the tax authorities and payable by the Group to the authorities at brewery or bonded
warehouse upon leaving the warehouse. Sales tax are imposed by the tax authorities and payable by the Group to the
authorities when the goods are sold to the customers.
Both excise duties and sales tax are borne by the Group and are not based on sales value sold to the customers, and
therefore are recognised as part of the cost of the goods sold.
The Group and the Company consider whether contracts include other promises that constitute separate performance
obligations and to which a portion of the transaction price needs to be allocated. In determining the transaction price, the
Group and the Company consider the effects of variable consideration such that the revenue is measured at an amount
that reflects the expected consideration for those goods. No element of financing is deemed present, as payment is
generally made on the basis of cash on delivery or up to 60 days of credit.
Variable consideration
The sales of beverages are often sold with various discounts depending on nature of customer and business. Customer
discounts comprise off-invoice discounts, volume and activity-related discounts and other discounts.
Off-invoice discounts arise from sales transactions where the customer immediately receives a reduction in the sales price.
This also includes cash discounts and incentives for early payments.
Volume discounts are incentives for customers to sustain continued business with the Group and the Company and may
be related to a current campaign or a sales target measured in volumes or total value. Examples include discounts paid
as a lump sum, discounts for meeting all or certain sales targets or for exceeding targets.
Activity-related discounts are incentives for customers related to an event or promotional campaign offered with specific
promotion prices. Examples include discounts paid as lump sum or progressive discounts offered in step with increasing
sales to a customer.
Other discounts in relation to consideration payable to a customer include listing fees, i.e. fees for certain listings on
shelves, in coolers or in favourable store locations, as such specific promotions are closely related to the volumes sold.
Consideration payable to a customer is recorded as a reduction of the arrangement’s transaction price, thereby reducing
the amount of revenue recognised, unless the payment is for a distinct good or service received from the customer.
Consideration paid in excess of the fair value received reduces the transaction price of the arrangement with the customer
and would represent a discount to the customer.
Material accounting estimates and assumptions on trade offers are provided in Note 4(i).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
159
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
3 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(m) Revenue and other income (continued)
Other income
(i) Management fee
Fee from management is recognised over time when the services are rendered.
(ii) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised when the right to receive payment is established. Dividend income that are not generated
as part of the Company’s principal activities are classified as investment income.
(iii) Interest income
Interest income on financial assets at amortised cost is calculated by applying the effective interest rate to the gross
carrying amount of a financial asset except for financial assets that subsequently became credit-impaired. For credit-
impaired financial assets the effective interest rate is applied to the net carrying amount of the financial asset (after
deduction of the loss allowance).
(n) Income tax
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year, using tax rates enacted or
substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, and any adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous financial
years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying amounts of
assets and liabilities in the statement of financial position and their tax bases. Deferred tax is not recognised for the following
temporary differences: the initial recognition of goodwill, and the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that
is not a business combination and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is measured at the tax
rates that are expected to apply to the temporary differences when they reverse, based on the laws that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the
temporary difference can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and are reduced to
the extent that it is no longer probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
A deferred tax liability is recognised for all taxable temporary differences associated with investment in associate, except
where the timing difference is controlled by the investor and it is probable that the temporary difference will not reverse in the
foreseeable future. Generally, the investor is unable to control the reversal of the temporary difference for associate. Only where
there is an agreement in place that gives the investor the ability to control the reversal of the temporary difference, a deferred
tax liability is not recognised.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
160
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
3 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(o) Operating segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues and
incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group's other components. An
operating segment's operating results are reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker, which in this case is the
Managing Director of the Group, to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance,
and for which discrete financial information is available.
(p) Contingencies
(i) Contingent liabilities
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed by the
occurrence or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events beyond the control of the Group or a present
obligation that is not recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the
obligation. A contingent liability also arises in the extremely rare case where there is a liability that cannot be recognised
because it cannot be measured reliably.
(ii) Contingent assets
A contingent asset is a possible asset that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed by the occurrence
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events beyond the control of the Group. The Group does not recognise
contingent assets but discloses its existence where inflows of economic benefits are probable, but not virtually certain.
(q) Financial instruments
Classification – financial assets
The Group and the Company classify its financial assets in the following measurement categories:
• those to be measured subsequently at fair value (either through other comprehensive income or through profit or loss),
and
• those to be measured at amortised cost
The Group and the Company reclassify debt investments when and only when its business model for managing those assets
changes.
Recognition and derecognition – financial assets
Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on trade date, the date on which the Group and the
Company commit to purchase or sell the asset.
Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have been
transferred and the Group and the Company have transferred substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
161
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
3 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(q) Financial instruments (continued)
Measurement – financial assets
At initial recognition, the Group and the Company measure a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial
asset not at fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”), transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the
financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVTPL are expensed in profit or loss.
Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their cash flows are
solely for payment of principal and interest (“SPPI”).
Debt instruments
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Group’s and the Company’s business model for managing
the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. The Group and the Company classify its debt instruments under the
following categories:
(i) Amortised cost
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows represent SPPI are measured at
amortised cost. Interest income from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest rate
method. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition is recognised directly in profit or loss and presented in other gains or
losses together with foreign exchange gains and losses. Impairment losses are presented as separate line item in the
statement of comprehensive income.
(ii) FVTPL
Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVOCI are measured at FVTPL. The Group and the Company
may also irrevocably designate financial assets at FVTPL if doing so significantly reduces or eliminates a mismatch
created by assets and liabilities being measured on different bases. Fair value changes are recognised in profit or loss in
the period which it arises.
(iii) FVOCI
Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows and for selling the financial assets, where the assets’ cash
flows represent SPPI, are measured at FVOCI. Movements in the carrying amount are taken through other comprehensive
income (“OCI”), except for the recognition of impairment gains or losses, interest income and foreign exchange gains and
losses which are recognised in profit or loss. When the financial asset is derecognised, the cumulative gains or losses
previously recognised in OCI is reclassified from equity to profit or loss.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
162
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
3 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(r) Derivative and hedging activities
Derivative financial instruments are initially recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value at the trade date and
subsequently re-measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period. Attributable transaction costs are recognised in the
profit or loss.
(i) Cash flow hedge
The Group and the Company designate and document, at the inception of a hedging transaction, the hedging relationship
so that the risk being hedged, the hedged item and the hedging instrument are clearly identified and the risk in the
hedged item is the risk being hedged with the hedging instrument. Hedge accounting is only applied when the Group
expects the derivative financial instrument to be highly effective in offsetting the designated hedged risk associated with
the hedged item.
Changes in the portion of fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as and qualifying as a cash flow hedge
and which effectively hedge changes in the value of the hedged item, are recognised in OCI. The gain or loss relating
to the ineffective portion is recognised immediately in profit or loss. When the hedged transaction results in gains or
losses, amounts previously recognised in OCI are transferred to the same item as the hedged item when the hedged
item is recognised in the profit or loss. When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognised in OCI is
transferred to the carrying amount of the asset when the non-financial asset is recognised.
The Group monitors the cash flow hedge relationship twice a year to assess whether the hedge is still effective.
(ii) Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting
Certain derivative instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in the fair value of any derivative instrument
that does not qualify for hedge accounting are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
163
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
3 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(s) Impairment of assets
Impairment of financial assets
The Group and the Company apply the simplified approach to measure expected credit losses (“ECL”) on trade receivables
measured at amortised cost, FVOCI and trade intercompany balances. This entails recognising a lifetime expected loss allowance
for all trade receivables. Loss rates are determined based on grouping of receivables sharing the same credit risk characteristics
and past due days.
Management assesses the ECL for portfolios of trade receivables based on customer segments, historical information on
payment patterns, terms of payment, concentration maturity, and information about the general economic situation in the
countries.
No significant changes to estimation techniques or assumptions were made during the reporting period.
The Group and the Company consider the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset and whether there has been a
significant increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period. To assess whether there is a significant
increase in credit risk, the Group and the Company compare the risk of a default occurring on the asset as at the reporting date
with the risk of default as at the date of initial recognition. It considers available reasonable and supportable forward-looking
information.
A significant increase in credit risk is presumed if a debtor is more than 60 days past due in making a contractual payment
which is based on past payment trends. Credit risk on trade receivables can be reduced through bank guarantees.
For other receivables and non-trade intercompany balances, the Group and the Company apply 3-stage approach to measure
ECL which reflect their credit risk and how the loss allowance is determined. The Group and the Company assessed the
intercompany receivables as performing category with a low risk of default and a strong capacity to meet contractual cash
flows. The basis of measuring ECL are based on 12 months ECL.
Groupings of instruments for ECL measured on collective basis
(i) Collective assessment
To measure ECL, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.
(ii) Individual assessment
Trade receivables that are in default or credit impaired are assessed individually.
Impairment of other assets
The carrying amounts of other assets (except for inventories and deferred tax asset) are reviewed at the end of each reporting
period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset's recoverable
amount is estimated. For goodwill, an annual impairment will be performed and the recoverable amount is estimated at the
end of each reporting period.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that generates cash
inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or cash-generating units (“CGUs”).
Subject to an operating segment ceiling test, for the purpose of goodwill impairment testing, CGUs to which goodwill has been
allocated are aggregated so that the level at which impairment testing is performed reflects the lowest level at which goodwill
is monitored for internal reporting purposes. The goodwill acquired in a business combination, for the purpose of impairment
testing, is allocated to a CGU or a group of CGUs that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
164
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
3 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(s) Impairment of assets (continued)
Impairment of other assets (continued)
The recoverable amount of an asset or CGU is the greater of its value-in-use (“VIU”) and its fair value less costs of disposal.
In assessing VIU, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset or CGU.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its related CGU exceeds its estimated recoverable
amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of CGUs are allocated first to reduce
the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the CGU (group of CGUs) and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the
other assets in the CGU (groups of CGUs) on a pro rata basis. Impairment losses on goodwill are not reversed. In respect of
other assets, any subsequent increase in recoverable amount is recognised in profit or loss.
(t) Fair value measurement
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is determined as the price that
would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the
measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either
in the principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market.
For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant's ability to generate economic
benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in
its highest and best use.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses observable market data as far as possible. Fair values
are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the input used in the valuation technique as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Group can access at the
measurement date.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly
or indirectly.
Level 3: unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the event or change in circumstances
that caused the transfers.
(u) Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of financial position when there is a
legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on a net basis, or realise the asset
and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be contingent on future events and must be
enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default, insolvency or bankruptcy.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
165
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
4 MATERIAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES, ASSUMPTIONS AND JUDGEMENTS
The application of accounting standards and policies requires the Group to make estimates and assumptions about future events that
directly affect its reported financial condition and operating performance. The accounting estimates and assumptions discussed below
are those that the Group considers to be most critical to its financial statements. An accounting estimate is considered critical if both
(a) the nature of estimates or assumptions is material due to the level of subjectivity and judgement involved, and (b) the impact
within a reasonable range of outcomes of the estimates and assumptions is material to the Group’s financial condition of operating
performance.
(i) Trade offer accruals
The Group estimates trade offer accruals using either the expected value method or the most likely amount method depending
on which method better predicts the amount of consideration to which the customers will be entitled.
The expected value method is used for contracts with more than one threshold due to the complexity and the activities agreed
with the individual customer during the year.
Trade offer accruals consist primarily of trade discounts and sales volume rebates which are recognised based on agreed trading
terms and promotional activities with trade customers and distributors. Volume related discounts are typically associated with
certain sales targets to be achieved by the customers and distributors. Activity related discounts are typically associated with
conditional events or promotional campaigns based on the agreed promotional prices with the customers. These trade offers
represent variable considerations which the Group estimates using either expected value method or the most likely amount
method depending on which method better predicts the amount of consideration based on the terms of the contracts and
historical experience. Management is required to make estimates on the sales volume to be achieved by the customers and
distributors to determine the trade offers.
The senior management of the Group regularly reviews and updates its estimate of trade offers accruals at each reporting date
until the uncertainty is resolved.
5 REVENUE
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
- Sales of beverages 2,258,930 2,410,683 1,106,396 1,256,587
- Sales of by-products and others 1,969 1,782 1,584 1,478
Revenue from contracts with customers 2,260,899 2,412,465 1,107,980 1,258,065
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
166
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
6 OPERATING PROFIT
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Operating profit is arrived at after charging:
Amortisation of:
- Intangible assets 1,221 2,237 623 592
- Right-of-use assets 4,550 2,413 2,139 118
Audit fees:
- Payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT 372 352 237 224
- Payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers International
Limited 270 226 - -
- Payable to other auditor 13 15 13 15
Audit related services
- Payable to PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT 11 9 11 9
Excise duties and sales tax 1,085,208 1,178,773 767,786 909,196
Finance costs:
- Interest on borrowings 5,396 2,849 3,958 1,667
- Interest on lease liability 368 158 268 -
- Interest on cash pooling - - 4,402 4,730
Foreign exchange loss:
- Realised 1,989 - 1,811 238
- Unrealised 124 1,577 153 1,638
Inventories:
- Written down - 4,314 945 1,894
- Finished goods written off 5,661 3,658 263 324
Trade and other receivables:
- Loss allowance 108 36 - -
- Written off 161 - - -
Personnel expenses (including key management
personnel):
- Wages, salaries and others 144,921 143,864 37,841 40,453
- Contributions to Employees Provident Fund 10,934 13,209 3,124 3,657
- Contributions to other defined contribution plan 1,607 1,253 709 548
- Share-based payment expense 1,869 1,341 1,575 1,172
- Termination benefits - 19 - -
Property, plant and equipment:
- Depreciation* 56,685 41,705 48,006 34,224
- Impairment losses 85 2,445 85 2,445
- Written off 1,260 7,020 1,102 7,014
Management fees charged from related companies 15,212 11,340 8,286 7,416
Lease expenses relating to short-term and low value
assets 1,075 1,012 159 121
* Included in the depreciation of property, plant and equipment of the Group and the Company are accelerated depreciation on
'plant and machinery' amounting to RM6,617,000 arising from the discontinuation of the canning line and filtration system that
will be replaced in 2024 (2022: RM1,042,000 arising from the discontinuation of the bottling line that was replaced in 2023).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
167
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
6 OPERATING PROFIT (CONTINUED)
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Operating profit is arrived at after crediting:
Dividend income from:
- Unquoted subsidiaries - - 282,524 224,705
- A foreign quoted associate - - 17,847 7,550
Finance income 556 784 1 2
Realised gain on foreign exchange - 190 - -
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 388 1,037 10 588
Management fees charged to a subsidiary - - 22,066 22,618
Operating lease income from a subsidiary - - 954 954
Trade and other receivables:
- Reversal of loss allowance - 189 - -
Reversal of inventories written down 2,417 - - -
7 TAXATION
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Current taxation
Current tax:
- Malaysian income tax 73,282 103,335 - -
- Foreign income and withholding tax 18,038 15,680 2,677 -
- Under provision in prior years 718 3,397 - 527
92,038 122,412 2,677 527
Deferred taxation (Note 14):
- Reversal of temporary differences (9,843) (2,868) (12,719) (3,820)
Tax expense/(credit) 82,195 119,544 (10,042) (3,293)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
168
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
7 TAXATION (CONTINUED)
A reconciliation of income tax expense/(credit) applicable to profit before taxation at the statutory income tax rate to income tax
expense/(credit) at the effective income tax rate of the Group and of the Company is as follows:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Profit before taxation 417,053 444,405 294,156 215,408
Statutory income tax at rate of 24% (2022: 24%) 100,093 106,657 70,597 51,698
Tax effects of:
- Withholding tax on dividend income from a
foreign quoted associate 2,677 - 2,677 -
- Different tax rates in foreign jurisdiction (6,059) (6,259) - -
- Income not subject to tax - - (72,089) (55,742)
- Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 1,355 1,281 337 1,126
- Share of results of an associate (5,630) (5,165) - -
- Effects of changes in tax rate* - 21,828 - -
- Recognition of deferred tax arising from
reinvestment allowances (11,319) - (11,319) -
- Recognition of previously unrecognised
temporary differences 360 (2,195) (245) (902)
- Under provision in prior years 718 3,397 - 527
Tax expense/(credit) 82,195 119,544 (10,042) (3,293)
Average effective tax rate (%) 19.7 26.9 (3.4) (1.5)
The Group’s effective tax rate was lower for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 was mainly due to absence of Malaysia’s
one-off “Cukai Makmur” and recognition of deferred tax income arising from reinvestment allowances.
In addition to the amount charged/(credited) to profit or loss, the following amounts relating to tax have been recognised in other
comprehensive income:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Deferred tax
Items that will not be reclassified
subsequently to profit or loss:
- fair value of financial instruments treated as
cash flow hedges 1,475 (2,223) 1,475 (2,223)
* For financial year ended 31 December 2022 additional statutory income tax expense relating to changes in tax rates due to the
One-off “Cukai Makmur” tax rate (33%) imposed on the portion of Year of Assessment 2022 chargeable income of non-Micro,
Small and Medium Enterprises (non-MSMEs) exceeding RM100 million. This is only applicable to the Malaysian subsidiary.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
169
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
8 EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share as at 31 December 2023 and 2022 was based on the profit attributable to
ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding calculated as follows:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Profit for the financial year attributable to shareholders 327,256 317,046
Weighted average number of ordinary shares:
Group
2023
’000
2022
’000
Issued ordinary shares 305,748 305,748
Basic earnings per ordinary share (sen) 107.03 103.70
The diluted earnings per share of the Group is equal to the basic earnings per share as the Group does not have any dilutive potential
ordinary shares in issue.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
170
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
9 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Note
Freehold
land
RM’000
Buildings
RM’000
Renovation
RM’000
Plant and
machinery
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Furniture
and office
equipment
RM’000
Assets
in-progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Group
Cost
At 1 January 2022 18,952 69,344 3,575 515,115 12,675 13,709 37,495 670,865
Additions - 329 1,733 42,489 1,179 1,267 100,755 147,752
Disposals - - - (24,470) (2,049) (6) - (26,525)
Written off - (210) - (99,118) - (2,713) - (102,041)
Transfers - 23,673 170 102,458 - 369 (126,670) -
Transfer to intangible assets 10 - - - - - - (747) (747)
Effect of movements in exchange rates - - 215 330 - 271 - 816
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 18,952 93,136 5,693 536,804 11,805 12,897 10,833 690,120
Additions(1) - 6,116 - 38,138 3,915 1,502 24,608 74,279
Disposals - - - (836) (1,477) (266) - (2,579)
Written off - (489) - (11,204) (54) (1,405) - (13,152)
Transfers - 8,419 - 822 - - (9,241) -
Transfer to intangible assets 10 - - - - - - (714) (714)
Effect of movements in exchange rates - - 298 386 - 272 - 956
At 31 December 2023 18,952 107,182 5,991 564,110 14,189 13,000 25,486 748,910
(1) Includes RM19,905,000 in capital expenses related to plant and machinery due payable as disclosed in the Statements of Cash Flows.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
171
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
9 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Note
Freehold
land
RM’000
Buildings
RM’000
Renovation
RM’000
Plant and
machinery
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Furniture
and office
equipment
RM’000
Assets
in-progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Group
Less: Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2022 - 41,884 1,775 397,780 7,688 10,614 - 459,741
Depreciation for the financial year 6 - 2,705 887 35,509 1,287 1,317 - 41,705
Disposals - - - (24,452) (1,583) (5) - (26,040)
Written off - (160) - (92,152) - (2,709) - (95,021)
Impairment losses - - - 2,445 - - - 2,445
Effect of movements in exchange rates - - 133 233 - 194 - 560
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 - 44,429 2,795 319,363 7,392 9,411 - 383,390
Depreciation for the financial year 6 - 5,362 1,010 47,636 1,092 1,585 - 56,685
Disposals - - - (788) (1,181) (266) - (2,235)
Written off - (262) - (10,182) (43) (1,405) - (11,892)
Impairment losses - - - 85 - - - 85
Effect of movements in exchange rates - - 185 285 - 193 - 663
At 31 December 2023 - 49,529 3,990 356,399 7,260 9,518 - 426,696
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2023 18,952 57,653 2,001 207,711 6,929 3,482 25,486 322,214
At 31 December 2022 18,952 48,707 2,898 217,441 4,413 3,486 10,833 306,730
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
172
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
9 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Note
Freehold
land
RM’000
Buildings
RM’000
Plant and
machinery
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Furniture
and office
equipment
RM’000
Assets
in-progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Company
Cost
At 1 January 2022 18,952 67,587 487,723 549 8,219 37,206 620,236
Additions - 242 37,490 720 299 100,755 139,506
Disposals - - (24,145) (549) (6) - (24,700)
Written off - (210) (96,305) - (2,140) - (98,655)
Transfers - 23,673 102,458 - 369 (126,500) -
Transfer to intangible assets 10 - - - - - (628) (628)
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 18,952 91,292 507,221 720 6,741 10,833 635,759
Additions(1) - 6,116 27,566 - 870 23,140 57,692
Disposals - - - - (266) - (266)
Written off - (207) (9,958) - (1,309) - (11,474)
Transfers - 8,419 822 - - (9,241) -
Transfer to intangible assets 10 - - - - - (714) (714)
At 31 December 2023 18,952 105,620 525,651 720 6,036 24,018 680,997
(1) Includes RM19,905,000 in capital expenses related to plant and machinery due payable as disclosed in the Statements of Cash Flows.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
173
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
9 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Note
Freehold
land
RM’000
Buildings
RM’000
Plant and
machinery
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Furniture
and office
equipment
RM’000
Assets
in-progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Company
Less: Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2022 - 41,045 380,341 400 7,317 - 429,103
Depreciation for the financial year 6 - 2,563 31,204 59 398 - 34,224
Disposals - - (24,140) (450) (5) - (24,595)
Written off - (160) (89,344) - (2,137) - (91,641)
Impairment losses - - 2,445 - - - 2,445
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 - 43,448 300,506 9 5,573 - 349,536
Depreciation for the financial year 6 - 5,215 42,190 115 486 - 48,006
Disposals - - - - (266) - (266)
Written off - (115) (8,948) - (1,309) - (10,372)
Impairment losses - - 85 - - - 85
At 31 December 2023 - 48,548 333,833 124 4,484 - 386,989
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2023 18,952 57,072 191,818 596 1,552 24,018 294,008
At 31 December 2022 18,952 47,844 206,715 711 1,168 10,833 286,223
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
174
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
9 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
9.1 Leasing arrangements
The Company leases certain buildings with carrying amount of RM6,397,000 (2022: RM6,814,000) to a subsidiary under
operating leases with rentals payable monthly.
Minimum lease receivable on buildings are as follows:
Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Within 1 year 954 954
Between 1 and 2 years 954 954
Between 2 and 3 years 954 954
Between 3 and 4 years 954 954
Between 4 and 5 years 954 954
More than 5 years 1,020 1,020
5,790 5,790
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
175
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
10 INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Note
Goodwill
RM’000
Computer
software
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Group
Cost
At 1 January 2022 2,634 11,747 14,381
Acquisition - 504 504
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 9 - 747 747
Effect of movements in exchange rates - 202 202
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 2,634 13,200 15,834
Acquisition - 1,127 1,127
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 9 - 714 714
Written off - (831) (831)
Effect of movements in exchange rates - 222 222
At 31 December 2023 2,634 14,432 17,066
Amortisation
At 1 January 2022 - 8,848 8,848
Amortisation for the financial year 6 - 2,237 2,237
Effect of movements in exchange rates - 168 168
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 - 11,253 11,253
Amortisation for the financial year 6 - 1,221 1,221
Written off - (831) (831)
Effect of movements in exchange rates - 184 184
At 31 December 2023 - 11,827 11,827
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2023 2,634 2,605 5,239
At 31 December 2022 2,634 1,947 4,581
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
176
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
10 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
Note
Computer
software
RM’000
Company
Cost
At 1 January 2022 3,702
Additions 12
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 9 628
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 4,342
Additions 930
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 9 714
Written off (312)
At 31 December 2023 5,674
Amortisation
At 1 January 2022 2,951
Amortisation for the financial year 6 592
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 3,543
Amortisation for the financial year 6 623
Written off (312)
At 31 December 2023 3,854
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2023 1,820
At 31 December 2022 799
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
177
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
10 INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
10.1 Impairment testing for CGUs containing goodwill
For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill of RM2,634,000 (2022: RM2,634,000) is arising from the Group's previous
acquisition on Maybev Pte Ltd, a 51% owned subsidiary incorporated in Singapore which represent the lowest level within the
Group at which the goodwill is monitored for internal management purposes.
The recoverable amount of the CGU was based on its VIU calculations. The recoverable amount for the CGU was higher than
the aggregate carrying amount of the identifiable net assets and goodwill allocated and hence, no impairment was recognised
during the financial year.
The VIU of the CGU was determined by discounting the future cash flows forecasted to be generated from the continuing use
of the CGU. The key assumptions used for the CGU were as follows:
2023 2022
Sales volume (% annual growth) -0.8% 2.3%
Long-term growth rate (% per annum) 1.0% 1.0%
Pre-tax discount rate (% per annum) 7.4% 8.3%
The 5-year cash flows forecast were based on the average annual growth of sales volume based on past performance and
management’s expectation of market development. The discount rates used to discount the future cash flows are pre-tax and
reflect the specific risks relating to the CGU.
The Directors of the Company believe that no reasonable possible changes in the key assumptions would cause the carrying
amount of the CGU to exceed its recoverable amount.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
178
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
11 RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS/LEASES
11.1 Amounts recognised in the statements of financial position:
Right-of-use assets
Note
Leasehold
land
RM’000
Offices and
warehouses
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Group
Net book value
At 1 January 2023 6,332 4,384 10,716
Additions - 10,396 10,396
Amortisation charge for the financial year 6 (122) (4,428) (4,550)
Effect of movements in exchange rates - 766 766
At 31 December 2023 6,210 11,118 17,328
At 31 December 2023
Cost 10,571 24,545 35,116
Accumulated amortisation (4,361) (13,427) (17,788)
6,210 11,118 17,328
Net book value
At 1 January 2022 6,454 3,656 10,110
Additions - 1,140 1,140
Amortisation charge for the financial year 6 (122) (2,291) (2,413)
Adjustment due to lease modifications - 1,954 1,954
Effect of movements in exchange rates - (75) (75)
At 31 December 2022 6,332 4,384 10,716
At 31 December 2022
Cost 10,571 12,424 22,995
Accumulated amortisation (4,239) (8,040) (12,279)
6,332 4,384 10,716
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
179
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
11 RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS/LEASES (CONTINUED)
11.1 Amounts recognised in the statements of financial position: (continued)
Right-of-use assets (continued)
Note
Leasehold
land
RM’000
Offices and
warehouse
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Company
Net book value
At 1 January 2023 6,272 - 6,272
Additions - 10,396 10,396
Amortisation charge for the financial year 6 (118) (2,021) (2,139)
At 31 December 2023 6,154 8,375 14,529
At 31 December 2023
Cost 10,399 10,396 20,795
Accumulated amortisation (4,245) (2,021) (6,266)
6,154 8,375 14,529
Net book value
At 1 January 2022 6,390 - 6,390
Amortisation charge for the financial year 6 (118) - (118)
At 31 December 2022 6,272 - 6,272
At 31 December 2022
Cost 10,399 - 10,399
Accumulated amortisation (4,127) - (4,127)
6,272 - 6,272
Lease liabilities
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Current 5,571 2,138 2,854 -
Non-current 6,364 2,660 6,061 -
11,935 4,798 8,915 -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
180
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
11 RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS/LEASES (CONTINUED)
11.2 Amounts recognised in the statements of comprehensive income and statements of cash flows:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Amortisation charge of right-of-use assets
Leasehold land 122 122 118 118
Offices and warehouses 4,428 2,291 2,021 -
4,550 2,413 2,139 118
Interest expense (included in finance cost) 368 158 268 -
Lease expenses relating to short-term and low
value assets that are not shown above
(included in sales, distribution and
administrative expenses) 1,075 1,012 159 121
The Group’s and the Company’s total cash outflow for all leases including leases expenses relating to short-term and low value
assets in 2023 are RM5,489,000 (2022: RM3,276,000) and RM1,908,000 (2022: RM121,000) respectively.
11.3 The Group’s leasing activities
The Group leases offices and warehouses. Rental contracts are typically made for fixed periods of 3 to 6 years, but may have
extension or termination options.
Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms and conditions. The lease
agreements do not impose any covenants other than the security interests in the leased assets that are held by the lessor.
Leased assets may not be used as security for borrowing purposes.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
181
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
12 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Unquoted shares – at cost 391,572 391,572
The following are the subsidiaries of the Group:
Name of company Principal activities
Principal place
of business/
country of
incorporation
Effective ownership
interest
2023
%
2022
%
Carlsberg Marketing Sdn. Bhd. Marketing and distribution of beer, stout, cider,
shandy and non-alcoholic beverages
Malaysia 100 100
Euro Distributors Sdn. Bhd. Marketing and distribution of
non-alcoholic beverages
Malaysia 100 100
Carlsberg Singapore Pte. Ltd. # Importation and marketing of
beer and liquor products
Singapore 100 100
MayBev Pte. Ltd. # Importation and marketing of
beer and liquor products
Singapore 51 51
# Audited by a member firm of PricewaterhouseCoopers International Limited which are separate and independent legal entities
from PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT, Malaysia.
12.1 Impairment review of investments in subsidiaries
The Company assesses impairment indicator of its investments in its subsidiaries at the end of each reporting period,
in accordance with the accounting policy stated in Note 3(s). The Company’s cost of investment in Carlsberg Singapore Pte Ltd is
higher than its net assets as of 31 December 2023. Accordingly, impairment assessment has been performed by the Company.
The recoverable amount of the CGU is based on its VIU calculations. The VIU of the CGU is determined by discounting the future
cash flows forecasted to be generated from the continuing use of the CGU.
The 5-year cash flow forecasts are based on the average annual growth of sales volume based on past performance and
management’s expectations of market development. The discount rates used to discount the future cash flows are pre-tax and
reflect the specific risks relating to the CGU.
The key assumptions used for the CGU Carlsberg Singapore Pte Ltd. were as follows:
2023 2022
Sales volume (% annual growth) 2.0% -1.7%
Long-term growth rate (% per annum) 1.0% 1.0%
Pre-tax discount rate (% per annum) 7.4% 8.3%
For Carlsberg Singapore Pte Ltd, the recoverable amount computed in its VIU analysis was higher than the carrying amount of
its cost of investment and therefore, no impairment was recognised during the financial year. The Company’s cost of investment
in Carlsberg Singapore Pte Ltd. as at 31 December 2023 was RM389,663,000. There are no reasonable possible changes in any
of the key assumptions used that would cause the carrying amount of the CGU to materially exceed its recoverable amount.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
182
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
12 INVESTMENTS IN SUBSIDIARIES (CONTINUED)
12.2 The Group’s subsidiary that has material non-controlling interest (“NCI”) is as follows:
Effective ownership interest
held by NCI
2023
%
2022
%
MayBev Pte. Ltd. 49 49
Set out below is the summarised financial information for MayBev Pte. Ltd., the subsidiary that has non-controlling interests
that are material to the Group. The amounts disclosed are before inter-company eliminations.
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
At 31 December
Non-current assets 2,639 4,287
Current assets 50,085 47,861
Non-current liabilities (2,500) (5,647)
Current liabilities (34,310) (30,015)
Net assets 15,914 16,486
Accumulated non-controlling interests 5,498 6,462
Year ended 31 December
Revenue 133,773 134,678
Profit for the financial year 15,515 15,950
Total comprehensive income 15,515 15,950
Profit allocated to non-controlling interests 7,602 7,815
Dividends paid to non-controlling interests 8,566 5,809
Cash flow generated from operating activities 21,924 20,527
Cash flow used in investing activities (335) (153)
Cash flow used in financing activities (20,386) (14,849)
Net changes in cash and cash equivalents 1,203 5,525
13 INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Quoted shares, outside Malaysia 25,164 25,164 25,164 25,164
Share of post-acquisition reserves 63,478 41,709 - -
88,642 66,873 25,164 25,164
Market value
Quoted shares, outside Malaysia 261,566 135,298 261,566 135,298
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
183
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
13 INVESTMENT IN AN ASSOCIATE (CONTINUED)
The fair value of the investment in the associate falls under Level 1 in the fair value level hierarchy.
Name of company Principal activities
Principal place
of business/
country of
incorporation
Effective ownership
interest
2023
%
2022
%
Lion Brewery
(Ceylon) PLC
Manufacturing, marketing and distribution of beer,
stout, cider, shandy and non-alcoholic beverages
Sri Lanka 25 25
Summary financial information on associate:
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
At 31 December
Non-current assets 368,602 261,675
Current assets 368,651 374,006
Non-current liabilities (118,697) (89,672)
Current liabilities (264,000) (278,522)
Net assets 354,556 267,487
Year ended 31 December
Revenue 1,457,406 1,253,821
Interest income 19,592 17,747
Interest expense (46,523) (21,994)
Tax expense (74,427) (54,661)
Profit for the financial year 107,051 86,074
Total comprehensive income 107,051 86,074
Year ended 31 December
Group’s share of profit 26,764 21,519
Deferred tax liabilities on temporary differences (Note 14) (3,307) -
Group’s share of profit of equity-accounted associate, net of tax 23,457 21,519
Dividends received from associate, net of withholding tax 15,170 7,550
Reconciliation to carrying amount:
Net assets as at 1 January 267,487 378,993
Profit for the financial year 107,051 86,074
Dividend paid (71,389) (30,201)
Exchange differences 51,407 (167,379)
Net assets as at 31 December 354,556 267,487
Group’s share of net assets 88,642 66,873
Carrying amount 88,642 66,873
In conjunction with the investment undertaken in Lion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC, the Company had written a call option with the principal
licensor, Carlsberg A/S, its ultimate holding company incorporated in Denmark, allowing Carlsberg A/S to acquire the Company's interest
in the associate, should certain events occur. The purchase consideration is to be based on an agreed formula and in any event to be a
minimum of the original purchase price paid by the Company. The Directors of the Company consider the likelihood of occurrence of
such events as remote and therefore, has deemed the option's fair value to be insignificant.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
184
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
14 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Group
Property, plant and equipment - - (16,246) (21,234) (16,246) (21,234)
Right-of-use assets - - (2,476) (272) (2,476) (272)
Trade and other receivables - - (1,196) (736) (1,196) (736)
Trade and other payables 12,085 18,110 - - 12,085 18,110
Lease liabilities 2,653 346 - - 2,653 346
Unused reinvestment allowance 11,319 - - - 11,319 -
Associate - - (3,307) - (3,307) -
Others - 1,086 (389) - (389) 1,086
Tax assets/(liabilities) 26,057 19,542 (23,614) (22,242) 2,443 (2,700)
Offsetting (19,986) (13,372) 19,986 13,372 - -
Net tax assets/(liabilities) 6,071 6,170 (3,628) (8,870) 2,443 (2,700)
Company
Property, plant and equipment - - (13,980) (18,951) (13,980) (18,951)
Right-of-use assets - - (2,010) - (2,010) -
Trade and other payables 5,572 9,273 - - 5,572 9,273
Lease liabilities 2,140 - - - 2,140 -
Unused reinvestment allowance 11,319 - - - 11,319 -
Others - 1,086 (389) - (389) 1,086
Tax assets/(liabilities) 19,031 10,359 (16,379) (18,951) 2,652 (8,592)
Offsetting (16,379) (10,359) 16,379 10,359 - -
Net tax assets/(liabilities) 2,652 - - (8,592) 2,652 (8,592)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
185
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
14 DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
Movement in temporary differences during the financial year:
At
1.1.2022
RM’000
Recognised
to profit
or loss
(Note 7)
RM’000
Recognised
to other
comprehensive
income
(Note 7)
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
differences
RM’000
At
31.12.2022
RM’000
Recognised
to profit
or loss
(Note 7&13)
RM’000
Recognised
to other
comprehensive
income
(Note 7)
RM’000
Foreign
exchange
differences
RM’000
At
31.12.2023
RM’000
Group
Property, plant and equipment (23,974) 2,767 - (27) (21,234) 5,005 - (17) (16,246)
Right-of-use assets (635) 387 - (24) (272) (2,188) - (16) (2,476)
Trade and other receivables 1,893 (2,629) - - (736) (460) - - (1,196)
Trade and other payables 15,311 2,704 - 95 18,110 (6,121) - 96 12,085
Lease liabilities 679 (361) - 28 346 2,288 - 19 2,653
Unused reinvestment allowance - - - - - 11,319 - - 11,319
Associate - - - - - (3,307) - - (3,307)
Others (1,137) - 2,223 - 1,086 - (1,475) - (389)
(7,863) 2,868 2,223 72 (2,700) 6,536 (1,475) 82 2,443
Company
Property, plant and equipment (21,428) 2,477 - - (18,951) 4,971 - - (13,980)
Right-of-use assets - - - - - (2,010) - - (2,010)
Trade and other payables 7,930 1,343 - - 9,273 (3,701) - - 5,572
Lease liabilities - - - - - 2,140 - - 2,140
Unused reinvestment allowance - - - - - 11,319 - - 11,319
Others (1,137) - 2,223 - 1,086 - (1,475) - (389)
(14,635) 3,820 2,223 - (8,592) 12,719 (1,475) - 2,652
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
186
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
15 INVENTORIES
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Finished goods 74,247 101,966 26,552 17,190
Work-in-progress 5,833 3,574 5,833 3,574
Raw, packaging and other materials 9,584 13,277 9,632 13,215
Spare parts for machinery 7,871 5,623 7,385 5,192
97,535 124,440 49,402 39,171
Recognised in profit or loss:
(Reversal)/allowance for inventories written down (2,417) 4,314 945 1,894
Finished goods written off 5,661 3,658 263 324
Inventories recognised as Cost of Sales 243,390 278,472 200,141 218,453
16 RECEIVABLES, DEPOSITS AND PREPAYMENTS
Note
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Current
Trade
Trade receivables from
contracts with customers 16.1 327,758 397,041 - -
Less: Loss allowance (797) (1,177) - -
326,961 395,864 - -
Prepayments 16.3 51,309 41,952 32,661 27,418
Amount due from subsidiaries 16.2 - - 50,355 25,072
Amount due from related companies 16.2 706 2,210 707 2,210
378,976 440,026 83,723 54,700
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
187
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
16 RECEIVABLES, DEPOSITS AND PREPAYMENTS (CONTINUED)
Note
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Non-trade
Amount due from immediate
holding company 16.2 144 253 - -
Amount due from a subsidiary 16.2 - - 70 63
Amount due from an associate 16.2 4 2,450 4 2,450
Other receivables 2,735 2,402 305 741
Deposits 2,081 1,471 1,286 55
Prepayments 845 413 142 105
5,809 6,989 1,807 3,414
384,785 447,015 85,530 58,114
16.1 Trade receivables from contracts with customers
Trade receivables are amounts due from customers for goods sold or services performed in the ordinary course of business.
They are generally due for settlement within 60 days and therefore are all classified as current.
Included in trade receivables is a portfolio of receivables which are subject to factoring arrangement. Under this arrangement,
the Group will transfer the relevant trade receivables to a bank in exchange for cash with no recourse to the Group subsequent
to the transfer. The Group considers the hold to collect and sell business model remains appropriate for these receivables and
therefore continues to measure these financial assets at FVOCI as disclosed in Note 24.1. This instrument is carried under the
Level 3 fair value hierarchy which is determined through discounting future cash flows at agreed bank charges rates. The fair
value of the debt instruments is equivalent to the carrying amount as the initial cost assessed is insignificant.
Refer to Note 24.7 for disclosure of fair value information.
16.2 Amounts due from immediate holding company, subsidiaries, associate and related companies.
The trade balances have a credit term of 30 days (2022: 30 days).
The non-trade balances are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
16.3 Prepayments
Prepayments comprise excise duties and upfront cash payments in relation to listing fees provided to the sales outlets.
The listing fees are amortised over the duration of the contracts entered with these outlets. The amortised upfront listing fee
payments are recognised as a discount to revenue.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
188
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
17 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Cash at bank 94,978 91,200 28,583 6,639
Cash held on hand 58 51 - -
95,036 91,251 28,583 6,639
18 SHARE CAPITAL
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Issued and fully paid-up:
- 305,748,000 ordinary shares with no par value
At beginning/end of financial year 149,363 149,363 149,363 149,363
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share
at meetings of the Company. All shares rank equally with regards to the Company's residual assets.
Reserves
Note
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Other reserves:
Capital reserve 18.1 3,931 3,931 - -
Exchange reserve 18.2 (33,711) (48,790) - -
Equity contribution reserve 18.3 3,240 2,420 2,725 2,029
Cash flow hedge reserve 18.4 (64) (4,734) (64) (4,734)
(26,604) (47,173) 2,661 (2,705)
Distributable reserves:
Retained earnings 106,340 45,465 214,959 177,088
79,736 (1,708) 217,620 174,383
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
189
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
18 SHARE CAPITAL (CONTINUED)
18.1 Capital reserve
Capital reserve comprises reserve capitalised by a subsidiary for bonus issue of shares in prior years.
18.2 Exchange reserve
Translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the financial statements of the
Group entities with functional currencies other than RM.
18.3 Equity contribution reserve
Equity contribution reserve comprises the cumulative value of employee services received for the performance shares granted
by the ultimate holding company. The grant date fair value of the performance share granted to these employees is recognised
as an employee expense in profit or loss and a corresponding increase in equity, over the period that the employees become
unconditionally entitled to the performance shares. Any reimbursement to Carlsberg A/S in relation to the share-based incentive
programme is treated as a capital distribution and would be recorded directly in equity.
18.4 Cash flow hedge reserve
During the financial year, the Group and the Company have applied cash flow hedge. Cash flow hedges comprise aluminium
hedges where the hedged item is aluminium cans that will be used by the Company. Aluminium swaps are used to hedge the
risk of volatile aluminium prices associated with the purchase of cans.
The fair value changes of effective cash flow hedge on aluminium hedge contracts are recognised in other comprehensive
income and attributed to this reserve.
As at 31 December 2023, the unrealised fair value loss on cash flow hedge included in the amount due from immediate holding
company (trade) was RM84,000 (2022: RM6,229,000).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
190
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
19 PAYABLES AND ACCRUALS
Note
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Non-current
Provision 376 355 - -
Current
Trade
Trade payables 19.1 467,346 530,891 116,210 124,841
Amount due to immediate holding company 19.2 7,992 18,003 2,441 8,001
Amounts due to related companies 19.2 6,319 5,039 - -
481,657 553,933 118,651 132,842
Non-trade
Other payables 19.3 45,118 71,846 24,817 53,403
Accrued expenses 63,535 79,174 16,092 24,771
Amount due to immediate holding company 19.4 2,596 3,403 830 3,403
Amount due to a subsidiary 19.5 - - 232,550 142,364
Amounts due to related companies 19.4 12,704 13,077 9,768 10,123
123,953 167,500 284,057 234,064
605,610 721,433 402,708 366,906
605,986 721,788 402,708 366,906
19.1 Trade payables carry credit terms ranging from 0 to 140 days (2022: 0 to 130 days).
Included in trade payables of the Group are trade offer accruals amounting to RM228,385,000 (2022: RM244,114,000) which
is payable in the next twelve months. Material accounting estimates and assumptions on trade offers accruals are provided in
Note 4(i).
Note 24.5 and Note 24.7 set out disclosures of liquidity risk and fair value information respectively.
19.2 Amounts due to immediate holding company and related companies
Amounts due to immediate holding company and related companies are unsecured, interest free and subject to credit terms of
60 days (2022: 60 days).
19.3 These amounts comprise liabilities for goods and services provided to the Group and the Company. The amounts are unsecured
and are usually paid within 30 days of recognition.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
191
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
19 PAYABLES AND ACCRUALS (CONTINUED)
19.4 Amounts due to immediate holding company and related companies
Amounts due to immediate holding company and related companies are unsecured, interest free and repayable on demand.
19.5 Amount due to a subsidiary
The Company has entered into a cash pooling arrangement with its subsidiary. The cash pooling arrangement is repayable
on demand, unsecured, and subjected to fixed interest rate of 2.5% (2022: 2.5%) based on an overnight sweep arrangement.
Interest expenses from the cash pooling arrangement amounting to RM4,402,000 (2022: RM4,730,000) is presented within
the finance cost in the statements of comprehensive income.
20 LOANS AND BORROWINGS
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Non-current - unsecured
Term loan 2,331 4,046 - -
2,331 4,046 - -
Current – unsecured
Term loan 1,955 1,810 - -
Revolving credits 115,115 115,122 115,115 115,122
117,070 116,932 115,115 115,122
The term loan of the Group is subjected to fixed interest rate of 2% per annum.
The revolving credits of the Group and the Company are subjected to interests ranging from 3.66% to 3.77% (2022: 3.24% to 3.50%)
per annum.
As at 31 December 2023, the Group and the Company has undrawn facilities of RM260 million and RM192 million (2022: RM249
million and RM185 million) respectively.
The maturity analysis of the loans and borrowings at end of reporting date is disclosed in Note 24.5 under liquidity risk.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
192
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
21 KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COMPENSATION
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Directors:
- Fees 470 402 470 402
- Defined contribution plan 192 172 192 172
- Short-term employee benefits (including
estimated monetary value of benefits-in-kind) 4,207 3,436 4,207 3,436
4,869 4,010 4,869 4,010
- Share-based payment expense 649 523 649 523
5,518 4,533 5,518 4,533
Other key management personnel:
- Defined contribution plan 1,313 1,027 486 399
- Short-term employee benefits 14,949 15,418 4,347 3,893
- Share-based payment expense 1,220 818 926 649
17,482 17,263 5,759 4,941
23,000 21,796 11,277 9,474
Other key management personnel comprise persons other than the Directors of the Group, having authority and responsibility for
planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group entities either directly or indirectly.
22 DIVIDENDS
Dividends declared by the Company are:
Sen per
ordinary share
Total
amount
RM’000 Date of payment
2023
Final 2022 25.0 76,437 18 May 2023
First interim 2023 21.0 64,207 8 June 2023
Second interim 2023 22.0 67,265 13 October 2023
Third interim 2023 19.0 58,092 29 December 2023
Total amount 266,001
2022
Final 2021 46.0 140,644 12 May 2022
First interim 2022 22.0 67,265 22 June 2022
Second interim 2022 22.0 67,264 15 September 2022
Third interim 2022 19.0 58,092 9 December 2022
Total amount 333,265
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
193
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
22 DIVIDENDS (CONTINUED)
The Board of Directors recommended for shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting a final single-tier
dividend of 31.0 sen per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
Sen per
ordinary share
Total
amount
RM’000
For the financial year ended 31 December 2023
Final 31.0 94,782
23 OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group has three operating segments, which are the Group's geographical segments. The strategic business units offer similar
products but are managed separately because they require different marketing strategies due to the geographical locations. For each
of the strategic business unit, the Group's Managing Director (the chief operating decision maker) reviews internal management
reports at least on a quarterly basis.
The following summary describes the operations in each of the Group's operating segments:
• Malaysia Includes manufacturing, marketing and distribution of both alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages by entities
		 in Malaysia.
• Singapore Includes marketing and distribution of both alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages by entities in Singapore.
• Others		 Includes manufacturing, marketing and distribution of both alcoholic and non-alcoholic beverages in geographical
		 locations other than Malaysia and Singapore.
Performance is measured based on segment profit, as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Group's
Managing Director. Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such information is the most
relevant in evaluating the results of the segments relative to other entities that operate within these industries.
Segment assets, liabilities and capital expenditures
Segment assets, liabilities and capital expenditures information is neither included in the internal management reports nor provided
regularly to the Group's Managing Director who is considered the Group’s chief operating decision maker. Hence no such disclosures
are provided below.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
194
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
23 OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
Malaysia
RM’000
Singapore
RM’000
Others
RM’000
Total
RM’000
2023
Segment profit 311,705 87,081 - 398,786
Included in the measure of segment profit are:
Revenue from external customers 1,610,028 650,871 - 2,260,899
Inter-segment revenue* 71,011 - - 71,011
Depreciation and amortisation 56,919 5,537 - 62,456
Impairment 85 - - 85
Not included in the measure of segment profit but
provided to Group’s Managing Director:
Finance costs (5,216) (548) - (5,764)
Finance income 556 - - 556
Income tax expense (62,444) (17,074) (2,677) (82,195)
Share of profit of equity-accounted
associate, net of tax - - 23,457 23,457
2022
Segment profit 332,490 89,859 - 422,349
Included in the measure of segment profit are:
Revenue from external customers 1,732,561 679,904 - 2,412,465
Inter-segment revenue* 48,546 - - 48,546
Depreciation and amortisation 40,923 5,432 - 46,355
Impairment 2,445 - - 2,445
Not included in the measure of segment profit but
provided to Group’s Managing Director:
Finance costs (2,558) (449) - (3,007)
Finance income 784 - - 784
Income tax expense (103,641) (15,903) - (119,544)
Share of profit of equity-accounted
associate, net of tax - - 21,519 21,519
* Inter-segment revenue derived from Singapore.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
195
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
23 OPERATING SEGMENTS (CONTINUED)
Reconciliation of segment profit or loss
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Profit
Total segment profit 398,786 422,349
Inter-segment elimination 18 2,760
Finance costs (5,764) (3,007)
Finance income 556 784
Share of profit of equity-accounted associate, net of tax 23,457 21,519
Consolidated profit before taxation 417,053 444,405
Geographical segments
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on geographical location of customers.
Non-current assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
Revenue Non-current assets*
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Geographical location
Malaysia 1,590,473 1,691,202 332,429 308,113
Singapore 641,247 691,925 12,352 13,914
Other countries 29,179 29,338 88,642 66,873
2,260,899 2,412,465 433,423 388,900
* Non-current assets comprise of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets, ROU assets and investment in an associate.
Major customers
The revenue derived from transactions with single external customer that amounted to 10% or more of the Group’s revenue for the
financial year was RM429,864,000 (2022: RM465,144,000).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
196
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
24.1 Financial instruments by categories
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Financial assets at FVOCI
Receivables 48,348 81,442 - -
Financial assets at amortised cost
Receivables and deposits 284,283 323,208 52,727 30,591
Cash and cash equivalents 95,036 91,251 28,583 6,639
379,319 414,459 81,310 37,230
Financial liabilities at amortised cost
Payables and accruals* (578,481) (678,677) (395,232) (352,819)
Loans and borrowings (119,401) (120,978) (115,115) (115,122)
Lease liabilities (11,935) (4,798) (8,915) -
(709,817) (804,453) (519,262) (467,941)
* Net of provisions and payroll liabilities
24.2 Net gains/(losses) arising from financial instruments
Net gains/(losses) arising from financial instruments comprises finance income/(expense), unrealised foreign exchange gains/
(losses), impairment losses and write off.
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Financial assets at FVOCI and amortised cost 733 (250) 216 (1,104)
Financial liabilities at amortised cost (6,334) (3,397) (8,995) (6,930)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
197
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
24.3 Financial risk management
The Group and the Company have exposure to the following risks from the use of financial instruments:
• Credit risk
• Liquidity risk
• Market risk
24.4 Credit risk
Trade receivables (including intercompany balances) using simplified approach
(a) The credit risks concentration profile for trade receivables (including intercompany balances), net of loss allowance,
as at the end of the reporting period analysed by geographic region was:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Malaysia 225,284 295,594 40,668 18,212
Singapore 102,325 99,712 9,689 6,860
Others 58 2,768 705 2,210
327,667 398,074 51,062 27,282
(b) Reconciliation on loss allowance
The loss allowance for trade receivables as at 31 December 2023 reconciles to the opening loss allowance for that
provision as follows:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
At 1 January (1,177) (1,366) - -
Loss allowance recognised (648) (87) - -
Loss allowance reversed 540 276 - -
Loss allowance written off 488 - - -
At 31 December (797) (1,177) - -
The loss allowance account in respect of trade receivables are used to record loss allowance. Unless the Group is satisfied
that recovery of the amount is possible, the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the receivable directly.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
198
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
24.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (including intercompany balances) using simplified approach (continued)
(c) Maximum exposure to credit risk
The grouping of trade receivables (including intercompany balances) for ECL assessment is as below:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Assessed collectively 328,464 399,251 51,062 27,282
Total trade receivables (including
intercompany balances) 328,464 399,251 51,062 27,282
The following table contains an analysis of the credit risk exposure of financial instruments for which an ECL allowance
is recognised:
Group Current
1 - 30 days
past due
More than
30 days
past due
More than
60 days
past due Total
2023
Expected loss rate - - - 29%
RM’000
Gross carrying amount
- Trade receivables 317,892 - 7,160 2,706 327,758
- Amounts due from related companies 396 301 9 - 706
Carrying amount 318,288 301 7,169 2,706 328,464
Loss allowance - - - (797) (797)
Carrying amount
(net of loss allowance) 318,288 301 7,169 1,909 327,667
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
199
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
24.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (including intercompany balances) using simplified approach (continued)
(c) Maximum exposure to credit risk (continued)
The following table contains an analysis of the credit risk exposure of financial instruments for which an ECL allowance
is recognised: (continued)
Group Current
1 - 30 days
past due
More than
30 days
past due
More than
60 days
past due Total
2022
Expected loss rate - - - 35%
RM’000
Gross carrying amount
- Trade receivables 375,860 14,992 2,974 3,215 397,041
- Amounts due from related companies 1,151 826 116 117 2,210
Carrying amount 377,011 15,818 3,090 3,332 399,251
Loss allowance - - - (1,177) (1,177)
Carrying amount
(net of loss allowance) 377,011 15,818 3,090 2,155 398,074
The Company’s trade intercompany balances were considered fully recoverable, and no loss allowance has been
recognised during the current financial year (2022: Nil).
Intercompany balances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group has transactions with related companies. The Group monitors the collectability of the amounts due from related
companies regularly.
The Company has transactions with subsidiaries and related companies. The Company monitors the collectability of the
amounts due from subsidiaries and related companies regularly.
Exposure to credit risk
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the
statement of financial position.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
200
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
24.4 Credit risk (continued)
Intercompany balances (continued)
Credit quality
As at the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the amounts due from subsidiaries and related companies
are not recoverable. The amounts due from subsidiaries and related companies have been outstanding for less than a year.
Cash and cash equivalents
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group's and the Company's short-term deposits are placed as fixed rate investments and daily short-term deposits and
upon which management endeavours to obtain the best rate available in the market.
Cash and cash equivalents are placed only with licensed financial institutions.
Exposure to credit risk
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the
statement of financial position.
Credit quality
Counterparties with external credit rating:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
AAA 40,726 25,096 28,479 6,549
AA1 84 77 75 61
AA2 73 - 29 -
AA3 - 95 - 29
A1 54,095 65,932 - -
94,978 91,200 28,583 6,639
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
201
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
24.5 Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet their financial obligations as they fall due.
The Group's and the Company's exposure to liquidity risk arises principally from its various payables, loans and borrowings.
The Group and the Company maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and bank facilities deemed adequate by the
management to ensure, as far as possible, that they will have sufficient liquidity to meet their liabilities when they fall due.
The Group’s and the Company’s current liabilities exceeded its current assets by RM192.2 million and RM356.7 million
(2022: RM225.0 million and RM377.7 million) respectively as of 31 December 2023. In considering liquidity risk, the Group has
reviewed the cash flow and funding requirements for the next 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements.
The cash flow forecasts have been prepared, taking into consideration sources of liquidity to fund anticipated operating activities,
investing activities, repayments of financing obligations and returns to shareholders.
The key assumption underpinning the Group’s and the Company’s cash flow and funding requirements is the continuous
profitable performance of both the Group and Company in the next 12 months from the date of approval of the financial
statements based on market expectations and forecasts to generate sufficient net cash inflow from its operating activities.
In the current financial year, both the Group and the Company have registered profits of RM334.9 million and RM304.2 million
(2022: RM324.9 million and RM218.7 million) respectively and the Group generated net cash inflow from operating activities of
RM325.9 million (2022: RM414.5 million).
As disclosed in Note 20, as of 31 December 2023, the Group and Company has undrawn credit facilities of RM260.0 million and
RM192.0 million (2022: RM249.0 million and RM185.0 million) respectively. These undrawn credit facilities are available as and
when it is needed, for the next 12 months from the date of approval of the financial statements to fund the working capital and
financing requirements of its business.
At Company level, the Company would be able to meet its obligations or liabilities as and when it is needed, through the
available funds from the undrawn banking facilities and dividend income from its profitable subsidiaries.
It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly earlier, or at significantly
different amounts.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
202
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
24.5 Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Contractual
interest
rate
%
Contractual
cash flows
RM’000
Under
1 year
RM’000
Between
1 and 2
years
RM’000
Between
2 and 5
years
RM’000
Group
2023
Payables and accruals* 578,481 - 578,481 578,481 - -
Loans and borrowings 119,401 2.00-3.77 119,595 117,235 2,360 -
Lease liabilities 11,935 0.71-4.70 12,527 5,970 4,701 1,856
709,817 710,603 701,686 7,061 1,856
2022
Payables and accruals* 678,677 - 678,677 678,677 - -
Loans and borrowings 120,978 2.00-3.50 121,221 117,082 1,910 2,229
Lease liabilities 4,798 0.71-4.05 5,111 2,421 2,421 269
804,453 805,009 798,180 4,331 2,498
* Net of provisions and payroll liabilities
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
203
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
24.5 Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis (continued)
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Contractual
interest
rate
%
Contractual
cash flows
RM’000
Under
1 year
RM’000
Between
1 and 2
years
RM’000
Between
2 and 5
years
RM’000
Company
2023
Payables and accruals* 162,683 - 162,683 162,683 - -
Loans and borrowings 115,115 3.66-3.77 115,211 115,211 - -
Amount due to a subsidiary (non-trade) 232,550 2.50 232,550 232,550 - -
Lease liabilities 8,915 4.70 9,472 3,218 4,398 1,856
519,263 519,916 513,662 4,398 1,856
2022
Payables and accruals* 210,455 - 210,455 210,455 - -
Loans and borrowings 115,122 3.24-3.50 115,171 115,171 - -
Amount due to a subsidiary (non-trade) 142,364 2.50 142,364 142,364 - -
467,941 467,990 467,990 - -
* Net of provisions, payroll liabilities and amount due to a subsidiary (non-trade)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
204
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
24.6 Market risk
Market risk comprises currency risk, price risk and interest rate risk that will affect the Group's and the Company's financial
position or cash flows.
24.6.1 Currency risk
The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a currency
other than the respective functional currencies of Group entities. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily U.S. Dollar
(“USD”), Singapore Dollar (“SGD”), Euro (“EUR”) and Sri Lankan Rupee (“LKR”).
The Group holds a number of investments in foreign subsidiaries and associate where the translation of net assets to Ringgit
Malaysia (“RM”) is exposed to foreign exchange risks. The revaluation of the net investments of the Group’s foreign operations
is recognised in OCI. The currency giving rise to the risk in terms of revaluation of the net investment is primarily from LKR due
both to the size of the net investment and to the economic situation in Sri Lanka which resulted in volatility of LKR currency.
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group and the Company did not hedge on any net investments, foreign trade receivables and trade payables denominated
in foreign currency during the financial year. In respect of other monetary assets and liabilities held in currencies other than RM
and SGD, the Group ensures that the net exposure is kept to an acceptable level.
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Group's and the Company's exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the functional currency of any
entity in the Group and the Company) risk, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:
Denominated in
USD
RM’000
SGD
RM’000
EUR
RM’000
LKR
RM’000
Group
2023
Cash and cash equivalents 8,303 529 - 10
Trade payables (25,673) (381) (22,079) -
Intercompany balances (18,453) - (829) -
Net exposure (35,823) 148 (22,908) 10
2022
Trade receivables 2,545 - - -
Cash and cash equivalents 6,731 368 - 4,453
Trade payables (22,620) (343) (2,874) -
Intercompany balances (4,964) - (385) -
Net exposure (18,308) 25 (3,259) 4,453
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
205
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
24.6 Market risk (continued)
24.6.1 Currency risk (continued)
Exposure to foreign currency risk (continued)
Denominated in
USD
RM’000
SGD
RM’000
EUR
RM’000
LKR
RM’000
Company
2023
Cash and cash equivalents 6,424 340 - 10
Trade payables (23,383) (84) (21,824) -
Intercompany balances (9,380) 9,689 (507) -
Net exposure (26,339) 9,945 (22,331) 10
2022
Cash and cash equivalents 1,848 209 - 4,453
Trade payables (19,079) - (1,477) -
Intercompany balances 2,210 6,860 - -
Net exposure (15,021) 7,069 (1,477) 4,453
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
Foreign currency risk arises primarily for transactions denominated in USD, SGD, EUR and LKR. The exposure to currency risk
for transaction other than USD, SGD, EUR and LKR is not material and hence, sensitivity analysis is not presented.
A 6% (2022: 2%) strengthening of the RM against the following currencies at the end of the reporting period would have
increased/(decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis is based on foreign currency exchange
rate variances that the Group and the Company considered to be reasonably possible at the end of the reporting period.
This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remained constant and ignores any impact of
forecasted sales and purchases. A 6% (2022: 2%) weakening of the RM against the following currencies would have the equal
but opposite effect to the amounts shown below, on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
USD 2,149 366 1,580 300
SGD (9) (1) (597) (141)
EUR 1,375 65 1,340 30
3,515 430 2,323 189
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
206
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
24.6 Market risk (continued)
24.6.1 Currency risk (continued)
Currency risk sensitivity analysis (continued)
The effects to the Group’s and the Company’s post-tax profit or loss if the LKR had further weakened by a similar basis
comparable with current year at 18% (2022: 40%) against RM are as follows:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
LKR 2 1,781 2 1,781
A 18% (2022: 40%) strengthening of LKR against RM would have the equal but opposite effect to the amounts shown above,
on the basis that all other variables remain constant.
24.6.2 Price risk
The Group is exposed to price risk arising from the fluctuating prices of aluminium cans. To manage its price risk arising from
prices of aluminium cans, the Group engages in the hedging of aluminium prices. Hedging is performed by fixed-price purchase
agreement with suppliers. The fair value of the cash flow hedge is disclosed in the consolidated statement of changes in equity.
24.6.3 Interest rate risk
The Group's and the Company’s borrowings are not exposed to a risk of change in their fair values due to changes in interest
rates. The Group's and the Company’s borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to changes in interest rate.
Receivables and payables are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk.
The Group’s and Company’s borrowings are short term in nature. As such, the Group and the Company do not engage in any
hedging activities to manage interest rate fluctuations. In year 2021, the Group entered into long-term bank loans at fixed
interest rate. The Group manages its interest rate exposure by maintaining a prudent mix of fixed and floating rate borrowings.
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group's and the Company's significant interest-bearing financial instruments, based on carrying
amounts as at the end of the reporting period were:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Floating rate instruments
Loan and borrowings (115,115) (115,122) (115,115) (115,122)
The Group has variable rate borrowing such as revolving credits and the Group considers the risk of significant changes to
interest rate on these borrowings to be unlikely due to the relative short-term nature of the borrowings. The Group actively
reviews its debt portfolio to manage the timings of repayment of these borrowings and monitors the interest rates on these
borrowing closely to ensure they are maintained at favourable rates.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
207
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
24 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
24.6 Market risk (continued)
24.6.3 Interest rate risk (continued)
As at the reporting date, if the annual interest rates increase/decrease by 0.5% (2022: 0.5%) respectively and all other variables
including tax and interest rates being held constant, the profit after tax will be higher/lower by RM437,000 (2022: RM437,000)
as a result of higher/lower interest expense on these borrowings. However, since all fixed-rate borrowings are measured at
amortised cost, there is no impact on profit or loss. The sensitivity analysis is based on the financial instruments recognised at
the reporting date.
24.7 Fair value of financial instruments
The carrying amounts of the current financial assets and liabilities of the Group and the Company measured at amortised cost
as at the reporting date approximate their fair values due to the relatively short-term nature of these financial instruments.
25 CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Group's objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the Group's ability to continue
as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
Capital consists of total equity, less amounts accumulated in equity related to cash flow hedges.
The Directors monitor and determine to maintain an optimal debt-to-equity ratio that complies with regulatory requirements.
The ratio is calculated as total debt divided by total capital. Total debt is calculated as sum of total borrowings (including “current and
non-current loan and borrowing” and “lease liabilities” as shown in the statement of financial position). Total capital is calculated as
sum of total equity and total debt.
The gearing ratio as at 31 December 2023 and 2022 are as follows:
Group
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Total debt 131,336 125,776
Total equity 234,597 154,117
Total capital 365,933 279,893
Gearing ratio 36% 45%
26 CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Authorised and contracted for
- Property, plant and equipment 47,354 4,929 46,966 4,021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
208
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
27 EFFECT OF IBOR REFORM
As at reporting date, there is no change to the Group’s KLIBOR-linked contracts. The Group will closely monitor the regulators’
announcement on the alternative benchmark rate or discontinuation of publication of the KLIBOR for the relevant tenors;
and engage the counterparties to discuss necessary changes to the related contracts.
28 SIGNIFICANT EVENTS DURING THE YEAR
Non-renewal of the Exclusive Distribution Agreements of Asahi
The Group announced the non-renewal of the Exclusive Distribution Agreements with Asahi Group Holdings Ltd on 19 June 2023.
Both parties have mutually agreed not to renew the said agreement and the exclusive distribution of the Asahi brand or trademark in
Malaysia that expired on 31 December 2023. There is no material effect on the earnings per share, net assets per share and gearing
of the Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
Licence Agreement and Distributorship Agreement with Sapporo Breweries Limited
On 1 November 2023, the Group entered into a Memorandum of Understanding (“MoU”) with Sapporo Breweries Ltd. for the exclusive
manufacturing and distribution of Sapporo Premium Beer in Malaysia commencing from 2024. Similarly, the Group’s Singaporean
operations shall have joint-distribution rights to sell and distribute both Sapporo Premium Beer and Yebisu.
On 5 December 2023, the Group had secured the license agreement to brew and manufacture the iconic 'Sapporo Premium Beer'
in Malaysia. Effective from 1 January 2024, the Group will produce, sell, market, and distribute the beer across all channels in the
country, including duty-free zones. This agreement is a 5-year contract with an automatic renewal of 3 years, unless either party
provides written notice of non-renewal.
In Singapore, Carlsberg Singapore Pte. Ltd. and its subsidiary, Maybev Pte. Ltd., have distributorships for two iconic brands i.e.
'Sapporo Premium Beer' and 'Yebisu Beer'. Similarly, this distributor agreement will also be effective for 5 years starting from
1 January 2024, with an automatic renewal for 1 year, unless either party provides written notice of non-renewal.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
209
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
29 RELATED PARTIES
Identity of related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group or the Company has
the ability, directly or indirectly, to control the party or exercise significant influence over the party in making financial and operating
decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group or the Company and the party are subject to common control or common significant
influence. Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
The Group has related party relationship with the ultimate holding company and its related corporations, its subsidiaries
(see Note 12), an associate (see Note 13), Directors and key management personnel.
The relationship of related parties are identified as below:
Name of company Country of incorporation Classes of Related parties
Carlsberg A/S Denmark Ultimate holding company
Carlsberg Breweries A/S Denmark Immediate holding company
Carlsberg Marketing Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Subsidiary
Carlsberg Singapore Pte. Ltd. Singapore Subsidiary
Euro Distributors Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Subsidiary
MayBev Pte. Ltd. Singapore Subsidiary
Lion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC Sri Lanka Associate
Brasseries Kronenbourg SAS France Fellow subsidiary
Cambrew Limited Cambodia Fellow subsidiary
Carlsberg Brewery (Anhui) Company Ltd China Fellow subsidiary
Carlsberg Brewery Hong Kong Ltd. Hong Kong Fellow subsidiary
Carlsberg Croatia D.O.O. Croatia Fellow subsidiary
Carlsberg Supply Co. Asia Ltd. Hong Kong Fellow subsidiary
Carlsberg Supply Company AG Switzerland Fellow subsidiary
Carlsberg Vietnam Breweries Limited Vietnam Fellow subsidiary
Carlsberg Vietnam Trading Limited Vietnam Fellow subsidiary
Lao Brewery Co. Ltd. Laos Fellow subsidiary
Monster the Cat GmbH Switzerland Fellow subsidiary
Saku Ölletehase AS Estonia Fellow subsidiary
Carlsberg Taiwan Trading Company Ltd. Taiwan Associate company of immediate
holding company
Key management personnel are defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling
the activities of the Group and of the Company either directly or indirectly. The key management personnel includes all the Directors
of the Group and of the Company, and certain members of senior management of the Group and of the Company.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
210
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
29 RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)
Details of the related party transactions (other than key management personnel remuneration disclosed in Note 21 to the financial
statements) with the Group and the Company are as follows:
Group Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Ultimate holding company
Reimbursement for share-based
payments granted to employees 1,468 1,668 1,205 1,274
Immediate holding company
Purchases of services 8,717 9,488 5,396 4,993
Royalties 42,241 41,947 10,420 10,242
Net settlements in respect of loss/(gain)
from hedging contracts 7,786 (2,485) 7,786 (2,485)
Related companies
Management fees 15,212 11,340 8,286 7,416
Purchases of materials and products 14,336 41,495 - -
Purchase of kegs - 1,560 - -
Purchases of services 7,432 5,035 4,087 2,589
Sale of goods and services (6,207) (28,684) (6,207) (28,684)
Sale of kegs (215) - (215) -
Royalties 9 62 - -
Company
2023
RM’000
2022
RM’000
Subsidiaries
Sale of goods and services (1,101,499) (1,229,584)
Management fee received (22,066) (22,618)
Operating leases income (954) (954)
Dividend income (282,524) (224,705)
Interest expenses on cash pooling arrangement 4,402 4,730
Advances from a subsidiary (90,186) (47,603)
Associate
Dividend income (17,847) (7,550)
The terms and conditions for the above transactions are based on negotiated terms. All the amounts outstanding are unsecured and
expected to be settled with cash.
Outstanding balances are disclosed accordingly in Notes 16 and 19.
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
211
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(2) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
We, Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Chor Chee Heung and Stefano CIini, two of the Directors of Carlsberg Brewery Malaysia Berhad, do hereby state that,
in the opinion of the Directors, the accompanying financial statements set out on pages 140 to 210 are drawn up so as to give a true and
fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2023 and the financial performance and cash flows
of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 in accordance with the Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors dated 7 March 2024.
TAN SRI DATO’ SERI CHOR CHEE HEUNG STEFANO CLINI
INDEPENDENT NON-EXECUTIVE MANAGING DIRECTOR
CHAIRMAN
Selangor Darul Ehsan
STATUTORY DECLARATION
PURSUANT TO SECTION 251(1)(b) OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
I, Vivian Gun Ling Ling, the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Carlsberg Brewery Malaysia Berhad, do solemnly
and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 140 to 210 are, to the best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I
make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the declaration to be true, and by virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
VIVIAN GUN LING LING
(MIA No. CA 48041)
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the abovenamed at Kuala Lumpur in the Federal Territory on 7 March 2024.
Before me:
COMMISSIONER FOR OATHS
212
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196901000792 (9210-K)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements of Carlsberg Brewery Malaysia Berhad (“the Company”) and its subsidiaries (“the Group”) give a
true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2023, and of their financial performance
and their cash flows for the financial year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
What we have audited
We have audited the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, which comprise the statements of financial position as at
31 December 2023 of the Group and of the Company, and the statements of comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity
and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements,
including material accounting policy information, as set out on pages 140 to 210.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing. Our
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements” section
of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and other ethical responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of
Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical
responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Our audit approach
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial statements of
the Group and of the Company. In particular, we considered where the Directors made subjective judgements; for example, in respect of
significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are inherently uncertain. As in all
of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including among other matters, consideration of
whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement due to fraud.
We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the financial statements as a
whole, taking into account the structure of the Group and of the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the industry in which
the Group and the Company operate.
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial statements
of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion
on these matters.
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
213
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196901000792 (9210-K)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Key audit matters (continued)
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Revenue adjustments due to trade discounts and
volume rebates
We continue to focus on this area as trade discounts and volume
rebates are very significant to the Group. These discounts
and rebates which are volume or activity related are typically
associated with certain sales targets, measured in volumes or
total sales value, to be achieved by the trade customers and
distributors. In addition, each type of product of the Group has a
different discount and rebate structure.
The determination and calculation of the accruals for trade
discounts and volume rebates required is therefore complex as
it requires management to make material accounting estimates
and assumptions regarding sales targets to be achieved by each
customer, multiplied with the contracted rates of the different
products for each customer based on their respective trading
agreements.
This is a significant area for our audit as it requires us to exercise
judgement in evaluating management’s estimation of the amount
of trade discounts and volume rebates required. As the trade
discounts and volume rebates is accounted for as a reduction of
revenue from contracts with customers under MFRS 15 “Revenue
from contracts with customers”, there is accordingly an inherent
risk to the revenue recognition process in view of the complexity
of the trade discounts and volume rebates as explained.
Refer to Note 3(m)(i) - Material accounting policy information
on revenue recognition and measurement, Note 4(i) – Material
accounting estimates, assumptions and judgements and Note 19
Payables and accruals.
With respect to the appropriateness of management's estimates
used in the calculations of the revenue adjustments due to trade
discounts and volume rebates, we performed the following
procedure:
• We tested effectiveness of the relevant controls and
reliability of information generated from the systems
which the Group used in estimating the achievement of
sales targets and the trade discounts and volume rebates
accruals required;
• Developed an expectation of the current year trade
discounts and volume rebates accruals balance based
on our understanding of key factors and relationship
between revenue, trade discounts and volume rebates,
which included consideration of historical data of trade
discounts and volume rebates given by the Group against
the accruals recorded by management as at the reporting
date;
• We reviewed the reconciliation performed by management
between the trade discounts and volume rebates balance
payable per the sales system to the accruals recorded by
the Group as at 31 December 2023. We test checked the
material reconciling items to management's supporting
documentation and discussed this with management to
ensure the appropriateness of these reconciling items;
• We discussed the material accounting estimates and
assumptions used in the determination of the trade
discounts and volume rebates accruals with management
and evaluated the reasonableness of the estimates and
assumptions particularly those estimates and assumptions
that were different from previous years; and
• Where there were changes in the rates used to calculate
the trade discounts and volume rebates accruals, we
assessed the reasonableness of those changes in the rates
by comparing to the actual claims made by the trade
customers and distributors in respect of the recent sales or
revised terms in the trading agreements.
Based on the procedures performed, we noted the results of
management’s assessment and computation of the trade
discounts and volume rebates accruals are not materially
different with the outcome of our procedures.
We have determined that there are no key audit matters to report for the Company.
214
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196901000792 (9210-K)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Information other than the financial statements and auditors’ report thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Directors' Report and other
sections of the 2023 Integrated Annual Report of Carlsberg Brewery Malaysia Berhad, but does not include the financial statements of the
Group and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other information
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to
report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company that give
a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine
is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and the
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern
basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable
assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in
Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from
fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic
decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing, we exercise
professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, whether due
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for
one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and of the Company’s internal
control.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures
made by the Directors.
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
215
Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued)
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or
on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our
auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, including the
disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company represent the underlying transactions and events
in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
(f) Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the Group
to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of
the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and
to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where
applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these
matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances,
we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be
expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we have not acted as
auditors, are disclosed in Note 12 to the financial statements.
OTHER MATTERS
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act 2016 in
Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS PLT TAN ENG HONG
LLP0014401-LCA & AF 1146 03424/03/2025 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
7 March 2024
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196901000792 (9210-K)
216
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
BINTULU
c/o Sin Yew Hin Sdn Bhd
Lot 1957, Swee Joo Jetty,
Kampung Baru, P.O.Box 269,
97000 Bintulu, Sarawak.
Tel: 086-331 136
Fax: 086-338 923
BUTTERWORTH
No. 32-A-TKT 1 & TKT 2, Jalan Oren,
Pusat Perniagaan Oren,
13000 Butterworth, Pulau Pinang.
Tel : 04-390 3077 / 390 5231
Fax: 04-399 1488
IPOH
c/o Core Synergy Trading Sdn Bhd
Lot 3898, Off Jalan Lahat,
31500 Lahat, Perak.
Tel: 05-321 9204 / 321 9344
Fax: 05-321 1571
JOHOR BAHRU
No. 41, 41-01 & 41-02,
Jalan Austin Perdana 2/22,
Taman Mount Austin,
81100 Johor Bahru, Johor.
Tel: 07-355 5078
Fax: 07-354 6092
KOTA KINABALU
No. 34 Towering Industrial Estate,
Mile 4 1/2, Jalan Penampang,
88300 Kota Kinabalu, Sabah.
P.O.Box 13435,
88838 Kota Kinabalu, Sabah.
Tel: 088-715 091 / 715 019
Fax: 088-717 480
KUANTAN
No. 25, Jalan IM14/3,
Kawasan Perindustrian Ringan
Indera Mahkota,
25200 Kuantan, Pahang.
Tel: 09-573 0135 / 573 0136
Fax: 09-573 0136
KUCHING
No. 287, Section 9, KTLD,
Ground & 1st Floor, Rubber Road,
93400, Kuching, Sarawak.
Tel: 082-425 319 / 425 320
Fax: 082-421 660
LABUAN
c/o Beribu Tetap Sdn Bhd
Lot A2, Manmohan’s Warehouse
Jalan Patau-patau
87013 Labuan F.T., Sabah.
LANGKAWI
c/o Teow Soon Huat Sdn Bhd
Lot 159, Jalan Padang Gaong
Taman Indah, Mukim Kuah
07000 Pulau Langkawi, Kedah.
MALACCA
No. 23-23A, Jalan Malinja 1,
Taman Malinja, Bukit Baru,
75150 Melaka.
Tel: 06-282 7709 / 284 1530
Fax: 06-282 7930
MENTAKAB
c/o Lit Tat Trading Sdn Bhd
PT 1303B, Jalan Industri 4,
Taman Industri Park,
28400 Mentakab, Pahang.
Tel : 09-278 3710
Fax : 09-278 3161
MIRI
Lot 1415, Ground Floor & 1st Floor,
Lorong 5, Jalan Krokop,
P.O. Box 1301,
98000 Miri, Sarawak.
Tel: 085-417 821 / 427 821
Fax: 085-437 821
SANDAKAN
c/o Kwong Hin (Sandakan) Sdn Bhd
Lot D-2, CL 075410454, Batu 8.5,
Jalan Kampung Melayu,
90007 Sandakan, Sabah.
HP : 012-836 6063
SEREMBAN
No. 15-2, 2nd Floor
Jalan Haruan 5/1
Oakland Commercial Square
70300 Seremban, Negeri Sembilan.
Tel: 06-603 7065 / 603 7056
Fax: 06-603 7096
SHAH ALAM
Lot 22, Jalan Pengapit 15/19,
Seksyen 15,
40200 Shah Alam, Selangor.
Tel: 03-5522 6688
Fax: 03-5510 1135
SIBU
c/o Ee Chung Han Co. Sdn Bhd
Lot 1248-1249 Lorong Sukun 18,
Off Jalan Teng Kung Suk,
Upper Lanang,
96007 Sibu, Sarawak.
Tel : 084-213 389 / 213 398
Fax: 084-213 323
TAWAU
c/o Kwong Hin (Sandakan) Sdn Bhd
TB 5341, Leeka Light Industrial Estate,
Batu 3, Jalan Apas
91000 Tawau, Sabah.
H/P: 019-813 6568
CARLSBERG MALAYSIA’S SALES OFFICES
217
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
PARTICULARS OF GROUP PROPERTIES
The Properties included in land and buildings and rights-of-use assets as at 31 December 2023 and their net book values are indicated
below :-
Address
Area
(Acres)
Existing
Use
Land
Tenure
Approx. Age
of Building
(Years) Description
2023 Net
Book Value
RM’000
Date of
Acquisition Or
Revaluation
55, Persiaran Selangor,
Section 15, 40200 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan. 20.00
Factory
and Office
Leasehold
expiring
23.2.2070 53
Land
Building
3,237
53,896
31/03/81
(revaluation)
No. 34, Towering Industrial Estate
Mile 4 1/2, Jalan Penampang,
P.O. Box 13435,
88838 Kota Kinabalu, Sabah. 0.06
Office and
Warehouse
Leasehold
expiring
31.12.2037 44
Land
Building
56
123
28/3/95
(acquisition)
Lot 22, Jalan Pengapit 15/19,
Seksyen 15, 40200 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan. 1.81
Office and
Warehouse
Leasehold
expiring
23.2.2082 33
Land
Building
2,917
3,518
12/03/96
(acquisition)
No. 25, Jalan IM14/3,
Kawasan Perindustrian Ringan,
Indera Mahkota,
25200 Kuantan,
Pahang Darul Makmur. 0.05
Office and
Warehouse
Leasehold
expiring
29.3.2097 26
Land and
Building 116
17/12/97
(acquisition)
No. EMR 3099, Lot No. 9 &
No. EMR 3100, Lot No. 10,
No. GM 76, Lot No. 35 &
No. GM 77, Lot No. 36,
In the Village of Batu Tiga /
Mukim of Damansara,
District of Petaling,
Selangor Darul Ehsan. 6.41 Factory Freehold - Land 15,953
24/7/98
(acquisition)
Lot 1071, Mukim Damansara,
District of Petaling,
Selangor Darul Ehsan. 1.30 Factory Freehold - Land 2,999
18/9/03
(acquisition)
82,815
218
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 13 FEBRUARY 2024
Total number of issued shares : 305,748,000 ordinary shares
Class of shares			 : Ordinary Shares
Voting Rights			 : One Vote Per Ordinary Share
Size of Holdings No. of
Shareholders
% of
Shareholders
No. of
Shares
% of
Shares
Less than 100 1,028 5.904 8,015 0.002
100-1,000 9,164 52.639 5,107,000 1.670
1,001-10,000 5,812 33.385 20,652,647 6.754
10,001-100,000 1,216 6.984 34,747,835 11.364
100,001-15,287,399* 188 1.079 89,300,003 29.207
15,287,400 and above ** 1 0.005 155,932,500 51.000
Total 17,409 100.000 305,748,000 100.000
* Less than 5% of issued shares
** 5% and above of issued shares
THIRTY LARGEST SHAREHOLDERS
NO. NAME NO. OF SHARES % OF SHARES
1 DB (MALAYSIA) NOMINEE (ASING) SDN BHD
CARLSBERG BREWERIES A/S
155,932,500 51.000
2 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR AIA BHD.
6,595,400 2.157
3 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
GREAT EASTERN LIFE ASSURANCE (MALAYSIA) BERHAD (PAR 1)
6,236,820 2.039
4 CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PAMB FOR PRULINK EQUITY FOCUS FUND
3,890,800 1.272
5 CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PAMB FOR PRULINK EQUITY FUND
3,017,900 0.987
6 WONG YOKE FONG @ WONG NYOK FING 2,716,000 0.888
7 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
CBNY FOR NORGES BANK (FI 17)
2,182,400 0.713
8 CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR STATE STREET BANK & TRUST COMPANY (WEST CLT OD67)
2,163,300 0.707
9 UOB KAY HIAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR UOB KAY HIAN PTE LTD (A/C CLIENTS)
2,084,846 0.681
10 CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON FOR VIRTUS KAR EMERGING MARKETS
SMALL-CAP FUND
2,004,100 0.655
11 YEOH SAIK KHOO SENDIRIAN BERHAD 1,719,800 0.562
12 CARTABAN NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
PRUDENTIAL ASSURANCE MALAYSIA BERHAD FOR PRULINK STRATEGIC FUND
1,619,100 0.529
13 CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
SSBT FUND JNDP FOR JNL MULTI-MANAGER EMERGING MARKETS
EQUITYFUND
1,592,500 0.520
14 TAI TAK ESTATES SDN BHD 1,500,000 0.490
15 CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
THE BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON FOR FLORIDA RETIREMENT SYSTEM
1,487,900 0.486
16 HSBC NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
JPMSE LUX FOR JPMORGAN FUNDS
1,421,500 0.464
17 HO HAN SENG 1,100,000 0.359
18 HSBC NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
JPMCB NA FOR JPMORGAN GLOBAL EMERGING MARKETS INCOME TRUST PLC
1,051,100 0.343
219
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
NO. NAME NO. OF SHARES % OF SHARES
19 KEY DEVELOPMENT SDN.BERHAD 1,038,000 0.339
20 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
GREAT EASTERN LIFE ASSURANCE (MALAYSIA) BERHAD (SHF)
1,000,000 0.327
21 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
GREAT EASTERN LIFE ASSURANCE (MALAYSIA) BERHAD (PAR 1 ACB FUND)
943,000 0.308
22 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (TEMPATAN) SDN BHD
GREAT EASTERN LIFE ASSURANCE (MALAYSIA) BERHAD (PAR 3)
934,900 0.305
23 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR CITIBANK NEW YORK (NORGES BANK 19)
868,000 0.283
24 GAN TENG SIEW REALTY SDN.BERHAD 845,000 0.276
25 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
EXEMPT AN FOR CITIBANK NEW YORK (NORGES BANK 14)
792,900 0.259
26 DB (MALAYSIA) NOMINEE (TEMPATAN) SENDIRIAN BERHAD
DEUTSCHE TRUSTEES MALAYSIA BERHAD FOR EASTSPRING INVESTMENTSMY
FOCUS FUND
785,400 0.256
27 CARTABAN NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
SSBT FUND J724 FOR SPDR PORTFOLIO EMERGING MARKETS ETF
737,320 0.241
28 CHINCHOO INVESTMENT SDN. BERHAD 675,000 0.220
29 CITIGROUP NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
CBNY FOR EMERGING MARKET CORE EQUITY PORTFOLIO DFA INVESTMENT
DIMENSIONS GROUP INC
659,000 0.215
30 HSBC NOMINEES (ASING) SDN BHD
BANQUE DE LUXEMBOURG FOR BL EMERGING MARKETS
650,000 0.212
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDER
DIRECT INTEREST INDIRECT INTEREST
NAME NO. OF SHARES % OF SHARES NO. OF SHARES % OF SHARES
1 DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Carlsberg Breweries A/S
155,932,500 51.000 - -
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
DIRECT INDIRECT
NAME NO. OF SHARES % OF SHARES NO. OF SHARES % OF SHARES
1 Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Chor Chee Heung - - - -
2 Stefano Clini - - - -
3 Eric Ooi Lip Aun - - - -
4 Datuk Lee Oi Kuan - - - -
5 Joao Miguel Ventura Rego Abecasis - - - -
6 Gavin Stuart Brockett - - - -
7 Chan Po Kei Kay - - - -
MATERIAL CONTRACTS
The particulars of material contract of the Group and its related parties, subsisting as at 31 December 2023 or entered into since the
end of the previous financial year 2022, is as follows:
• A call option agreement between CBMB and Carlsberg A/S (“CAS”) dated 18 November 1996, allowing CAS to acquire CBMB’s
interest in Lion Brewery (Ceylon) Limited, should certain events occur. The purchase consideration is to be based on an agreed
formula and in any event, to be a minimum of the original purchase price paid by CBMB. CAS is the holding company of
Carlsberg Breweries A/S (“CBAS”), which in turn is the holding company and major shareholder of CBMB.
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
AS AT 13 FEBRUARY 2024
220
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
The breakdown of the aggregate value of the recurrent related party transactions entered into by the Group pursuant to the shareholders’
mandate obtained during the 53rd Annual General Meeting held on 19 April 2023 is as follows:
Transacting Parties Interested Related Parties Nature of Transaction
(2) Actual Value
Transacted
(19 April 2023 –
31 December 2023)
(RM’ million)
Group and CBAS Group
of Companies
SC, JMVRA, GSB, CPKK and
CBAS
Royalties payable to CBAS Group of Companies for
inter alia, the exclusive use of trademark licences and
supply of technical and commercial assistance
30.0
Sale and supply of goods to CBAS Group of Companies 4.0
Purchase of beverage products from CBAS Group of
Companies
9.2
Payment for administrative support services (including
marketing sponsorship) from CBAS Group of
Companies
17.8
Sale and purchase of materials, machinery, spares and
related services to and from CBAS Group of Companies
0.0
Notes:
(1) The above actual value of the recurrent related party transactions “RRPT” is for the period 19 April 2023 to 31 December 2023.
(2) The nature of relationship with the above Related Parties is as follows as at 31 December 2023:
(i) CBAS is the holding company and Major Shareholder of the Company, holding an equity interest of 51.0% in the Company. The
Company in turn holds 100% interest in both CMSB, EDSB and CSPL.
(ii) JMVRA, GSB and CPKK, who are Non-Executive Directors of the Company are the Executive Vice President, Asia of CBAS, Vice
President Finance, Asia of CBAS and Vice President Human Resources, Asia of CBAS respectively. SC is the Managing Director
of the Company. All the four (4) Directors namely, JMVRA, GSB, CPKK and SC are nominees/representatives of CBAS and do
not hold any shares in CBAS or the Company.
LIST OF RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
Abbreviations:
CBAS - Carlsberg Breweries A/S, an immediate holding company and a Major Shareholder of the Company
CBAS Group of Companies - CBAS and its subsidiaries and associated companies
CMSB - Carlsberg Marketing Sdn. Bhd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company
CPKK - Chan Po Kei Kay
CSPL - Carlsberg Singapore Pte Ltd, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company
EDSB - Euro Distributors Sdn. Bhd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company
Group - Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries, namely Carlsberg Marketing Sdn. Bhd., Euro Distributors
Sdn. Bhd. and Carlsberg Singapore Pte Ltd
GSB - Gavin Stuart Brockett
JMVRA - João Miguel Ventura Rego Abecasis
SC - Stefano Clini
221
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
COMPANY SECRETARIES
KOH POI SAN
(SSM PC No. 201908000044)
(L.S. No. 0009701)
CHIA CAI JIN
(SSM PC No. 202108000488)
(MAICSA 7075997)
AUDITORS
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS PLT
(LLP0014401-LCA & AF1146)
Chartered Accountants
Level 10, Menara TH 1 Sentral, Jalan Rakyat,
Kuala Lumpur Sentral, P.O. Box 10192,
50706 Kuala Lumpur.
Tel : +603 2173 1188
Fax : +603 2173 1288
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
CITIBANK BERHAD
Registration No. 199401011410 (297089-M)
PUBLIC BANK BERHAD
Registration No. 196501000672 (6463-H)
DEUTSCHE BANK (MALAYSIA) BERHAD
Registration No. 199401026871 (312552-W)
DIRECTORS
TAN SRI DATO’ SERI CHOR CHEE HEUNG
Chairman
STEFANO CLINI
Managing Director
ERIC OOI LIP AUN
Independent Non-Executive Director
DATUK LEE OI KUAN
Independent Non-Executive Director
CHAN PO KEI KAY
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
JOÃO MIGUEL VENTURA REGO ABECASIS
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
GAVIN STUART BROCKETT
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
CORPORATE INFORMATION
BNP PARIBAS MALAYSIA BERHAD
Registration No. 201001034168 (918091-T)
REGISTERED OFFICE AND PRINCIPAL PLACE OF BUSINESS
No. 55, Persiaran Selangor,
Section 15, 40200 Shah Alam,
Selangor Darul Ehsan.
Tel : +603 5522 6688
Fax : +603 5519 1931
Email : MYCorpAffairs@carlsberg.asia
Website : www.carlsbergmalaysia.com.my
SHARE REGISTRAR
TRICOR INVESTOR & ISSUING HOUSE SERVICES SDN BHD
Registration Number: 197101000970 (11324-H)
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A,
Vertical Business Suite,
Avenue 3, Bangsar South.
No.8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur.
Tel : +603 2783 9299
Fax : +603 2783 9222
Email : is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
MAIN MARKET OF BURSA MALAYSIA SECURITIES BERHAD
222
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
BURSA SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS
The table below contains the common and specific sustainability indicators as required by Bursa Malaysia under their
Enhanced Sustainability Guide (3rd edition), and it is presented in the prescribed format as shown in the Bursa Malaysia's
Illustrative Sustainability Report that was published in September 2023. This reflects our unwavering commitment to providing
our stakeholders with the most reliable and up-to-date information, ensuring our sustainability performance are best reported
to our knowledge.
Indicator Measurement Unit 2022 2023
Malaysia Singapore Malaysia Singapore
Bursa (Anti-corruption)
Bursa C1(a) Percentage of employees who have received training on anti-corruption by employee category
Director Percentage 100 100 88 80
Manager to Senior Manager Percentage 97 94 97 78
Executive to Assistant Manager Percentage 93 97 92 91
Non-executive / Union Percentage 0 96 7 91
Bursa C1(b) Percentage of operations assessed for
corruption-related risks
Percentage 100 100 100 100
Bursa C1(c) Confirmed incidents of corruption and
action taken
Number 0 0 0 0
Bursa (Community/Society)
Bursa C2(a) Total amount invested in the
community where the target beneficiaries are
external to the listed issuer
MYR 629,200 0 1,839,270 0
Bursa C2(b) Total number of beneficiaries of the
investment in communities
Number 1 0 10 0
Bursa (Diversity)
Bursa C3(a) Percentage of employees by gender and age group, for each employee category
Age Group by Employee Category
Director Generation Z Percentage 0 0 0 0
Director Millennials Percentage 63 66 50 80
Director Generation X Percentage 37 17 50 20
Director Baby Boomer Percentage 0 17 0 0
Manager to Senior Manager Generation Z Percentage 0 0 0 0
Manager to Senior Manager Millennials Percentage 76 61 70 67
Manager to Senior Manager Generation X Percentage 20 33 26 28
Manager to Senior Manager Baby Boomer Percentage 4 6 4 5
Executive to Assistant Manager Generation Z Percentage 17 12 17 17
Executive to Assistant Manager Millennials Percentage 65 70 66 69
Executive to Assistant Manager Generation X Percentage 15 18 15 14
Executive to Assistant Manager Baby Boomer Percentage 3 0 2 0
Non-executive / Union Generation Z Percentage 6 0 4 0
Non-executive / Union Millennials Percentage 47 74 48 74
Non-executive / Union Generation X Percentage 38 26 41 26
Non-executive / Union Baby Boomer Percentage 9 0 7 0
Gender Group by Employee Category
Director Male Percentage 37 50 37 40
Director Female Percentage 63 50 63 60
Manager to Senior Manager Male Percentage 64 72 60 67
Manager to Senior Manager Female Percentage 36 28 40 33
Executive to Assistant Manager Male Percentage 71 55 69 60
Executive to Assistant Manager Female Percentage 29 45 31 40
Non-executive / Union Male Percentage 98 83 100 83
Non-executive / Union Female Percentage 2 17 0 17
223
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
Indicator Measurement Unit 2022 2023
Malaysia Singapore Malaysia Singapore
Bursa (Diversity)
Bursa C3(b) Percentage of directors by gender and age group
Male Percentage 71 33 71 33
Female Percentage 29 67 29 67
Generation Z Percentage 0 0 0 0
Millennial Percentage 0 0 0 0
Generation X Percentage 43 100 43 100
Baby Boomer Percentage 57 0 57 0
Bursa (Energy management)
Bursa C4(a) Total energy consumption Megawatt 154,833,322 416,531 145,736,026 472,045
Bursa (Health and safety)
Bursa C5(a) Number of work-related fatalities Number 0 0 0 0
Bursa C5(b) Lost time incident rate ("LTIR") Rate 0 0 0.4 0
Bursa C5(c) Number of employees trained on health and
safety standards
Number 224 41 446 89
Bursa S3(a) Percentage of significant product and service
categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed
for improvement
Percentage 100 Out of
scope*
100 Out of
scope*
Bursa S3(b) Total number of incidents of noncompliance
with regulations or voluntary codes concerning the health &
safety impacts of products and services within the reporting
period
Number 0 0 0 0
Bursa S3(c) Number of recalls issued and total units recalled
for health and safety reasons
Number 0 Out of
scope*
0** Out of
scope*
* Scope excludes Carlsberg Singapore as there is no production facility.
** 0 consumer-related product recalls but 1 incident of voluntary product withdrawal as a result of product not meeting our stringent packaging
standards.
Bursa (Labour practices and standards)
Bursa C6(a) Total hours of training by employee category
Director Hours 286 94 245 85
Manager to Senior Manager Hours 4,607 459 5,303 432
Executive to Assistant Manager Hours 12,326 368 14,963 716
Non-executive / Union Hours 557 72 399 334
Bursa C6(b) Percentage of employees that are contractors or
temporary staff
Percentage 4 6 3 5
Bursa C6(c) Total number of employee turnover by employee category
Director Number 1 2 1 2
Manager to Senior Manager Number 18 6 8 8
Executive to Assistant Manager Number 69 10 57 5
Non-executive / Union Number 12 4 8 3
Bursa C6(d) Number of substantiated complaints concerning
human rights violations
Number 0 0 0 0
BURSA SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS
224
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
Indicator Measurement Unit 2022 2023
Malaysia Singapore Malaysia Singapore
Bursa (Supply chain management)
Bursa C7(a) Proportion of spending on local suppliers Percentage 71 1 69 1
Bursa S5(a) Total weight or volume of materials that are
used to produce and package products and services
Kilograms 52,914,240 Out of
scope***
45,743,860 Out of
scope***
Bursa S6(a) Percentage of new suppliers that were screened
using environmental criteria*
Percentage 50%** Out of
scope***
50%** Out of
scope***
Bursa S6(b) Number of suppliers assessed for environmental
impacts*
Number 37** Out of
scope***
40** Out of
scope***
Bursa S7(a) Percentage of new suppliers that were screened
using social criteria*
Percentage 50%** Out of
scope***
50%** Out of
scope***
Bursa S7(b) Number of suppliers assessed for social impacts* Number 37** Out of
scope***
40** Out of
scope***
* Suppliers engaged by Carlsberg Malaysia Group are required to adhere to the Supplier and Licensee Code of Conduct. Included in this Code of
Conduct are:
- Environmental criteria such as carbon emissions management, water and waste management (whichever applicable to the suppliers).
- Social criteria such as non-discrimination, no forced labour, no child labour, freedom of association and collective bargaining, no harassment,
employee contracts that cover paid leave, states the working hours, benefits and wages and to provide a safe and healthy working
environment.
** Suppliers covered include only raw material and packaging.
*** Scope excludes Carlsberg Singapore as there is no production facility.
Bursa (Data privacy and security)
Bursa C8(a) Number of substantiated complaints concerning
breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data
Number 0 0 0 0
Bursa (Water)
Bursa C9(a) Total volume of water used Megalitres 518 Out of
scope*
454 Out of
scope*
Bursa S8(a) Total volume of water (effluent) discharge over
the reporting period
Megalitres 347 Out of
scope**
266 Out of
scope**
* Scope excludes Carlsberg Singapore as it is a shared office space with other third parties.
** Scope excludes Carlsberg Singapore as there is no production facility.
Bursa (Waste management)
Bursa C10(a) Total waste generated Metric tonnes 25,500 Out of
scope*
25,743 Out of
scope*
Bursa C10(a)(i) Total waste diverted from disposal Metric tonnes 22,946 Out of
scope*
24,478 Out of
scope*
Bursa C10(a)(ii) Total waste directed to disposal Metric tonnes 2,554 Out of
scope*
1,265 Out of
scope*
* Scope excludes Carlsberg Singapore as it is a shared warehouse space with other third parties.
Bursa (Emissions management)
Bursa C11(a) Scope 1 emissions in tonnes of CO
2
e Metric tonnes 4,824 Out of
scope*
4,346 Out of
scope*
Bursa C11(b) Scope 2 emissions in tonnes of CO
2
e Metric tonnes 9,892** 45 9,884** 51
* Scope excludes Carlsberg Singapore as there is no production facility.
** An I-REC was purchased to cover 100% of consumption for Scope 2 emissions in 2022 and 2023.
BURSA SUSTAINABILITY INDICATORS
In our commitment towards providing greater data visibility and transparency towards our stakeholders, the Group is presenting a more comprehensive set of data to
reflect both our Malaysian and Singaporean operations. Hence, the data presented here differs from the data submitted in the newly-launched ESG Reporting Platform
by Bursa Securities in December 2023.
225
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
Statement of Use: Carlsberg Group has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period 1st January 2023 to
31 December 2023 with reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI 1 used: GRI 1: Foundation 2021
Applicable GRI Sector Standard: Not applicable
Disclosure Reporting Requirements Page Reference
GRI 2: General Disclosure 2021
The organisation and its reporting practices
2-1 Organisational details 10, 221
2-2 Entities included in the organisation’s sustainability reporting Basis of This Report
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point Basis of This Report, 221
Activities and workers
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships 7-23, 54, 69-70, 116-117
2-7 Employees 7, 103, 222-223
2-8 Workers who are not employees 223
Governance
2-9 Governance structure and composition 59, 82, 120
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 125
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 38
2-12
Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the
management of impacts
59, 82
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts 59, 82
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting Basis of This Report, 59, 82
2-15 Conflicts of interest 109, 121, 130
2-16 Communication of critical concerns 110, 130
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body 123
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body 127
2-19 Remuneration policies 125
2-20 Process to determine remuneration 126
Strategy, policies and practices
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy 28-31, 32-35
2-23 Policy commitments
62, 64-67, 69, 71, 81, 90, 93,
96, 104-105, 109, 110
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns 110
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 223-224, 228
2-28 Membership associations 115, 118
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement 113-115
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics 61
3-2 List of material topics 61
3-3 Management of material topics 61
GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6-7, 116-117
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 81-89
GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 70, 224
GRI CONTENT INDEX
226
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
Disclosure Reporting Requirements Page Reference
GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 222
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 222
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 222
GRI 301: Materials 2016		
301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 78, 224
GRI 302: Energy 2016		
302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 72, 223
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 60, 72-73, 117
GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 79-80
303-4 Water consumption 79-80, 224
GRI 305: Emissions 2016		
305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 72, 224
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 72, 224
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 72-73
GRI 306: Waste 2020		
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 74-76
306-3 Waste generated 75, 224
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 77-78, 224
306-5 Waste directed to disposal 224
GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016		
308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 224
GRI 401: Employment 2016		
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 223
GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018		
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 93-96
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 93-96
403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 93-96
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 94-95, 223
403-9 Work-related injuries 96, 223
GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016		
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 223
GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016		
414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 224
GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016		
416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 62-63
416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 63
GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016		
417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 64-66
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling 66
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 66
GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016		
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data 224
GRI CONTENT INDEX
227
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
Following the Bursa Sustainability Reporting Guide (3rd edition), we took efforts to report on our sustainability performance and
risks mitigations according to the voluntary SASB framework. With the data collected, processed and verified, we voluntarily
communicate our progress in a transparent and standardised manner for investors and other stakeholders. For metrics with
data yet to be obtained and verified, we offer information on our approach to and targets for these topics.
Topic Code Metric Category Unit of Measure Response
Energy
Management
FB-AB-130a.1 (1) Total energy consumed,
(2) percentage grid
electricity and
(3) percentage renewable
Quantitative Gigajoules (GJ),
Percentage (%)
Total energy consumed for our
Malaysian operations is 145,736 GJ
and for our Singaporean
operations it is 472 GJ.
For more information, please
refer to Energy and Carbon pages
71-73 and the Bursa Sustainability
Indicators table pages 222-224.
Water
Management
FB-AB-140a.1 (1) Total water withdrawn,
(2) total water consumed;
percentage of each in
regions with High or
Extremely High Baseline
Water Stress
Quantitative Thousand cubic
metres (m³),
Percentage (%)
Total water consumed for our
Malaysian operations is 453,530 m³.
For more information, please refer
to Water Use and Management
pages 79-80 and the Bursa
Sustainability Indicators table
pages 222-224.
FB-AB-140a.2 Description of water
management risks and
discussion of strategies and
practices to mitigate those
risks
Discussion
and Analysis
N/A We address water management
risks by reducing withdrawal,
consumption, and discharge
through recycling, reuse and
treatment initiatives, ensuring
sustainability amidst climate
challenges. For more information,
please refer to Water Use and
Management pages 79-80.
Responsible
Drinking &
Marketing
FB-AB-270a.1 Percentage of total
advertising impressions
made on individuals at or
above the legal drinking age
Quantitative Percentage (%) We engaged with 7,490 Malaysian
consumers directly via 11
#CELEBRATERESPONSIBLY
activations in 2023.
We also connected with over
14,000 Singaporean consumers
connected during out-of-home
sampling activation in six high-
traffic locations to Prevent Harmful
Use of Alcohol pages 90-92.
FB-AB-270a.2 Number of incidents of non-
compliance with industry or
regulatory labelling and/or
marketing code
Quantitative Number Zero incidents of non-compliance
FB-AB-270a.3 Total amount of monetary
losses as a result of legal
proceedings associated with
marketing and/or labelling
practices
Quantitative Presentation
currency
No monetary losses recorded
FB-AB-270a.4 Description of efforts
to promote responsible
consumption of alcohol
Discussion
and Analysis
N/A We actively oversee impactful
initiatives aimed through strong
partnerships at mitigating
the adverse effects of alcohol
consumption, guided by our
Responsible Drinking Policy.
For more information, please refer
to Preventing Harmful Use of
Alcohol pages 90-92.
SASB CONTENT INDEX
228
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
Topic Code Metric Category Unit of Measure Response
Packaging
Lifecycle
Management
FB-AB-410a.1 (1) Total weight of
packaging,
(2) percentage made from
recycled and/or renewable
materials, and
(3) percentage that is
recyclable, reusable, and/or
compostable
Quantitative Metric tons (t),
Percentage (%)
Total weight of packaging for our
Malaysian operations is 45744
tons. Our Singaporean operations
is not in scope as they do not have
a brewery.
In addition to this, 94% collection
and recycling rate of returnable
bottles in Peninsular Malaysia. Out
of which, 95% of these returned
bottles are cleaned and reused,
with the remaining recycled.
For more information, please
refer to Waste Management
and Sustainable Packaging and
Material pages 74-78.
FB-AB-410a.2 Discussion of strategies to
reduce the environmental
impact of packaging
throughout its lifecycle
Discussion
and Analysis
N/A Our strategy for sustainable
packaging and materials includes
reducing waste generation
and optimising the use of natural
resources, in line with our ZERO
Packaging Waste pledge. For
more information, please refer
to Sustainable Packaging and
Materials pages 77-78.
Environmental
& Social
Impacts
of Ingredient
Supply Chain
FB-AB-430a.1 Suppliers’ social and
environmental
responsibility audit (1) non-
conformance rate and (2)
associated corrective action
rate for (a) major and (b)
minor non-conformances
Quantitative Rate Four suppliers were audited and
complied with our requirements
accordingly.
No substantiated complaints
concerning human rights violations
were reported within our supply
chain.
For more information, please
refer to Responsible Supply Chain
Management pages 69-70
Ingredient
Sourcing
FB-AB-440a.1 Percentage of beverage
ingredients sourced from
regions with High or
Extremely High Baseline
Water Stress
Quantitative Percentage (%)
by cost
Not applicable
FB-AB-440a.2 List of priority beverage
ingredients and discussion
of sourcing risks related to
environmental and social
considerations
Discussion
and Analysis
N/A We prioritise safety by strictly
adhering to the Carlsberg
Group's policies, ensuring that all
ingredients used in brewing our
beers are safe for consumption. We
aspire that all our raw ingredients
are sourced sustainably by 2040.
For more information, please refer
to Product Quality and Safety
pages 62-63
SASB CONTENT INDEX
229
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX
We support the UN Global Compact and its ten principles, and this report serves
as the basis for our 2023 Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact,
which will be submitted in March 2024 in line with new requirements. The index
below sets out where to find information on our approach and performance in
relation to each principle.
Global Compact Principle Link to TTZAB & Material Matters Pages
Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the
protection of internationally proclaimed human
rights
• Human Rights and Labour Standards
• Responsible Supply Chain Management
104-105,
69-70
Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not
complicit in human rights abuses
Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of
association and the effective recognition of the
right to collective bargaining
• Human Rights and Labour Standards 104-105
Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all
forms of forced and compulsory labour
• Human Rights and Labour Standards
• Responsible Supply Chain Management
104-105,
69-70
Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition
of child labour
• Human Rights and Labour Standards 104-105
Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of
discrimination in respect of employment and
occupation
• Human Rights and Labour Standards
• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
104-105,
97-100
Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary
approach to environmental challenges
• ZERO Carbon Footprint
• ZERO Packaging Waste
• ZERO Water Waste
• Adapting to Climate Change (TCFD)
• Energy and Carbon
• Water Use and Management
• Waste Management
• Stakeholder Advocacy
71-76
77-78
79-80
81-89
71-73
79-80
74-76
113-115
Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to
promote greater environmental responsibility
Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development
and diffusion of environmentally friendly
technologies
Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all
its forms, including extortion and bribery
• Anti-Bribery, Corruption, and
Competition
• Corporate Governance and Risk
Management
109-110,
120-134
230
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE
Internal Review by Internal Audit Department
Pursuant to the Main Market Listing Requirements and Sustainability Reporting Guide issued by Bursa Malaysia, the Board
confirmed that the Sustainability Statement for the financial year ended 31 December 2023 was subjected to a review by the
Internal Audit Department to enhance its accuracy and reliability. The Internal Audit team was responsible for the said review on
a limited basis, in which the team selected 20 subject matters that were reported in the Sustainability Statement for the financial
year ended 31 December 2023, after taking into consideration various practicalities and limitations. A dedicated report was issued
by Internal Audit for this purpose and it was vetted and approved by the Audit Committee. In this regard, the internal report served
as the primary basis for the issuance of this Statement of Assurance.
Subject Matters Assured
The following were the 20 subject matters (based on data for specific geographical location and financial year) that were subjected
to the internal assurance procedures undertaken by the Internal Audit Department. In general, assurance was provided for 2022 and
2023 data for business operations in both Malaysia and Singapore (excluding MayBev Pte Ltd), unless stated otherwise.
Environmental
1. Bursa Common Indicator C4(a): Total energy consumption(1)
2. Bursa Common Indicator C9(a): Total volume of water used(1)(2)
3. Bursa Common Indicator C10(a): Total waste generated, and a breakdown of the following: (i) total waste diverted from
disposal (ii) total waste directed to disposal(1)(2)(3)
4. Bursa Common Indicator C11(a): Scope 1 emissions in tonnes of CO
2
e(1)(2)
5. Bursa Common Indicator C11(b): Scope 2 emissions in tonnes of CO
2
e(1)
6. Bursa Sector Specific Indicator S8(a): Total volume of water (effluent) discharge over the reporting period(1)(2)
Social
7. Bursa Common Indicator C2(a): Total amount invested in the community where the target beneficiaries are external to the listed
issuer(2)
8. Bursa Common Indicator C2(b): Total number of beneficiaries of the investment in communities(2)
9. Bursa Common Indicator C3(a): Percentage of employees by gender and age group, for each employee category
10. Bursa Common Indicator C3(b): Percentage of directors by gender and age group
11. Bursa Common Indicator C5(a): Number of work-related fatalities
12. Bursa Common Indicator C5(c): Number of employees trained on health and safety standards
13. Bursa Common Indicator C6(a): Total hours of training by employee category
14. Bursa Common Indicator C6(b): Percentage of employees that are contractors or temporary staff
15. Bursa Common Indicator C6(c): Total number of employee turnover by employee category
16. Bursa Common Indicator C7(a): Proportion of spending on local suppliers
Governance
17. Bursa Common Indicator C1(a): Percentage of employees who have received training on anti-corruption by employee category
18. Bursa Common Indicator C1(b): Percentage of operations assessed for corruption-related risks
19. Bursa Common Indicator C1(c): Confirmed incidents of corruption and action taken
20. Voluntary Disclosure: Number of Speak Up Cases
Notes:
1 For Malaysia, locations other than the headquarters and brewery were excluded from the assurance procedures.
2 Singapore was excluded from the assurance procedures.
3 Total waste data in 2023 was subjected to assurance but not waste data in 2022. The breakdowns for waste diverted from/to disposal in both 2022 and 2023 were
excluded from the assurance procedures.
231
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE
The Assurance Procedures and Reporting Guidelines
Detailed walkthroughs were carried out to understand and document the relevant data collection processes, after which the reliability
and integrity of data reported based on the existing practices were assessed. Subject matter owners who were involved along the
chain of data recording and disclosures, were interviewed to establish whether they fully understood the disclosure requirements and
put in place the appropriate mechanism in ensuring data accuracy. Site visits were also made where necessary. Once data were fully
received, Internal Audit performed validation by comparing the data in hand against the source documents or physical evidence. The
audit team also ensured that the subject matters were disclosed in accordance with Bursa Malaysia’s expectations. In circumstances
where manual records had to be relied upon, further substantive tests were performed.
In carrying out this assurance exercise, Internal Audit was generally guided by standards as per the International Professional Practices
Framework (2017) issued by the Institute of Internal Auditors. More importantly, close reference was made to the definitions and
methodologies narrated by Bursa Malaysia as per the Main Market Listing Requirement on Sustainability Reporting, Sustainability
Reporting Guide (3rd Edition) and the corresponding Global Reporting Initiative standards.
Conclusion
The Internal Audit team confirmed that the data related to the 20 subject matters reviewed were reliably ascertained and adequately
supported. Throughout the assurance exercise, nothing had come to Internal Audit’s attention that caused the audit team to believe
that the disclosures for the 20 subject matters selected could be inaccurate in any material way and not in line with the expectations
set out by Bursa Malaysia.
232
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Fifty-Fourth (54th) Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of Carlsberg Brewery Malaysia Berhad
(“the Company”) will be conducted entirely through live streaming from the broadcast venue at Tricor Business Centre, Gemilang
Room, Unit 29-01, Level 29, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia (“Broadcast Venue”) on Wednesday, 24 April 2024 at 10.00 a.m. to transact the following businesses:
AGENDA
Ordinary Business
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended
31 December 2023 together with the Directors’ and Auditors’ Reports thereon.
2. To approve the payment of a Final Single-Tier Dividend of 31 sen per ordinary share in
respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
3. To re-elect Gavin Stuart Brockett, who retires pursuant to Article 21.6 of the Constitution of
the Company, as Director of the Company.
4. To re-elect Datuk Lee Oi Kuan, who retires pursuant to Article 21.6 of the Constitution of
the Company, as Director of the Company.
5. To re-elect Eric Ooi Lip Aun, who retires pursuant to Article 21.10 of the Constitution of the
Company, as Director of the Company.
6. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits up to an amount of RM600,000
for the period from 25 April 2024 until the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
7. To re-appoint Messrs PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT as Auditors of the Company and to
authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Special Business
To consider, and if thought fit, to pass the following Resolution, with or without modifications,
as Ordinary Resolution of the Company:
8. ORDINARY RESOLUTION
PROPOSED RENEWAL OF SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR RECURRENT RELATED
PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE AND PROPOSED
NEW SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR ADDITIONAL RECURRENT RELATED PARTY
TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE
“THAT subject to the provisions of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad, the Company and/or its subsidiary companies (“the Group”)
be and are hereby authorised to enter into and give effect to the recurrent related party
transactions of a revenue or trading nature with the related parties as set out in Section
2.3 of the Circular to Shareholders dated 22 March 2024 (“the Related Parties”) provided
that such transactions are:-
(a) necessary for the Group’s day-to-day operations;
(b) undertaken in the ordinary course of business at arm’s length basis and on normal
commercial terms and transaction prices which are not more favourable to the
Related Parties than those generally available to the public; and
(c) are not to the detriment of the minority shareholders of the Company
(“Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate”).
Please refer to
Explanatory Note A.
Resolution 1
Resolution 2
Resolution 3
Resolution 4
Resolution 5
Resolution 6
Resolution 7
233
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
THAT such approval shall continue to be in force until:-
(a) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company
following this AGM at which the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate is passed, at
which time it will lapse, unless by a resolution passed at such AGM whereby the
authority is renewed; or
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company after that
date is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Companies Act 2016
(“the Act”) (but must not extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant to
Section 340(4) of the Act); or
(c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders at a general meeting,
whichever is the earlier;
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be hereby authorised to complete and do all
such acts and things (including executing all such documents as may be required) as
they may consider expedient or necessary to give effect to the Proposed Shareholders’
Mandate.”
9. To consider any other business of which due notice shall be given in accordance with the
Companies Act 2016 and the Company’s Constitution.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND PAYMENT AND CLOSURE OF REGISTER
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT, subject to the approval of the shareholders at the 54th AGM to be held on Wednesday, 24 April
2024, a Final Single-Tier Dividend of 31 sen per ordinary share in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023 will be
payable on 21 June 2024 to shareholders registered in the Register of Members and Record of Depositors at the close of business
on 10 June 2024.
A depositor shall qualify for entitlement to the dividends only in respect of:
(a) Shares transferred into the Depositor’s securities account before 4.30 p.m. on 10 June 2024 in respect of transfers;
(b) Shares deposited into the Depositor’s securities account before 12.30 p.m. on 5 June 2024 in respect of shares which are
exempted from mandatory deposit; and
(c) Shares bought on Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on a cum entitlement basis according to the Rules of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad.
By Order of the Board
Koh Poi San (SSM PC No. 201908000044) (LS No. 0009701)
Company Secretary
Shah Alam
22 March 2024
1. IMPORTANT NOTICE
The Broadcast Venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 (“the Act”)
which requires the Chairman of the Meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting.
Members WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the 54th AGM in person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the meeting.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
234
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
Members are to attend, speak (including posing questions to the Board via real time submission of typed texts) and vote
(collectively, “participate”) remotely at the 54th AGM via the Remote Participation and Voting facilities (“RPV”) provided
by Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd. via its TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online. Please follow the
Procedures for RPV in the Administrative Notes on 54th AGM and take note of Notes (2) to (15) below in order to participate
remotely via RPV.
2. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM via RPV, the Company shall be requesting
Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company, the Record of Depositors as at 17 April 2024. Only
a member whose name appears on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM via RPV.
3. A member who is entitled to participate in this AGM via RPV is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or in the case of a
corporation, to appoint a duly authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A proxy may but need not be a member
of the Company.
4. A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting of the Company may appoint not more
than two (2) proxies to participate instead of the member at the AGM via RPV.
5. If two (2) proxies are appointed, the entitlement of those proxies to vote on a show of hands shall be in accordance with the
Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
6. If a member wishes to participate in this AGM himself/herself, please do not submit any Form of Proxy for the AGM. Members
will not be allowed to participate in the AGM together with a proxy.
7. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined in the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act
1991 (“Central Depositories Act”), it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies in respect of each securities account it holds in
ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account.
8. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple
beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt
authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an
authorised nominee defined under the Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of
Section 25A(1) of the Central Depositories Act.
9. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of shareholdings to be represented by each proxy must be
specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
10. A member who has appointed a proxy or attorney or authorised representative to participate at this AGM via RPV must request
his/her proxy to register himself/herself for RPV at TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online. Please follow the Procedures for
RPV in the Administrative Notes on 54th AGM.
11. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following manner and must be
received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned
general meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote:
(i) In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the Form of Proxy must be deposited with the Share Registrar
of the Company at Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd. at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business
Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre
at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
235
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
(ii) By electronic form
The Form of Proxy can be electronically lodged with the Share Registrar of the Company via TIIH Online at https://tiih.
online. Kindly refer to the procedures for electronic lodgement of Form of Proxy via TIIH Online.
12. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the Form of Proxy are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
13. Last date and time for lodging the Form of Proxy is on Monday, 22 April 2024 at 10.00 a.m..
14. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited with the Share
Registrar of the Company at Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd. at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical
Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur or alternatively, the Customer Service
Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur
not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at which
the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it
is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is
executed.
15. For a corporate member who has appointed a representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of appointment with
the Share Registrar of the Company at Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd. at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A,
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur or alternatively, the Customer
Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala
Lumpur. The certificate of appointment should be executed in the following manner:-
(i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be executed under seal in accordance
with the Constitution of the corporate member.
(ii) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be affixed with the rubber
stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
(a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(b) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the corporate
member is incorporated.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
236
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)] Integrated Annual Report 2023 |
AT A GLANCE
LEADERSHIP
MESSAGES
OUR STRATEGIC PROGRESS
& BUSINESS REVIEW
OUR SUSTAINABILITY
JOURNEY
VALUE WE
CREATED
COMMITMENT TO
GOVERNANCE
FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
OTHER
INFORMATION
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
EXPLANATORY NOTE
1. Note A
This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as under
the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Act, the audited
financial statements do not require formal approval of
shareholders and hence the matter will not be put forward
for voting.
2. Resolution 1 – Declaration of a Final Single-Tier Dividend
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.26(2) of the MMLR of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad, the final single-tier dividend,
if approved, will be paid no later than three (3) months
from the date of shareholders’ approval.
3. Resolutions 2 to 4 – Re-election of Directors
Gavin Stuart Brockett, Datuk Lee Oi Kuan and Eric Ooi Lip
Aun (“Retiring Directors”) are standing for re-election as
Directors of the Company and being eligible, have offered
themselves for re-election at the 54th AGM.
The Retiring Directors do not have any conflict of interest
with the Company and have no family relationship with
any Directors and/or major shareholder of the Company.
The Retiring Directors had provided the Directors’ Fit
and Proper Declarations and the Board had through
the Nomination and Remuneration Committee (“NRC”)
assessed the Retiring Directors and agreed that they
met the criteria as prescribed by Paragraph 2.20A of the
MMLR of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad on character,
experience, integrity, competence and time to effectively
discharge their role as Directors.
The Board had also through the NRC assessed the
independence of Datuk Lee Oi Kuan and Eric Ooi Lip Aun
and is satisfied that they met the criteria of independence
as prescribed in the MMLR of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad.
4. Resolution 5 – Directors’ Fees and Benefits
Pursuant to Section 230(1) of the Act, the fees of the
Directors and any benefits payable to the Directors of a
listed company and its subsidiaries shall be approved at a
general meeting.
The proposed Directors’ fees and benefits for the period
from 25 April 2024 until the next AGM are calculated
based on the current Board size and the number of
scheduled Board and Committee meetings for 2024 up
to the next AGM. In the event the proposed amount is
insufficient, e.g. due to additional meetings or enlarged
Board size, approval will be sought at the next AGM for
the shortfall.
The resolution, if passed, will allow the Company to
make the payment to the Non-Executive Directors
(“NEDs”) on a monthly basis. The Board is of the view
that it is just and equitable for the NEDs to be paid such
payment on a monthly basis after they have discharged
their responsibilities and rendered their services to the
Company.
5. Resolution 6 – Re-appointment of Auditors
The Audit Committee and the Board have assessed the
suitability, objectivity and independence of the Auditors,
Messrs PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT and considered
the re-appointment of Messrs PricewaterhouseCoopers
PLT as Auditors of the Company. The Audit Committee
and the Board collectively agreed and are satisfied that
Messrs PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT meets the relevant
criteria prescribed by Paragraph 15.21 of the MMLR of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
EXPLANATORY NOTE ON SPECIAL BUSINESS
1. Resolution 7 – Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’
Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions
of a Revenue or Trading Nature and Proposed New
Shareholders’ Mandate for Additional Recurrent Related
Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
(collectively “Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate”)
This resolution, if passed, will authorise the Company and
each of its subsidiaries to enter into Recurrent Related
Party Transactions of a revenue or trading nature in the
ordinary course of business.
The detailed text on Resolution 7 on the Proposed
Shareholders’ Mandate is included in the Circular to
Shareholders dated 22 March 2024.
I/We, I.C./Passport/Company No.
of 		
being a member of the above named Company, hereby appoint 		
I.C./Passport No. of
AND/OR* (*delete as appropriate) him/her 		
I.C./Passport No.
of OR failing him/her, the Chairman of the meeting as my/our proxy to
vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the Fifty-Fourth (54th) Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company to be conducted entirely through live streaming
from the broadcast venue at Tricor Business Centre, Gemilang Room, Unit 29-01, Level 29, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan
Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (“Broadcast Venue”) on Wednesday, 24 April 2024 at 10.00 a.m., and at any adjournment thereof. The proxy is to vote
on the business before the meeting as indicated below (if no indication is given, the proxy will vote as he thinks fit or abstain from voting):
Item AGENDA FOR AGAINST
1 Payment of a Final Single-Tier Dividend of 31 sen per ordinary share.
2 Re-election of Gavin Stuart Brockett as Director.
3 Re-election of Datuk Lee Oi Kuan as Director.
4 Re-election of Eric Ooi Lip Aun as Director.
5 Approval of Directors’ fees and benefits up to an amount of RM600,000 from 25 April 2024 until the next Annual
General Meeting.
6 Re-appointment of Messrs PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT as Auditors and authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
7 Proposed renewal of shareholders’ mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a revenue or trading nature and
proposed new shareholders’ mandate for additional Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a revenue or trading nature.
Please indicate with a tick (√) how you wish your vote to be cast in respect of each resolution above. In the absence of specific direction, your proxy will
vote or abstain as he/she thinks fit.
As witness my/our hand this day of 2024.
Signed by the said
* Manner of execution:
(a) If you are an individual member, please sign where indicated.
(b) If you are a corporate member which has a common seal, this Form of Proxy should be executed under seal in accordance with the Constitution of your corporation.
(c) If you are a corporate member which does not have a common seal, this Form of Proxy should be affixed with the rubber stamp of your corporation (If any) and executed by:-
(i) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which your corporation is incorporated.
Number of Shares held:
CDS Account No.
If more than 1 proxy, please specify number of shares represented
by each proxy
Name of Proxy 1
Name of Proxy 2
FORM OF PROXY
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD
[Registration No. 196901000792 (9210-K))
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Notes:
1. The Broadcast Venue is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act
2016 which requires the Chairman of the Meeting to be present at the main venue of the meeting.
Members WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the 54th AGM in person at the Broadcast Venue on the day
of the meeting.
Members are to attend, speak (including posing questions to the Board via real time submission of typed
texts) and vote (collectively, “participate”) remotely at the 54th AGM via the Remote Participation and
Voting facilities (“RPV”) provided by Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd. via its TIIH Online
website at https://tiih.online. Please follow the Procedures for RPV in the Administrative Notes on 54th
AGM and take note of Notes (2) to (15) below in order to participate remotely via RPV.
2. For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate in this AGM via RPV, the Company
shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company, the Record
of Depositors as at 17 April 2024. Only a member whose name appears on this Record of Depositors
shall be entitled to participate in this AGM via RPV.
3. A member who is entitled to participate in this AGM via RPV is entitled to appoint a proxy or attorney or
in the case of a corporation, to appoint a duly authorised representative to participate in his/her place. A
proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
4. A member of the Company who is entitled to attend and vote at a general meeting of the Company may
appoint not more than two (2) proxies to participate instead of the member at the AGM via RPV.
5. If two (2) proxies are appointed, the entitlement of those proxies to vote on a show of hands shall be in
accordance with the Main Market Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
6. If a member wishes to participate in this AGM him/herself, please do not submit any Form of Proxy for
the AGM. Members will not be allowed to participate in the AGM together with a proxy.
7. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined in the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act 1991 (“Central Depositories Act”), it may appoint not more than two (2) proxies in
respect of each securities account it holds in ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of
the said securities account.
8. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the
Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit
to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus
account it holds. An exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the
Central Depositories Act which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the
Central Depositories Act.
9. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of shareholdings to be represented
by each proxy must be specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
10. A member who has appointed a proxy or attorney or authorised representative to participate at this
AGM via RPV must request his/her proxy to register himself/herself for RPV at TIIH Online website at
https://tiih.online. Please follow the Procedures for RPV in the Administrative Notes on 54th AGM.
11. The appointment of a proxy may be made in a hard copy form or by electronic means in the following
manner and must be received by the Company not less than forty-eight (48) hours before the time
appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at which the person named in the
appointment proposes to vote:
(i) In hard copy form
In the case of an appointment made in hard copy form, the Form of Proxy must be deposited with
the Share Registrar of the Company at Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd. at Unit
32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor,
Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur.
(ii) By electronic form
The Form of Proxy can be electronically lodged with the Share Registrar of the Company via TIIH
Online at https://tiih.online. Kindly refer to the procedures for electronic lodgement of Form of
Proxy via TIIH Online.
12. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the Form of Proxy are completed, signed and dated
accordingly.
13. Last date and time for lodging the Form of Proxy is on Monday, 22 April 2024 at 10.00 a.m..
14. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be
deposited with the Share Registrar of the Company at Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd.
at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical
Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur not less than forty-eight
(48) hours before the time appointed for holding the AGM or adjourned general meeting at which the
person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted
provided that it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the
relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
15. For a corporate member who has appointed a representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL certificate of
appointment with the Share Registrar of the Company at Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn.
Bhd. at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan
Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur or alternatively, the Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor,
Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur. The certificate of
appointment should be executed in the following manner:-
(i) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be executed
under seal in accordance with the Constitution of the corporate member.
(ii) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be
affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
(a) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(b) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which
the corporate member is incorporated.
FIRST FOLD
SECOND FOLD
SHARE REGISTRAR
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD [196901000792 (9210-K)]
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd.
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South No. 8 Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Affix stamp
Cover Printed on FSC Certified 250gsm X-Per Premium White
Text Printed on FSC Certified Mix Credit 128gsm Matt Art Paper and 120gsm Simili Paper
CARLSBERG BREWERY MALAYSIA BERHAD
[196901000792 (9210-K)]
No. 55, Persiaran Selangor, Section 15, 40200 Shah Alam, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
Tel : +603 5522 6688 Fax : +603 5519 1931
www.carlsbergmalaysia.com.my
Follow us on: facebook.com/CarlsbergMalaysia/ instagram.com/carlsbergmalaysia/ Carlsberg Group
