CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Board of Directors
(“Board”) of Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad (“Company”)
believes that a sound corporate
governance structure is vital
to ensure sustainability as
well as progressive business
growth. Thus, the Board is
fully committed to maintaining
a high standard of corporate
governance within the
Company through its support
and application of the principles
and practices as set out in the
Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance 2017 (“Code”).
The Board shall also continue
to evaluate its governance
practices in response to
evolving best practices and
changing requirements.
PRINCIPLE A
BOARD LEADERSHIP
AND EFFECTIOVENESS
PRINCIPLE C
Integrity in
Corporate Reporting
and meaningful
relationship with
stakeholders
PRINCIPLE B
Effective Audit and
Risk Management
GOVERNANCE
PRINCIPLES
57th Annual General Meeting held in 2020
48
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
The Board is pleased to report on governance compliance
activities adopted in line with the Principles as set out in
the Code that were applied throughout the financial year
ended 31 December 2020 (“FY2020”) in this Corporate
Governance Overview Statement (“CG Overview
Statement”). The Principles have, in all material respects,
been applied to achieve their intended outcomes, to the
extent that they were found to be suitable and appropriate
to the Company’s circumstances. Where appropriate,
this CG Overview Statement also seeks to disclose all
information that is required pursuant to the Main Market
Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Listing Requirements”) and any other requirements.
The application of the Practices set out in the Code
throughout FY2020 will also be disclosed to Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad in a prescribed format
(“CG Report”) which will be published together with
the Company’s Annual Report. The CG Report may be
downloaded from the Company’s corporate website
(www.dutchlady.com.my).
BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
PRINCIPLE A
Board’s Responsibilities
(Practice 1.1)
The Board is collectively responsible
to the Company’s shareholders for
the direction and oversight of the
Company and plays an active role
in the development of Company’s
strategy. The Board met regularly
throughout the year to approve the
strategic objectives of the Company,
to lead the Company within a
framework of effective controls
which enable risk to be assessed
and managed, and to ensure that
sufficient resources are available to
meet the objectives set.
The Board reserves full decision-
making powers, after taking
into consideration the policies,
procedures and guidelines of the
Royal FrieslandCampina N.V. (“RFC”)
Group, on the following matters:
a) Conflict of interest relating to
a substantial shareholder or a
Director or person connected to
such substantial shareholder or
Director;
b) Material acquisitions and
disposition of assets not in the
ordinary course of business;
c)	Investment in capital projects;
d) Authority levels;
e) Treasury policies;
f) Risk management policies; and
g) Key human resource issues.
Board Roles and Their
Responsibilities
Chairman and Managing Director
(Practice 1.2 and 1.3)
The roles of the Chairman and
the Managing Director (“MD”) are
separately held and the division
of their responsibilities is clearly
defined. The Chairman is an
independent director who has never
assumed an executive position in the
Company. The MD is an appointee of
the major shareholder and heads the
Company’s management team.
The Chairman is responsible for
the operation and leadership of
the Board. The Chairman ensures
that the Board is effective and that
the Company is guided by good
corporate governance practices.
He facilitates robust dialogue during
Board meetings and draws out
diverse perspective from the Board
members. He also ensures that there
is a good balance between the time
allocated to governance matters and
discussions on business performance
and strategies at board meetings.
The MD is responsible for leading and
managing the Company’s business
within a set of authorities delegated
by the Board. He is also responsible
for the implementation of Board
strategy and policy.
GENDER
AGE
TYPE OF DIRECTORSHIP
TENURE
4
2
4 3 1
1 1
4
4
Male
40-49
Independent
Non-Executive
Director
<3 years
Non-
Independent
Non-Executive
Director
4-6 years
Executive
Director
6> years
50-59 60-69 70-79
Female
1 1
4
49
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Independent Directors
The primary responsibility of Independent Non-Executive
Directors is to protect and safeguard the interest
of minority Shareholders and other Stakeholders.
The effective participation of Independent Non-Executive
Directors serves to promote greater transparency,
accountability and balance in the Board’s decision making
process.
Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors each
occupy, or have occupied, senior positions in industry,
bringing valuable external perspectives to the Board’s
deliberations through their working experience and
business insight from other sectors enabling them to
contribute significantly to Board decision-making process.
Company Secretary
(Practice 1.4)
The Company Secretary is a licensed secretary qualified
to act as Company Secretary under Section 235 of the
Companies Act 2016 and has a secretarial practicing
certificate from the Companies Commission of Malaysia
under Section 241(4) of the Companies Act 2016.
She has legal qualifications and provides legal and company
secretarial advice to the Company’s management team
and the Board as a whole. All Board members have access
to the advice and services of the Company Secretary
in carrying out their duties. The Company Secretary
facilitates overall compliance and adherence with the
Listing Requirements, the Companies Act 2016 and the
recommendations in the Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance (as amended from time to time).
Election and Re-Election of Directors
In compliance with the Constitution of the Company,
one third of the Directors shall retire by rotation at each
AGM and a Director who is appointed during the year
shall retire at the next AGM. The Company’s Constitution
further provides that all Directors shall retire from office
at least once in every three years.
Currently there is no limit set for the tenure of the
Directors, provided that they meet the assessment as well
as the relevant codes and regulations on independence
and retention, and there is strong justification for them
to continue with their tenure based on their performance
and contribution.
The Nominating & Remuneration Committee reviews and
assesses the performance of all the Directors who are
subject to re-election/retention at the AGM based on the
following criteria, as approved by the Board and submits
its recommendation to the Board for consideration prior
to the proposed re-election/retention being presented to
the Shareholders for approval:
• Compliance with requirements of the relevant
regulations;
• Participation in Board and Board Committee meetings;
• Quality of input;
• Understanding of roles and responsibilities;
• Assessment of continued independence; and
• Providing value to the Board through experience and
expertise.
Board Meetings
(Practice 1.5)
The Board held four meetings during the financial year.
Board meeting papers for Board and Board Committee
meetings are generally provided to Directors seven
days in advance of the date of the proposed meetings.
All proceedings of board meetings are minuted and
circulated to the Board members well in advance of the
next Board meeting including with follow up action items
duly updated.
Board Meeting Attendance
The Board convenes at least four (4) scheduled Board
meetings during each financial year. More meetings will
be scheduled depending on business requirements, where
appropriate. In FY2020, four (4) Board meetings were
held in total. In addition to the scheduled Board meeting,
all of the Board members also attended the Company’s
Annual General Meeting. In accordance with the guidelines
and standard operating procedures imposed during the
Movement Control Order in FY2020, the directors who
reside overseas, Mr Bernaddus Hermannus Kodden and
Mr Jean Serge Krol, attended the meeting via remote
participation. All the other directors were present at
the Broadcast Venue of the meeting together with the
Chairman.
50
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
Where necessary, decisions of the Board are also made by
way of circular resolutions in between scheduled meetings
during the financial year. The Directors’ attendance at
Board meetings and the Annual General Meeting held for
the year ended 31 December 2020 are as follows:
Current Board Members
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih
Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr Tarang Gupta
Executive Director
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lee Rajakumar
Independent Non-Executive Director
Ms Saw Chooi Lee
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Dr Rosini binti Alias
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr Jean Serge Krol
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Company Secretary
Ms Katina Nurani binti Abd Rahim
Company Secretary
Key activities
During the year, key activities of the Board include:
• Reviewing and approving the 4th quarter and full
year financial results for the financial year ended
31 December 2019.
• Reviewing and approving the Director’s Report
and Audited Accounts for the financial year ended
31 December 2019.
• Reviewing and approving the quarterly financial results
up to the 3rd quarter for the financial year ended
31 December 2020.
• Reviewing the financial report on the Company’s
quarterly performance and outlook for the year.
• Approving dividend payments and reviewing the
solvency position of the Company.
• Reviewing and approving the Company’s strategy and
business plans.
• Receiving updates on risk management status and
sustainability initiatives.
• Receiving and approving the Company’s Annual Budget
and Capex Budget for FY2021.
• Reviewing and approving new Recurrent Related Party
Transactions.
• Receiving updates on the Recurrent Related Party
Transactions by the Company.
• Reviewing the audit report findings of the Internal Audit,
its recommendations and Management responses.
• Reviewing the audit reports of the External Auditor.
• Reviewing the term of office and assess the retirement
of Directors by rotation, the retention of Directors and
eligibility for re-election or retention.
• Reviewing and approving the recommendation for the
2021 proposed director fees and the related benefits to
be paid to the Non-Executive Directors, subject to the
approval of the shareholders.
• Reaffirming and ratifying the Circular Resolutions
passed by the Board.
• Reviewing, approving and noting the Company’s
announcements which had been released to Bursa.
• Reviewing and approving the circular to shareholders
relating to the Company’s purchase of 3 plots of
industrial land in Bandar Enstek, Negeri Sembilan.
Attendance
Attendance
Attendance
Attendance
Attendance
Attendance
Attendance
Attendance
Attendance
AGM
AGM
AGM
AGM
AGM
AGM
AGM
AGM
AGM
100%
100%
100%
100%
75%
100%
100%
100%
100%
1/1
1/1
1/1
1/1
1/1
1/1
1/1
1/1
1/1
51
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
• Assessing and recommending the re-appointment of
the Company’s External Auditor for the financial year
ending 31 December 2020 and for the Directors to fix
their remuneration.
• Reviewing and approving the draft Circular to
Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal
of Shareholders’ Mandates and New Shareholders’
Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transaction of
revenue or trading nature.
• Reviewing and approving the Statement on Internal
Control and Risk Management for the Annual Report
2019.
• Reviewing the Company’s efforts and undertakings to
meet the requirements of Section 17A of the MACC Act
and the MACC’s Guidelines for Adequate Procedures.
• Preparing for and attending the 2020 AGM.
Board Charter
(Practice 2.1)
The Board has adopted a Board Charter since 2014,
which sets out the Board’s strategic intent and outlines
the Board’s roles and responsibilities, the vision, mission,
shared values and principles, as well as the policies
and strategic development of the Company. The Board
Charter specifies clearly the roles and responsibilities
of the Board, the Board Committees, individual directors
and management. The Board reviews and updates the
Charter periodically. The latest update to the Board
Charter was approved by the Board in November 2019.
The Charter is available on the Company’s website at
www.dutchlady.com.my.
The Company’s Code of Conduct
(Practice 3.1)
The Board is guided by the RFC code for good business
conduct which is known as Compass (“Compass”).
Compass is designed to set a certain standard for all
employees and officers of the Company. It promotes
integrity in the workplace with focus on safety, rights of
employees and human rights, sustainability and avoidance
of conflicts of interest. Compass also promotes integrity
in business practices with focus on anti-bribery and
anti-corruption, gifts and hospitality, fair competition,
and fair communication. Finally, Compass focusses on
the protection of the Company’s interests with focus on
protection of confidential information, data protection,
integrity of financial reporting and the prevention of fraud.
Compass plays an important role in the management of
compliance risks and sets out the values, principles and
guidelines as to how the Company conducts its business to
ensure integrity, transparency and accountability.
Compass has, under its purview, underlying policies which
includes topics such as Avoiding Conflicts of Interest,
Protection of Confidential Information, Privacy, Doing
Honest Business (Anti-Bribery and Corruption) and Fair
Competition. Compass is embedded in the Company’s
working culture and encapsulated in the Company’s
Employee handbook. A copy of Compass is available on
the Company’s website at www.dutchlady.com.my.
Doing Honest Business – the Company’s
Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy
The Company has adopted RFC’s anti-bribery and
corruption policy which is known as the “Doing Honest
Business” policy. This policy, which must be observed by
all of the Company’s directors and employees at all times,
is a policy to conduct business in an honest and ethical
manner. The policy has been localised to set out values in
Malaysian Ringgit for easier application by the Company’s
employees and stakeholders. The Company takes a
zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption and is
committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity
in all its business dealings and relationships. A Gift and
Internal Events and Corporate Sponsorship Policy is also
contained within this topic which clearly and prohibits
any form of bribery, gratification or facilitation payments.
Employees will be guided by these policies in their day
to day dealings. To ensure that adequate monitoring
of all anti-corruption compliance matters is carried out,
the Company’s Legal Counsel has been charged with the
responsibility to review and monitor all procedures, advise
and report to Management and the Board of Directors on
these matters.
Anti-bribery and corruption is also a part of the annual
self-assessment carried out by the Company through its
external auditors.
To further enforce the Company’s zero-tolerance approach
to bribery and corruption, the Company also requires its
business partners to conduct business dealings fairly and
honestly by requiring them to carry out business in the
manner set out in the Business Practices for Business
Partners Policy.
A copy of the Doing Honest Business - Gifts Policy and
Business Practices for Business Partners are available on
the Company’s website at www.dutchlady.com.my.
52
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
MACC Corporate Liability
The Company has taken steps to ensure that it is
in compliance with Section 17A of the Malaysian
Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 (Section 17A)
which introduces, amongst others, new corporate liability
for companies, arising from corrupt acts committed by
employees or persons associated with the company.
Upon its introduction, the Company carried out an initial
gap analysis to ensure that its existing anti-bribery and
corruption policies and procedures were adequate and
in line with the Guidelines for Adequate Procedures as
prescribed by Section 17A, and measures were taken to
enhance the procedures to align with the Guidelines,
where necessary. Thereafter the Company undertook
periodic reviews and assessments of the corruption risks
and procedures to ensure that they remain efficient and
effective. Trainings, briefings, and communication on
the topic were provided to employees and stakeholders
throughout FY2020 to ensure that the importance and
significance of the provision were not overlooked. Updates
on the steps taken by Management are given to the Board
periodically.
Whistleblowing – the Speak Up Procedure
(Practice 3.2)
All the Company’s employees and other stakeholders
are strongly encouraged to and have access to its
whistle-blowing procedure known as “Speak-Up”.
The Speak-Up procedure serves as an avenue for
employees and other stakeholders to voice out their
concerns on matters relating to Compass and to raise any
suspicions of wrongdoing, malpractice or impropriety in
the management of the Company’s business and affairs.
The Speak-Up procedure clearly sets out a well-defined
process upon which Compass-related matters can be
raised in confidence and anonymity (if so requested),
in good faith, and without fear of reprisal. The Company
has also established a procedure whereby certain Speak
Up Reports which are of a financial or fraudulent nature
will be escalated to the Company’s Audit Committee.
A copy of the Speak Up Procedure is available on the
Company’s website at www.dutchlady.com.my.
Personal Data Protection
TheCompanyhandlesandusespersonaldatainaccordance
with the Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (“PDPA”).
The Company has adopted the Friesland Campina Privacy
Policy which outlines the requirements for the Company
and its employees in handling personal data.
Board Composition
(Practice 4.1 and 4.2)
Currently the Board consists of 4 independent and 4
non-independent directors. Of the 4 non-independent
directors, 3 are nominees of RFC, and 1 is a nominee of
Permodalan Nasional Berhad, a minority shareholder
of the Company. The Company’s major shareholder is a
foreign co-operative of farmers. The Board considers
that the current composition fairly reflects the foreign
direct investment and the investment of the minority
shareholders. The proportion of independent directors
ensures effective checks and balances on the Board
and the independent directors effectively safeguard the
interest of the minority shareholders.
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih has served the Board for
more than nine years as an Independent Non-Executive
Director. It has been announced on 25 February 2021
that Dato’ Zainal will retire from the Board following the
Company’s 58th AGM and that Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin
Rajakumar will succeed him as Chairperson of the Board.
As such, following from the AGM, none of the Independent
Directors will have served on the Board for more than
9 years. Prior to his retirement, the Company shall ensure
that there is a seamless transition of the Chair from
Dato’ Zainal to Datin Seri Sunita.
Details of all Directors and their biographies are provided
in the Annual Report.
Appointments to the Board
(Practice 4.4)
The Board consists of qualified individuals with a good
mix of operational and commercial experience. Members
of the Board have both local and international experience
and together, they bring a wide range of competencies,
capabilities, technical skills and relevant business
experience.
Senior Independent Director
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih is the Board’s current
Senior Independent Director. It has been announced on
25 February 2021 that Dato’ Zainal will retire from the
Board following the Company’s 58th AGM and that Ms Saw
Chooi Lee will fill the role as Senior Independent Director.
In this capacity, Ms Saw will take over Dato’ Zainal’s role to
provide an avenue for shareholders and the Non-Executive
Directors to express any concerns that they may have
affecting the Company.
53
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Board Diversity
(Practice 4.5)
The Board acknowledges the importance of gender
diversity and recognises the benefits that it can bring.
The Board shall at all times make best endeavors to have at
least 30% women Directors on the Board. The Company’s
prime responsibility, however, is the strength of the Board
and the overriding aim in any new appointments must
always be to select the best candidate available. Currently,
out of the 8 members on the Board, 4 are women. As such
the Board comprises of 50% women directors.
The Appointment Process
(Practice 4.6)
In respect of the appointment of all directors,
the Nominating & Remuneration Committee considers
shortlisted candidates based on their profiles, professional
achievements and personality assessments. Appropriate
candidates for independent directors are sourced through
recruitment firms based on the needs of the Board.
The Nominating & Remuneration Committee then ensures
that the candidates are suitable and of sufficient caliber
for recommendation for the approval of the Board by
reviewing the profiles of candidates and where deemed
appropriate, conducting interviews with the shortlisted
candidates.
Composition of the Nominating & Remuneration
Committee
(Practice 4.7)
The Nominating & Remuneration Committee establishes
for itself the procedure and frequency of its meetings,
but shall meet at least once annually. The quorum
for the meeting shall consist of any two independent
non-executive Directors appointed to the Committee.
The Managing Director, other Board members and any
other persons may be invited to attend the meetings as
necessary.
Activities of the Nominating & Remuneration
Committee
The activities of the Nominating & Remuneration
Committee during the financial year were as follows:
a) Leading the process for Board appointments and
making recommendations of new members to the
Board;
b) Review the composition of the Board and Board
Committees;
c) Make recommendations to the Board on the
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors and the
Managing Director in accordance with the Company’s
Remuneration Policy;
d) Nominate the directors who are due for retirement and
eligible to stand for re-election at the AGM;
e) Review the evaluation carried out on the effectiveness
of the Board as a whole, the Committees of the Board
and the individual directors on an on-going basis;
f) Assess and recommend if an independent director who
has served for more than nine years should be retained
as an independent director; and
g) Review the required skills and core competencies of the
Managing Director.
The terms of reference of the Nominating & Remuneration
Committee is available on the Company’s website,
www.dutchlady.com.my.
The Committee met two (2) times in 2020 and the
attendance of each individual is set out below:
Current Members
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih
Chairman, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden
Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive
Ms Saw Chooi Lee
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
Secretary
Katina Nurani binti Abd Rahim
Company Secretary
Attendance
Attendance
Attendance
Attendance
Attendance
Attendance
100%
100%
100%
100%
100%
50%
2/2
2/2
2/2
2/2
2/2
1/2
54
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
Training and Development
Induction programmes are conducted for newly appointed
Directors, which include briefings by members of
Management. The Directors will be provided with the
necessary information to assist them in understanding the
operations of the Company, current issues and corporate
strategies as well as the management structure of the
Company and the RFC Group. All Directors have attended
and successfully completed the Mandatory Accreditation
Programmes as required under the Listing Requirements.
In addition, the Directors are encouraged to attend
continuous education programmes, talks, seminars,
workshops and conferences to enhance their skills and
knowledge and to ensure that they are kept abreast with
new developments in the business environment, corporate
governance and enhance their skills and knowledge.
The Directors who were on the Board in FY2020 attended
the following training programmes during FY2020 to
further enhance their knowledge and to enable them to
discharge their duties and responsibilities more effectively:
Director Title of Training Programme Organiser Date
Dato’ Zainal
Abidin bin Putih
ALMA Remediation – Diagnostic Interview
with Group & Banking AC (by Oliver Wyman)
– Project Introduction
CIMB/Oliver Wyman 23 Jan 2020
MFRS 17 Insurance Contract Training Tokio Marine Insuran/KPMG 17 Feb 2020
Briefing on RAROC, Capital and FRS 9 CIMB 18 Feb 2020
Engagement Session with DG Rasheed on
Islamic Finance Strategy
Bank Negara Malaysia 20 Feb 2020
Update on Digital Landscape and E-Commerce DLMI 24 Aug 2020
Briefing on MACC Section 17 – Corporate
Liability Provision
DLMI 24 Aug 2020
Board Briefing on Adequate Procedures
Principles T.R.U.S.T – Pursuant to subsection
5 of Section 17A under the MACC Act 2009
Presented by Mr A Siva Kumar, Legal Advisor,
Tokio Marine Insurance
Tokio Marine Insurance 1 Dec 2020
Cyber Security Awareness Training Presented
by Jason Yuen, Partner, EY Malaysia
EY Malaysia/Tokio Marine
Insurance
1 Dec 2020
Mr Tarang Gupta Nourishing Mind Sessions together with
Rafidah Aziz (as speaker)
DLMI 9 Mar 2020
Update on Digital Landscape and E-Commerce DLMI 24 Aug 2020
Briefing on MACC Section 17A – Corporate
Liability Provision
DLMI 24 Aug 2020
“Lead to win” Leadership Development
Programme
FrieslandCampina Feb–Dec 2020
Datin Seri
Sunita Mei-Lin
Rajakumar
Nourishing Mind Sessions together with
Rafidah Aziz (as speaker)
DLMI 9 Mar 2020
International Conference on Emerging Issues
for Business and Economics in the 21st Century
- Importance of Climate Governance
Nottingham University
Business School Malaysia
9 Apr 2020
Webinar: Covid-19 & Current Economic Reality FIDE FORUM 14 Apr 2020
The Path to the Next Normal: So What Now for
Leadership?
Institute of Corporate
Directors Malaysia (ICDM)
21 Apr 2020
COVID-19: Sustainable Finance and the Future
of the Global Economy
UN Global Compact Academy 21 Apr 2020
55
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Director Title of Training Programme Organiser Date
Webinar featuring UN Assistant Secretary-
General and Chief Economist Elliott Harris
Global Compact Network
Malaysia (GCMY)
22 Apr 2020
Webinar: COVID-19 Pandemic: Consumer &
Business Shifts and Climate Change
Aleevar 22 Apr 2020
Cyber and economic crime: Fraudsters and
cyber criminals, too, can work from home
PwC 23 Apr 2020
Climate Change Conversations Kementerian Alam Sekitar dan
Air (KASA)
23 Apr 2020
COVID-19 and Human Rights: Protection of the
Most Vulnerable
UN Global Compact Academy 28 Apr 2020
The Impact Of COVID-19 On The Malaysian Air
Transportation Industry And What Is Required
To Reset The Industry
Eurocham Malaysia 30 Apr 2020
Governance and risk: An uncertain world, a
riskier landscape
PwC 30 Apr 2020
Employer Lecture: "Governance of Risks
Arising from the Impending Climate Crisis"
INTI Subang 4 May 2020
Webinar: Outthink The Competition: Excelling
in a Post COVID-19 World
FIDE FORUM 5 May 2020
Online Webinar: The Economics of Biodiversity Prof Sir Partha Dasgupta 7 May 2020
Build Back Better for Health, Resilient &
Sustainability: Corporate Malaysia’s & Global
Proposals for Post COVID-19 Recovery
All-Party Parliamentary
Groups Malaysia (APPGM)
CSO SDG
12 May 2020
3rd Distinguished Board Leadership Series,
‘Challenging Times: What Role Must the Board
Play’
FIDE FORUM 15 May 2020
Covid-19 Implications for Sustainable
Development in Malaysia
Institute for Strategic and
International Studies
21 May 2020
Disrupted, Yet Getting Ready for the Next Big
One: Are Boards Ready for Climate Change?
ICDM 4 Jun 2020
Raising Defenses: Section 17A, MACC Act ICLIF ASB 9, 10 Jun 2020
Climate Risk Insight Hour The Economist 18 Jun 2020
Webinar: Understanding Climate Change
Related Financial Risks
BNM JCCC EY UK PACT 26 Jun 2020
Climate Financial Risk Forum Launch Bank of England (PRA and
FCA)
29 Jun 2020
Webinar: Investors as catalysts of the climate
transition
LSEG and PRI 30 Jun 2020
Appointments - Making Diversity Work LeadWomen & Boardroom 2 Jul 2020
Forests and climate change: The pitfalls and
benefits of reforestation
Grantham Institute and
Imperial College
3 Jul 2020
Bursa Invest Malaysia 2020: Capital Market
Conversation
Bursa Malaysia 7 Jul 2020
56
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
Director Title of Training Programme Organiser Date
Post-COVID sustainability agenda: revolution,
retreat or return to normal?
The Economist 7 Jul 2020
4th Distinguished Board Leadership Series:
Sir Howard Davies
FIDE 8 Jul 2020
Webinar with Ivo Mulder, Head of Climate
Finance, UNEP
GCMY 8 Jul 2020
Putting Climate Change Risk on the
Boardroom Table-A Conversation with Carol
Hansell and Gigi Dawe
Canada Climate Law Initiative 9 Jul 2020
Overview of the impact of climate change on
financial institutions
HSBC Global Head of
Sustainable Finance & Chapter
Zero
14 Jul 2020
Enterprise Risk Management of ESG Risks BCSD Malaysia 15 Jul 2020
Inside Story: Meet the editor-in-chief The Economist 16 Jul 2020
MACC Act Corporate Liability training MCIS 22 Jul 2020
Climate Risk and Adaptation for 1.5C Global
Warming in Southeast Asia
SEADPRI ASM 24 Jul 2020
Webinar Series: Climate Change &
Sustainability Conference 2020
MIA 29 Jul 2020
How policies and regulation are evolving to
respond to the climate crisis
HSBC Global Head of
Sustainable Finance & Chapter
Zero
5 Aug 2020
Strategy – Agile Board Leadership Brunei Centre For Islamic
Banking Finance And
Management's Board
Executive Education
Programme
13 Aug 2020
Exclusive interview: Bill Gates The Economist 18 Aug 2020
Update on Digital Landscape and
E-Commerce
DLMI 24 Aug 2020
Briefing on MACC Section 17A – Corporate
Liability Provision
DLMI 24 Aug 2020
Dialogue Session with Tan Sri Dr Jemilah
Mahmood & Tan Sri Azman Mokhtar
KL Business Club 28 Aug 2020
Disclosure: Status quo and roadmap ahead HSBC Global Head of
Sustainable Finance & Chapter
Zero
1 Sept 2020
Climate change through a finance and
liability lens – What do directors, officers and
in-house counsel need to know?
Singapore Corporate Counsel
Association
2 Sept 2020
Aligning finance for the net zero economy:
new ideas from leading thinkers
EIT Climate-KIC, UNEP FI 2 Sept 2020
Annual Dialogue with BNM Governor FIDE Forum 3 Sept 2020
57
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Director Title of Training Programme Organiser Date
Nottingham University Business School
Malaysia Global Advisory Board
NUBS 7 Sept 2020
Stakeholder Validation Workshop Malaysia - UK PACT 10 Sept 2020
Climate Change Conversation Webinar:
Building Resilience in Cities
Malaysia Green Technology
and Climate Change Center
(MGTC)
11 Sept 2020
World Women Organisation Summit:
25th anniversary of Beijing Declaration
World Women Organisation 15 Sept 2020
Sustainable Development Impact Summit World Economic Forum 21-24 Sept
2020
Cooler Earth Summit "Climate Transition and
the Role of Boards"
CIMB 22 Sept 2020
Webinar: The Rise of the Green Economy Principles of Responsible
Investing
23 Sept 2020
Introduction to Climate Governance and
issues
Petronas Group Legally
Speaking
24 Sept 2020
Forum on Science & Technology for Evidence-
Based Policy Making: Supporting Credible
Climate Action in Malaysia
British High Commission 24 Sept 2020
Accounting for Climate: The Numbers
Investors Need
Principles for Responsible
Investment (PRI)
24 Sept 2020
Webinar: Leadership for the Decade of Action Russell Reynolds Associates 25 Sept 2020
Market Engagement Webinar Malaysia-UK PACT 29 Sept 2020
Scenario analysis and stress-testing
Confirmation
HSBC Global Head of
Sustainable Finance & Chapter
Zero
29 Sept 2020
Cooler Earth Summit "Climate Transition and
the Role of Boards"
CIMB 6 Oct 2020
Launch of Sustainable and Inclusive Finance
Forum: Development of a National Green
Taxonomy
World Bank Group, BNM 6 Oct 2020
Forum on Science & Technology for Evidence-
Based Policy Making: Supporting Credible
Climate Action in Malaysia
British High Commission 7 Oct 2020
Zurich Malaysia Strategic Planning Day Zurich Malaysia 8 Oct 2020
2020 Top Exec Cybersecurity Briefing by
LGMS
LE Global Services Sdn Bhd 8 Oct 2020
Captains' Forum: Transformation towards
recovery: CEOs of AIA, PETRONAS Chemicals
Group and Samling
KPMG 9 Oct 2020
Managing physical and transition risk
Confirmation
HSBC Global Head of
Sustainable Finance & Chapter
Zero
12 Oct 2020
Climate Risk Virtual Week The Economist 12-16 Oct 2020
58
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
Director Title of Training Programme Organiser Date
UNEP FI Global Round Table United Nations Environment
Programme Finance Initiative
(UNEP FI)
13-14 Oct 2020
Webinar 1: The Business Case for Setting
Science-based Targets
Science Based Targets (SBTi) 20 Oct 2020
Webinar 2: Technical Guidance for Setting
and Achieving Science-based Targets
SBTi 27 Oct 2020
Supply Chain Sustainability Asia Pacific Global Supply Chain Council
(GSCC)
29 Oct 2020
Webinar "Climate Action: The Board's
Leadership in Greening the Financial Sector"
FIDE Forum 2 Nov 2020
Webinar 3: Demystifying Science-based
Targets: Discussion & Sharing Session
SBTi 3 Nov 2020
Covid-19 Impact on Job Market for
Graduates by Adam Flinter
Global Equator Group,
Singapore
6 Nov 2020
COVID-19 and its impact on business by
Mr Allarrad Sjollema
Grant Thornton Australia 6 Nov 2020
Greenwich Economic Forum (Day 1) Greenwich Economic Forum
(GEF)
9 Nov 2020
Horizon Summit (Session 1 - The Cartography
of Post-COVID Green Growth)
City of London Corporation
and the Green Finance
Institute
9-11 Nov 2020
Webinar "Green Fintech: Ping An's journey
to becoming a top ESG-performing Financial
Institution"
FIDE Forum 11 Nov 2020
Virtual Roundtable 2020: ESG perspective:
Managing Recovery and Resilience
KPMG Audit Committee
Institute
12 Nov 2020
Engagement Session on IFRS Foundation's
Consultation Paper - Sustainability Reporting
Malaysian Accounting
Standards Board (MASB)
13 Nov 2020
Kuala Lumpur Green Conference “Sustainable
Finance: A Blueprint for Green Economy”
BMCC, Standard Chartered
Malaysia, British High
Commission
17 Nov 2020
International Financial Landscape for Climate
Change Adaptation
UKM SEADPRI 17 Nov 2020
ICDM Member's Day: social media/bounce
back together
ICDM 19 Nov 2020
Webinar: Petronas Panel GOESG 23-24 Nov 2020
Undergraduate Students: Managing Climate
Risks
Monash University 24 Nov 2020
Virtual Conference 2020 Asia Corporate Governance
Association (ACGA)
25 Nov 2020
Stakeholder Capitalism - Advocacy Dialogue ICDM 25 Nov 2020
Climate Risk Asia Week Panel discussion:
The optimal organisation
The Economist 30 Nov 2020
59
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Director Title of Training Programme Organiser Date
KL Business Club Dialogue: YM Tengku
Muhammad Taufik, PETRONAS President
& Group CEO
KL Business Club 30 Nov 2020
Climate Risk Asia Week: first day The Economist 1 Dec 2020
Stewardship & Sustainability: Moving from
Intent to Impact
Stewardship Asia 1 Dec 2020
Asian Corporate Governance Conference:
Workshop
ACGA 2 Dec 2020
Climate Risk Asia Week: Panel discussion:
Measuring and managing transition risk
The Economist 2 Dec 2020
Roundtable discussion about climate risk and
the response in Asia-Pacific
The Economist 4 Dec 2020
New Publications on Risk Management and
Climate Scenarios
Task Force on Climate-related
Financial Disclosures (TCFD)
8 Dec 2020
Malaysian Nature Tours: Deep Dive 4:
Bringing wider global, regional and local high
level perspectives to nature protection
British High Commission 10 Dec 2020
A year in review with the editor-in-chief The Economist 10 Dec 2020
Webinar - Miwa Kato "Half The Sky" 30% Club 11 Dec 2020
OnAir Forum "Changing the World Through
Sustainable Financing"
IFN Green & Sustainable 14 Dec 2020
27th PECC General Meeting : Optimising
Human Potential Towards a Future of Shared
Prosperity and Sustainability
Pacific Economic Cooperation
Council (PECC)
15 Dec 2020
Asian Corporate Governance Conference:
Workshop
Asian Corporate Governance
(ACGA)
16 Dec 2020
Ms Saw Chooi
Lee
Nourishing Mind Sessions together with
Rafidah Aziz
DLMI 9 Mar 2020
Global & Malaysia Market Economy Outlook:
Build Back Resilient Economy & Reshape
Business Strategy
Malaysia-China Chamber of
Commerce
7 May 2020
Update on Digital Landscape and
E-Commerce
DLMI 24 Aug 2020
Briefing on MACC Section 17A – Corporate
Liability Provision
DLMI 24 Aug 2020
“Women Leaders Supporting Women
Leadership" for Sunway Executive Members
(as Panelist)
Lead Women Sdn Bhd 27 Aug 2020
Webinar: Leadership for the Decade of Action Russell Reynolds Associates 25 Sept 2020
Leadership Energy Summit Asia (Lesa) Asia School of Business 16-19 Nov 2020
Powertalk Global Series themed “2021:
Refresh the Agenda”
ICDM 9 & 10 Dec
2020
"Half the Sky" with Dr Miwa Kato of the
United Nations
30% Club Malaysia 11 Dec 2020
60
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
Director Title of Training Programme Organiser Date
Dato’ Dr Rosini
binti Alias
Nourishing Mind Sessions together with
Rafidah Aziz
DLMI 9 March 2020
Update on Digital Landscape and
E-Commerce
DLMI 24 Aug 2020
Briefing on MACC Section 17A – Corporate
Liability Provision
DLMI 24 Aug 2020
Leadership Energy Summit Asia (Lesa) Asia School of Business 16-19 Nov 2020
How Safe are the safe Haven assets in
Malaysia?
PNB 2 Dec 2020
Half The Sky 30% Club Malaysia 11 Dec 2020
Mr Bernardus
Hermannus Maria
Kodden
Update on Digital Landscape and
E-Commerce
DLMI 24 Aug 2020
Briefing on MACC Section 17A – Corporate
Liability Provision
DLMI 24 Aug 2020
Tengku
Nurul Azian
binti Tengku
Shahriman
Update on Digital Landscape and
E-Commerce
DLMI 24 Aug 2020
Briefing on MACC Section 17A – Corporate
Liability Provision
DLMI 24 Aug 2020
How to be an Effective NED in a Disruptive
World
ICDM 21 Sep 2020
Raising Defences: Section 17A of the
Malaysian Anti-Corruption Act, 2009
Sunway REIT Management
Sdn Bhd
13 Nov 2020
Business Foresight Forum 2020 Virtual
Conference: Evolutionary Change to
Revolutionary Impact
Securities Industry
Development Corporation
18 & 19 Nov
2020
The Second Annual Malaysian REIT Forum
2020, "M-REITs - Navigating the New Normal"
Malaysian REIT Managers
Association
1 Dec 2020
Mr Jean Serge
Krol
Mandatory Accreditation Programme Asia School of Business 13–14 January
2020
Update on Digital Landscape and
E-Commerce
DLMI 24 Aug 2020
Briefing on MACC Section 17A – Corporate
Liability Provision
DLMI 24 Aug 2020
“Lead to win” Leadership Development
Programme
FrieslandCampina Feb–Dec 2020
61
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Board Evaluation
(Practice 5.1)
The Board undertakes an annual evaluation of the Board’s
effectiveness. For FY2020, an evaluation by external
consultants, LeadWomen Sdn Bhd was carried out.
The evaluation exercise received full participation from
the Board. Overall, the evaluation showed that the Board
and Board committees were effective, and that
contributions from directors and committee members
were good. The exercise also highlighted that the Board
was strong in the areas of director independence, integrity
and objectivity, board conduct and board composition.
Based on the results, the Nominating & Remuneration
Committee was satisfied as to the effectiveness of
the Board as a whole, the Committees of the Board,
the Managing Director and the individual Directors.
The strengths of the Board and the areas for improvement
which were identified following the evaluation were noted
and discussed by the Board and the Board also discussed
the appropriate remedial steps which shall be taken to
address these areas for improvement.
Remuneration - Policies and Procedures
(Practice 6.1 and 6.2)
The policy for Directors’ remuneration is to provide a
remuneration package needed to attract, retain and
motivate directors of quality required to supervise and/or
manage the business of the Company.
The remuneration for the Managing Director of the
Company is based on the human resource policies and
procedures of the RFC Group. The Company follows the
performance appraisal system and compensation and
benefits scheme of the RFC Group. For the Managing
Director, corporate and individual performance are
rewarded through the use of an integrated pay benefits
and bonus structure. Market competitiveness, business
results and individual performance are also considered
by the RFC Group in evaluating the Manging Director’s
remuneration. The Managing Director is not paid meeting
attendance allowance or directors’ fees. His annual
performance appraisal was carried out in Q1 of 2021 for
his performance in 2020.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid fixed annual
directors’ fees as members of the Board and these are
approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairman of the Board Committees receives Board
Committee Chairman allowances and the members of the
Audit Committee also receives an additional allowance.
All Non-Executive Directors receive benefits by way of a
meeting allowance for each Board or Committee meeting
that they attend.
The Nominating & Remuneration Committee reviews the
fees periodically by taking onto account the performance
of the Company and benchmarking with other companies
in the same industry and of similar size. The responsibilities
and duties of the directors are also taken into account
when reviewing the fees.
The Terms of Reference for the Nominating &
Remuneration Committee and the Board’s Remuneration
Policy are available on the Company’s website
www.dutchlady.com.my.
Remuneration of Directors and Top Senior Management
(Practice 7.1 and 7.2)
The aggregate remuneration of Directors of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2020 is as follows:
Executive Director Non-Executive Directors
RM RM
Directors’ Fees and Committee Member
Allowances
- 416,092
Benefits - 65,000
Salaries and other emoluments 1,524,349 -
Benefits in kind 409,433 -
62
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
The details of the total remuneration of the directors on a named basis for the financial year ended 31 December 2020
are as follows:
Name Directors’
Fees
Committee
Member
Allowances
Directors’
Benefits
Salaries
and other
emoluments
Benefits in
kind
Total
RM RM RM RM RM RM
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin
Putih
118,846 7,231 14,300 - - 140,377
Tarang Gupta - - - 1,524,349 409,433 1,933,782
Datin Seri Sunita
Mei-Lin Rajakumar
67,637 8,343 15,600 - - 91,580
Saw Chooi Lee 67,637 - 9,100 - - 76,737
Dato’ Dr Rosini binti
Alias
67,637 5,562 11,700 - - 84,899
Tengku Nurul
Azian binti Tengku
Shahriman
67,637 5,562 14,300 - - 87,499
389,394 26,698 65,000
TOTAL 416,092 65,000 1,524,349 409,433
Note: No Directors’ fees or allowances were paid to Bernardus Hermannus Kodden and Jean Serge Krol in lieu of the management fees
paid to RFC.
The most senior member of management is an Executive
Director of the Company and his remuneration is disclosed
under the remuneration of directors in the CG Overview
Statement. Details of the remaining members of senior
management is shared on general terms and on an
aggregated basis only as the Board is of the view that
it would not be in the best interest of the Company to
disclose these details given the competitiveness in the
market for good senior managers in the consumer goods
industry. The Board feels that the details provided is
sufficiently transparent and allows stakeholders to assess
the reasonableness of remuneration paid to members of
senior management.
The Board is of the view that the disclosure of remuneration
details may be detrimental to its business interests, given
the competitive landscape for key personnel with the
requisite knowledge, technical expertise and working
experience in the Company’s business activities, where
intense headhunting is a common industry challenge.
Accordingly, such disclosure of specific remuneration
information may give rise to recruitment and talent
retention issues.
For the top remaining senior management personnel,
the aggregate remuneration wages, salaries, benefits
and contributions to state plans) paid for FY2020 is
approximately RM4.9 million.
63
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Financial Control and Reporting
(Practice 8)
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Company
maintains adequate and accurate records for timely
reporting of the financial position of the Company and
the results of its activities to enable stakeholders to make
informed assessments of the Company’s performance and
prospects. To assist the Board in effectively discharging
this duty, the Company has in place financial reporting
procedures and processes. As at the date of this
statement, the Board is not aware of any circumstances
which have not been dealt with in the financial reports or
financial statements, which would render any amount in
the financial statements misleading.
The Audit Committee
(Practice 8.1, 8.2, 8.3 and 8.5)
The Audit Committee consists of a majority of independent
directors. The Committee is chaired by Datin Seri Sunita
Mei-Lin Rajakumar who is an Independent Non-Executive
Director. Over the course of FY2020, the Committee
comprised 5 members (3 independent directors and
2 non-independent directors). Details on the members
of the Audit Committee are contained in the Audit
Committee Report. The Board has not appointed any of
the Company’s former key audit partners as a member of
the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee will observe
a minimum two (2) year cooling-off period before any
former key audit partner can be appointed as a member
of the Audit Committee. This requirement is set out in the
Audit Committee’s Terms of Reference.
The Board considers the composition of the Audit
Committee as fairly reflecting the investment of minority
shareholders. The proportion of the independent directors
ensures effective check and balance on the Board with
the independent directors acting as caretakers for the
minority shareholders.
The written terms of reference for the Audit Committee is
available on the Company’s website www.dutchlady.com.my.
In August 2020 the Audit Committee had a meeting with
the Company’s External Auditor, Messrs. PricewaterHouse
Coopers (PwC), where PwC presented the annual audit
plan for FY2020. In that meeting, PwC highlighted the key
focus areas, methodology and new accounting standards.
The External Auditor also briefed the Audit Committee on
their team members and the resources allocated to the
Company. After discussion and deliberation, the Audit
Committee approved the audit plan. The Company also
sought the confirmation of independence from PwC.
Effective Audit and Risk Management
PRINCIPLE B
Risk Management and Internal Controls
(Practice 9.1 and 9.2)
The Company adopts the Enterprise Risk Management
programme based on the framework that was developed
and issued by RFC, which in turn is based on COSO
framework (developed by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organisations of the Treadway Commission for evaluating
internal controls), of which the International Institute
of Internal Auditors is a sponsoring organisation. The
programme establishes an enterprise risk assessment
(“ERA”) for identifying, evaluating, monitoring, reporting
and managing significant business risks. The Internal
Audit function also carries out activities under the ERA.
The Company’s Management team and internal audit
team meets periodically to assess whether any conditions
associated with a particular risk have changed, and to
ensure that action and risk mitigation plans have been
implemented. Progress and status of the mitigation action
plans are presented to the Audit Committee quarterly
or new critical risks are escalated immediately for
deliberation.
Internal Audit
(Practice 10.1 and 10.2)
The Company has an in-house Internal Audit and Internal
Control Department which reports directly to the Audit
Committee and assists the Audit Committee in the
discharge of its duties and responsibilities. Its role is to
provide independent assurance of the adequacy and the
effectiveness of the risk management, internal control and
governance process as well as to carry out investigations
on any complaints received. The investigation findings and
audit recommendations and measures are reported by the
Internal Audit Manager to the Audit Committee at each
meeting.
In FY 2020, the Company’s Internal Audit is headed by
Mr Eddie Lim who has over 10 years of experience in
various finance functions including internal audit. He is a
Chartered Accountant of Malaysia Institute of Accountants
and a member of the Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants, United Kingdom. The Head of Internal audit is
currently supported by an Senior Internal Auditor. Further
information on the Internal Audit function is set out in the
Statement of Internal Control and Risk Management and
the Report of the Audit Committee.
64
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
AGM
The Company disseminates information to its
stakeholders through the AGM, its Annual Report and
the announcements made on Bursa. The Company also
meets up with investment analysts and fund managers
periodically. The Board takes reasonable steps to
encourage shareholder participation at general meetings.
Shareholders are encouraged to participate in the Question
and Answer session on the resolutions being proposed or
on the Company’s operations and performance in general.
Shareholders who are unable to attend are allowed
to appoint proxies in accordance with the Company’s
Constitution to attend and vote on their behalf. In 2020,
due to the COVID-19 pandemic, in the interest of all
the Company’s stakeholders’ health and safety, a fully
virtual AGM was held. In view that the pandemic is still
on-going, a virtual meeting will be held for the 58th AGM
on 25 May 2021. The Broadcast Venue will be held at
Gallery 3, the New World Petaling Jaya Hotel, Paradigm,
1 Jalan SS7/26A, Kelana Jaya, 47301 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor, Malaysia.
The Company’s Notice of AGM is published in a local
newspaper and is issued to shareholders at least 28 days
prior to the date of the AGM.
Website
The Company’s corporate website provides quick access
to information about the Company. The information on
the corporate websites includes corporate profile, the
international corporate structure, information on Board
of Directors and the Management team, the Company’s
Code of Business Conduct, anti-bribery policy and
whistle-blowing policy, awards and achievements,
corporate news, financial results, announcements to
Bursa, minutes of general meetings and the Company’s
Annual Reports and Circulars to shareholders.
Annual Report
The Annual Report provides a comprehensive report on
the Company’s operations and financial performance.
An online version of the full Annual Report is available
and downloadable from the Company’s website
www.dutchlady.com.my.
Other engagements
The Company organises meetings with investment
analysts and fund managers periodically. The Company
also actively responds to requests for discussions with
institutional shareholders and analysts, locally and abroad,
to provide them better insights into the Company.
Compliance Statement by the Board of
Directors on Corporate Governance
Statement
(a) Utilisation of Proceeds
The Company did not carry out any corporate exercise
to raise funds during the financial year.
(b) Audit Fees
(i) Audit Fees for the Company:
The Company’s internal audit function is performed
in-house by a team of internal auditors led by
the Head of Internal Audit and Internal Control.
The total cost incurred by the Internal Audit
and Internal Control Department in relation to
the conduct of its functions for FY2020 was
RM420,820. The amount of audit fees paid to
External Auditors by the Company for FY2020 is
RM89,000.
(ii) Non-Audit Fees
The amount of non-audit fees paid to External
Auditors by the Company for the FY2020 is
RM20,000. The non-audit fees paid is in respect
of the review of Statement of Risk Management &
Internal Control.
(b) Material Contracts Involving Substantial Shareholders
Save and except for the recurrent related party
transactions entered into pursuant to the shareholders’
mandate, there were no material contracts either still
subsisting at or entered into since the end of FY2020
by the Company which involved Directors’ and/or
substantial shareholders’ interest.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement is made
in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors
dated 25 February 2021.
Integrity in Corporate Reporting and meaningful relationship with
stakeholders
(Practice 11.1, 12.1, 12.2 and 12.3)
Principle C
65
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
A. COMPOSITION
ChairPERSON
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar Independent Non-Executive Director
Members
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Dr Rosini binti Alias Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr Jean Serge Krol Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
The Audit Committee provides critical oversight of the Company’s financial reporting
process, monitoring the external and internal auditing process, compliance with
relevant legal and statutory matters and other matters delegated by the Board.
The Audit Committee is chaired by Datin Seri Sunita
Mei-Lin Rajakumar who has an LLB (Hons) from the
University of Bristol and qualified as a Member of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales
in 1994. She sits on Boards and chairs the Audit and
Risk Committees of other public companies in Malaysia.
Her working experience includes amongst other,
4 years in Ernst & Young in London and 6 years at
RHB Investment Bank Berhad in Kuala Lumpur before
becoming a consultant at MIMOS Berhad. She was then
invited to manage Encipta Ltd, a foreign technology
venture capital fund under MIMOS Berhad.
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih is a member of the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants, a Member of the
Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants and
a Fellow of the Association of Chartered Accountants in
England & Wales. He has extensive experience in audit,
management consulting and taxation, having been
involved as a practicing accountant and consultant
throughout his career and holds several directorships in
other public listed companies.
Dato’ Dr Rosini binti Alias is Doctor of Veterinary
Medicine, DVM, from Universiti Pertanian Malaysia.
She was formerly the Deputy Director-General of the
Department of Veterinary Services (DVS), Malaysia and
has vast experience in the veterinary and agricultural
sector with a career spanning over 30 years.
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman is an
Advocate and Solicitor of the High Court in Malaya,
a Barrister of Law of the Honourable Society of Inner
Temple, and has an LLB (Hons) from the School of
Oriental & African Studies, University of London. She has
over 19 years of broad experience in investment banking
and corporate finance and was previously the Executive
Vice President & Partner of PEMANDU Associates
Sdn Bhd, a management consulting firm which is
focused on public sector transformation and business
turnaround with global experience. She sits on the
Boards and Audit and Risk Committees of other
companies in Malaysia.
Mr Jean Serge Krol has a Master’s of Economics as
well as a Post-Master’s Degree for Certified Public
Accountants from the Rijksuniversiteit in Gronengen.
He also has as a Post-Master’s Degree for Certified
Controllers from the Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam.
He has held various senior finance managerial positions
within Royal FrieslandCampina N.V. from 2002 to 2019.
In July 2019, he was appointed as the Director of Finance
for the Specialised Nutrition Business Group for Royal
FrieslandCampina, Netherlands.
66
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
B. TERMS OF REFERENCE
Structure of the Audit Committee
The Audit Committee is a Committee appointed by
the Board and shall comprise of at least 3 directors.
All members should be Non-Executive Directors
with Independent Non-Executive Directors making
up the majority. At least one (1) member of the Audit
Committee must be a member of the Malaysian Institute
of Accountants, or have at least 3 years’ working
experience and be a member of one of the Associations
of Accountants specified in Part II of the First Schedule
of the Accountants Act 1967. The Chairperson
of the Audit Committee shall be an Independent
Non-Executive Director and be elected from amongst
the members of the Committee. All members of the
Committee, including the Chairperson, will hold office
until otherwise determined by the Board.
Authority
The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to
investigate any activity within its Terms of Reference
and to seek any information it requires from the
Management and any employee. The Management and
employees are directed to co-operate with any request
made by the Audit Committee. The Audit Committee
may convene meetings with External Auditors or
Internal Auditors without the presence of Management,
if deemed necessary.
The Audit Committee is authorised by the Board to
obtain independent, legal and professional advice and
to secure the attendance of outsiders with relevant
experience and expertise if it considers this to be
necessary.
Functions
1. The functions of the Audit Committee are as follows:
In relation to External Auditors
a) To consider the appointment of the External
Auditors and fix their audit fee, and any question
of their resignation or dismissal and the reasons
thereof;
b) To run the audit tender process independent of
management including establishing objective
criteria when assessing appointment of external
auditors, to ensure audit quality may not be
compromised or that fees are not given undue
weight;
c) To discuss with the External Auditors their audit
plan, the nature and scope of audit, evaluation
of the Company’s systems of internal controls
and their audit report on the annual financial
statements, including Key Audit Matters;
d) To ensure External Auditors have sufficient
understanding of business/operations/risk areas,
senior audit team members are sufficiently
involved throughout the audit process and the
team has the capacity and ability to work in
different geographical regions;
e) To assess the External Audit firm’s measures to
uphold audit quality and manage risks including
adopting indicators of audit quality;
f) To discuss issues and reservations arising from
the interim and final audits with the External
Auditors, and any other matters the External
Auditors or other consultants may wish to discuss,
in the absence of Management, where necessary
and in any case at least twice a year;
g) To review the External Auditors’ Management
letter and Management’s response thereon and
ensure Management provides information and
records in a timely manner;
h) To obtain assurance from the External Auditors
that they are and have been independent
throughout the conduct of the audit engagement
in accordance with the terms of all relevant
professional and regulatory requirements, and
that following such annual assessment review
and the assurance obtained, the Audit Committee
shall remain confident of the External Auditor’s
independence and suitability;
i) To evaluate the performance of the External
Auditors including reviewing their independence,
suitability, objectivity and cost effectiveness,
taking into account factors including the
competency, adequacy of experience and
resources of the firm and professional staff
assigned to perform the audit;
j) To ensure that advance approval by the
Board of Directors is required for non-audit
services provided by the External Auditor,
on recommendation of the Audit Committee;
k) To review all non-audit services performed by the
External Auditors to reinforce the independence
and objectivity of the External Auditors;
67
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
In relation to the financial statements
l) To review the quarterly and annual financial
statements of the Company before submission to
the Board of Directors, focusing particularly on:
(i) Public announcement of the results and
dividend payment;
(ii) Any changes in accounting policies and
practices;
(iii) The going concern assumption;
(iv) Compliance with approved accounting
standards;
(v) Compliance with Bursa Securities and legal
requirements; and
(vi) Significant adjustments arising from the
audit;
m) To review the Company’s dividend proposals
including considering the quantum, timing
and cash flow of dividend payments, and
recommending the same to the Board for
approval;
n) To review all related party transactions, including
any conflict of interest situations arising;
o) To review the Company’s annual report prior to
submission to the Board for their perusal and
approval, to ensure compliance in accordance
with the provisions of the Companies Act
2016 and Bursa Securities Main Market Listing
Requirements, the applicable approved
accounting standards as per MASB Standards and
any other laws or regulations which might apply;
In relation to Internal Audit
p) To do the following, in relation to the Internal
Audit Department:
(i) Review the adequacy of the scope, functions,
competency and resources of the Internal
Audit Department, and that it has the
necessary authority and resources to carry
out its work, including training programmes
for the staff;
(ii) Consider whether internal audit personnel
are free from any relationships or conflicts of
interest, which could impair their objectivity
and independence;
(iii) Review the internal audit plan for the year
and findings of the internal audit process and,
where necessary, ensure that appropriate
actions are taken on the recommendations
of the Internal Audit Department by
Management;
q) To ensure the Company’s Internal Control
Framework is maintained, including periodically
reviewing controls, organising self-assessments
and ensured effectiveness of the system;
r) To ensure the Company adopts the Standards
and Principles outlined in the International
Professional Practices Framework (IPPF) of The
Institute of Internal Auditors;
s) To review and appraise the performance of
members of the Internal Audit Department on an
annual basis;
t) To approve any appointment and termination
of senior staff members of the Internal Audit
Department; and
u) To takes cognisance of resignations of internal
audit staff members and provide the resigning
staff member an opportunity to submit his
reasons for resigning;
In relation to Enterprise Risk Management
v) To review the risk management framework and
controls on a quarterly basis including Enterprise
Risk Assessment updates, mitigating controls and
action plans to mitigate identified business risks
which enables the Company to update key risks
direction, identify emerging risks and to define
an adequate and practical mitigation action plan
where necessary;
Other Scope of Work
w) To consider and review the appropriateness of any
related party transaction and conflict of interest
situations that may arise within the Company
including ensuring compliance with applicable
laws and regulations;
x) To consider major findings of any internal
investigations and Management’s response
thereon;
y) To review the draft circulars with respect
to obtaining shareholders’ mandate on any
Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a
Revenue or Trading Nature, before submission to
the Board of Directors; and
z) To consider any other topics, as defined by the
Board.
The Audit Committee’s Terms of Reference
can be found on the Company’s website
www.dutchlady.com.my
68
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
C. MEETINGS AND MINUTES
D. SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
The Audit Committee shall meet at least 4 times a year
and the quorum for any meeting shall be 2 members,
consisting of Independent Directors. The Managing
Director, Finance Director and the Internal Auditor will
be invited to attend all meetings of the Audit Committee.
There shall be at least 2 meetings a year with External
Auditors including 2 meetings without the members of
Management. External Auditors will be invited to attend
additional meetings when appropriate and they may
request a meeting with the Audit Committee if they
consider it necessary. Other Board members may attend
meetings upon the invitation of the Audit Committee.
The Company Secretary shall be the Secretary of the
Audit Committee and as a reporting procedure, the
minutes of each Audit Committee meeting shall be
circulated to all members of the Board.
A total of 4 Audit Committee meetings were held
during the financial year 2020. The membership status
and attendance record of each of the members are as
follows:
A summary of the key activities carried out by the Audit
Committee during the financial year is listed below:
(a) Financial Reporting and compliance
The Company’s quarterly and annual financial
statementsaswellasannouncementsmade to Bursa
Securities were reviewed by the Audit Committee
before submission to the Board for its subsequent
approval. In doing so, the Audit Committee
deliberated and focused on changes in major
accounting policies and practices as well as any
adjustments and/or issues affecting audit related
matters to ensure compliance with Main Market
Listing Requirements, the approved Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards, the requirements
of the Companies Act and other relevant legal
and regulatory requirements with regards to the
quarterly and year-end financial statements.
As part of their accounting oversight duties, the
Audit Committee also reviews the External Auditors’
annual and interim audit reports, together with
accompanying Management responses.
(b) Assessing Independence, Suitability, Objectivity and
Cost Effectiveness of the External Auditors
The Audit Committee carried out an annual review
of the independence, suitability, objectivity and
cost effectiveness of the External Auditors before
approving their remuneration and recommending
their re-appointment to the shareholders.
The factors considered include the competency,
and the adequacy of experience and resources of
the firm and professional staff assigned to perform
the audit.
As part of the annual audit exercise, the Audit
Committee obtained assurance from the External
Auditors confirming that they are and have been
independent throughout the conduct of the audit
engagement in accordance with the terms of all
relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
Following the annual assessment review and the
assurance obtained, the Audit Committee remains
confident of the External Auditor’s independence
and suitability.
Members Attendance
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar
Chairperson, Independent Non-Executive Director
4/4
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
4/4
Dato’ Dr Rosini binti Alias
Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
4/4
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman
Member, Independent Non-Executive Director
4/4
Mr Jean Serge Krol
Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
4/4
69
AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT
(c) Risk management and internal controls
The Audit Committee took note of the Company’s
risk management and the control environment
guidelines as implemented using the RFC Internal
Control Framework and the Enterprise Risk
Management programme.
The Audit Committee also received Risk
Management progress reports from Management
quarterly whereby the Audit Committee took note
of the mitigating controls and action plans taken to
mitigate the identified business risks.
(d) Going Concern assessment
The Audit Committee reviewed the going concern
basis for preparing the Company’s financial
statements, including the assumptions underlying
the going concern statement and the period of
assessment.
(e)	External audit
Throughout the financial year, the Audit Committee
had three meeting with External Auditors and
two meetings with them without the presence of
Management. The Audit Committee is pleased
to report that there was no significant matter of
disagreement that arose between the External
Auditors and Management.
To reinforce the independence and objectivity of the
External Auditors, the Audit Committee reviewed
all non-audit services performed by the External
Auditors.
During the financial year, the fees incurred in
respect of non-audit related matters amounted to
RM20,000 for the Review of the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Controls.
The Audit Committee reviewed the financial
statements to take note of changes to the approved
accounting standards and new application on
financial reporting disclosures under the Listing
Requirements.
(f)	Internal Audit
During the year under review, the Audit Committee
had four meetings with the Internal Auditor. During
the engagement, the Audit Committee discussed
the results arising from the Internal Audit findings
and recommendations by the Internal Auditor on the
controls environment and operational weaknesses,
and verified that timely corrective actions were
taken by Management.
(g) Governance
The Audit Committee reviewed the Audit Committee
Report and the Statement of Internal Control and
Risk Management and recommended to the Board
for inclusion in the 2019 Annual Report.
(h) Other Matters
During the financial year, the Audit Committee also
carried out the following activities:
• reviewed the Company’s dividend proposals
• considered the quantum, timing and cash flow of
dividend payments, and recommended the same
to the Board for approval
• reviewed the related party transactions, and any
conflict of interest situations during the year
• reviewed the Circular on Proposed New and
Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent
Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or
Trading Nature and recommended the same to
the Board for shareholders’ approval
• discussed with the External Auditors on Key
Audit Matters and any issues arising from the
audit (in the absence of the Management)
70
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
E. INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Company has an Internal Audit function which
reportstotheAuditCommittee.TheInternalAuditors are
empowered with strict accountability for confidentiality
and safeguarding records and information, is authorised
full, free, and unrestricted access to any and all of the
Company’s records, physical properties, to carrying out
any internal audit or investigation engagement.
The Company’s Internal Audit is headed by Mr Eddie Lim
who has over 10 years of experience in various finance
functions including internal audit. He is a Chartered
Accountant of Malaysia Institute of Accountants and
a member of the Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants, United Kingdom. The Head of Internal
Audit is currently supported by a Senior Internal Auditor.
The Internal Audit function is independent from
the activities of other operating departments and
undertakes to review all processes of the Company and
its relationships with third parties. It also carries out
risk management activities under the Enterprise Risk
Management programme developed by the RFC Group.
The programme incorporates a process to facilitate risk
identification, assessment, reporting as well as review
and mitigation risks that affect the achievement of the
Company’s objectives and policies.
During the financial year, the Internal Auditors
undertook the following activities:
(a) Prepared the internal audit plan for the year, which
is reviewed and approved annually by the Audit
Committee, and updated where necessary by the
Audit Committee;
(b) Carried out all internal audit activities in accordance
with the audit plan and adopts the Standards and
Principles outlined in the International Professional
Practices Framework (IPPF) of The Institute of
Internal Auditors and best practices in COSO
Framework;
(c) Prepared the internal audit programme based on
the internal audit plan, for each activity or process
to be audited;
(d) Maintained the Company’s Internal Control
Framework, including periodically reviewing
controls, organising self-assessments and ensured
effectiveness of the system;
(e) Discussed with auditees, process owners and
Management on the results of the audit for each
activity or process, root cause analysis will be assess
prior any recommendations in order to mitigate the
identified risk or control work flow improvements;
(f) On a quarterly basis, reviewed the Enterprise Risk
Assessment updates, which enables the Company
to update key risks direction, identify emerging risks
and to define an adequate and practical mitigation
action plan where necessary;
(g) Reported to the Audit Committee on a quarterly
basis, the results from the internal audit and
governance issues identified together with
Management Team’s response and action plans; and
(h) Followed up on all the action plans agreed from
the previous internal audit reports to ensure that
all matters arising are adequate addressed by the
Management.
Costs amounting to RM420,820.00 were incurred in
relation to the internal audit function for the financial
year ended 31 December 2020.
Further details of the activities of the Internal Audit
and Internal Control Department are set out in the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control of
this Annual Report.
F. ANNUAL REVIEW AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
An annual performance evaluation was carried out
on the Audit Committee in an effort to enhance and
improve its processes of the control environment.
The Audit Committee’s responsibility is to monitor
and review the practices and processes performed by
Management and the External Auditors. It is not the
Audit Committee’s duty or responsibility to conduct
auditing or accounting reviews. The Audit Committee
members are not employees of the Company. Therefore,
the Audit Committee has relied, without independent
verification, on Management’s representation that the
financial statements have been prepared with integrity
and objectivity, in conformity with approved accounting
principles and standards generally accepted in Malaysia
and on the representations of the External Auditors
included in its reports on the Company’s financial
statements and internal control over financial reporting.
71
Statement of risk management and
internal control
The Board of Directors affirms its responsibility for maintaining a sound and effective
system of risk management and internal control and outlines the nature of risk
management procedures and internal control system within Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad for the year under review.
Responsibility and Accountability
The Board continues its commitment and responsibility
towards effective risk management practices and
system of internal controls which includes the adoption
of appropriate Control Frameworks established by
Royal FrieslandCampina N.V. (“RFC”) and reviewing
its effectiveness, adequacy and integrity. The Board is
responsible for identifying the key internal and external
business risks faced by the Company and for determining
the course of actions to manage those risks. The Company
continuously evaluates and manages risks and reviews the
planned actions to safeguard shareholders’ investments
and the Company’s assets.
The Board has received assurance from the Managing
Director and the Finance Director that the Company’s risk
management and internal control system is adequate and
operating effectively, in all material aspects.
The Board maintains full control over strategic, financial,
organisational and compliance matters and has put in
place an organisational structure with formal lines of
responsibility and delegation of authority. The Board and
the Audit Committee have delegated to Management
the implementation of system of risk management
and internal controls within an established governance
framework throughout the Company.
Risk Management Framework
The Company aims for transparency in identifying,
evaluating and mitigating risks by adopting Enterprise Risk
Management (“ERM”) programme that was developed and
issued by RFC based on internationally recognised COSO
framework. This framework describes the management’s
risk appetite, structure, responsibilities, processes and
governance reporting procedures. It has been developed
to provide a reasonable degree of certainty that strategic
objectives are achieved by creating focus, integrating
control measures into the Company’s activities, ensuring
compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and by
safeguarding the reliability of financial and non-financial
reporting and the related explanatory notes.
The Company’s risk management programme is led by the
Managing Director and supported by a Risk Management
Committee comprising of Management Team from all
functional units of the Company. In providing assurance
to the Board of Directors on the Company’s adequacy and
effectiveness of risk management, the Risk Management
Committee carried out continuous review and update of
the status of risk mitigation actions and identify emerging
risks.
The ERM framework focuses on the Company’s core
business operations and it allows the Company to:
• Establish clear functional responsibilities and
accountabilities within the Company’s structures for
management of risks;
• Enhance and improve corporate governance with a
clear, concise and comprehensive structure for the
Company;
• Promote an effective risk awareness where risk
management is an integral aspect of the Company’s
business plan and project portfolio; and
• Ensure appropriate skills and resources are applied to
risk management.
Risk Appetite
The Company’s general risk appetite depends on the risk
categories, as set out in the table below.
Risk Category and Risk Appetite
Risk Category General Risk Appetite
Strategic
(S)
The Company is prepared to take
a certain degree of calculated
risks relating to the realisation of
its performance objectives and
long-term goals.
Operational
(O)
The Company attempts to
minimise the impact of
unforeseen disruption on its
operating activities.
Financial
(F)
The Company has a conservative
and sound framework of financial
policiesandprocedurestoprevent
risks that could have a significant
impact on the financial results
and material misstatements in its
financial statements reporting.
Compliance
(C)
The Company applies a zero
tolerance policy.
72
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
Key Risks and Uncertainties
Risk management discipline ensures that risk assessment is an on-going process whereby risks and risk mitigation
measures are regularly reviewed and adjusted accordingly. A summary of the key and specific risks with which the
Company is confronted that could impact the realisation of its strategic objectives, and the measures designed to mitigate
these risks are contained in the table below.
Risks Key Risks Factors Risk Acceptance Mitigation Measures
Process
disruptions (O)
Disruption of critical
operational business
processes.
• Risk concentration
(sites capacity,
suppliers, service and
supply chain providers)
• Limited alternative
options
• Critical event
Moderate
The Company aims
to limit the impact
of unforeseen
disruption on its
business operations.
For risk associated
with critical event
the Company accept
minor operational
malfunctions, provided
this does not affect the
continuity of business
processes
• A calamity and contingency plan is
in place and is reviewed regularly
• Evaluation and development of
alternative options via other related
parties, outsource and engagement
programme
Agility of the
Company and
Innovation (S)
Responsiveness
and decisiveness to
anticipate changes
in market conditions
and demand.
Ability to renew
the product range
and to successfully
respond to
changing consumer
preferences.
• Inadequate response
to changes in
consumer or customer
demands and their
preferences
• Increasing local
competition
• Greater demand for
specific products that
require diversification
• Increasing interest in
health and nutrition
• Time-to-market
• Digital marketing
Moderate
The Company is
prepared to accept a
moderate level of risk
as long as this does not
endanger the Company’s
strategic long-term
goals and market brand
reputation
• Programmes for the analysis of
consumer trends (market research,
focus groups, preference testing)
and competitor modus operandi
• Processes designed to manage
the innovation funnel and product
development strategies
• Reinforce World Class Operations
Management (WCOM) for supply
chain activities and Continuous
Improvement Programmes for other
processes
• Regular analysis of competitor
developments
Product quality and
food safety (O, C)
Poor product
quality or product
contamination
that causes
health hazards for
consumers.
• Production process
problems that cause
quality defects
• Increasing
communication speed
through social media
• Deliberate spread of
quality problems by
third parties
Insignificant
The Company maintains
the highest food
quality and food safety
standards
• The Company adhering to the
RFC internal quality and food
safety system with FoQus quality
programme and undergo periodic
audit verification
• Transparent management reporting
of quality trends and incidents
throughout the organisation
• In-depth root cause analysis is
performed to ensure any incident
is thoroughly investigated and
appropriate corrective actions
implemented to prevent and
eliminate future occurence
73
Statement of risk management and
internal control
Risks Key Risks Factors Risk Acceptance Mitigation Measures
Reputation (S)
Potential
reputational loss
due to incidents or
changes in public
opinion.
• Increased importance
of public opinion,
media and publicity
• Social media and
transparency of
information
• Unfounded or fake
news in the media
• Anti-corruption and
anti-bribery MACC Act
17(A)
Moderate
The Company is
prepared to accept a
moderate level of risk
as long as this does not
endanger the Company’s
strategic long-term
goals
• Proactive involvement and
communication with stakeholders
(for example, governments and
sector associations)
• Media and reputation tracking
• Repressive measures, such as crisis
management, training and testing
Financial and
economic (F)
Unfavourable
development of the
Company’s financial
position.
• Overall excess or
shortage of cash,
insufficient access to
capital, interest rates,
currency or commodity
pricing risks, credit risk
exposure
• Geopolitical issues
impact on local
demand
• Price developments of
raw materials
Moderate
The Company is
prepared to accept a
moderate impact of
external developments
on its financial position
(indicator: 5%-10% of
total EBIT)
• Procedures for planning, budgeting,
forecasting and assessing business
operations
• Cash flow and working capital
management
• Monitoring and analysis of
economic developments
• Coordinated treasury and currency
management
Environment
(O,F,C)
Climax and pollution
issue due to
operation.
• Compliance with
environmental law and
regulations
• Environmental
pollution
Moderate
The Company maintains
compliance with the
laws and regulations
• Compliant waste and effluent
management
• Special task force in place to
manage and monitor potential risks
COVID-19 Pandemic
(S,O,F)
Economic slowdown
post COVID.
• Weaker consumer
spending
• Impact on local
demand leading to
lower order
• Trade receivable
collection risk
Moderate
The Company deploys
actions to address post
COVID-19 slowdown
in economy that
impacted business and
profitability
• Stabilised core business profitability
• Strengthened E-commerce strategy
to meet consumer needs
• Regular collection meeting and
closely follow up on debt collection
74
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
Internal Control Structure and Processes
The system of internal controls is designed to safeguard
the assets of the Company, to ensure the maintenance of
proper accounting records and to provide reliable financial
and non-financial information for use within the business
and for publication. However, these controls provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
error, misstatement, loss or breach of set regulations.
The principal features of the Company’s internal control
structure are summarised as follows:
• Board Committees
The functions and responsibilities of the various
committees of the Board of Directors are defined in the
terms of reference. These include the Audit Committee,
the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration
Committee.
• Organisational Structure and Responsibility Levels
The Company has an organisational structure with
formal lines of responsibility and authorisation
procedures within which senior management operates
and is accountable for.
• Authority Levels, Acquisitions and Disposals
There are authorisation procedures and delegated
authority levels for major tenders, major capital
expenditure projects, acquisitions and disposal of
businesses and other significant transactions.
	Investment decisions are delegated to Management
in accordance with authority limits. Appraisal and
monitoring procedures are applied to all major
investment decisions, and at times using external
consultants for advisory services.
Board of Directors’ approval is required for key
treasury matters including equity and loan financing,
material acquisitions and disposals of assets not in
the ordinary course of business, investment in capital
projects, cheque signatories and the opening of bank
accounts.
On top of this, the FrieslandCampina Corporate Manual
includes the procedures and guidelines in which
responsibilities and authorisations are stipulated and
are applicable for the day to day management of the
Company.
• Procedure and Control Environment
	In addition to internal controls, the Directors
have ensured that health and safety regulations,
environmental controls and political risks have
been considered, and relevant laws and regulations
complied with. The quality of the Company’s products
is of paramount. Quality Assurance, Quality Control
and meeting customers’ requirements are prime
considerations and these are achieved by the Company
being FSSC 22000 certified. Ultimately, the aim of the
Company is to deliver safe food to consumers, whilst
demonstrating compliance with the prevailing laws
and regulations.
	In addition, strong emphasis is also given to food
safety with Good Manufacturing Practices and Hazard
Analysis and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”) System
that cover all plants.
The Company has in place the ISO 14001 Environment
Management System, a systematic management
approach to the environmental concerns of the
Company, and OHSAS 18001, the Occupational Health
and Safety Assessment Series for the protection of
employees from hazards and the mitigation of work
related injuries and health-related issues.
Since 2011, the Company has embarked upon FoQus,
an internal broad based quality system for Food
Safety and Quality Management System and Safety
Health and Environment Management System within
FrieslandCampina. Regular FoQus audit is carry out
to ensure that products produced by the Company
and the way in which they are being produced meet
the necessary high standards on food safety, quality,
labour safety and environment.
The Company has formal guidelines on safety, health
and environment which apply to all employees and
third party contractors.
The integrity and competence of personnel are
continuously assessed through the Performance
Management System, talent assessment programme,
management organisation development and Hay
Reward Management System.
75
Statement of risk management and
internal control
• Standards of Business Ethics
	Employees are contractually bound to observe
prescribed standards of business ethics when
conducting themselves at work and in their relationship
with external parties, such as customers and suppliers.
	In this regard, the RFC Group’s code for good business
conduct, Compass, plays an important role in the
management of compliance risk. This code of conduct
and its underlying guidelines (which include the
Speak-Up Procedure, Fair Competition guidelines
and Doing Honest Business, amongst others) forms
the basis of the honest, respectful and transparent
business conduct of the Company’s employees and
third parties with whom the Company transacts
with. Compliance with this code of conduct and
the guidelines is cascaded to all employees by
means of a comprehensive communication and
training programmes, with designated local trusted
representatives, set in place.
The Compass is supported globally by RFC Corporate
Headquarters with an established Integrity Committee
and a reporting platform that is available to employees
24 hours a day, seven days a week so they can,
in confidence, express their concerns regarding a
suspected infringement of the code or a guideline.
	In line with this, the Company has an Employee
Handbook that guides the Company’s employees in
their day to day conduct. Employees are expected to
conduct themselves with integrity and objectivity and
not be placed in a position of conflict of interest.
Suppliers are also bound by the “RFC Business
Practices for Suppliers” to ensure honest conduct
of business is being practiced within the Company’s
business operations.
• Formalised Strategic Planning and Operating Plan
Processes
The Strategic Planning process is led by RFC Group
and is focusing on long term strategic direction of
the Company, prioritising future investments and
resources.
The Company performs business planning and
budgeting process each year, to establish plans and
targets against which performance is monitored on a
monthly basis by Management.
The Company formulated a Sales & Operations
Planning process to align product demand and
supply together with financial resources in order
to provide the Company with defined business
strategies and priorities. In addition, the process also
aims to continuously improve business performance,
especially on the improvement in customer service
levels, forecasting accuracy and inventory turnover
management.
• Reporting and Review
The Company’s Management Team monitors the
monthly reporting and reviews the financial results and
forecasts for the business against the operating plans
and annual budgets. The results are communicated
to employees at the Company’s town hall sessions.
A separate monthly financial report is also disseminated
to the Management Team members, with periodical
meetings organised with core business managers.
The Managing Director reports on a quarterly basis
to the Audit Committee and the Board of Directors
on significant changes in the business and external
environment in which the Company operates.
• Financial Performance
The preparation of quarterly and full-year financial
results and the state of affairs, as published to
shareholders, are reviewed by the Audit Committee
and later approved by the Board.
• Assurance Compliance
The Board, Audit Committee and Management review
the Internal Audit reports on a quarterly basis and
monitor the status of implementation of corrective
actions that are prepared by the Internal Audit team
to address internal control weaknesses noted.
76
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
• Internal Control Framework (ICF)
The Company has in place an ICF based on the
framework that was developed and issued by RFC.
The ICF comprises prescribed control measures
that are evaluated by means of regular internal
assessments for which if shortcomings are discovered,
improvement measures are set in place and regularly
tracked.
During the year, the Company continued the execution
and self-assessment testing of the ICF controls and
procedures.
• Update on Developments
Quarterly reporting is made to the Board on legal,
accounting, and sustainability developments where
applicable. Briefings are also conducted to keep
employees informed of changes to legislation or local
by-laws that are expected to affect the Company’s
operations or the way the Company conducts its
business, where relevant.
Internal Audit Function
The Internal Audit independently focuses on the key areas
of business and operations risk based on the audit plan
approved annually by the Audit Committee. Internal audit
reports are presented on a quarterly basis to the Audit
Committee.
The Internal Audit team highlights, to the Audit Committee
and Management, areas for improvement and follows-up
on the progress of implementation of the agreed actions
arising from the internal audit report.
The Audit Committee in turn reviews the effectiveness of
the system of internal controls in operation and reports
the results thereon to the Board.
Adequacy and effectiveness of Risk
Management and Internal Control System
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness, adequacy
and integrity of the system of risk management and
internal controls in operation during the financial year
through the monitoring process set out above.
There were no material losses incurred during the current
financial year as a result of weaknesses in internal control.
Management continues to take measures to strengthen
the control environment.
Taking into account the limitations that are inevitably
inherent in any risk management and internal control
system, and the possibilities for improving the system,
the Company’s risk management and internal control
systems provide a reasonable degree of assurance that:
• The Board will be informed quarterly of the degree to
which the Company’s strategic, operational, financial
and compliance objectives are being achieved;
• The internal and external financial reporting do not
contain any material misstatement and that the risk
management and internal control systems functioned
effectively during 2018; and
• The Company has complied with the relevant legislation
and regulations.
This Statement is prepared in accordance with the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control –
Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers (Guidelines)
with an effective date of 31 December 2012, in line with
the Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Bursa Malaysia Listing
Requirements and Principle B of the Malaysian Code of
Corporate Governance 2017 as issued by the Securities
Commission Malaysia.
The Review of the Statement by External
Auditors
As required by Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements,
the external auditors have reviewed this Statement on
Risk Management and Internal Control. Their limited
assurance review was performed in accordance with Audit
and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3, issued by the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”).
AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to form
an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk
management and internal control systems of the Company.
77
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
Sustainability and responsibility remain a key pillar of our business
strategy. As a leading dairy company, we are committed to demonstrate
responsible corporate conduct across all aspects of our operations.
This Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with the
guidelines set out in the Main Market Listing Requirements relating
to Sustainability Statement in Annual Report of Listed Issuers
(“Guidelines”) issued by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and covers
the Company’s business operations in Malaysia for the financial year
ended 31 December 2020.
82
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY:
DAIRY WITH A PURPOSE
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad’s (“DLMI/the
Company”) mission is to create shared value
to all our stakeholders through our strategic
initiatives, in line with that of our parent
company, Royal FrieslandCampina N.V. (“RFC”).
Based on RFC’s global theme of Nourishing by
Nature, we leverage on our Dutch dairy heritage
and unique global milk chain in a sustainable way.
As one of the leading dairy players in Malaysia,
we are committed to demonstrate responsible
corporate conduct across all aspects of our
operations.
Board Commitment & Reporting Framework
Our Board of Directors is mindful of the
Company’s responsibility towards sustainability
issues and its role in our long-term strategic plans.
The Board, in partnership with Management
and other stakeholders, are committed towards
ensuring that responsible corporate conduct
is demonstrated and practiced in DLMI’s daily
business activities across all aspects of DLMI’s
operations.
Board of Directors
• Oversee sustainability performance
• Approve sustainability initiatives and
budget
Management Team
• Monitor and act on related risks and
reports on progress
• Responsible for sustainable business
policies and practices
• Formulate sustainable strategy, policies
and KPI goals
• Monitor, align and facilitate adherence to
the sustainability policy
• Facilitate and support operating divisions
to meet sustainability goals
• Conduct sustainability awareness and
engagement activities
• Quarterly sustainability performance
reporting
Operating Divisions
• Day-to-day management of sustainability
risks and issues
• Own and ensure compliance of relevant
sustainability-related policies and practices
• Record all sustainability source data
SDG 2: Zero Hunger
End hunger, achieve food security and improve
nutrition, and promote sustainable agriculture
SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic
growth, full and productive employment and decent
work for all
SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and Production
Ensure sustainable consumption and production
patterns
SDG 13: Climate Action
Take urgent action to combat climate change and its
impacts
SGD 15: Life on Land
Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of
terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests,
combat desertification, and halt and reverse land
degradation and halt biodiversity loss
The United Nations has formulated 17 Sustainable Development
Goals (“SDG”) related to responsible production and consumption,
climate change, sustainable communities, health and well-being,
and efforts to fight poverty and starvation.
Of these 17 goals, DLMI and our parent company RFC, have identified
five SDGs that we contribute to. They are:
Sustainability Development Goals
83
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
These five SDGs form the backbone of the RFC Group’s sustainability principles. It also ensures DLMI’s competitive
advantage in the marketplace and in building a long-term product brand value. The following framework is implemented:
Focus Areas Economic Environmental Social
Strategic Goals To strengthen innovation
and operational efficiency
to ensure food safety and
towards a more balanced
resource–efficient
management
To adopt best practice
solutions through innovative
quality processes
To act as catalysts for boosting
community development and
support systems for long-term
talent pipeline
Material Matters • Right culture and shared
values
• Safety and health
• Supply chain dynamics
• Client-centric services
• Value for shareholders
• Environmental protection
• Material efficiency
• Energy and water
consumption management
• Waste, noise and effluent
management
• Equal employment and
employee engagement
• Talent development
• Community services
Sustainability Governance Framework
Sustainability is embedded within DLMI and is led
from the top. Sustainability matters are managed by
various departments within the company. Based on the
Economic, Environmental and Social framework and in
line with DLMI’s vision of nourishing Malaysians with
trusted quality dairy nutrition. We aspire to demonstrate
our commitment to sustainability within the market we
operate in, the environment, the surrounding community
and in the workplace.
Materiality Assessment
In order to achieve DLMI’s sustainability objectives,
a comprehensive risk materiality assessment was
conducted internally. This was done through a series of
workshops with various internal stakeholders where
issues were identified by internal stakeholders and survey
results from employees were considered.
Based on the risk materiality assessment, the top 5
principal risks were identified. A summary of the key risks
and uncertainties as well the mitigation factors undertaken
by DLMI to meet the challenges can be in found in the
Statement of Risk Management and Internal Controls.
The risks and the mitigation factors for 2020 were shared
with the Board and quarterly updates have been provided
to the Board on developments/outcomes of the steps
taken.
Sustainability Targets
From the key risks and uncertainties identified in the risk
materiality assessment, it was broadly identified that we
should demonstrate our commitment to sustainability in
the following areas:
COMMUNITY
WORKPLACE
ENVIRONMENT
MARKETPLACE
The following sections discuss the various steps DLMI has
undertaken in 2020 to meet our sustainability targets.
84
MARKETPLACE
Balanced Nutrition
As the world population continues to grow, so does the need
for consistent and sustainable provision of quality nutrition
to provide the right nutrients to our consumers. Our parent
company, RFC has this as one of the four cornerstones of its
own CSR priorities – to ensure sufficient nutritious food is
available to help combat undernourishment and a shortage
of nutrients.
Locally, DLMI aims to continue our efforts in combating
Malaysia’s dual burden problem of malnutrition:
undernutrition and overnutrition (obesity), and nutrient
deficiency by ensuring our products are responsibly
manufactured, high quality, healthy and available in various
choice and portion sizes.
We innovate to provide our consumers with more product
offerings to attract more consumers to drink milk in all
occasions. At the same time, we educate our consumers on
healthy eating to have a strong start to the day with breakfast
and the need to make lifestyle changes emphasising the
importance of being active with daily exercise.
DUTCH LADY
HALAL
Halalan-Toyyiban Commitment
DLMI remains committed to providing Halal products
to our consumers by putting in place Halal systems
that sets out our commitment to adhering to the
Jabatan Kemajuan Islam Malaysia’s (“JAKIM”) and
Jabatan Agama Islam Selangor (“JAIS”) requirements.
This covers the highest standards of hygiene, quality
and safety conditions from the purchasing of raw
materials to distribution of our products. DLMI’s
Internal Halal Committee (IHC) was established to
undertake collective responsibility towards ensuring
the Company practices adherence to the Halal Policy
in alignment with both JAKIM and JAIS requirements.
Over the years, the Company has continued to increase
efforts through IHC activities and initiatives in raising
awareness amongst our employees through Halal
communication and Halal trivia, participation in Jariah
Susu (Ramadan Healthy Charity) during the fasting
month, Halal internal audit training and periodic
Halal briefing to distributors. DLMI acknowledges
the importance of Halal professionalism whereby we
continue to empower our Internal Halal Committee
members by undergoing the Halal Professional Board
certification by JAKIM. This further demonstrates
our leadership and commitment in ensuring our
professional competency towards halal compliance.
The certification signifies an important milestone for
the Internal Halal Committee in establishing the future
Halal Roadmap for the Company.
DLMI’s commitment and efforts toward elevating Halal
compliance and practices in Malaysia were recognised
by JAKIM through various platforms which includes
being awarded the “White List” status in 2017 which
expedites the process of DLMI Halal certification for
‘speed to market’. DLMI will continue extending our
Halal commitment and support to other State Halal
authorities accelerated programmes such as the White
List programme in the near future.
These many achievements reflect that DLMI’s Halal
system and practices in preserving our Halal integrity
throughout DLMI’s supply chain to serve and cater to
the needs of Malaysian consumers are well recognised
by relevant Halal authorities.
Industry pledge
In 2020, DLMI took a proactive step in further strengthening
its stance on nutrition by participating in the industry
self-regulating movement on responsible advertising to
children under the Federation of Malaysian Manufacturers’
Pledge (FMM Pledge) together with 12 other companies. The
FMM Pledge governance and commitment is well recognised
in support of the national health agenda led by the Ministry
of Health’s National Plan of Action for Nutrition of Malaysia
III (NPANM III 2016-2025) in improving unhealthy eating
habits and nutritional status of Malaysians.
85
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
Commitment to Food Quality and
Safety
Quality Assurance, Quality Control and
meeting customer requirements are prime
considerations for our business. At DLMI,
we have achieved FSSC 22000 certification.
Ultimately, the aim of the Company is to
deliver safe food and good quality products to
consumers, whilst demonstrating compliance
with the prevailing laws and regulations.
In addition, strong emphasis is also given to
food safety with Good Manufacturing Practices
(GMP) and Hazard Analysis and Critical Control
Point (“HACCP”) System that cover all plants.
In addition, the Ministry of Health (“MOH”) has
acknowledged our commitment in Food Safety
& Quality by granting us the Fast Track GMP
certificate in addition to the HACCP certificate
DLMI obtained from MOH earlier.
The RFC Group safeguards food safety and
food quality using the FoQus system. FoQus
is the RFC global internal quality and food
safety management system which requires all
RFC production locations to undergo periodic
audit verification to ensure its products and
manufacturing processes meet the highest
standards of the Group on quality and food
safety.
FoQus supports the RFC Group and the
Company in the development of an increasingly
robust production process. With FoQus, strict
requirements are enforced to ensure that all
our products and the way in which it is produced
meets our own high standards on food safety,
quality, labour safety and environment.
DLMI continues to enhance the safety and
quality of our products and we have successfully
achieved “Gold” rating in ONE audit (integrated
maturity assessment audit programme) in
2020. We also received global recognition and
acknowledgement for our quality improvement
projects and Golden Quality Certificate from
the RFC Executive Board.
Corporate and Personal Conduct
To DLMI, sustainability means carrying out our business in a socially
responsible and holistic manner to ensure continuous growth and
success for the benefit of both the present and future generations.
In pursuing this, we are guided by RFC’s “Compass”, which is our
code for good business conduct. Compass and its corresponding
policies provide the basic principles of integrity, respect and
transparent business behaviour of DLMI and our employees in all our
business undertakings. All our employees are expected to maintain
the highest standards of propriety, integrity and conduct in all their
business relationships. Employees are contractually bound to abide
by the Compass code for good business conduct in their business
activities and with external stakeholders such as our customers
and suppliers. Bribery and corruption are not tolerated. Employees
are encouraged to report any malpractices without fear or favour
with the establishment of the Speak-Up procedure which allow an
employee to address any concerns regarding non-compliance with
Compass to the Company’s local trusted representatives or an
external contact at the RFC Group’s head office.
Compass has 14 corresponding policies which includes the
whistle-blowing policy (known as Speak-Up), the anti-bribery
and corruption policy (known as Doing Honest Business), fair
competition policy, the privacy policy and many more. These
policies are introduced to all employees within the Company
via a comprehensive communication and training programme,
e-learnings, and during employee townhalls. On our Doing Honest
Business Policy and training on the Corporate Liability Provision
Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009
(MACC Act), we ensure that the recommendations of the Guidelines
on Adequate Procedures pursuant to the MACC Act are followed.
In line with the above, the Company’s suppliers and vendors are
also required to accept the FrieslandCampina Suppliers’ Business
Practices when becoming a provider of goods and/or services to
DLMI.
Responsibility to shareholders and investors
We recognise the importance of maintaining transparency and
accountability to our shareholders and investors. In line with
good governance practices, we place utmost importance on
compliance, accountability and transparency in the disclosure of
information to our stakeholders. We frequently engage research
analysts and the media about DLMI’s performance, new product
launches and corporate social activities. DLMI’s website at
www.dutchlady.com.my provides corporate and financial
information as well as news, highlights, events, product information
and nutritional advice. Further details on the various channels
utilised for timely engagement with our shareholders and investors
can be found in our Corporate Governance Overview Statement
and Statement of Risk Management & Internal Control in this
Annual Report.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
86
ENVIRONMENT
We remain committed towards our responsibility on environmental issues in the conduct of our business. It combines our
responsibility with our business objectives for long-term sustainable development. Our Safety, Health and Environmental
(“SHE”) Policy outlines our commitment and position on this.
Waste Management
DLMI is fully committed to reducing our carbon footprint
by reducing waste to landfill. We achieved 86% in 2020
with launching 3R (Reduce, Reuse & Recycle) programme
throughout the site.
OCT
JUL
APR
JAN NOV
AUG
MAY
FEB DEC
SEP
JUN
MAR YTD
Non-Landfilled (2017-2020)
2017
65%
75%
79%
86%
2018 2019 2020
100%
50%
2020 Total Non-Landfilled
90%
80%
DLMI generates the following industrial waste:
In 2020, we recycled 86% of our
waste and reduced our landfill waste
by an average of 7% following the
launch of our 3R (Reduce, Reuse &
Recycle) programme.
DLMI also began recycling office
waste (such as printed paper, shred
paper and Non-Food Waste from
Office Pantry), food waste in the
canteen and reduced usage of single
used plastics (such as mineral water
packing lunch box and disposable
utensils).
Drum &
Barrel
Recycle
Powder
Sludge
Metal
Chemical
Plastic &
Plastic Wrap
Powder Bag
Carton & Box
87
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Waste Water Management
DLMI uses bio-organism technology in our
Waste Water Treatment Plant (WWTP) that
produced 443 tonnes of bio-sludge for fertiliser
in 2020.
The waste water effluent discharge from
the Waste Water Treatment Plant is also in
compliance with Standard B (a standard set for
discharge downstream of any raw water intake)
stated in The Environmental Quality Act 1974.
We have also made safety improvements at
WWTP which includes belt press machine
guarding and additional emergency staircase.
Energy and Water Management
In 2020, we successfully managed our energy and water despite
the high energy demand required for our new UHT lines that were
installed to further improve energy and water efficiency at our plant.
We achieved Energy ratio at 1.13 GJ/ton and Water ratio at 3.41 versus
budgeted 1.13 and 3.70 respectively with few mechanical initiatives
and programmes below:
• Auto-blowdown for boiler system
• Conversion to LED lightings from conventional lightings
• Steam system optimisation
• Compressed air optimisation
Besides the mechanical measurements, DLMI continued with the One
Day One Leak (ODOL) programme whereby all observations captured
shall be attended by Engineering within 24 hours ensuring minimum
energy wastage and water leakage.
Energy & Water Ratio
2016
2015
Water Energy
3.3
3.92
4.14
3.77
3.46
3.41
1.25
1.17
1.12
1.03
1.03
1.13
2017 2018 2019
Year
GJ/
ton
2020
6
0
4
2
88
Sustainable Sourcing
DLMI believes in an efficient and sustainable supply chain.
Other raw materials are used such as palm oil and cocoa,
sugar and packaging materials like paper and cardboard.
Dairy raw materials are sourced via the parent company
RFC, as well as from local farmers. Local farmers are
supported via the Dairy Development Programme. Further
details on the programme are contained in this report.
Our parent company, RFC, is a member of the Round Table
on Sustainable Palm Oil (“RSPO”). In line with this, since
2011, we have manufactured our products using 100%
sustainable palm oil. Besides sourcing for RSPO palm
oil, we had also embarked on our journey to increase the
visibility of our supply chains in 2019. Our sources of palm
oil can be traced to the mill of production which opens
the opportunity for DLMI to identify possible vulnerable
spots and to work with our suppliers on introducing
improvements in the process.
The same effort was put in place for cocoa, another major
ingredient used. We use only sustainable cocoa that meets
the Rainforest Alliance certification criteria. Certification
shows that our products have been sourced, from farm
to shelf, in a sustainable manner. In addition, our starch
raw material suppliers are audited and comply with Sedex
Members Ethical Trade Audit (“SMETA”) and is one of the
most widely used ethical audit formats in the world.
As members of Bonsucro, the global sugar cane
sustainability platform, DLMI supports the sustainable
production of sugar cane by purchasing 75% of our annual
requirements in 2019 and achieving 100% in 2020 of
sugar as Bonsucro certified. Through this, we demonstrate
our commitment to sustainable production of sugar cane,
consistent with the company’s Sustainability Strategy of
Nourishing by Nature.
Besides sourcing sustainable (agricultural) raw materials,
we have also demonstrated our commitment to responsible
forestry by using the Forest Stewardship Council (“FSC”)
certified materials as its primary packaging used for our
Dutch Lady UHT milk.
In Malaysia, DLMI was the first manufacturer to use
FSC-certified packaging, beginning mid-2013. This is easily
identified through the FSC logo printed on the products.
Our efforts do not stop merely at primary packaging, but it
continues to secondary packaging as most materials used
by our Company are from sustainable sources.
Recyclable packaging
At DLMI, we are fully committed in ensuring sustainability.
Our packaging portfolio is 85% recyclable and circular
and 45% of our plastics are recyclable and circular.
We are fully committed for our packaging to be 100% fully
recyclable by 2025, mirroring our global commitment.
Our parent company, RFC signed The New Plastics
Economy Global Commitment, led by The Ellen MacArthur
Foundation, and the Plastic Pact NL in 2019 to demonstrate
our commitment towards making our packaging 100%
reusable and recyclable by 2025 and fully circular by
2050.
89
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
COMMUNITY
Spreading the Goodness OF Dairy
Milk is an important source of nutrition in the development of our physical and
intellectual health. Therefore, along with our purpose of spreading the goodness
of milk, we have played an active role in supporting deserving organisations
through sponsorship and donation of our dairy products, especially where the
well-being, health and nutrition of families and children are concerned.
In 2020, DLMI continued to focus on the plight of the underprivileged community
impacted by the Movement Control Order (MCO) and also Malaysia’s frontline
heroes; from limited access to food supply and nutrition during the lockdown –
affecting their health and well-being.
Nourishing Malaysians during trying times
DLMI has contributed more than 200,000 packets of Dutch Lady milk to
Malaysia’s dedicated and tireless medical frontline personnel treating Covid-19
patients.
During the MCO period, DLMI contributed milk and dairy beverages to
Sungai Buloh Hospital, Universiti Malaya Medical Centre, Hospital Kuala Lumpur,
Dewan Bandaraya Kuala Lumpur, law enforcement agencies and government
agencies in order to boost morale and provide necessary nourishment to all the
frontline heroes as they battle against Covid-19.
DLMI also helped stranded and less fortunate members of society to gain
access to better nutrition during the MCO.
We supplied Dutch Lady UHT milk packets to the Universiti Malaya Food Bank
(UM Food Bank), Yayasan Food Bank Malaysia, and the Autism Cafe Project
which were then distributed to qualified recipients.
The milk products were also channelled to 1,500 university students stranded
on campus when the MCO was announced and this form of assistance ensured
the students received proper nourishment.
Universiti Malaya students who were stranded in Campus receiving their Dutch Lady milk packs as part of arrangements between DLMI
and UM Food Bank
As a responsible corporate
citizen, we are just
as concerned as other
Malaysians about the
COVID-19 pandemic.
In this small way, we hope
to do our part to support
those in need. This helps
us continue our purpose of
nourishing Malaysians with
quality dairy nutrition
Tarang Gupta,
Managing Director, DLMI
90
Thankful for the nutritious milk given to them by Dutch Lady
Milk Industries Berhad
An elderly
gentlemen
receiving food
and nutritious
Dutch Lady
chocolate milk
for iftar
Bringing nourishment to the underprivileged families
during MCO
Ramadan Charity Programme
DLMI had organised the Ramadan Charity Programme
(called “Jariah Susu”) to provide much needed nutrition
to the underprivileged community by partnering
non-governmental and charitable organisations.
The enforcement of the MCO presented us with numerous
challenges but we remained focused on our purpose to
keep Malaysia healthy and strong.
Through our Ramadan Charity Programme, we partnered
with three charitable foundations, Yayasan Basmi
Kemiskinan, Yayasan Salam Malaysia and Masjid Tun
Abdul Aziz.
The partnership provided DLMI with the opportunity
to reach more than 1,000 underprivileged families,
nationwide, impacted by the MCO to ensure they had
access to enough nutrition during the fasting period.
Over 17,000 packs of delicious milk were distributed to
the needy to enjoy their breaking of fast and also for their
sahur.
Project DL Cares
During the MCO, DLMI played a role as a good
corporate citizen to make sure Malaysian families had
access to our trusted dairy nutrition, especially those
severely impacted by the MCO.
World Milk Day 2020
The World Milk Day was particularly important as the
role of nutrition for general health is amplified by health
experts in the midst of the global COVID-19 pandemic,
a fight Malaysia has so far managed effectively.
DLMI demonstrated its strong support to Malaysia’s
efforts during the full MCO whereby more than 200,000
Dutch Lady milk packets were donated to medical
frontline heroes at Hospital Kuala Lumpur, University
Malaya Medical Centre as well as to enforcement agencies,
underprivileged communities and stranded university
students.
In 2020, the World Milk Day theme - Milk Keeps Us Going -
was aptly coined as high-quality dairy nutrition helps build
a stronger immune system which is crucial for overall
health in the age of a global pandemic which shows no
signs of slowing down.
DLMI’s new brand story, ‘Strong Me, Stronger Us’ further
reinforces our purpose of nourishing a nation while
exemplifying our mission to help Malaysians become
stronger with the goodness of milk, to unite and thrive
together during these unprecedented times.
A special Dutch Lady
“Moo Truck” was
flagged off at the
DLMI office with strict
social distancing
measures in place
and made its journey
around the Klang
Valley to spread
message of the
goodness of milk.
91
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Continuous Medical Education (CME) with stakeholders
DLMI organised a Continuous Medical Education (CME)
programme partnering with the Food Safety & Quality
Division (FSQD) of the Ministry of Health in 2020.
The programme, participated by 30 participants
consisting of officers from FSQD and Jabatan Kamajuan
Islam Malaysia (JAKIM) which enabled DLMI to share the
latest information on dairy nutrition and at the same
time highlight the importance of milk in a healthy and
balanced diet.
The CME programme is a great platform for DLMI to share
our innovation initiatives and to update our stakeholders
on DLMI introducing healthier product offerings in line
with the national health agenda and also the introduction
of Friso Gold’s TrackEasy smart application for food
transparency and quality assurance to support the
Government’s food security agenda.
Fruitful session with the FSQD officers from multi departments who participated in the Continuous Medical Education session before
the MCO kicked in in March 2020
Improving Dairy Self-Sufficiency
DLMI, the Department of Veterinary Service (“DVS”)
and the Embassy of The Netherlands have been working
together since 2008 to help local dairy farmers make their
business more sustainable to meet the growing demand
for milk in Malaysia. Through the Dairy Development
Programme (“DDP”), DLMI has been providing Malaysian
farmers with the necessary knowledge to improve their
capabilities in areas such as effective feed and nutritional
practices, good animal health and fertility practices,
disease control, milk testing and monitoring methods.
We embarked on the Farmer2Farmer Programme in 2013 as
part of our long-term commitment to increase the supply
of local milk and empower farmers to build sustainable
businesses and improve their livelihoods. This is our way
of supporting the government’s plan to achieve 100%
self-sufficiency in domestic milk production by 2025.
DLMI continued to play its role in developing a sustainable
dairy industry by partnering with the Government via
the Dairy Development Programme to increase local
production of high-quality raw milk supply.
This successful partnership with the Ministry of Agriculture
and Food Industry and the Department of Veterinary
Services, to grow local raw milk supply has contributed
to an increase of local milk supply from 2.7 million litres
in 2017 to 3.5 million litres in 2020. This partnership will
be further strengthened moving forward in achieving the
Government’s goal of a Self-Sufficiency Level for fresh
milk at 67 million litres by 2025.
DLMI continued to support the local farmers during the
MCO in 2020 with the postponement of the Farmer2Farmer
Programme due to the COVID-19 outbreak.
Continued to support our local dairy farmers during MCO and also provided Good Dairy Farming Practice training in 2020
92
WORKPLACE
Being the No 1 Employer in Dairy
The working environment of DLMI is fondly characterised by fairness, respect and
integrity. We are highly committed in providing equal and competitive opportunities
at all levels of our business, both within the scope of Talent Acquisition and Talent
Development or Management. The Company is also guided by the principles of
diversity and our employee portfolio reflects a broad variety of cultures, ethnicity,
gender and age.
An overview of workforce statistics over the last 3 years:
Overview of workforce statistics
Category
Overview of new hires by gender:
New Hires
Gender
Age Group
Diversity
DLMI also aims to achieve a
balanced participation between
men and women in the workforce.
In 2020, the ratio of women
working at DLMI increased to
almost 35 percent while for men
it had decreased to 66 percent
(2018: 28 and 72 percent).
The Company continues to
maintain a 50:50 ratio of women
and men in its Management
Team from 2018. Further, women
made up more than 50 percent
of DLMI’s Operations Leadership
Team. In 2020, DLMI’s Board of
Directors continue to maintain
a 50 percent ratio of men
and women. This demonstrates
DLMI’s continued commitment
to ensuring equal opportunities
for both men and women in the
workforce.
Weareanemployerthatrespects
our employees and inspire
them to fulfil their potential.
We have a comprehensive
performance management
system which provides
opportunities for employees to
93
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
discuss performance, opportunities for
development and a chance to raise any
issues or concerns. This resonates with
our commitment to treating everyone
fairly and consistently by, responding
to their needs and supporting their
career development and progression.
This enables the Company to be a
high performing organisation that
is responsive to changing economic
conditions and business needs.
In 2020, the WIN-WIN corporate culture
was further stressed upon to encourage
employees to win in the market and to
reach our ambitions and Our Purpose,
Our Plan are being accelerated.
The purpose is for the organisation and
the employees to build and embed a
winning performance culture following
the WIN-WIN culture and values.
WIN-WIN is our way of working within
Royal FrieslandCampina N.V. Our WIN-WIN
mindset and behaviours consist of three
core building blocks, Purpose-driven,
Commercially obsessed and Owners’
mindset; each with three challenges and
aims for the same goal of Winning in the
market.
Employee Engagement
DLMI continued to ensure open and
two-way communication for all employees
during the Movement Control Order
(MCO) through various initiatives in 2020.
Listening to our people was key
during the lockdown in 2020, where
the Company’s active listening was
reflected in the numerous Pulse Surveys
conducted such as on the Future Way
of Working (Staggered Working Hours
and Telecommuting), COVID-19 Pulse
Survey, Over2You Pulse Survey, and
Body.Mind.Soul Pulse Survey. Here, our
employees feedback and suggestions
were taken into consideration in designing
our initiatives and also shaping the way
we work.
The transformation impact on mindset
and behaviour was reflected in the
Company introducing a gradual move
towards a more Agile way of working,
encouraging a more flexible working
environment such as Telecommuting,
as well as organising sessions on
Mindfulness, amongst others, in taking
care of our employee’s wellbeing.
Body.Mind.Soul – Staying Energised Through Volatility
In 2019, the Employee Engagement model, Body.Mind.Soul (BMS) was
born. BMS stemmed from the need to be Future Focused given that
the landscape has become volatile, unpredictable, and uncertain, and
therefore, employees needed to be more agile. With this, the focus for BMS
was geared towards individual energy, derived from mental, spiritual, and
physical strength - congruent with our Over2You Sustainable Engagement
focus, whereby an Engaged, Enabled and Energised workforce was key in
driving our business forward.
Many initiatives were deployed via BMS such as:
• Virtual Mindfulness Sessions
• Virtual Zumba and Yoga
• Virtual Talks on Physical and Mental Wellbeing, on managing COVID-19
(i.e. by Doctors, Nutritionists, Psychologists)
• Providing employee support (EAP) for physical and mental wellbeing
through NALURI
• Health Screening at the Factory by NALURI
• Tea with Tarang Sessions
• Internal communication and engagement on Self Care, Physical and
Mental Wellbeing, Work From Home Tips, Employee Recognition and
Appreciation
• Organising charity drives though our employees (Blue Brigade)
• Celebration of International World Days
Through BMS, our People remained energised to continue winning despite
‘business unusual’, this was apparent in our Over2You scores: Low Attrition
Rate of 7.70% and high engagement.
Constant engagement with employees through a variety of channels to keep them
energised throughout 2020
94
In addition, virtual townhalls were held bi-monthly during
the duration of the lockdown when work-from-home
arrangements were activated. These platforms
were tapped on by DLMI to ensure employees were
constantly kept abreast of all business and COVID-19
related developments as their health and safety are
our priority.
Employees also have access to a shared portal on the
Intranet, where they can gain the latest information on
the RFC Group, as well as obtain necessary documents
and schedules.
Managing COVID-19 Internally
In light of the COVID-19 crisis and the impact on
businesses, DLMI had similarly undergone many sudden
changes in order to adapt; we resorted to a full Work
From Home arrangement, implemented changes in shift
for Production, and there was the urgent need for DLMI
to continuously nourish our nation.
With all these rapid changes during these challenging
times, the strength and contributions of our People
mattered more than ever. This was our focus during
this period – to ensure our employees stay safe, stay
connected, energised, and maintained a strong culture
of appreciation and recognition.
Nourishing Minds Series
In 2020, DLMI continued the Nourishing Minds sessions to
keep our employees constantly engaged and motivated.
This initiative allowed DLMI employees to continue gaining
“outside-in’’ perspective from influential to inspiring
individuals who play a pivotal role in providing valuable
insight to grow, inside and outside.
Kickingofftheseriesin2020,DLMIcelebratedInternational
Women’s Day with a special Nourishing Minds session.
A very special guest, YBhg Tan Sri Rafidah Aziz was invited
to address an audience of 150 DLMI employees by sharing
her insight on women empowerment and gender equality.
YBhg Tan Sri Rafidah also highlighted that women must
prioritise self-leadership and self-development regardless
of gender or race.
The series further provided the platform for DLMI to
introduce its DLMI Prihatin initiative to inculcate the
culture of care among employees. An active figure in
social activism, Syed Azmi Alhabshi provided insight
into the hardships experienced by the underprivileged
communities impacted by the Movement Control Order;
from loss of jobs, no income and no access to food supply
and basic essentials – lack of nutritious food.
Former Minister of International Trade and Industry, YBhg. Tan Sri
Rafidah Aziz came to give DLMI employees a ‘lesson’ in gender
equality on International Women’s Day in 2020 before MCO was
implemented
Many initiatives were deployed
internally during the MCO, such as:
u COVID-19 Testing
u Distribution of Care Packs
u Keeping employees informed on COVID-19
(SOPs, Developments)
u Encouraging new and practical solutions to adapt
to a business unusual environment and diversity
in the workforce (Factory, Field, Working From
Home), such as moving all activities virtually
u Deploying Talks via BMS on managing COVID-19,
experiences of Frontliners, managing isolation
and stress/anxiety (mental wellbeing)
u Communication and Engagement initiatives on
Wellbeing
u EAP Support
u Employee Listening: Pulse Surveys on COVID-19
u Fruits-At-Work to boost immunity
u Milk Giveaways to our Employees
Prominent social activist, Syed Azmi Alhabshi (right) during the
virtual Nourishing Minds session accounting his experiences on
the impact of MCO on the underprivileged community
95
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Education Excellence Award 2020
DLMI had always believed in investing in young talent,
and recognised that there was no better way to start
then investing in our future generation – the children of
our very own employees, through the annual Education
Excellence Awards. In 2020, there were a total of 10 award
recipients.
Despite the limitations presented by the COVID-19
pandemic, DLMI was determined to mark the occasion
in 2020 to celebrate the achievements of our employees
children and thoughtfully curated goodie bags and
vouchers. It was indeed a lovely opportunity for both
parents and children to bond and recognise their
hardwork, achievement, and the pride reflected in the
photos were priceless – and also immense pride of being
an employee of Dutch Lady Milk Industries was reflected.
Celebrating the achievements of our employees’ children
Safety, Health and Environment Remains
our No. 1 Priority
In 2020, DLMI achieved main KPI in Safety, Health and
Environment where by 31 December 2020, our Total
Recordable Frequency Rate (TRFR) record was 0.12 versus
0.14 budgeted TRFR. However, there was 1 LTA recorded
which impact our KPI of ZERO LTA.
Year No of
incidences
No of
LTA
No of Fatal
Accidents
2020 1 case 1 0
2019 2 Cases 0 0
2018 2 Cases 1 0
2017 3 cases 1 0
2016 7 cases 0 0
DLMI received few rewards and recognition in Safety,
Health and Environment in year 2020:
1. DLMI scored 9 (out of 10) in Production @ Risk Global
Audit. We are the one of the highest achiever among
Royal FrieslandCampina in fire safety management and
compliance
2. DLMI successfully migrated Occupational Safety and
Health Management System (OSHMS) from OHSAS
18001:2007 to ISO 45001:2018
3. DLMI successfully continue Environmental Management
System (EMS) ISO 14001:2015
4. DLMI achieved score of 2.4 in SHE pillar for ONE Audit
which contribute to a GOLD level achievement
Safety incidences were reduced through these efforts:
1. Safety Leadership and Commitment – Leaders provide
weekly safety dialogue through Process Confirmation
and Worksite Safety Inspection. Safety sharing is
mandatory and standard process in DILO/WILO
(Day In Life Of/Week In Life Of)
2. Online Reporting System (ORS) – A digitalise Safety
Observation Reporting System is launched to ease
the reporting process. Our employees now share and
report the unsafe condition, behaviour observation
and environment issues through a phone application
anytime and anywhere. We received a total of 1,389
observation reports from employees exceeding
the target by 198.4%, and 98.4% closure rate of
outstanding actions
96
3. Understanding Your Culture (UYC)
Survey has been conducted and
output show DLMI SHE culture were
between proactive and collaborative
safety culture
4. Staircase Management – Anti-slip
hazardous tapes/plates and handrails
(both sided) have been installed on all
platform ladder and staircase.
5. Root Cause Analyse (RCA) – all first
aid cases and frequent reported near
misses are investigated with RCA for
further corrective and preventive
actions
6. Training and communication – Aligned
with Learning and Development
(L&D) department on skills matrix
management and fundamental SHE
topics has been identified
7. Managing Rule Breaking System -
Strengthen Life Saving Rule (LSR)
Consequences Management System
8. Work Permit & Last-Minute Risk
Assessment (LRMA) – Strengthen the
Work Permit process by implementing
5 Lines of Defence in each non-routine
work
a) All non-routine jobs are discussed
weekly basis for risk management
and manpower & resources
planning.
b) All high-risk job shall be supervised
by a Safety Site Supervisor (SSS) or
Safety & Health Officer (SHO)
c) LMRA shall be executed by DLMI
job owner, DLMI area owner, and
contractor before job starting and
resuming
d) Work Permit and LMRA will be
verified by DLMI SHE SMEs and
sign-off for the job approval
e) Worksite Safety Inspection (WSI)
will be carried out by SSS/SHO and
assigned Managers throughout the
in-progress work
The Company also focused on Technical Safety, Social Performance,
Health and Environment Improvement with the programmes and
initiatives below:
Technical Safety
a) Completion of HAZOP Study for Boiler
b) Improvement for ATEX earthing system in Powder Plant, complete
replacement of ATEX proof pump
c) Completion of Lock-Out/Tag-Out/Try-Out (LOTOTO) Specific Work
Instructions for all machineries & equipment in the Powder, UHT, MLR,
STM, CHP, QC Lab, Engineering Workshop
d) Improvement on Machine Guarding and Emergency Exit at WWTP
Social Performance/Health Programme/Environment
a) Manage egress traffic to reduce safety risk and congestion issues
for communities, neighbourhood and public. Improvise safe
people movement and part of Internal Transport through Security
Enhancement Programme
b) Noise monitoring programme are provided with noise risk assessment
(NRA) and Audiometric
c) Successfully conduct Chemical Health Risk Assessment (CHRA)
d) Complete Chemical Exposure Monitoring
e) In continuation of 3R (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) Programme, DLMI
has introduce Food Waste Programme to enhance Zero landfill waste
disposal. This was initiated in Q4, 2020, contributing to an average
non-landfilled waste of 86.4%
f) Collaborate with other stakeholder on Q.SHE.HR. Event 2020,
promoting Safe Defensive Driving, Chemical Safety, & 3R Programme
Activities implemented for 3R Programme:
Reuse
Recycle
Reduce
Food Waste
Management
All foods prepared for meetings
and trainings are served in
reusable tray, plates and utensil;
Stop using shoes cover for visitor
with replacing visitor shoes in
production
Reduce using single-used
plastics by providing mug
and tumbler to employees
Further recycle shredder waste
and general waste by waste
segregation campaign and
education
Started implementation from
Q4 2020; collaboration with
respective recycle vendor
on food waste, conversion
towards fertiliser.
We believe in Zero accidents. DLMI recognises the importance of
Occupational Safety and Health, Environmental protection and the
conservation of natural resources. We believe all accidents & incidents
can be prevented and should be avoided at all cost.
97
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
We are therefore committed to the ‘I AM SAFE’ policy:
I
A
M
S
A
F
E
Intervention. All employee, contractor,
supplier and visitor should intervene when
observing unsafe behaviour or situations
Safety, Health & Environment remains 1st priority for DLMI and everyone in
DLMI shall reacts pro-actively to maintain a safe work place and take care of
each other safety and ill health.
Assuring. Ensure compliance with all
relevant legal requirements, industry standards,
FrieslandCampina standard and Life-Saving
Rules
Management System. A systematic
approach to enhance our Occupational Safety,
Fire Safety, Occupational Health, Ill Health,
Environment, Sustainability and Security
performance through continuous improvements
and external benchmarking
Supervision. All Leaders should demonstrate
visibility and commitment to Safety, Health,
Ill Health, Environment, Sustainability and
Security
Academy. Train our employees, contractors,
suppliers and visitors to ensure they fully
understand the rules and compliances and
behave accordingly
Focus. Eliminate hazards and OH&S risks.
Maintain all equipment and assets to ensure
the highest level of operational safety, health,
environment and improve energy & water
efficiency
Engagement. Engage effectively with
employees, public, neighbours and nearby
communities, impacted by the nature, scale
of our activities, products and services to the
environment
Training & Development
Our employees are vital to our
sustainable success. We aim to grow
global leaders equipped with the
knowledge and skills to keep us at
the forefront of the industry. We are
passionate about talent management
and development, which
encompasses on-the-job training,
mentorship programmes, specific
skill development programmes,
performance improvement plans and
job realignment programmes that
enable employees to learn and grow
in the organisation.
Being a progressive and team-based
organisation, our commitment to
human capital growth, leadership
and development extends within the
region via our functional academies
and globally, through RFC’s
leadership programmes, enabled
by FrieslandCampina Academy.
FrieslandCampina Academy enables
the RFC Group to influence talent as
an accelerator for achieving business
results.
We are dedicated in investing towards
the growth and development of our
employees. DLMI obtained a total
of 771 training man-days from 79
training programmes completed by
our employees throughout the year in
2020. The training programmes were
accomplished by employees at all job
grade levels, including the unionised
employees. We had also established
a set of compulsory syllabus for
all new employees to learn and
adapt, in order to ensure a seamless
assimilation into our working culture.
This was an impetus for us to strive
for greater achievements and
continuously building our talent pool.
98
As the impact of COVID-19 changes the
way we work, as an organisation, we re-
designed our Training & Development
approach to meet the skill needs of
our employees. Virtual learning was
introduced as early as mid-April 2020
when the Government enforced the
Movement Control Order on 18 March
2020.
Realising that virtual learning may
not suit all our employees, especially
for non-executives. Hence, we
put in more effort and focus on
on-the-job training through Skills
Matrix initiatives for non-executives.
In 2020, DLMI upskilled~50 employees
to be fully competent in their
respective work areas. Among the 50,
11 of them have developed multi-skilling
through this initiative.
An overview of training hours invested on
developing our employees over the last 4
years:
Year Total
Training
Hours for
Executives
(JG10 and
above)
Total
Training
Hours
for Non-
Executives
(Below
JG10)
2020 6,962 753
2019 4,128 2,036
2018 3,536 2,944
2017 4,124 1,604
*Does not include on-the-job training
Global Talent Management Cycle
End Year
Review
Reward
Continous
Dialogue
All Year
Objective Setting
Relative
Performance
Review
Telent
Review
Sucession
Planning
Nurturing talent
DLMI understands that the future lies in the hands of the younger
generation of our workforce. We place great importance on cultivating and
nurturing the future generation with the right skills, knowledge and values
that are essential to shaping a brighter tomorrow.
Our business environment and commercial demands are constantly
evolving, therefore our ability as an organisation to adapt, achieve and
stay ahead of the game, is influenced by the development and growth, of
all our people.
In 2020, FrieslandCampina refreshed the Global Talent Management
Cycle in line with the Performance Management framework.
The processes within the cycle have been ‘e-enabled’ through its Talent
and Learning Management system used by RFC worldwide as a platform
that offers support in all talent, performance and learning activities for
employees worldwide.
Through the Talent Review process, the organisation determines the
potential of each employee. The outcome of this discussion is the starting
point to discuss possible next steps and the readiness for that specific
employee. This results into Succession Planning, which is the structured
process of identifying possible successors, and their readiness, for pivotal
(i.e. critical) positions in the Company.
99
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Annual Report 2020
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Sustainability Roadmap
DLMI’s sustainability roadmap was
established in the fourth quarter of 2020
to drive the Company’s comprehensive
strategy on sustainability, reflecting
clearly our Grass to Glass philosophy.
The sustainability roadmap sets out
4 clear focus areas that carry real
meaning to us - nourishing Malaysians
with better and affordable nutrition,
leading sustainable actions at the farm,
producing in balance with nature via
our carbon footprint reduction and
post-consumption initiatives.
These sustainable actions and initiatives
are aligned with FrieslandCampina’s
‘Nourishing a Better Planet’, which are
also linked to supporting 5 out of 17
Sustainable Development Goals.
Learn more about our sustainability roadmap below:
Manifesto
2021
to
2025
Drive goodness of
milk education for a
healthy nation
To provide healthy
and sustainable
nutrition to all people,
at all ages, now and in
the future
&
To reduce hunger
in the world and
promote good health
and well-being
To drive dairy farming
which focuses
on sustainability
for animals and
ecosystem while
minimising carbon
footprint
To have a production
process that reduces
water and energy
consumption, circular
and CO
2
neutral
Deliver reduction
targets at current and
new plant
Drive sustainable
actions at farm level
including production
NUTRITION
(Glass)
FARM
(Grass)
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
(Grass to Glass)
POST
CONSUMPTION
(Glass)
To have our entire
packaging portfolio
reusable, recyclable
or both by 2025
Promote recycling
via education and
recyclable and
circular packaging
100
Reinforcing our Sustainability commitment
for the future
Industry Engagement
At industry level, DLMI has been active in driving the
recyclable and circular packaging agenda:
• We are one of the ten founding members (Food &
Beverage multinational companies) that established
the Malaysian Recycling Alliance Berhad (MAREA) in
2019. The purpose of the alliance is to promote and
improve collection and recycling of post-consumer
packaging product – to integrate and create a recycling
ecosystem in Malaysia.
A key function of MAREA is to initiate activities to
educate and raise awareness on the importance of
responsible waste disposal and encourage the culture
of recycling in the community and schools. DLMI
and other MAREA members have been continuously
advocating and engaging with the Government as the
voice of industry in ensuring a sustainable recycling
ecosystem in Malaysia.
• In further cementing DLMI’s sustainability commitment,
in 2020, DLMI Managing Director, Mr Tarang Gupta and
our Independent Director, Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin
Rajakumar joined the CEO Action Network (CAN) as
members. Datin Seri Sunita was appointed a Steering
Committee member, leading the work stream on Policy
Advocacy. CAN is a closed-door peer-to-peer informal
network of CEOs and Board members focused on
sustainability advocacy, capacity building, action and
performance. Through a dedicated Working Group,
Workstreams and active members driving bespoke
initiatives, CAN aspires to catalyse its members towards
shaping future-ready and ESG-integrated business
models and ecosystems.
Over the next 12 months, we are committed to lead CAN
to engage with various stakeholders including supply
chain, regulators and policy makers, government
as well as our peers across various sectors to forge
partnerships that are committed to responsible
business practices and sustainable development.
In the process, we will not only exchange industry
best practices, but also share proven strategies and
future-proof ideas with CAN participants.
• DLMI is also part of the Federation of Malaysian
Manufacturers to champion and be the voice for the
industry to set the tone on creating a sustainable
recycling ecosystem in Malaysia and more.
101
