Sustainability @ Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad (“DLMI”) is about balancing between
what’s planet-critical and what’s mission-critical
for business and our stakeholders. Our
Sustainability Report 2024 (“SR2024”) shares
more about this balancing act, our strive for
continuous improvement, some of the challenges
we face, and most importantly, how we are
committed to fulfilling our purpose of Nourishing
Our Planet and People in Every Stage of Life.
The report clearly communicates our approach
to addressing the material matters and our
progress.
ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT
Our attempt this year has been to include both achievements and challenges while keeping the narratives
concise and evidence-based. Considering clear interactions between business and sustainability KPIs, this
report is best understood in the context of our Leadership Statements and information in the earlier section
of this Integrated Report (pages 28-43).
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
60
STATEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY
Reporting Scope: Boundary and Principles
The reporting period of SR2024 is from 1 January 2024
to 31 December 2024 (“FY2024”), unless otherwise
stated. We have included a dedicated section on
Performance Record with 3-year historical data for most
disclosures to highlight important trends and DLMI’s year-
on-year progress.
The scope of SR2024 includes business operations and
manufacturing activities of DLMI as specified. Unless
otherwise mentioned, SR2024 excludes all outsourced
activities and/or operations of our parent company and its
operating companies elsewhere in Asia and beyond.
DLMI’s boundaries are defined based on the established
materiality topics as well as sound reporting principles that
preserve report content and quality. Data for SR2024 has
been sourced, verified and validated internally by the
respective data owners from the relevant business
departments.
We are aware of certain data collection challenges
persisting for some indicators, and we are continuously
working internally to implement stronger data tracking and
gathering mechanisms for enhanced reporting going
forward. Where possible, we have applied the reporting
principles of balance, comparability, clarity, completeness,
reliability and accuracy. Our previous report was published
in April 2024.
Reporting Standards: Compliance and
Alignment
The SR2024 has taken into consideration various
frameworks and guidelines in documenting DLMI’s ambition
and progress:
∞ Bursa Malaysia’s Main Market Listing Requirements on
Sustainability Reporting (Refer to pages 110-113 for the
Index)
∞ FrieslandCampina’s Reporting Guidelines
∞ The National Sustainability Reporting Framework
∞ United Nations Sustainability Development Goals (“UN
SDGs”)
Please note that the structure and format of this report
has been planned to support:
∞ Our 3-year journey (starting in 2022) to improve our
quality of reporting and enhance our level of compliance
with the <IR> Framework.
∞ Our 4-year journey (starting in 2023) to achieve
alignment with the recommendations and reporting
requirements of TaskForce on Climate-Related Financial
Disclosures (“TCFD”) and IFRS S1 and S2.
∞ Our immediate focus on the National Sustainability
Reporting Framework (“NSRF”), with phased implementation
in the first year based on the reliefs provided by NSRF,
and full compliance by the reporting period FY2027. The
NSRF is premised on IFRS S1 and S2 requirements, which
also embeds key aspects of TCFD.
Reporting Reliability: Internal Review &
External Audit
Our Internal Audit department has conducted a review of
our disclosures in SR2024 against Bursa Malaysia’s common
sustainability matters. Further to this, our external auditor,
PwC, has assured the financial data presented in our
Integrated Report 2024. PwC did not carry out assurance
activities for SR2024. However, our Management Team and
respective data owners have internally reviewed all non-
financial data presented. By the next financial year, we plan
to progressively move towards external assurance of our
non-financial data in line with the requirements of the NSRF.
Restatements: Evolving Sustainability
Approaches
Since the last reporting period for FY2023, the material
matters remain unchanged (Refer to pages 09-12 of this
report). Our seven focus areas or the roadmaps and their
corresponding 2030 targets also remain unchanged except
of Better People Roadmap Pillar (Refer to pages 92-99 of
this report).
In 2024, we revisited our ambition for ‘Better People’
Roadmap, in alignment with our global HR transformation
efforts as well as more refined priorities. Our 2030 ambition
is now ‘To shape a People-Positive and Fit-for-Purpose
Workplace’, which will be achieved by enabling our people
to grow and perform; fostering a fit and empowering
workplace, and creating a great employee experience.
These are supported by eleven strategic HR key performance
indicators (KPIs) and seven 2030 headline targets.
Feedback: Commitment to Continuous
Improvement
SR2024 can be downloaded from our official website at
https://www.dutchlady.com.my/investors/.
We value the input of our stakeholders and strive to
address any concerns raised pertaining to our reporting.
Kindly address feedback to our Investor Relations team at
finance.dept@frieslandcampina.com. In addition, our
sustainability team may be contacted at sustainabilityMY@
frieslandcampina.com.
Ramjeet Kaur Virik
Chairperson, Sustainability Steering Committee
Section
61
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
HIGHLIGHTS 2024
Secured a
4-star
rating on
FTSE4GOOD,
which is above sector
and industry average.
Recognised in the
Top
Quartile of Top
Employers in
Malaysia, with above
benchmark performance in
areas such as people strategy,
wellbeing, purpose and values,
ethics and integrity, DEI and
sustainability.
Set the foundation and framework to support CAN’s release of
Malaysia’s first guidance on Diversity,
Equity and Inclusion.
OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY
Fixed the Fundamentals:
∞ Revised the Board Charter to emphasise on
Sustainability as a fiduciary duty and an agenda
that serves the best interest of both business and
stakeholders
∞ Established the Sustainability Steering Committee
under the Chairmanship of the Managing Director,
reporting to the Board
∞ Defined Sustainability, with Efficiency and Equity
principles, supported by a Thriving Model to guide/
inform our strategies
∞ Conducted an initial review of Economic,
Environmental, Social and Governance Risks and
how they can be integrated into the Enterprise Risk
Management Framework
∞ Conducted a Materiality Assessment to examine
and define our priorities and plan resources
Created two Sustainability-focused
roles at DLMI mainly to:
∞ Translate our global sustainability
direction into market-specific and
focused strategies
∞ Take stock and manage sustainability
and related data to build the body of
evidence that would support science-
based approaches
2021 2022
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
62
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Strengthened our Implementation Approach:
∞ Updated the Board Charter to amend and
strengthen the sustainability-related obligations of
Board Members
∞ Assessed and mapped Sustainability KPIs to Top
Management’s Performance Scorecard
∞ Aligned material matters with FrieslandCampina’s as
well as set the plan to refresh material matters in
2025
∞ Revised the 2030 Ambition and strengthened the
KPIs for Better People post the Global HR
Reorganisation and Transformation exercise
∞ Accelerated capability building at critical levels to
include Board of Directors, Management Team, and
Business Leadership Team, with a targeted plan for
2025
∞ Kickstarted the process to strengthen sustainability
data management and verification processes in
preparation for external assurance
∞ Intensified our engagement with the industry as
well as with coalitions such as the Malaysian
Recycling Association (MAREA) and CEO Action
Network (CAN), mainly to facilitate exchange of
knowledge, skills and best practices
Devised our Sustainability Roadmaps & Targets:
∞ Initiated Phase I of GHG/Carbon Inventory, mainly to
understand the spread of emissions and impacts along
the value chain
∞ Developed our first Sustainability Policy, anchored in No
Harm principle, Materiality and Shared Value Creation
∞ Developed sustainability roadmaps for all mission-critical
functions of the business – MAKE, Marketing, Sales,
Human Resources, Procurement, Corporate Affairs,
Finance, and Legal
∞ Secured approval from the Board of Directors on seven
sustainability roadmaps – Better Nutrition, Better
Packaging, Better Climate, Better Sourcing, Better People,
Better Society and Better Governance
∞ Published our interim 2030 targets for each of the seven
roadmaps
2023 2024
Section
63
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
The science is undeniable. Climate predictions are a reality
today. We are witnessing the escalating impacts of human-
induced global heating. The risks of a system collapse are
getting more real. The stranglehold of ‘unlimited’ economic
growth seems more about the “harm” rather than “progress”.
The global red-alert calls for urgent shared ambition and
shared accountability to protect everything that is planet-
critical. This is the reality.
As leaders and entrepreneurs, we exist in a different reality,
where the significance of purpose-driven businesses is even
more compelling. In an uncertain future, enterprises that
address social issues or demonstrate environmental
consciousness will undoubtedly be more resilient and relevant.
Tomorrow’s organisations are those that will manage
everything that is mission-critical to shape sustainable
businesses, where profits are earned with responsibility
towards people and the planet.
At DLMI, we recognise the climate emergency. We understand
the non-negotiable need to act with urgency. We acknowledge
the call for ambitious and agile goal setting. In the same
breath, we also understand our critical role as a purpose-led
organisation. We have a proven track record of over six
decades in Nourishing our Nation. We are expected to remain
steadfast in our mission to address the nutritional needs of
the Rakyat of Malaysia. The balancing act for us is therefore
to produce such nutrition in balance with nature.
In 2024, we made some calculated decisions on sustainability.
These meant, increased focus on high-impact areas first
i.e. Energy, Water and Waste Management. We examined
both benefits and implications of solutions such as solar
for alternative energy and recycling of waste packaging. In
the process, we realised that while urgent climate action
is required, we operate amid numerous systemic constraints
and challenges, including evolving regulatory and policy
frameworks. These did not dissuade us from planning our
mitigation action plan for 2024 and beyond, but they
certainly limited our options for viable and realistic solutions
at scale and with impact.
For instance, we recognised the challenge of mapping our
full Scope 3 value chain partners and suppliers. It still
seems like a herculean task. However, our GHG assessment
and inventory indicate that 75% of our impacts come from
Scope 3. While we are committed to complete the due
diligence that’s necessary to establish the scale and
complexity of the problem as well as the potential solutions,
in 2024, we completed the initial stock taking exercise. We
identified our top 80% spend suppliers and conducted
basic due diligence. Based on the self-disclosures and
unaudited findings while 68% of our top-spend suppliers
have subscribed to EESG and Management Standards, only
58% of the suppliers have a formal policy on sustainability/
CSR and 55% of them publish a sustainability or CSR
impact report. There is a lot we need to achieve with our
supply chain partners. With this intent, during the year, we
engaged these suppliers on our approach to sustainability
as well as raise awareness on their role and support in
managing both environmental and social impacts. In the
coming years, our aim is to get a full picture of our impacts
from global sourcing and how we can shape our future
EESG interventions with support from our critical suppliers.
Meanwhile, our collaboration with MAREA took a new lease
of life as I assumed the Chairmanship to continue our
efforts to institutionalise the value of Extended Producer
Responsibility. Dialogue with key actors in the waste value
chain, including the Ministry of Housing and Local
Government (KPKT) remained our priority to help shape
future governance, systems, policies, and the operating
environment that is critical for effective waste collection
and management in the country. Its founding members
successfully completed six pilot waste collection projects that
realised total volume of 1,228.7MT as at 31 August 2024.
The objectives of these pilots are to establish and recommend
the best pricing models and waste collection mechanism that
would work for both the industry and Malaysia.
SUSTAINABILITY AS INTEGRAL TO BUSINESS: BALANCING PROFITS AND POSITIVE
IMPACT
RAMJEET KAUR VIRIK, CHAIRPERSON, SUSTAINABILITY STEERING COMMITTEE
Dear Stakeholders,
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
64
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Similarly, we remain active with the CEO Action Network
(CAN), which remains an evolving coalition of leaders with
a purpose and committed to support business and industry
on their sustainability journey. In 2024, we were more
active with the Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI)
workstream. We continued to share our experience and
efforts in ‘Managing Unconscious Bias’, ‘Promoting Women
in Leadership and Women in Manufacturing’ and most
importantly, ‘Driving Inclusive Leadership for Organisational
Culture and Development’. As at 31 December 2024,
which marked three years since we joined CAN, we
achieved most of the collective commitments to include
disclosure of material risks and opportunities, public
targets on energy and water intensity, and positive
progress on female composition in top management.
Please find more details on page 79 of this statement.
During the year, fundamentally, we also needed to build
our internal capability and understanding of sustainability
in the context of our purpose and mission. We engaged
with Board members, Management Team, and business
leads to derive and drive insights that would strengthen
our approaches towards long-term value creation - for
both business and stakeholders, as well as the environment.
At the Board level, one of the key areas discussed was
Dairy Farm Sustainability, as we are strategising our efforts
beyond the Farmer2Farmer programme, which has been
successfully delivered over the past 12 years, raising
positive awareness of sustainable farming practices among
more than 653 farmers. Capability building will remain a key
focus as the market and regulatory landscape continues to
mature, especially related to ESG and Sustainability
expectations, practices and standards. During the year, we
collaborated with DVS through a signed memorandum to
train 120 farmers on topics such as Dairy Farm Sustainability;
Raw Milk Hygiene & Quality; Dairy Cattle Feed Management;
and Animal Welfare Practices.
Moving forward, our focus will be to accelerate deployment
of solutions that will move us closer to our interim targets
2030. In 2024, we revisited our ambition for ‘Better People’
Roadmap, in alignment with our global HR transformation
efforts as well as more refined priorities. Our 2030 ambition
is now ‘To shape a People-Positive and Fit-for-Purpose
Workplace’, which will be achieved by enabling our people
to grow and perform; fostering a fit and empowering
workplace, and creating a great employee experience.
These are supported by eleven strategic HR key performance
indicators (KPIs) and seven 2030 interim targets. Please
refer to pages 68-69 of this statement for more details.
We also took the opportunity to deep dive into all our
sustainability related performance indicators, mapped to
various roadmaps. Our assessment suggests that on an
average, 56% of our KPIs directly catalyse economic
performance of the company, whereas an average 44% of
KPIs can be attributed to environmental, social, and
governance (ESG) material issues, which again contribute
to people wellbeing, their motivation and financial
performance. This reinforces our unique approach to
sustainability, where it is fully integrated as a performance
measure into mission-critical functions of business. Please
refer to pages 68-69 of this statement for more details.
I would like to take this opportunity to assure our minority
shareholders and large groups of stakeholders that
sustainability is business and business is sustainability at
DLMI. Our purpose of Nourishing Our Planet and People in
Every Stage of Life reflects a deeper commitment to social
wellbeing, delivered in balance with nature. We are resolute
in Nourishing Our Nation, while also upholding our
responsibility to the planet. We will do everything in our
capacity and capability to create positive impacts in the
ecosystem of our business and wider society.
Section
65
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
66
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
DLMI SUSTAINABILITY PRINCIPLES AND STRATEGY
We believe sustainability is integral to our ‘ways of working’ and organisational conduct. It is about creating and
delivering shared value with responsibility towards multiple stakeholders of business. For the same reason,
sustainability is embedded in our statement of purpose – Nourishing Our Planet and People in Every Stage of Life.
This essentially means that in Nourishing the Nation, we will be guided by three priorities – Nutrition, People and Planet.
Nutrition
P
eople
Planet
Seven Focus Areas
Better Nutrition
Better Sourcing
Better Climate
Better Packaging
Better People
Better Society
Better Governance
Nutrition People Planet
Our envisioned
impact
Contribute to thriving people
with healthy, affordable, and
accessible nutrition for daily
life and special needs.
Contribute to the prosperity of
people, farmers and
communities in our ecosystem
through fair and inclusive
practices.
Contribute to environmental
wellbeing through responsible
and circular solutions.
Our value
commitment
We will continue to
collaborate with multiple
stakeholders to address the
triple burden of malnutrition
through growing access to
goodness of dairy nutrition,
responsibly.
We will enable our people,
farmers and communities to
grow and perform, foster a fit
and empowering workplace
and create a great employee
experience.
We will steer efforts in
circular packaging and waste
management that will help in
reducing our environmental
impact.
Delivering Three Key Priorities:
Section
67
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Managing Seven Focus Areas and Roadmaps:
Key Focus Areas Material Matters KPIs (as at 31 Dec 2024) Headline Targets 2030
Priorities:
√ Nutrition
√ People
Scope:
√ Goodness of Dairy
√ Access to Nutrition
DLMI:
NPR I&T
Bursa:
∞ Product Safety
∞ Compliance with GNS
∞ Products with Healthier
Choice Logo
∞ Halal Certified Products
95% of Product Volume Sold
Meets Global Nutritional
Standards
in securing dairy as a strategic
nutrient-dense food and
improving nutritional status of
people
Key Focus Areas Material Matters KPIs (as at 31 Dec 2024) Headline Targets 2030
Priorities:
√ Planet
√ People
Scope:
√ Design for Recycling
√ Waste Collection
√ Waste Management
√ 100% Circular
DLMI:
EW RC RSC
Bursa:
∞ Waste
Management
∞ Packaging Materials
Designed for Recycling
∞ Total waste generated
and waste diverted from
disposal
95% of all Packaging Materials
Designed for Recycling or
Reuse
by investing in technology,
collection, recycling and raising
awareness
Better Nutrition
Better Packaging
Key Focus Areas Material Matters KPIs (as at 31 Dec 2024) Headline Targets 2030
Priorities:
√ Nutrition
√ Planet
√ People
Scope:
√ Catalysing Domestic
Milk Supply
√ Responsible Supply
Chain
√ Responsible Sourcing
of Raw Materials
DLMI:
FC RSC
Bursa:
∞ Labour Practices
and Standards
∞ Supply Chain
Management
∞ Milk sourced from local
farms
∞ EESG due diligence and
related engagement with
suppliers
∞ Responsibly sourced
cocoa and palm oil as
well as paper for product
packaging
Achieve 100% Self-Sufficiency
Level (SSL) for fresh domestic
milk by enhancing both quality
and quantity, along with
developing end-to-end domestic
milk supply infrastructure
Top Quartile Scores on
Supplier’s EESG Due Diligence
and Engagement Index
by ensuring top-spend suppliers
are effectively engaged on
sustainability
Better Sourcing
Key Focus Areas Material Matters KPIs (as at 31 Dec 2024) Headline Targets 2030
Priorities:
√ Planet
Scope:
√ Climate Neutral
√ Zero Food Loss
DLMI:
EW
Bursa:
∞ Energy
Management
∞ Water
∞ Emissions
Management
∞ Waste
Management
∞ Energy consumption
∞ Water used
∞ Scope 1 and Scope 2
Emissions (CO
2
)
∞ Scope 3 Emissions
(Business Travel and
Employee Commuting)
30% Reduction in Energy and
Water Intensity vs. 2022
baseline
Investing in technology,
improving efficiencies, and
delivering business value
Better Climate
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
68
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Key Focus Areas Material Matters KPIs (as at 31 Dec 2024) Headline Targets 2030
Priorities:
√ People
Scope:
√ Empowered People
DLMI:
D&I WG EE
Bursa:
∞ Diversity
∞ Health and
Safety
∞ Labour
Practices and
Standards
∞ % representation of women on
Board and Senior Management Team
∞ % of employees by gender and age
group, for each employee category
∞ % of directors by gender and age
group
∞ Number of substantiated complaints
concerning human rights violations
∞ Total number of employee turnover
by employee category
∞ Employee engagement score
∞ Internal Fulfilment Rate at Hay Grade
18 and above
∞ Illness rate
∞ Data quality
∞ SLA performance
∞ Voluntary attrition rate
∞ Talent bench strength (H20+)
∞ Average training hours per employee
∞ Work-related fatalities and TRFR
People-Positive and
Fit-for-Purpose
Workplace
by enabling people to
grow and perform in an
empowering workplace
that delivers superior
employee experience
Key Focus Areas Material Matters KPIs (as at 31 Dec 2024) Headline Targets 2030
Priorities:
√ Good Governance for
Positive Impacts on
Sustainable
Development
Scope:
√ Practice: Business
Ethics and Integrity
√ Respect: Policies &
Processes
√ Transparent: Reporting
√ Protect: Privacy &
Security
√ Practice: Good
Governance
√ Engage: Stakeholders
DLMI:
SE
Bursa:
∞ Anti-
Corruption
∞ Data Privacy
and Security
∞ Operations assessed for corruption-
related risks
∞ Incidents of corruption
∞ Complaints on breaches of
customer privacy and losses of
customer data
AA1000 Accountability
Principles
Alignment by
strengthening
governance mechanisms
and ESG capacity, and
complying with ESG
regulations
Key Focus Areas Material Matters KPIs (as at 31 Dec 2024) Headline Targets 2030
Priorities:
√ Nutrition
√ People
√ Planet
Scope:
√ Resilient Communities
DLMI:
FC
Bursa:
∞ Community
and Society
∞ Spends on community initiatives
∞ Milk distribution to schools and
underprivileged community
communities
∞ Farmers’ capability building
1 million Children
Nurtured to Fight
Malnutrition and 100%
of Our Farmers Nurtured
for Better Livelihoods
by advocating dairy
nutrition to address
stunting and malnutrition
amongst children
Better People

Better Governance
Better Society
Section
69
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Purpose guides us to deliver shared value.
In Nourishing Our Nation, we aim to leave both,
our business and ecosystem in better shape for
future generations of stakeholders. It’s about
fostering intergenerational equity and creating
shared value.
People are key catalysts as well as beneficiaries.
Human capital delivers positive financial,
intellectual, relationship and social capitals, while
also managing natural capital and manufactured
capital responsibly. We take it upon ourselves to
ensure human capital performs through the right
kind of interventions that promote inclusive
opportunities for learning, development, wellbeing
and growth.
1
3
2
4
Performance in itself is a prime motivation.
As we endeavour to operate at our optimal
capacity, we continually work towards improving
economic efficiencies (doing more with less) that
contribute to a healthy balance sheet, a healthy
workforce and a healthy environment where we
operate.
Potential is imminent for personal and
organisational growth.
Building on our innate capabilities and
leveraging on external opportunities keep
our business and people agile, relevant,
and competitive, all of which are important
to deliver responsible and sustainable
growth.
It is critical to bring Sustainability closer to business, reinforcing the need to take an integrated approach to managing
positive impact. Our 4P (principle-based) Strategies reflect our strategic intent for both business and sustainable
impact
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
70
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
DLMI MATERIAL MATTERS
During FY2024, we did not undertake an independent assessment of our sustainability material matters. However, we
have assessed the evolving expectations on EESG disclosures from various stakeholders, including those set out by Bursa
Malaysia and the Securities Commission Malaysia in the National Sustainability Reporting Framework (“NSRF”), IFRS S1
and S2 amongst others. This is in preparation to comply with the requirements of the NSRF (while also taking note of
its allowable transition reliefs in the first year of implementation).
The table below outlines the definition and scope of our current sustainability material matters which remain unchanged
from FY2023.
What is material? How do we define it? What it covers?
Nutrition and Product
Responsibility
NPR
Ensuring our products are of high quality, safe
for all consumers, high in nutritional value, and
are marketed without any false claims within
the frameworks of the law and regulations.
∞ Product quality and safety
∞ Nutritional values
∞ Responsible marketing and
advertising
∞ Consumer health and safety
∞ Consumer satisfaction
Innovation and
Technology
I&T
Adopting new processes and technologies or
undertaking research and development (“R&D”)
to ensure our products remain relevant to
consumers, while producing them efficiently
with the lowest possible resource footprint.
∞ Innovations for improved farm
sustainability
∞ Innovations that increase
efficiency in dairy production
Responsible
Supply Chain
RSC
Ensure that we manage our supplier contracts
and relationships fairly and transparently, with
this commitment extending to the terms of
contract, payments, and capacity building on
key matters important to our business and
people.
∞ Supply chain management
∞ Supplier education
∞ Supplier environmental and
social impacts
∞ Supplier welfare and wellbeing
∞ Supplier contracts
∞ Supplier integrity
∞ Product traceability and
labelling
Energy, Water,
Waste and Emissions
EW
Ensuring we are aware of the negative
environmental impacts from our direct operations
and supply chain and remaining committed to
taking the necessary actions to minimise such
impacts and where possible, eliminate all kinds
of harm.
∞ Energy management
∞ Emissions management
∞ Water management
∞ Waste management
(including effluents, air quality
and pollution)
Recovery and Circularity
RC
Ensuring we acknowledge the impact of
packaging waste on the environment and are
taking necessary steps to identify and deploy
recovery and circular solutions.
∞ Collection Ecosystem
∞ Alternative packaging materials
∞ Circular approaches and
solutions
Diversity and Inclusion
(own work force)
D&I
(Renamed from Purpose and
Culture as reported in our
Integrated Report 2022 to align
with FrieslandCampina)
Constantly reinforcing our purpose and culture
across our workforce to inspire behavioural
change and positive action, while ensuring we
are sensitive to the agenda of Diversity and
Inclusion (“D&I”).
∞ Pay parity
∞ Representation of women in
board and key decision-
making positions
∞ Feedback mechanisms
∞ Engagement and leadership
Section
71
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
What is material? How do we define it? What it covers?
Employee Experience
EE
(Employee Experience and
Growth as reported in
Integrated Report 2022
have been split into two
separate matters for better
focus)
Continuously improving the employee experience
through enhanced primary processes, hybrid
working arrangements, competitive rewards and
recognition, with the goal of remaining an employer
of choice, ideally positioned to attract and retain
high-quality talent.
Additionally, delivering value by maintaining a
performance-oriented culture that promotes an
engaged organisation with healthy competition.
∞ Values
∞ Labour practices and standards
∞ Diversity and inclusive leadership
∞ Inclusive people practices
∞ Compliance
Wellbeing and Growth
WG
Nourishing our talents to be future-ready for the
next leap in DLMI’s business growth.
∞ Occupational safety, health and
wellbeing
∞ Employee learning and growth
∞ Coaching and mentoring
∞ Staff benefits and programmes
Social and Economic
Continuity
SE
Ensuring our business and people are resilient,
supported by robust business continuity plans/
policies, ethical conduct policies, anti-corruption
mechanisms and data privacy and security
practices.
Delivering value by maintaining a performance-
oriented win-win culture that promotes an engaged
organisation and healthy competition.
∞ Access to nutrition
∞ Initiatives that support
community and societal
development
∞ Farmer welfare
Farmers and Communities
FC
Ensuring that our people and communities are clear
beneficiaries of the value generated by our pricing
strategies, products, financial performance, and
growth, with consistent access to our products, as
well as opportunities to gain new skills and foster
their growth and prosperity.
∞ Access to nutrition
∞ Community/society support and
community–based initiatives
∞ Farmer welfare
Our materiality matrix, as per the graph below, remains unchanged from what we reported in 2023 Sustainability Statement.
4.7
4.6
4.5
4.4
4.3
4.2
4.1
4.0
3.9
2.6 2.8 3.0 3.2 3.4 3.6 3.8
Impact on DLMI (Internal)
Importance to Stakeholders (External)
+
+
-
TOP 10 MATERIAL MATTERS
NPR Nutrition and Product Responsibility
I&T Innovation and Technology
RSC Responsible Supply Chain
EW Energy, Water, Waste & Emissions
RC Recovery and Circularity
EE Employee Experience
WG Wellbeing and Growth
FC Farmers and Communities
D&I Diversity and Inclusion
SE Social and Economic Continuity
NPR
D&I EW
FC SE
I&T
RSC
RC
EE
WG
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
72
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
The Board of DLMI is the highest governance body with full oversight of sustainability roadmaps, EESG material matters,
and the related risks and opportunities. The Sustainability Steering Committee (“SSC”) on the other hand takes full
accountability for smooth execution of our sustainability agenda and integrating sustainability as a consideration across
our business. SSC’s roles and responsibilities include:
01
Promoting accountability in mindset,
behaviour and action across our
workforce towards driving meaningful
sustainability action
04
Reviewing sustainability strategies
proposed by the Sustainability Lead of
Malaysia and making recommendations
to the Board, represented by the
Chairman/Managing Director of DLMI
02
Providing necessary oversight and
counsel in the processes of devising,
implementing, monitoring and reporting
on our sustainability framework,
strategies, policies and programmes,
including climate action and social
justice
05 Reviewing and approving
sustainability-related policies and
programmes
03 Pre-empting and deliberating on various
sustainability risks and their related
governance considerations
06
Reviewing and approving external
reporting frameworks, disclosures and
assurance processes in alignment with
relevant local legislation and regulatory
requirements and the global values and
strategies of FrieslandCampina
– Manages DLMI’s sustainability portfolio
– Oversees the Sustainability Steering
Committee
Nomination &
Remuneration
Committee
Audit & Risk
Committee
Board of Directors
Sustainability Steering
Committee
Chair - Managing Director
Key members include
Sustainability Lead,
Malaysia
Managing Directors
Sustainability Lead, Malaysia
Corporate Affairs Director
Functional teams led by Management Team
Sustainability Leads, Asia/Global
Better
Nutrition
Better
Sourcing
Better
Climate
Better
Packaging
Better
Society
Better
Governance
Better
People
Section
73
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Key Members of the SSC Managing Director (Chair)
Corporate Affairs Director
Sustainability Lead, Asia
Sustainability Lead, Malaysia
Finance Director
Human Resource Director
MAKE Operations Director
Head of Audit
Head of Legal & Company Secretary
Sustainability Advisor
In FY2024, the top three challenges that were addressed during SSC meetings are listed below alongside key decisions
that were raised at Board-level by the Managing Director, DLMI and Chair of SSC.
Sustainability Data Management against all
material matters to build credible evidence for
targets and performance
Compliance preparedness for evolving standards
and expectations, especially the IFRS S1 and S2,
as well as the National Sustainability Reporting
Framework.
Accountability by Management Team for their
respective Roadmaps by strengthening due
diligence and implementation plans
Internal review and audit gaps and
recommendations related to data points relevant
for Bursa Malaysia’s mandated Common Material
Matters
Compliance plan and budgets to meet the National
Sustainability Reporting Framework and IFRS S1 and
S2 requirements in addition to water assessment
and energy solutions
Linking sustainability KPIs with top management’s
Performance/Compensation
Discussions that were escalated to the Board
Material Matters that were deliberated by SSC
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
74
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
BOARD CHARTER & EXECUTIVE
CAPABILITY
Sustainability is a real risk to business, its resilience and its
thriving future. The Board acknowledges this alongside the
importance of taking a long-term view on both shareholder
and stakeholder value creation by managing material economic,
environmental, social and governance EESG risks.
To this end, our Board Charter recognises sustainability as
a key enabler of our business ambitions. It prescribes the
continuous monitoring of EESG risks to protect the interests
of our shareholders and stakeholders. The Board Charter
was reviewed and updated further in November 2024. It
may be accessed at www.dutchlady.com.my/investors/
board-charter.
In FY2024, we continued open conversations on sustainability
in the boardroom, primarily to raise awareness, balance
perspectives and inform key decisions. A key module for
capability building was on Farm Sustainability in the context
of our continuing efforts to improve local sourcing, promote
sustainable dairy farming practices and support the national
agenda of dairy self-sufficiency. Each of the Board Members
also completed the Mandatory Accreditation Programme
Part II: Leading for Impact which was organised by the
Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia.
The members of SSC and Top Management collectively
completed 36 hours of engagement through nearly 20
internal and external knowledge transfer platforms covering
a wide range of EESG topics. EESG objectives are part of business strategies
(with Entity Business KPIs) and include non-
financial priorities that contribute to resilience
and growth. EESG Metrics (headline targets for
all our roadmaps) are part of MT KPIs based
on 2025 targets that have been defined. These
EESG KPIs are part of Role-based Objectives
that contribute to individual merit increase.
SUSTAINABILITY LINKAGES TO
MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION
Sustainability@DLMI is not a standalone department, rather
it is an integral part of critical functions of the business:
Manufacturing & Procurement, Marketing, Human Resources,
Governance and Risk. The Managing Director (MD) and the
Management Team (MT), who are also the Leads or Heads
of such critical functions, have sustainability KPIs under their
respective “Role-based Objectives”. Under each of the Role-
based Objectives, specific KPIs are defined that are aligned
with the top material matters of DLMI and its stakeholders.
These are assessed for their individual annual merit increase.
In FY2024, we completed a preliminary assessment of EESG
KPIs mapped to MD and MT and the key findings suggest:
∞ An average 56% of KPIs directly catalyse economic
performance of the company [Economic performance =
quantifiable financial targets, sales and margin growth,
cash generation – savings and cash flow]
∞ An average 44% of KPIs can be attributed to ESG
performance, which again contribute to people wellbeing,
their motivation and financial performance [ESG
performance = quantifiable or value-add targets related
to nutrition, people, planet, governance]
Section
75
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
SUSTAINABILITY & RELATED POLICIES
Our business conduct and sustainability orientation are guided by various policies at the Group level, including those
defined by FrieslandCampina and market-specific policies established by DLMI in Malaysia.
DLMI is aligned to FrieslandCampina’s Group Policies, and where deemed necessary, local context has been defined
for interpretation and application.
* Sustainability Policy & Guidelines are market specific and are continually revisited to ensure full alignment with the Group
DLMI
Sustainability
Policy &
Guidelines*
Nutrition Policy &
Corporate
Standards for
Nutritional
Information
Corporate Policy
for Marketing of
Infant Foods
Ten Guiding Principles for
Compliance (Responsible Marketing)
& Corporate Standard for
Responsible Marketing
Communications and Fair
Competition Policy
Responsible
Supplier Policy
including Golden
and Silver
Purchasing Rules
Zero Deforestation
and Conversion
Policy
Safety Policy &
Life-Saving Rules
Policy on
Diversity, Equity
and Inclusion
Human Rights
Policy & Modern
Slavery Statement
Compass for Good Business
Conduct; Golden Quality Rules;
Data Protection/Privacy Policy
Doing Honest
Business Policy
Business Practices for
Business Partners; Conflicts of
Interest Policy and Policy on
Preventing Fraud
Speak Up Policy on
Responsible
Advocacy
Stakeholder
Dialogue Policy
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
76
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
INTEGRATED RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
Critical to shaping a sustainable business is our preparedness, capability and capacity to identify and address both financial
and non-financial risks arising from economic, environmental, social and governance (EESG) impacts due to our business,
operations, and growth. These risks may arise in the process of fulfilling DLMI’s multiple roles as dairy manufacturer,
investor, purchaser, corporate donor, employer and industry/business partner. Such risks may have serious consequences
in terms of DLMI’s market position and reputation, financial losses, legal implications and stakeholders’ perceptions.
DLMI’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework allows us to examine risks at two levels: 1) Project-level near to medium
term risks and 2) Enterprise-level medium to long-term risks. Our efforts are focused on conducting annual due-diligence
to appraise of near-term risks and gain a full visibility of long-term risks.
The risk management framework is further structured around the Three Lines of Defense Model, which ensures
comprehensive risk oversight and accountability across all levels of the organisation:
1. First Line of Defense – Operational Management: Responsible for identifying and managing risks as part of day-to-
day operations. Control owners and Control Performers are accountable in ensuring day to day activities related to
sustainability including managing risks and key control activities is conducted as per design.
2. Second Line of Defense – Risk Management and Compliance: Provides oversight, guidance, and support to ensure
that risk management practices are consistent and effective. Legal and Sustainability Leads will provide guidance,
ensure policy and procedures related to sustainability is updated and available, conduct monitoring and provide
assistance to First Line of Defense.
3. Third Line of Defense – Internal Audit: Provides independent assurance on the effectiveness of governance, risk
management, and internal controls.
FIRST LINE SECOND LINE THIRD LINE
Management carries primary
responsibility for establishing and
managing risks on a daily basis. In
addition, management maintains a
system of effective internal management
measures designed to limit these risks.
Supports management in developing,
maintaining and monitoring the
effectiveness of risk management
processes and systems. Furthermore, the
second line defines the risk management
framework, policies and procedures.
Ensures that the structure and the
operational effectiveness of the internal
management measures, including risk
management activities carried out by
first and second line functions, are
objectively evaluated.
Individual Managers and
Management Team
Corporate Department,
including Legal Affairs
Internal Audit
Board and ARC
Economic Risks
Market and External Risks
(Resource crunch, pricing
fluctuations and consumer
activism)
Product, Technology and
Innovation Risks
(Product development,
quality and consumer
activism)
Supply Chain and
Procurement Risks
(Procurement
irregularities,
supplier disruptions)
Environmental Risks
Energy, Water,
Waste and Emissions
Management risks
(Evolving regulations,
corporate liability and
compliance rules)
Climate Change Risks
(Financial and non-
financial implications
from Physical and
Transition Risks)
Social Risks
People Performance and
Productivity Risks
(Welfare/wellbeing and
D&I of employees/
workers, including risks
related to human rights
and safety and health)
Governance Risks
People Performance and
Productivity Risks
(Grievance mechanisms,
policy breaches;
monitoring, evaluation
and learning processes)
Fraud and Anti-Bribery
Risks
Regulatory and Legal
Risks
EESG Risks Integrated into
DLMI’s Enterprise Risk Management Framework
Section
77
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
This model fosters an integrated and systematic approach
to managing risks, ensuring alignment with organisational
objectives and regulatory standards.
Risk Assessment and Monitoring: Respective departments
via their Management team and business owners are
responsible for identifying, assessing, mitigating and
managing risk on a continuous basis. The overview of risks
including EESG risks are discussed on a quarterly basis
with the MT members and action plans are continuously
monitored and updated. The Risk assessment mechanism
and methodology applied is in line with DLMI’s Enterprise
Risk Assessment (ERA).
PARTNERSHIPS TO DEMONSTRATE
SUSTAINABILITY LEADERSHIP
DLMI continually seeks opportunities to partner with
purposeful institutions and ideas that contribute to creating
systemic change for a sustainable future. Our senior
leadership participates in industry-led collaborations and
platforms, contributing to critical dialogue that shapes ESG
policies and practices. We believe that our association with
MAREA and CAN will play a significant role in establishing
synergies with our peers and even competitors, particularly
in advancing the sustainability agenda and creating
meaningful impact.
MALAYSIAN RECYCLING ALLIANCE (MAREA)
The Malaysian Recycling Alliance Berhad (MAREA) is
Malaysia’s first voluntary, industry-led Extended Producer
Responsibility (EPR) alliance established to enhance the
country’s recycling value chain and circular economy by
significantly increasing the collection and recovery of post-
consumer packaging. MAREA is committed to collaborating
with the Malaysian Government and other stakeholders
including consumers, waste collectors, recyclers and
industry players to drive the singular goal of a greener
Malaysia through circular economy solutions.
As a Founding Member of the Malaysian Recycling Alliance
(MAREA), we actively participate in critical deliberations
with Board Members, Steering Committee and Working
Committee groups. Through these contributions, we strive
to promote Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) across
the industry and champion the adoption of environmentally
friendly packaging end-of-life practices.
In 2024:
DLMI’s Managing Director was appointed as the
Chairperson of MAREA, with a mandate to steer
Board agendas and strategies to catalyse the
role of MAREA as the high potential PRO.
We continued to engage with relevant ministries
and authorities on the importance and role of EPR
in addressing Malaysia’s waste management
challenges in the long-term.
We worked with MAREA Members and actively
participated in rolling out targeted pilot initiatives
and programmes on waste collection in
collaboration with value chain stakeholders.
We also focused our efforts on enhancing
knowledge both internally (at DLMI) and
externally (among our stakeholders) to better
understand and gain insights into the mechanics
of waste management, its ecosystem, and the
workings of Extended Producer Responsibility.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
78
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
CEO ACTION NETWORK (CAN)
CAN has evolved as a credible voice, a closed-door peer-to-peer informal network of CEOs and board members committed
to driving sustainable action in corporate Malaysia. With more than 70 members from over 20 critical sectors, CAN aspires
to catalyse its members and the broader economy towards proactively shaping future-ready and ESG-integrated business
models and ecosystems.
Since 2021, DLMI has been representing at CAN both as a member of the Steering Committee as well as a participant,
especially to further the objectives of its workstream on Diversity, Equity and Inclusion. In FY2024, we have met all our
Collective Commitments at Level 2*. We are also preparing to meet the revised set of Collective Commitments defined
for Level 3 with higher ambition for FY2024-FY2026.
∞ Disclose material sustainability risks and
opportunities
∞ Disclose performance criteria of top
management linked to EESG
∞ Completed. We are due for refreshing our materiality
assessment, including risks and opportunities in FY2025.
∞ Completed. Our Managing Director and, top management
team, who lead/head critical functions of business have
sustainability key performance indicators (KPIs). These
KPIs can be attributed to our material matters as well as
EESG performance and achievement of the KPIs can
positively contribute to individual merit increase and
collective performance of the business unit.
Governance
Environment
∞ Set public targets on GHG Scope 1 and
2
∞ Commit to implement TCFD
recommendations
∞ Completed. We have committed to 30% reduction in
energy and water intensity by 2030 against 2022 baseline
∞ Completed. We had officially committed to align to TCFD
recommendations with a 4-year plan in place starting 2023.
In 2024, we realigned our plan with the introduction of the
National Sustainability Reporting Framework that is premised
on IFRS S1 & S2 (where TCFD requirements are embedded
already).
People
∞ Set public targets on percentage of
female composition in top management
∞ Conduct a human rights risk assessment
across own operations and value chain
∞ Completed. In line with our targets, 75% of Board positions
and 44% Executive Positions (Top Management) are held
by women.
∞ Completed human rights risk assessment for our
manufacturing facility DLMI@PJ in 2022. In planning to
conduct the next round of assessments, specially to cover
our new facility DLMI@Enstek as well as our operations, led
by our Global Team.
Commitment Status
Commitment Status
Commitment Status
* CAN has outlined 14 commitments under three categories (environment, people and governance) with three progressive
levels (level 1, level 2, level 3) of commitment for each category.
Section
79
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
BETTER NUTRITION
We endeavour to deliver
high nutritional value,
improve access, and deploy
technologies for efficient
production.
Nutrition is the reason for our being. It contributes to the
wellbeing of communities. It builds productive human capital
for the nation. It promises a healthy future. Yet, according
to Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO), undernourished
people in Asia-pacific region represent half of the global
total. A major concern for Malaysia is the high prevalence
of stunting, wasting, and overweight among children under
5 years of age.
As a company committed to Nourishing Our Nation with
balanced nutrition through nutrition-dense dairy, we take
greater responsibility in addressing the issues of malnutrition.
How do we do it?
Our strategy to deliver better Nutrition includes four key
interventions:
a) Better Products
b) Access to Nutrition
c) Lifestyle Education and
d) Responsible Communication
Bursa Malaysia Common and
Sector-specific Material Matters
Customer Health & Safety/Product
Responsibility
DLMI Material Matters
NPR Nutrition and Product Responsibility
UN SDGs
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
80
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
A) Better Products
Global Nutritional Standards (GNS): We adhere to nutritional criteria aiming to retain the natural beneficial nutrients
in milk and reduce the level of energy per serving, trans fat, saturated fat, added sugar and salt as much as possible.
The criteria are regularly reviewed by teams of nutritionists and product specialists to incorporate new internal and
external insights in nutrition and health.
Halal Certification: We take the concept of Halalan Toyyiban seriously and have had the longest history and track record
in producing to specific halal standards of cleanliness and hygiene. Our Halal-certified products uphold stringent standards
for quality, safety and sanitary conditions, in full compliance with the regulations outlined by Jabatan Kemajuan Islam
Malaysia (JAKIM), Jabatan Agama Islam Negeri (JAIN) and other authorised Islamic Certification Bodies.
% of products that are Halal-certified
* Total DLMI (MY, SG & Brunei) | In Scope: CD, MIFT, Friso, & FCP
2024
100%
2023
100%
2022
100%
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
With a long-term track record of over 50 years in implementation of Halal Compliance System, we have earned consumer
confidence in our hygienic, healthy and nutritious products, that also meet high standards of cleanliness, safety and
quality. In 2024 and beyond, we are strengthened by our commitment to transparent and ethical practices through Halal
standards, fostering trust and loyalty amongst our consumers.
Retain
Milk is highly nutritious, naturally
containing essential nutrients that we
strive to retain as much as possible in
our products. For most product
groups, we have established criteria
for minimum levels of protein and
calcium
Reduce
As stated by the WHO, it is important
to reduce the intake of sugar, salt,
saturated fatty acids and trans-fat in
the fight against noncommunicable
diseases (obesity and food-related
diseases). Limiting the intake of these
nutrients, as well as energy content per
serving, is part of the Global Nutritional
Standards
Enrich
The South East Asian Nutrition Surveys
II (SEANUTS II) shows a prevalence of
vitamin deficiencies, including B1, B2,
B12, C, D, and calcium, among children
in Southeast Asia. Fortification of
products becomes critical, which we
implement based on international
guidelines: CODEX CAC/GL 9-1987
and the WHO/FAO Guidelines on
Food Fortification with Micronutrients
2024
84.70%
2023
82.37%
2022
96.40%
% of consumer dairy volume sold that
is compliant with GNS*
*  In 2024, we have aligned GNS compliance reporting
scope with regional and global FC, changing from
percentage of products that are GNS compliant to
percentage of volume sold that is GNS compliant.
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
Changes in GNS criteria and scope has had some impact on the
performance numbers over the years. We continue to work closely
with our global nutrition team to ensure local context and
regulations are taken into account. Our efforts are towards ensuring
our innovation roadmap remains GNS compliant all along.
How have we evolved in our reporting in the past 3 years?
• In 2022, GNS compliance was limited to liquid milk products
sold to consumers.
• In 2023, we included IFT products, which resulted in a
decline in GNS compliance as we focused on initiating efforts
to make MIFT products GNS-compliant.
• In 2024, we noted a small increase in compliance as a result
of higher demand for GNS compliant products.
Section
81
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
B) Access to Nutrition
Targeted Milk Formulations and Distribution: At DLMI, we understand the growing risk of undernutrition or
micronutrient deficiencies amongst children and communities from disadvantaged sections of the society. Our efforts,
globally and in Malaysia, are to:
∞ increase access to healthy and affordable nutrition through school milk programme, distribution of milk to targeted
communities, introduction of RM1 pack for B40 population etc.
∞ develop tailored nutrition for specific populations with special dietary needs because of their age, health, lifestyle,
or other circumstances e.g. growing children, pregnant women, elderly, overweight/obese people, people with
allergies or intolerances
∞ launch campaigns that help raise awareness on the importance of Nutrition for health and wellbeing
C) Lifestyle Education
Continuous Engagement on Nutrition: The prevalence of high rates of malnutrition and undernutrition, resulting in
issues like stunting and obesity, reflects:
∞ Low awareness of the importance of nutrition
∞ Poor understanding of nutritional information on labels
∞ Changing lifestyles and food consumption behaviour
Crucial to our efforts are community champions, such as mothers, teachers, and healthcare professionals as well as
key institutions like community development departments, city councils, and healthcare providers, who remain at the
centre of all our engagement on Nutrition.
424,128 568,056 887,510
2024 2022
2023
Number of Consumers Engaged for Awareness on Nutrition*
Access to nutrition through School Milk Programme
No. of fortified products
11.6 million
packs of fortified milk
19.5 million
packs of fortified milk
14.5 million
packs of fortified milk
75,000 students
2024 2022
2023
In 2024, the decline is primarily due to the new scope of the School Milk Programme contract with the Ministry of Education,
as we continue to focus on delivering affordable and nutritious dairy to support the holistic development of children.
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
* Direct Events & Outreach Initiatives Organised for Total DLMI: Dutch Lady and Friso
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
82
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
D) Responsible Communication
Healthier Choice Logo (HCL): We recognise the need to help consumers identify and choose healthier options from
the shopping shelves. Products with the Healthier Choice Logo ensures that consumers are opting for products that
are higher nutritional value, and lower in fat, sodium, and sugar compared to similar products. Such products also
meet the criteria determined by the Ministry of Health. Our implementation of HCL provides transparent information
on the nutritional value of products at point-of sale, in line with the National Plan of Action for Nutrition of Malaysia
(NPANM) III (2016-2025), which aims to promote healthier lifestyles across the Malaysian populace.
% of total products that are HCL certified
* Malaysia Only | Total Consumer Dairy
83%
100%
65%
2024 2022
2023
In 2022, 100% of DLMI’s products that were eligible for HCL certification met HCL guidelines. In 2023, we improved the
accuracy of our reporting and reviewed the boundaries of our HCL certified products against all available products, regardless
of whether they are HCL eligible. The increase of HCL products in 2024 is a result of delisting discontinuing select products
in our portfolio on the back of our commercial strategies and business priorities. Our innovation roadmap is aimed at
introducing HCL products where possible.
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
Innovation & Technology
While our innovation efforts span various dimensions, including improved products, packaging, processes, people, and the
planet, we are particularly focused on unlocking greater cost and time efficiencies through the targeted application of digital
technologies and solutions. One example is our World Class Operations Management (WCOM) programme, which aims to
increase focus, maximise impact, and drive sustainability in our production processes. In 2024, we observed tangible
outcomes from the WCOM programme, particularly in improved shop floor performance, thanks to the technology-powered
Daily Management System.
We also strive to deploy Industrial Revolution (IR) 4.0 technologies such as the Internet of Things (IoT), big data analytics,
cloud computing and augmented reality to improve operational efficiencies. These technologies converge at our new
manufacturing facility DLMI@Enstek to create a modern, future-proof production environment.
In 2024, we saw many identified improvements such as increased capacity levels, centralised CIP kitchen, and
re-processing have been made with the help of new equipment, new processes and Industrial Revolution (IR) 4.0
technologies. With fine tuning and further developments in coming years, we will strive to reduce losses/materials, improve
efficiencies and minimise the use of natural resources.
Section
83
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
BETTER SOURCING
We aim to promote
responsible supply chain
practices to improve
sourcing of quality
domestic milk and deliver
sustainable dairy.
UN SDGs
The role of our supply chain partners is critical to ensure we are
producing nutrition in balance with nature - From local farmers who
deliver milk to companies who source essential raw materials for
our products; from vendors who help us with different aspects of
business from packaging to technology to people we contract for
delivering operational services. We continually reinforce the
importance of understanding the complexities, challenges and
impacts along the supply chain. This is the toughest part of our
business, but efforts are ongoing.
Our strategy is to assess the risks and opportunities to devise
specific initiatives that will shape a resilient and sustainable supply
chain in the long-term. Focus areas include:
∞ Farmer education, in partnership with the Department of
Veterinary Services (DVS), focuses on sustainable dairy farming
practices to improve efficiencies and enhance the capacity to
produce high-quality, nutritious dairy
∞ Local suppliers’ awareness and orientation on DLMI’s sustainability
agenda and assessment of their own EESG practices
∞ Sourcing key agricultural raw materials that are certified for
positive environmental and social standards
Bursa Malaysia Common and
Sector-specific Material Matters
Supply Chain Management
DLMI Material Matters
RSC Responsible Supply Chain
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
84
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Volume of quality raw milk sourced from local farms
2.12 million litres
2024
2.74 million litres
2023
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
The significant drop in sourcing from 2022 can be attributed to severe impacts on supply of raw milk, even in the post
COVID-19 era mainly due to closure of farms and/or farms operating sub-optimally. Between 2023 and 2024, DLMI focused
its efforts to strengthen its local sourcing strategy, with clear immediate priorities and long-term commitment to building
the supply chain for fresh raw milk in Malaysia through agro-partnerships, technology support, and sustainable farming practices.
We remain one of the largest purchasers of fresh raw milk in Malaysia, with a vision to work with the authorities and sector
stakeholders for contributing to the national ambition of achieving 100% self-sufficiency in local fresh milk by 2030.
2022
4.33 million litres
Number of farmers trained on sustainable dairy practices since 2013
653
2024
653
2023
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
Through our Farmer2Farmer (F2F) programme, our intent over the years has been to help local farms to increase their
yield and milk quality, and make dairy farming a steady and growing income source for them and their families. The
programme focuses on good farming management and administration (sustainability and profitability), good milking/handling
practices, effective feed and nutritional programme for cattle, monitoring methods, good breeding and fertility programme,
with a particular emphasis on hygiene management and learning the essential elements in reducing the total plate count
(TPC) in local milk.
In 2024, our focus has been to build and strengthen our local fresh milk sourcing strategy, including planning technical
support for our long-term agro-partners in the coming years. Outside of F2F, during the year, 120 farmers underwent a
special training conducted in collaboration with Department of Veterinary Services (DVS) under a signed memorandum,
mainly covering topics such as animal welfare practices, dairy cattle feed management, raw milk hygiene and quality and
the overall, dairy farm sustainability.
2022
627
% / RM Spends on Local Suppliers
56%* or RM479.9 million
39%* or 
RM533.2 million
2024 2022
2023
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
In 2024, we conducted a preliminary EESG due diligence for all suppliers who are beneficiaries of 80% of our local spends. We
also engaged them with our key findings, DLMI’s aspiration to collaborate with them to improve their EESG orientation and
performance over the next 3-5 years. For procurement of new suppliers, we have also assigned a 20% weightage to their
performance on EESG Criteria to reinforce our focus and commitment to sustainable and responsible business practices.
* 
proportion of spending on local suppliers includes intercompany spend. In 2022, the reported number excluded intercompany spend
82%* or 
RM539.4 million
% of Agricultural raw materials that are Responsibly Sourced
100% of Palm Oil RSPO
Certified
100% of Cocoa
Rainforest Alliance (previously
known as UTZ) Certified
100% Paper for all
Product Packaging FSC/PEFC
Certified
100% of Palm Oil RSPO
Certified
100% of Cocoa UTZ
Certified
100% Paper for all
Product Packaging FSC/PEFC
Certified
100% of Palm Oil RSPO
Certified
100% of Cocoa UTZ
Certified
100% Paper for all
Product Packaging FSC/PEFC
Certified
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
During the year, we accelerated our efforts towards meaningful supplier engagement, to cover 90% of our top-spend
suppliers, who also completed the EESG Due Diligence. The objective was to raise awareness on DLMI Sustainability Strategy,
share key findings from EESG Supplier Self-Assessment, Gap Assessment of Tier 1 Vendor’s emissions and Recommendations
for our vendors. We also reinforced the key aspects of FC Responsible Supplier Policy as well as supplier grievance
mechanism – Speak-Up procedure. We also initiated the process to strategise an ongoing Supplier Engagement and
Stewardship Plan 2025-2027.
2024 2022
2023
Section
85
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
BETTER CLIMATE
We remain committed to
our journey towards net-
climate-neutral dairy by
2050 by responsibly
managing our energy,
water, waste and
emissions.
UN SDGs
Science informs us that Climate Change is an existential
threat. In the spirit of CBDR-RC (Common but Differentiated
Responsibilities and Respective Capabilities) Principle
outlined in the United Nations Framework Convention on
Climate Change (UNFCCC), we understand the need for
collective commitment of multiple actors, including the
government, policy makers, private sector, and civil society.
At DLMI, we also believe that we have a role to play in
fulfilling the national climate commitments and action.
As one of the leading dairy companies in Malaysia, with
a legacy of over 60 years of Nourishing Our Nation, our
promise is to produce nutrition in balance with nature. We
recognise climate change as a risk that could potentially
impact our operations, our supply chain, and our ability
to remain competitive and profitable.
Bursa Malaysia Common and
Sector-specific Material Matters
Energy Management
Water
Waste Management
Emissions Management
DLMI Material Matters
EW Energy, Water, Waste & Emissions
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
86
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
A value chain Climate Risk Assessment was conducted by our parent company, FrieslandCampina. For Malaysia, the
physical risks such as heat stress, storms, rainfall, landslides, damaging winds and possible water stress are more real.
There is a moderate risk of lower yields of raw materials such as palm oil due to the impacts of climate change, which
could possibly also affect the availability and costs. The transitional risks are high, mainly associated with an increase in
costs of compliance to evolving regulations.
Our strategy in the near-term is to establish materiality of the risks, plan at-source interventions to reduce harm and
focus on improving efficiencies to deliver value to both our business and environment. In the medium-term, our strategy
is to undertake an in-depth and qualitative climate risk assessment, establish priorities and determine financial effects. In
the long term, we aspire to deliver net-climate-neutral dairy by 2050.
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
Considering DLMI has been in transition from DLMI@PJ to the new IR4.0 enabled manufacturing facility DLMI@Enstek,
where growth is imminent, absolute reduction targets:
∞ May not reflect the efficiency improvements from new process and technology deployments and emissions efficiency
∞ May not be comparable, where all dairy sector companies in Malaysia may not necessarily be of the same size,
operating at the same scale
Manufacturing Facility and Quill 9 Office
2024 2023 2022
Scope 1
6,139.0 tCO2
eq 5,957.4 tCO
2
eq 6,842 tCO
2
eq
Scope 2
16,080.5 tCO
2
eq 13,747 tCO
2
eq 14,412 tCO
2
eq
Carbon
Intensity
0.197 0.138 -
Scope 3
(Business Travel)
912.22 tCO
2
eq 767 tCO
2
eq -
Scope 3
(Employee
Commuting)
866.26 tCO
2
eq 524 tCO
2
eq -
* Assessment and data is for our manufacturing facilities DLMI@PJ & DLMI@Enstek and Corporate Office DLMI@Quill 9
However, we are committed to continuously assess and support intensity targets with absolute emissions reduction targets
as we mature in our mitigation approach.
As per our GHG Assessment and Inventory, 75% of our impacts come from Scope 3, with maximum from category 1, purchased
goods and services, followed by upstream transportation and distribution and fuel energy related activities. We are
committed to complete the due diligence that’s necessary to establish the scale and complexity of the problem as well
as the potential solutions.
Section
87
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
Intensity targets, in the short to medium term, would give a more accurate account of our commitment to managing
our impacts. We do believe that intensity targets can be adapted to evolving business and operating circumstances
as well as to our appetite for risks and growth. By 2030, our target is to reduce energy and water intensity by 30%
against the 2022 baseline, which are 0.82 GJ/tonne and 2.97 m3/tonne respectively.
Water and energy intensity have increased in 2024 due to double operations and testing and commissioning at Bandar
Enstek, with zero product output from January-May 2024.
2024 2023 2022
Total Energy
Consumption
51,001.53 (MW) or
183,641.49 GJ
47,122.51 (MW) or
169,641.04 GJ
177,535 (GJ)
Energy Intensity 1.63 GJ/tonne 1.1 GJ/tonne 1.18 GJ/tonne
Total Water
Consumption
648.992ML 684.442ML 512,497 m3*
Water Intensity 5.75 m3/tonne 3.6 m3/tonne 3.4 m3/tonne
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
The waste data is computed for our manufacturing facilities DLMI@PJ and DLMI@Enstek for 2023 and 2024 respectively.
Waste generated increased by almost double compared to 2023 due to testing and commissioning at DLMI@Enstek.
2024 2023 2022
Total Waste
Generated
1,927 tonnes 1,080.2 tonnes 1,658 tonnes
Total Recycle
Waste Generation
1,823 tonnes 931.7 tonnes 1,478.5 tonnes
Waste to Energy 104 tonnes 148.4 tonnes 106.5 tonnes
Total Landfill
Waste
0 tonnes 0 tonnes 73 tonnes
Total Waste
Diverted from
Disposal
100% 100% 95.6%
* Assessment and data is for our manufacturing facilities DLMI@PJ & DLMI@Enstek and Corporate Office DLMI@Quill 9
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
88
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Section
89
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
BETTER PACKAGING
We are aligned to the
global goal of having a
fully circular and net zero
packaging portfolio by
2050.
UN SDGs
In keeping with our commitment to climate action as
well as extended producer responsibility, we are
continuously assessing opportunities, new emerging
technologies, partnerships and coalitions that will
support the agenda of sustainable packaging.
Our strategy is to explore, assess, prioritise and
implement innovative packaging design, technologies
and collection/recycling programmes to minimise
waste, optimise recovery, and promote circularity. Our
interventions include:
a) Reducing Materials Used for Packaging
b) Designing for Recycling
c) Post-Consumer Waste Collection & Recycling
d) Responsible Communication
Bursa Malaysia Common and
Sector-specific Material Matters
Waste Management
DLMI Material Matters
Recovery and Circularity
RC
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
90
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
A) Reducing Materials Used for Packaging
We continue to find ways to minimise materials used in our packaging while retaining their essential barrier, hygiene
and food safety qualities. Some of the examples include reducing the length of our product pouches, thickness of
shrink films used in our Ultra Heat Treatment (UHT) milk packaging, thinner stretch films for use in transporting our
products etc. The objective is to reduce raw materials sourced from natural resources, reduce our waste impact at
end-of-life, and drive cost savings.
B) Designing for Recycling
Good Packaging is critical to keep our dairy products safe and fresh, ensuring longer shelf life, free from contamination
or ingress of bacteria and reducing food waste. What is equally important is to ensure packaging is recyclable and/
or reusable, produced with minimal emissions, and is diverted from landfill and/or the environment. The challenge
however is to create packaging that is optimally recyclable and affordable at the same time, while preserving the
quality of our dairy products.
In 2024, in collaboration with our regional and global R&D teams, we continued to explore various emerging and
circular solutions and innovations in packaging including aluminium free material, reinforcing our commitment to
environmentally friendly practices and eco-conscious consumers. In the coming year/s, our priority is to continue to
pilot the most practical and promising solutions that would work both for our consumers and for business.
C) Post-Consumer Waste Collection & Recycling
Packaging and related issues are extremely complex and challenging to crack a universal solution, both in terms of
sustainable design and waste management. For instance, to achieve optimal collections of packaging waste and then
sort for recycling, the entire value chain must be well-integrated with cooperation from critical value chain actors:
the packaging producer, the buyer, the customer, the government, collectors, sorters and recyclers.
In 2024, in the spirit of Extended Producer Responsibility, we continued to work with MAREA and collaborate with
multiple stakeholders to launch both pilot programmes and initiatives at scale to improve the rate of collections,
especially of packaging materials that are critical for us. We also focused our efforts to raise levels of knowledge
on the mechanics of waste and recycling and its ecosystem.
D) Responsible Communication
Consumer awareness of waste management post-consumption in Malaysia is relatively low. There is a need to
collaborate with grassroots NGOs, community groups and associations, consumer activists and government to launch
public service campaigns that will drive behaviour change in the long-term. Meanwhile, as producers, it is our
responsibility to ensure consumers are equipped with practical information on how they can manage packaging waste
from our dairy products. We have included recycling information on our packaging to raise awareness and guide
consumers in responsible disposal.
% packaging designed for recycling
2024 2022
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
Overall in 2024, the Designed for Recycling rate improved compared to 2023, primarily driven by the phasing out of key
non-recyclable packaging formats within the DLMI Portfolio as part of the Big Blue Project (Dutch Lady STM HDPE bottles,
yogurt cups, tubs and yogurt bottles) starting mid-2024. We will continue in our efforts to keep our packaging sustainable,
while also working in parallel to support efforts to accelerate waste collection and management through MAREA.
2023
20.3%*
Packaging
recyclable
plastics
Specialised Nutrition:
77.8%*
Packaging
recyclable-
all materials
69.9%*
Packaging
recyclable
plastics
Consumer Dairy:
92.5%*
Packaging
recyclable-
all materials
12.1%*
Packaging
recyclable
plastics
Specialised Nutrition:
66.2%*
Packaging
recyclable-
all materials
72.2%*
Packaging
recyclable
plastics
Consumer Dairy:
93.1%*
Packaging
recyclable-
all materials
20.3%*
Packaging
recyclable
plastics
Specialised Nutrition:
77.8%*
Packaging
recyclable-
all materials
69.9%*
Packaging
recyclable
plastics
Consumer Dairy:
92.5%*
Packaging
recyclable-
all materials
* Includes primary, secondary and tertiary packaging.
Section
91
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
BETTER PEOPLE
We aim to be recognised as
a Top Employer in
Malaysia, ensuring that
DLMI is a People-Positive
and Fit-for-Purpose
Workplace by 2030.
UN SDGs
Our people make it all possible. They are the most
valuable and critical asset to our business. We make
it our primary responsibility to nourish their personal
and professional development. Our efforts are focused
on creating inclusive and motivated teams, that work
as robust and cooperative teams committed to our
purpose of Nourishing Our Planet and People in Every
Stage of Life.
Our strategy is to enable our people to grow and
perform; foster a fit and empowering workplace, and
create a great employee experience. This will require
us to focus on talent and leadership development;
integrate DEI principles into our culture, values and
ways of working; and institutionalise a centralised and
digitised people services and solutions for a seamless
employee experience.
Bursa Malaysia Common and
Sector-specific Material Matters
Health and safety
Labour practices and standards
Diversity
DLMI Material Matters
D&I Diversity and Inclusion
EE Employee Experience
WG Wellbeing and Growth
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
92
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
In 2024, we revisited our ambition for ‘Better People’ Roadmap, in alignment with our global HR transformation efforts as
well as more refined priorities. Our 2030 ambition is now ‘To shape a People-Positive and Fit-for-Purpose Workplace’,
which is supported by eleven strategic HR key performance indicators (KPIs) (Refer to pages 68-69 for the KPIs) and
seven 2030 headline targets (as mentioned below).
Ranking on Top Employers Benchmark by Top Employers Institute
Top Quartile 2nd Quartile Started the journey in
2022. No. Certification
Issued
2024 2022*
2023
This rigorous assessment of 20 topics and 350 people best practices by the Top Employers Institute helps us to prioritise
positive changes beyond processes, controls and operations. We achieved our 2030 target to be in the top quartile ahead
in 2024.
We continue to be ranked strong on 70% of the assessment topics to include, Business Strategy, Leadership, Purpose and
Values, Ethics and Integrity, DEI, Sustainability, People Strategy, Wellbeing, Employee Listening, Work Environment,
Performance.
Potential areas where we can do better and are committed to allocate more energy and resources include Offboarding,
Rewards and Recognition, and Continuous Learning.
Key Strategies Headline Targets 2030
Enable our people to grow
and perform
WG
∞ Top Quartile on Top Employers of Malaysia
∞ 100% Management Team and Business Leadership Team on Future-Proof
Skills Development Track
∞ Internal Fulfilment Rate >50% at Hay Grade 18 and above
Foster a fit and empowering
workplace
D&I
∞ Top Quartile on D&I Benchmark
∞ O2Y Score at par or above Industry Benchmark
∞ 100% Employee Coverage on HURI Assessments
∞ Pay Parity: Equal Salary Certification
Create a great employee
experience
EE
∞ Top Quartile on NPS for Employee Experience
ENABLE OUR PEOPLE TO GROW AND PERFORM
Enabling our people to grow and perform is crucial for continuously fulfilling our purpose. We believe that when our people
are given opportunities to develop their skills and advance their careers, they become more engaged and motivated. This
leads to higher productivity and better performance, while also contributing to people wellbeing and welfare.
Investing in employee growth also fosters a culture of continuous learning and improvement. It encourages innovation
and creativity, as employees feel empowered to bring new ideas to the table. Moreover, providing training and development
opportunities helps in retaining top talent, as employees are more likely to demonstrate loyalty and higher levels of
commitment to both their own future and future of the organisation.
Additionally, when employees are supported in their growth, they are better equipped to adapt to changes and challenges
in the workplace. This adaptability is essential in today’s fast evolving business environment.
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
* Started the assessment and journey with Top Employers Institute in 2022. No certification was issued.
Section
93
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
At DLMI, we encourage employees to take charge of their own learning and development needs. This essentially means,
employees can nominate themselves for any training areas that they identify as critical to their current roles and future
aspirations. The top five areas of training in 2024 included: Leadership Journey and Development, Growth Mindset, Personal
Leadership, Functional Capability Building and People Manager Capability Building.
These were well-aligned with our business and people priorities for the year, where the main objectives included:
1) bridge the gap between and across leadership teams;
2) provide holistic development journey for our talent; and
3) ensure purposeful development interventions for our people.
We are in planning to conduct a comprehensive assessment of critical skills that will future-proof both our people as well
as our business. Our aspiration is to place 100% of our Management and Business Leadership Teams on a Future-Proof
Skills Development Track in phases by 2030. We continue to strengthen Leadership across all functions and provide a more
robust development platform for our Asia Young Cubs.
2,804
313
5,269
3,828
1,945
2024
5,118
418
2,231
8,560
4,105
2023 2022*
● Director (≥HG20)
● Senior Manager (HG17 – HG19)
● Manager/Professional (HG14 – HG16)
● Executive/Para-Professional (HG10 - HG13)
● Union (BA1 – BS1)
Hours of Employee Training by Employee Category
Additional Performance Data:
* Performance tracking on this indicator available only since 2023
Total and Average Hours of Employee Training
14,159
hours of training
30.78
20,432
hours of training
37.8average hours
per employee
21,624
hours of training
20.8average hours
per employee
2024 2022
2023
average hours
per employee
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
94
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Attrition and Internal Fulfilment Rate
7.25%
vs Mercer industry average of 12.8%
2024 2023
8.55%
vs Mercer industry average of 13%
2022
11.24%
vs Mercer industry average of 11.8%
9
0
0
16
11
2024
7
63
1
27
15
2023 2022*
Employee Turnover by Employee Category
● Director (≥HG20)
● Senior Manager (HG17 – HG19)
● Manager/Professional (HG14 – HG16)
● Executive/Para-Professional (HG10 - HG13)
● Union (BA1 – BS1)
* Performance tracking on this indicator available only since 2023
Representation of Women on Board and in Top Management
75% of Board Positions held
by Women
44% of Top Management
Positions are held by women
75% of Board Positions held
by Women
50% of Top Management
Positions are held by women
63% of Board Positions
held by Women
44% of Top Management
Positions are held by women
2024 2022
2023
FOSTER A FIT AND EMPOWERING WORKPLACE
Fostering a fit and empowering workplace with diversity and inclusion as key principles is essential for organisational
success. A diverse and inclusive environment promotes creativity, innovation, and better decision-making by promoting
new ideas and perspectives. We also believe that by prioritising gender balance, organisations can create a fair and
dynamic culture where everyone can thrive, leading to sustainable growth and a competitive edge in the market. Overall,
a supportive and empowering workplace boosts employee morale, productivity, and overall wellbeing.
* Performance tracking on Internal Fulfilment Rate available only since 2024
50%
Internal Fulfilment Rate for Hay Grade 18
and above
Section
95
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Board Diversity by Gender
Board of Directors
Chief Executive Officer/
Managing Director
Management Committee/
Senior Management
Male Female
2024 1
2023 1
2022 1
2024 4
3
2023 5
3
2022 5
3
6
2
2024
6
2
2023
6
2
2022
4
2
2
2022
3
3
2
2023
3
3
2
2024
Board Diversity by
Age Group Board of
Directors
• 30-39
• 40-49
• 50-59
• 60 years
and above
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
96
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
2
5
25
36
88
78
72
54
14
166
• 30-39 • 40-49 • 50-59 • 60 years and above
% of Employees Unionised & Governed by Collective Bargaining Agreements
33.3%
40.6%
44.1%
2024 2022
2023
Director
(≥HG20)
Senior
Manager
(HG17
– HG19)
Manager/
Professional
(HG14
– HG16)
Executive/
Para-
Professional
(HG10
- HG13)
Union
(BA1 - BS1)
Director
(≥HG20)
Senior
Manager
(HG17
– HG19)
Manager/
Professional
(HG14
– HG16)
Executive/
Para-
Professional
(HG10
- HG13)
Union
(BA1 - BS1)
• Under 30 • 30-50 • Over 50
2024 2023
Top Management
Chief Executive Officer/Managing Director/Management Committee/Senior Management
Employee Diversity by Gender, for Each Employee Category
Employee Diversity by Age-Group, for Each Employee Category
7
1
2024 7
2
2023 5
3
1
2022
Director
(≥HG20)
Senior
Manager
(HG17
– HG19)
Manager/
Professional
(HG14
– HG16)
Executive/
Para-
Professional
(HG10
- HG13)
Union
(BA1 - BS1)
4 4
27
34
72
77
47
61
7
127
• Male
• Female
2024
• Male
• Female
2023
Director
(≥HG20)
Senior
Manager
(HG17
– HG19)
Manager/
Professional
(HG14
– HG16)
Executive/
Para-
Professional
(HG10
- HG13)
Union
(BA1 - BS1)
8
3
0 0 0
58
122
77
27
4
8
112
14
14
13
6 4
0
1
0
57
137
41
7
10
78
130
40
15
14
Section
97
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
CREATE A GREAT EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE
Creating a great employee experience contributes to talent attraction and retention. A positive work environment instils
a sense of belonging, making employees feel valued, while also improving employee morale, engagement, and productivity.
These in turn lead to higher job satisfaction and lower turnover rates. Additionally, a great employee experience fosters
a culture of trust and collaboration, encouraging innovation and creativity. In other words, investing in employee experience
drives organisational success by creating a motivated, loyal, and high-performing workforce.
Substantiated Cases Reported Concerning Human Rights
5 -
4
2024 2022*
2023
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
Safeguarding the wellbeing of our employees means protecting their fundamental human rights, strictly, in everything we
do. To this end, FrieslandCampina’s and our organisation-level Human Rights Policy are aligned with international principles,
including the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and the
OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises.
We are planning to implement Human Rights (HURI) Assessments across the Board, covering all employees, including
temporary, permanent and contractual workers at our new manufacturing facility DLMI@Enstek. The plan will be executed
in phases over the next two years.
Meanwhile, we have included a Human Rights Awareness Training in our mandatory trainings for all staff and workers, in
addition to promoting the Grievance Reporting and Redressal Mechanism through our Speak-Up platform.
Employee Engagement Index Score
74%
vs. industry benchmark of
74%
73%
vs. industry benchmark of
75%
81%
vs. industry benchmark of
76%
2024 2022
2023
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
Through the survey, employees identified our “Purpose”, “Connection” and “Feedback” as key strengths of our approach to
people and business. Whereas, “Communication”, “Wellbeing” and “Decision-Making” were highlighted as areas for continuous
improvement. Based on the key findings, our efforts are now channeled to improve transparency and consistency in
communications, introduce more robust recognition programmes, draw clearer career progression paths, foster inclusion,
and enhance wellbeing and welfare initiatives. Additionally, in 2025, our focus will also be on:
∞ Creating an environment where people are given the space to deliver and have the psychological safety to perform,
grow and succeed
∞ Reinforcing a conducive workplace that allows our employees to feel more connected to each other and aligned to our
purpose and values
∞ Strengthening DLMI leadership through holistic people manager capability building underpinned by our corporate values
to drive high performing teams
* Performance tracking on this indicator available only since 2023
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
98
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Employees who Received Training on Safety and Health Standards
Work Related Fatalities and Lost Time Incident Rate
219 354
Zero
Work Related Fatalities
0.20 Lost Time Incident Rate
(LTIR)
Zero
Work Related Fatalities
0.11 Lost Time Incident
Rate
Zero
Work Related Fatalities
0.12 Lost Time Incident
Rate
2024
2024
2022*
2022
2023
2023
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
Effective 1 November 2024, the LTIR scope has been revised to exclude other contractors, who are not in our direct
supervision, however includes employees and supervised contractors.
Speak-Up (Grievance Platform)
4 5 1
2024 2022
2023
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
The Speak-Up procedure clearly sets out a well-defined governance process upon which Compass related matters can
be raised in confidence and anonymity (if requested) in good faith, and without fear of reprisal. The Speak-Up phone
and web service which is managed by an independent third party is available on any day of the year and at any time.
Details of the methods to raise Speak-Up Reports is made available to employees via internal communication. This
information is also made available to all other stakeholders, including our suppliers on the Company’s website along with
a copy of the Speak-Up Procedure at www.dutchlady.com.my.
-
* Performance tracking on this indicator available only since 2023
Section
99
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
UN SDGs
BETTER SOCIETY
We aim to support the
communities and
stakeholders in our business
ecosystem with interventions
that would build capabilities,
and contribute to social and
environmental wellbeing.
As a corporate citizen, it is our continuous endeavour to remain in
touch with critical communities in our business ecosystem – from
farmers to consumers to DLMI internal and external stakeholders. The
Better Society roadmap is aligned with our purpose of Nourishing Our
Nation as well as with our greater responsibility to create positive
social and environmental impact in the conduct of our business.
Our strategy is to assess various issues that matter to farmers and
communities, and identify opportunities for meaningful engagement,
through long-term stewardship and support. Our interventions
include:
∞ Farmer education on sustainable dairy farming practices
towards improving the quality and volume of milk and thereby
their income potential
∞ Milk distribution to underserved communities
∞ Milk distribution to communities to raise awareness of wellbeing
of children in terms of their social, emotional, physical, intellectual
and spiritual development
∞ Engagement and partnership with civil society and members of
the community on river cleaning project
Bursa Malaysia Common and
Sector-specific Material Matters
Community/Society
DLMI Material Matters
FC Farmers and Communities
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
100
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Contribution to Local Communities (children and B40 communities)
RM457,784.82
37,644 beneficiaries
RM79,558
45,016 beneficiaries
RM403,774
64,959 beneficiaries
2022
2023
2024
Over the years, we have worked with various partners to support B40 communities, including women and children by
distributing our nutritional dairy products during special occasions such as Ramadan and Chinese New Year Celebrations;
extraordinary circumstances during natural calamities such as floods; and community-focused events related to food security,
physical health, and environmental wellbeing.
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
Driving Education on Nutrition
Milk cartons distributed to Kampung Orang Asli Berdut, Pahang. We have also distributed our milk cartons to underprivileged
communities in Negeri Sembilan, Selangor, Perak, Kelantan and Kuala Lumpur.
Section
101
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Driving Education on Nutrition
Milk cartons distributed to several communities in several states, schools, a refugee learning centre, welfare homes and the homeless
through TrEES – an NGO partner in Bursa Malaysia’s re.Food programme
2024 2022
2023
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
In line with our environmental protection efforts, we continued our partnership with the Global Environment Centre (GEC)
in 2024. Through the partnership, we have been participating in the River Adoption & Monitoring Project, a three-year
undertaking (from 2022 to 2024) wherein DLMI support GEC’s Penchala River Rehabilitation and Education programmes.
We also worked with officers from the Department of Irrigation and Drainage (DID) to carry out a clean-up of the Penchala
River trail and create a pollinator garden to foster biodiversity by the riverbank through our partnership with GEC. Our
initiative offered an opportunity to raise awareness as well as seek meaningful participation of critical stakeholders in
safeguarding the environment within our business ecosystem.
32
participants from DLMI, DID
Petaling officers and the Section 14
community members
18
participants from
DLMI and community
members
36
participants from DLMI,
DID Petaling officers, MBPJ
officer and community
members
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
102
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Participation in River Cleaning: Volunteerism
A visit by the Minister of Natural Resources, Environment and Climate Change (NRECC), YB Nik Nazmi, Member of the
Legislative Assembly (ADUN), YB Rajiv, council members, DID and Ministry of NRECC staffs and other stakeholders to
Section 14 river trail on 30 May 2024
River Ranger activity at Section 14 river trail and Bukit Kiara with communities
and DLMI staff on 9 November 2024
Section
103
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
BETTER GOVERNANCE
We aim to operate with
integrity, respect and
transparency through our
commitment to sustainable
business practices, and
acting in the best interest of
our people, partners and all
other stakeholders.
UN SDGs
In applying good governance for sustainable development,
we live and operate by the values of respect,
transparency, ethics, integrity, privacy and security.
Reinforcing these values at every opportunity or in every
engagement with our stakeholders is fundamental to
business continuity and resilience.
Besides various policies and procedures (refer to page 76
of this report), in the conduct of our business and
relationships, we have a strong orientation to COMPASS
– a comprehensive set of guidelines that unites our
purpose, values and business principles, ensuring we are
Doing Dairy Right.
Bursa Malaysia Common and
Sector-specific Material Matters
Anti-Corruption
Data Privacy and Security
DLMI Material Matters
SEC Socio-Economic Continuity
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
104
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Our strategies are multipronged based on the three focus areas outlined in COMPASS.
1. Respecting People, Planet and Products: This covers Safety, Health, and Environment; Workplace Respect;
Sustainability; and Food Safety and Quality
2. Doing Business with Integrity: This is all about Fair Communication, Responsible Public Activities, Avoiding Bribery,
Fair Competition, Business Partner Integrity, and Avoiding Conflicts of Interest
3. Protecting our Information and Assets: This relates to Privacy and Data Protection, Protecting Confidential
Information, Use of Company Resources, Preventing Fraud, and Integrity of Reporting
In working with these, our objective is also to develop an open, accountable and strategic approach to managing
sustainability performance. The Better Governance Roadmap, which was updated in 2024 to support our alignment with
the newly introduced National Sustainability Reporting Framework (NSRF), includes our ambition to align to a verifiable
set of accountability principles such as AA1000 Accountability Principles (2018) (“AA1000AP”). The Principle of Impact
is of central importance to the accountability process and supports the interactions between inclusivity, materiality and
responsiveness. Below is the table that captures our progress on key principles of and adherence criteria for AA1000AP.
Ongoing Alignment with Key AA1000 Accountability Principles
Key Principles Our Progress on Adherence
Inclusivity
∞ Commitment,
Integration and
Capacity Building
∞ Engagement Strategy &
Process Development
∞ Performance
Measurement and
Stakeholder
Communications
60% Fulfilment of
Adherence Criteria
Stakeholder engagement is handled by the Corporate Affairs Department, in
close collaboration with the Managing Director and other members of the
Management Team. The Board Charter sets out the commitment to engage
and communicate with stakeholders, in line with the policies, procedures and
guidelines of the FC group. When communicating and engaging with
stakeholders, the aim is to provide clear, unambiguous and up to date
information, all within the established boundaries of disclosure.
Work in Progress:
∞ Risk analyses and integration of stakeholder engagement and response
into relevant policies, operational procedures and systems is work in
progress.
∞ Set specific metrics to measure engagement effectiveness, outcomes
and impact, for continuous learning and improvement.
Section
105
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Ongoing Alignment with Key AA1000 Accountability Principles
Key Principles Our Progress on Adherence
Materiality
∞ Commitment, Integration
and Capacity Building
∞ Materiality Determination
∞ Communication
50% Fulfilment of
Adherence Criteria
In 2023, we conducted our Second Formal Materiality Assessment Exercise
using the methodology recommended by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI)
Standards.
The process included active participation of the Managing Director and
Management Team, who are also the Leads and Heads of Critical Functions
of the Organisation, as well as internal and external stakeholders of influence
and impact, including employees, suppliers, and consumers.
While the process included prioritisation of material matters based on
significance, likelihood and impact, definite criteria and thresholds were not
defined and are areas for consideration in the next round.
Areas to Strengthen:
∞ We plan to conduct a full-fledged materiality assessment, which will include
documenting a robust, systematic and materiality determination process
that will be more inclusive through engagement with relevant corporate
customers, shareholders, government, industry groups, community, business
partners, NGOs and media.
∞ Improve capability and capacity to apply the results of the materiality
assessment process, including procedures for addressing conflicts or
dilemmas arising from diverging or conflicting expectations regarding
material topics.
∞ Create and disclose a comprehensive and balanced understanding and
prioritisation of material sustainability topics for the organisation and its
stakeholders.
Responsiveness
∞ Commitment, Integration
and Capacity Building
∞ Response Strategy
Development
∞ Response
Implementation and
Ongoing Communication
37% Fulfilment of
Adherence Criteria
While we have developed responses related to material topics and leveraged the
annual and sustainability reports to communicate these messages to stakeholders,
a clear area for improvement is to engage risk management, compliance, and
functional strategies for a more integrated response.
Areas to Strengthen:
A continuous and ongoing communication with stakeholders is essential and
can be institutionalised as a plan.
We plan to institutionalise a process where:
∞ We will assess the relationship between the maturity, impact and
prioritisation of the topics and the appropriateness of the responses
∞ We will revisit our strategies and identify key areas of improvement.
Impact
∞ Commitment, Integration
and Capacity Building
∞ Impact Identification and
Metrics Development
∞ Impact Assessment and
Disclosure
60% Fulfilment of
Adherence Criteria
We track, measure and report our performance against key material matters
annually against the set targets and/or impact indicators, where defined. We
also compare our performance against industry benchmarks where available.
The capacity and capability of impact measurement currently sits with
respective functional heads/leads and/or owners of respective sustainability
roadmaps.
Areas to Strengthen:
∞ Establish a process to understand, measure, evaluate, manage and report
impacts are defensible and can be subject to external assurance.
∞ Gradually raise the bar and ambition on all kinds of impacts (qualitative,
quantitative or monetised measures for sustainability context for each
impact – against business and stakeholders).
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
106
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
PROMOTING PRINCIPLES OF GOOD GOVERNANCE
The role of effective and inclusive policies in implementing principles of good governance is critical. For one, policies
support in strategic planning, allocation of resources, seeking greater participation, fostering accountability and driving
performance. Towards this in 2024, we launched and refreshed key policies to include Workplace Respect policy and
DLMI Sustainability policy, in addition to promoting Compass – our guiding light that unites our purpose, values and
business principles. It helps us nourish integrity throughout what we do, always ensuring we are Doing Dairy Right.
Emphasised on the importance
of values that bring out the best
in everyone, where people treat
each other respectfully and
professionally, and where
individual differences are
appreciated.
Established our statement of
purpose, our approach to
managing EESG risks, and the
principles that guide us in
making our intent and impact
meaningful for both business
and stakeholders.
Our guiding principles Our guiding principles Our guiding principles
Relaunched
COMPASS
Launched
WORKPLACE
RESPECT POLICY
Launched new
DLMI SUSTAINABILITY
POLICY
∞ Respecting People, Planet
and Products
∞ Doing Business with Integrity
∞ Protecting Our Information
and Assets
∞ We do not accept
inappropriate behaviour such
as bullying and harassment.
∞ We do not accept
discrimination of any kind,
based on gender, race, age,
religion or nationality.
∞ We encourage open, honest
and constructive
communication between the
people involved when
addressing disrespectful
behaviour and/or resolving
difficult personnel issues.
∞ Take a balanced perspective
on risks by prioritising
aspects that are most
material to our people and
business.
∞ Prioritise mitigation efforts
that focus on delivering
value that is aligned with
our purpose and interest of
our people and planet.
Through local workshops with
Senior Managers, delivered a
fresh, simpler programme, for all
employees to understand and
embrace key values and
principles.
Section
107
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
In keeping with our global policy for good business conduct, our efforts are focused on ensuring that the policy remains
relevant to our local business operations, also fulfils the requirements local laws and regulations. Across our operations, we
maintain a zero tolerance policy concerning all types of corruption, including fraud and bribery. We also provide mandatory
training to our employees to continuously raise awareness and understanding of, and commitment to, our guidelines and
principle of good business conduct.
Complaints on Breaches of Customer Privacy and Losses of Customer Data
Zero Zero –
2024
* 
Performance tracking on this indicator available only since 2023
2023 2022*
% of Operations Assessed for Corruption Related Risks
–
2024^
^ In 2024, we did not conduct any corruption related risk assessment. The risks identified in FY23 remained relevant. The various action
plans developed in FY23 are being addressed based on a phased-approach model. The next corruption related risks assessment would
be conducted in FY25 in line with FC’s Enterprise Risk Assessment model which mandates a comprehensive assessment of risks once
every two years.
100%
2023
Confirmed Incidents of Corruption and Actions Taken
* 
Performance tracking on this indicator available only since 2023
Zero Zero Zero
2024 2022
2023
2022*
Trend Analysis/Brief Commentary
A global governance structure supports the implementation of our Data Protection & Privacy policy. The pace of
implementing mitigating measures related to cybersecurity at FrieslandCampina has been increasing with several initiatives.
These include strengthening our fundamental processes and driving awareness across all levels of the organisation. As
a result of our continuing efforts, the Group has noted an improvement in the maturity and overall awareness throughout
the organisation.
% Training on Anti-Corruption by Employee Category
Effective 2024, the official scope for reporting for Union Workers has been revised to include only the Executive Union
Workers, who are already integrated into the digital tracking system. While the percentage of completion within this group
of employees has increased, it is important to note that the majority of our shop-floor factory workers who are also union
members do not own official email addresses and hence, are not integrated into our digital HR training platform. We
however target to cover such workers when planning and delivering training on Anti-Bribery and Corruption. To achieve
this, team leaders have the mandate to hold physical classroom sessions to deliver the trainings and lead the discussions
on this topic with their shop-floor union team members.
● Director (≥HG20) ● Senior Manager (HG17 – HG19) ● Manager/Professional (HG14 – HG16)
● Executive/Para-Professional (HG10 - HG13) ● Union (BA1 – BS1)
Additional Performance Data:
* 
Performance tracking on this indicator by category available since 2023
2024
2023
2022*
100%
95%
93%
97%
100%
68% 97% 98% 90% 86%
–
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
108
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Section
109
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Indicator Measurement Unit 2023 2024
Bursa (Anti-corruption)
Bursa C1(a) Percentage of
employees who have received
training on anti-corruption by
employee category
Director (eHG20) Percentage 86.00 100.00
Senior Manager (HG17 -
HG19)
Percentage 90.00 95.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16)
Percentage 98.00 93.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13)
Percentage 97.00 97.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Percentage 68.00 100.00
Bursa C1(b) Percentage of
operations assessed for
corruption-related risks
Percentage 100.00 0.00
Bursa C1(c) Confirmed incidents
of corruption and action taken
Number 0 0
Bursa (Community/Society)
Bursa C2(a) Total amount invested
in the community where the target
beneficiaries are external to the
listed issuer
MYR 79,558.86 457,784.82
Bursa C2(b) Total number of
beneficiaries of the investment in
communities
Number 45,016 37,644
Bursa (Diversity)
Bursa C3(a) Percentage of
employees by gender and age
group, for each employee category
Age Group by Employee
Category
Director (eHG20) Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00
Director (eHG20) Between 30-
50
Percentage 86.00 * 88.00
Director (eHG20) Above 50 Percentage 14.00 * 13.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Under 30
Percentage 0.00 0.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Between 30-50
Percentage 93.00 * 95.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Above 50
Percentage 7.00 * 5.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Under 30
Percentage 8.00 * 9.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Between 30-50
Percentage 83.00 * 82.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Above 50
Percentage 9.00 * 9.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Under 30
Percentage 33.00 * 25.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Between 30-50
Percentage 62.00 * 71.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Above 50
Percentage 6.00 * 4.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Under 30 Percentage 6.00 * 6.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Between 30-
50
Percentage 72.00 * 84.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Above 50 Percentage 22.00 * 10.00
Gender Group by Employee
Category
Director (eHG20) Male Percentage 71.00 * 50.00
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
110
SUSTAINABILITY
PERFORMANCE REPORT
Indicator Measurement Unit 2023 2024
Bursa (Anti-corruption)
Bursa C1(a) Percentage of
employees who have received
training on anti-corruption by
employee category
Director (eHG20) Percentage 86.00 100.00
Senior Manager (HG17 -
HG19)
Percentage 90.00 95.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16)
Percentage 98.00 93.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13)
Percentage 97.00 97.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Percentage 68.00 100.00
Bursa C1(b) Percentage of
operations assessed for
corruption-related risks
Percentage 100.00 0.00
Bursa C1(c) Confirmed incidents
of corruption and action taken
Number 0 0
Bursa (Community/Society)
Bursa C2(a) Total amount invested
in the community where the target
beneficiaries are external to the
listed issuer
MYR 79,558.86 457,784.82
Bursa C2(b) Total number of
beneficiaries of the investment in
communities
Number 45,016 37,644
Bursa (Diversity)
Bursa C3(a) Percentage of
employees by gender and age
group, for each employee category
Age Group by Employee
Category
Director (eHG20) Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00
Director (eHG20) Between 30-
50
Percentage 86.00 * 88.00
Director (eHG20) Above 50 Percentage 14.00 * 13.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Under 30
Percentage 0.00 0.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Between 30-50
Percentage 93.00 * 95.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Above 50
Percentage 7.00 * 5.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Under 30
Percentage 8.00 * 9.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Between 30-50
Percentage 83.00 * 82.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Above 50
Percentage 9.00 * 9.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Under 30
Percentage 33.00 * 25.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Between 30-50
Percentage 62.00 * 71.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Above 50
Percentage 6.00 * 4.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Under 30 Percentage 6.00 * 6.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Between 30-
50
Percentage 72.00 * 84.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Above 50 Percentage 22.00 * 10.00
Gender Group by Employee
Category
Director (eHG20) Male Percentage 71.00 * 50.00
operations assessed for
corruption-related risks
Bursa C1(c) Confirmed incidents
of corruption and action taken
Number 0 0
Bursa (Community/Society)
Bursa C2(a) Total amount invested
in the community where the target
beneficiaries are external to the
listed issuer
MYR 79,558.86 457,784.82
Bursa C2(b) Total number of
beneficiaries of the investment in
communities
Number 45,016 37,644
Bursa (Diversity)
Bursa C3(a) Percentage of
employees by gender and age
group, for each employee category
Age Group by Employee
Category
Director (eHG20) Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00
Director (eHG20) Between 30-
50
Percentage 86.00 * 88.00
Director (eHG20) Above 50 Percentage 14.00 * 13.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Under 30
Percentage 0.00 0.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Between 30-50
Percentage 93.00 * 95.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Above 50
Percentage 7.00 * 5.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Under 30
Percentage 8.00 * 9.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Between 30-50
Percentage 83.00 * 82.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Above 50
Percentage 9.00 * 9.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Under 30
Percentage 33.00 * 25.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Between 30-50
Percentage 62.00 * 71.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Above 50
Percentage 6.00 * 4.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Under 30 Percentage 6.00 * 6.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Between 30-
50
Percentage 72.00 * 84.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Above 50 Percentage 22.00 * 10.00
Gender Group by Employee
Category
Director (eHG20) Male Percentage 71.00 * 50.00
Director (eHG20) Female Percentage 29.00 * 50.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Male
Percentage 59.00 * 56.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Female
Percentage 41.00 * 44.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Male
Percentage 47.00 * 48.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Female
Percentage 53.00 * 52.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Male
Percentage 43.00 * 44.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Female
Percentage 57.00 * 56.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Male Percentage 92.00 * 95.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Female Percentage 8.00 * 5.00
Bursa C3(b) Percentage of
directors by gender and age group
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*)Restated
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Under 30
Percentage 0.00 0.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Between 30-50
Percentage 93.00 * 95.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Above 50
Percentage 7.00 * 5.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Under 30
Percentage 8.00 * 9.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Between 30-50
Percentage 83.00 * 82.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Above 50
Percentage 9.00 * 9.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Under 30
Percentage 33.00 * 25.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Between 30-50
Percentage 62.00 * 71.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Above 50
Percentage 6.00 * 4.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Under 30 Percentage 6.00 * 6.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Between 30-
50
Percentage 72.00 * 84.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Above 50 Percentage 22.00 * 10.00
Gender Group by Employee
Category
Director (eHG20) Male Percentage 71.00 * 50.00
Director (eHG20) Female Percentage 29.00 * 50.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Male
Percentage 59.00 * 56.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Female
Percentage 41.00 * 44.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Male
Percentage 47.00 * 48.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Female
Percentage 53.00 * 52.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Male
Percentage 43.00 * 44.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Female
Percentage 57.00 * 56.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Male Percentage 92.00 * 95.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Female Percentage 8.00 * 5.00
Bursa C3(b) Percentage of
directors by gender and age group
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*)Restated
of corruption and action taken
Bursa (Community/Society)
Bursa C2(a) Total amount invested
in the community where the target
beneficiaries are external to the
listed issuer
MYR 79,558.86 457,784.82
Bursa C2(b) Total number of
beneficiaries of the investment in
communities
Number 45,016 37,644
Bursa (Diversity)
Bursa C3(a) Percentage of
employees by gender and age
group, for each employee category
Age Group by Employee
Category
Director (eHG20) Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00
Director (eHG20) Between 30-
50
Percentage 86.00 * 88.00
Director (eHG20) Above 50 Percentage 14.00 * 13.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Under 30
Percentage 0.00 0.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Between 30-50
Percentage 93.00 * 95.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Above 50
Percentage 7.00 * 5.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Under 30
Percentage 8.00 * 9.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Between 30-50
Percentage 83.00 * 82.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Above 50
Percentage 9.00 * 9.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Under 30
Percentage 33.00 * 25.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Between 30-50
Percentage 62.00 * 71.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Above 50
Percentage 6.00 * 4.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Under 30 Percentage 6.00 * 6.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Between 30-
50
Percentage 72.00 * 84.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Above 50 Percentage 22.00 * 10.00
Gender Group by Employee
Category
Director (eHG20) Male Percentage 71.00 * 50.00
Director (eHG20) Female Percentage 29.00 * 50.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Male
Percentage 59.00 * 56.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Female
Percentage 41.00 * 44.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Male
Percentage 47.00 * 48.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Female
Percentage 53.00 * 52.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Male
Percentage 43.00 * 44.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Female
Percentage 57.00 * 56.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Male Percentage 92.00 * 95.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Female Percentage 8.00 * 5.00
Bursa C3(b) Percentage of
directors by gender and age group
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*)Restated
Section
111
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Indicator Measurement Unit 2023 2024
Male Percentage 25.00 25.00
Female Percentage 75.00 75.00
Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00
Between 30-50 Percentage 25.00 25.00
Above 50 Percentage 75.00 75.00
Bursa (Energy management)
Bursa C4(a) Total energy
consumption
Megawatt 47,122.51 51,001.53
Bursa (Health and safety)
Bursa C5(a) Number of work-
related fatalities
Number 0 0
Bursa C5(b) Lost time incident rate
("LTIR")
Rate 0.11 0.20
Bursa C5(c) Number of employees
trained on health and safety
standards
Number 354 219
Bursa (Labour practices and standards)
Bursa C6(a) Total hours of training
by employee category
Director (eHG20) Hours 418 313
Senior Manager (HG17 -
HG19)
Hours 4,105 1,945
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16)
Hours 8,560 3,828
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13)
Hours 5,118 2,804
Union (BA1 - BS1) Hours 2,231 5,269
Bursa C6(b) Percentage of
employees that are contractors or
temporary staff
Percentage 3.00 3.00
Bursa C6(c) Total number of
employee turnover by employee
category
Director (e HG20) Number 1 0
Senior Manager (HG17 -
HG19)
Number 7 9
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16)
Number 27 16
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13)
Number 15 11
Union (BA1 - BS1) Number 63 0
Bursa C6(d) Number of
substantiated complaints
concerning human rights
violations
Number 5 4
Bursa (Supply chain management)
Bursa C7(a) Proportion of
spending on local suppliers
Percentage 39.00 56.00
Bursa (Data privacy and security)
Bursa C8(a) Number of
substantiated complaints
concerning breaches of customer
privacy and losses of customer
data
Number 0 0
Bursa (Water)
Bursa C9(a) Total volume of water
used
Megalitres 684.442000 648.992000
Bursa (Waste management)
Bursa C10(a) Total waste
generated
Metric tonnes - No Data Provided
of corruption and action taken
Bursa (Community/Society)
Bursa C2(a) Total amount invested
in the community where the target
beneficiaries are external to the
listed issuer
MYR 79,558.86 457,784.82
Bursa C2(b) Total number of
beneficiaries of the investment in
communities
Number 45,016 37,644
Bursa (Diversity)
Bursa C3(a) Percentage of
employees by gender and age
group, for each employee category
Age Group by Employee
Category
Director (eHG20) Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00
Director (eHG20) Between 30-
50
Percentage 86.00 * 88.00
Director (eHG20) Above 50 Percentage 14.00 * 13.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Under 30
Percentage 0.00 0.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Between 30-50
Percentage 93.00 * 95.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Above 50
Percentage 7.00 * 5.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Under 30
Percentage 8.00 * 9.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Between 30-50
Percentage 83.00 * 82.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Above 50
Percentage 9.00 * 9.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Under 30
Percentage 33.00 * 25.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Between 30-50
Percentage 62.00 * 71.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Above 50
Percentage 6.00 * 4.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Under 30 Percentage 6.00 * 6.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Between 30-
50
Percentage 72.00 * 84.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Above 50 Percentage 22.00 * 10.00
Gender Group by Employee
Category
Director (eHG20) Male Percentage 71.00 * 50.00
Director (eHG20) Female Percentage 29.00 * 50.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Male
Percentage 59.00 * 56.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Female
Percentage 41.00 * 44.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Male
Percentage 47.00 * 48.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Female
Percentage 53.00 * 52.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Male
Percentage 43.00 * 44.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Female
Percentage 57.00 * 56.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Male Percentage 92.00 * 95.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Female Percentage 8.00 * 5.00
Bursa C3(b) Percentage of
directors by gender and age group
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*)Restated
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
112
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE REPORT
Indicator Measurement Unit 2023 2024
Male Percentage 25.00 25.00
Female Percentage 75.00 75.00
Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00
Between 30-50 Percentage 25.00 25.00
Above 50 Percentage 75.00 75.00
Bursa (Energy management)
Bursa C4(a) Total energy
consumption
Megawatt 47,122.51 51,001.53
Bursa (Health and safety)
Bursa C5(a) Number of work-
related fatalities
Number 0 0
Bursa C5(b) Lost time incident rate
("LTIR")
Rate 0.11 0.20
Bursa C5(c) Number of employees
trained on health and safety
standards
Number 354 219
Bursa (Labour practices and standards)
Bursa C6(a) Total hours of training
by employee category
Director (eHG20) Hours 418 313
Senior Manager (HG17 -
HG19)
Hours 4,105 1,945
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16)
Hours 8,560 3,828
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13)
Hours 5,118 2,804
Union (BA1 - BS1) Hours 2,231 5,269
Bursa C6(b) Percentage of
employees that are contractors or
temporary staff
Percentage 3.00 3.00
Bursa C6(c) Total number of
employee turnover by employee
category
Director (e HG20) Number 1 0
Senior Manager (HG17 -
HG19)
Number 7 9
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16)
Number 27 16
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13)
Number 15 11
Union (BA1 - BS1) Number 63 0
Bursa C6(d) Number of
substantiated complaints
concerning human rights
violations
Number 5 4
Bursa (Supply chain management)
Bursa C7(a) Proportion of
spending on local suppliers
Percentage 39.00 56.00
Bursa (Data privacy and security)
Bursa C8(a) Number of
substantiated complaints
concerning breaches of customer
privacy and losses of customer
data
Number 0 0
Bursa (Water)
Bursa C9(a) Total volume of water
used
Megalitres 684.442000 648.992000
Bursa (Waste management)
Bursa C10(a) Total waste
generated
Metric tonnes - No Data Provided
Senior Manager (HG17 -
HG19)
Number 7 9
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16)
Number 27 16
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13)
Number 15 11
Union (BA1 - BS1) Number 63 0
Bursa C6(d) Number of
substantiated complaints
concerning human rights
violations
Number 5 4
Bursa (Supply chain management)
Bursa C7(a) Proportion of
spending on local suppliers
Percentage 39.00 56.00
Bursa (Data privacy and security)
Bursa C8(a) Number of
substantiated complaints
concerning breaches of customer
privacy and losses of customer
data
Number 0 0
Bursa (Water)
Bursa C9(a) Total volume of water
used
Megalitres 684.442000 648.992000
Bursa (Waste management)
Bursa C10(a) Total waste
generated
Metric tonnes - No Data Provided
Bursa C10(a)(i) Total waste
diverted from disposal
Metric tonnes - No Data Provided
Bursa C10(a)(ii) Total waste
directed to disposal
Metric tonnes - No Data Provided
Bursa (Emissions management)
Bursa C11(a) Scope 1 emissions in
tonnes of CO2e
Metric tonnes - No Data Provided
Bursa C11(b) Scope 2 emissions in
tonnes of CO2e
Metric tonnes - No Data Provided
Bursa C11(c) Scope 3 emissions in
tonnes of CO2e (at least for the
categories of business travel and
employee commuting)
Metric tonnes - No Data Provided
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*)Restated
of corruption and action taken
Bursa (Community/Society)
Bursa C2(a) Total amount invested
in the community where the target
beneficiaries are external to the
listed issuer
MYR 79,558.86 457,784.82
Bursa C2(b) Total number of
beneficiaries of the investment in
communities
Number 45,016 37,644
Bursa (Diversity)
Bursa C3(a) Percentage of
employees by gender and age
group, for each employee category
Age Group by Employee
Category
Director (eHG20) Under 30 Percentage 0.00 0.00
Director (eHG20) Between 30-
50
Percentage 86.00 * 88.00
Director (eHG20) Above 50 Percentage 14.00 * 13.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Under 30
Percentage 0.00 0.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Between 30-50
Percentage 93.00 * 95.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Above 50
Percentage 7.00 * 5.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Under 30
Percentage 8.00 * 9.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Between 30-50
Percentage 83.00 * 82.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Above 50
Percentage 9.00 * 9.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Under 30
Percentage 33.00 * 25.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Between 30-50
Percentage 62.00 * 71.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Above 50
Percentage 6.00 * 4.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Under 30 Percentage 6.00 * 6.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Between 30-
50
Percentage 72.00 * 84.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Above 50 Percentage 22.00 * 10.00
Gender Group by Employee
Category
Director (eHG20) Male Percentage 71.00 * 50.00
Director (eHG20) Female Percentage 29.00 * 50.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Male
Percentage 59.00 * 56.00
Senior Manager (HG17 - HG19)
Female
Percentage 41.00 * 44.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Male
Percentage 47.00 * 48.00
Manager/Professional (HG14 -
HG16) Female
Percentage 53.00 * 52.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Male
Percentage 43.00 * 44.00
Executive/Para-Professional
(HG10 - HG13) Female
Percentage 57.00 * 56.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Male Percentage 92.00 * 95.00
Union (BA1 - BS1) Female Percentage 8.00 * 5.00
Bursa C3(b) Percentage of
directors by gender and age group
Internal assurance External assurance No assurance (*)Restated
Section
113
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
CHAIRPERSON
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin
Rajakumar
Independent Non-Executive
Director
(appointed 27.02.2019)
DIRECTORS
Ramjeet Kaur Virik
Non-Independent Executive
Director
Managing Director
(appointed 02.07.2021)
Saw Chooi Lee
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director
(appointed on 01.01.2014 and
re-designated to Independent
Non-Executive Director on
15.01.2020)
Corine Danielle Tap
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
(appointed 01.01.2023)
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
(appointed 16.03.2018)
Tengku Nurul Azian binti
Tengku Shahriman
Independent
Non-Executive Director
(appointed 25.06.2018)
Jean Serge Krol
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
(appointed 19.07.2019)
Darren Kong Kam Seong
Independent
Non-Executive Director
(appointed 14.04.2021)
WEBSITE
www.dutchlady.com.my
INVESTOR RELATIONS &
ENQUIRIES
Kai de Klerk
Finance Director
finance.dept@frieslandcampina.com
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
Stock Code: DLADY 3026
AUDITORS
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS PLT
(LLP0014401-LCA & AF 1146)
Chartered Accountants
Level 10, Menara TH 1 Sentral
Jalan Rakyat
Kuala Lumpur Sentral
50706 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
PUBLIC BANK BERHAD
12, Jalan 14/14
46100 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
CITIBANK BERHAD
Level 45, Menara Citibank
No. 165 Jalan Ampang
50450 Kuala Lumpur
MALAYAN BANKING BERHAD
18A, Jalan 14/14
46100 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
COMPANY SECRETARY
Katina Nurani binti Abd Rahim
Licensed Secretary
(L.S. No. 9652)
SSM Practising Certificate No.
201908001190
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
CHAIRPERSON
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku
Shahriman
MEMBERS
Saw Chooi Lee
Darren Kong Kam Seong
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias
Jean Serge Krol
NOMINATING & REMUNERATION
COMMITTEE
CHAIRPERSON
Saw Chooi Lee
MEMBERS
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku
Shahriman
Darren Kong Kam Seong
Corine Danielle Tap
REGISTERED OFFICE
Level 5, Quill 9
112, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
46300 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Telephone : 03-7953 2600
Facsimile : 03-7953 2700
REGISTRAR
BOARDROOM SHARE REGISTRARS
SDN BHD
12th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Telephone : 03-7890 4800
Facsimile : 03-7841 8151
BOARD OF
DIRECTORS
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
114
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
Composition Age Group Nationality
GENDER
Dutch
Malaysian
Executive
Director
Female
Male
Independent
Non-Executive
Directors
Non-Independent
Non-Executive
Directors
Below 50 years old
51-60 years old
61-70 years old
BOARD
AT A GLANCE
Section
115
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
∞ LLB (Honours), Bristol University
∞ Qualified as Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England &
Wales in 1994
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Petronas Chemicals Group Berhad
Non-listed public company
∞ HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad
∞ MCIS Insurance Berhad
∞ Zurich General Insurance Malaysia Berhad
∞ Climate Governance Malaysia Berhad
Working Experience:
Datin Seri Sunita’s career began at the Audit and Insolvency Divisions of Ernst
& Young in London. Thereafter she was attached to the Corporate Finance
Department of RHB Investment Bank Berhad in Kuala Lumpur before becoming
a consultant at MIMOS Berhad, where she was invited to manage a foreign
technology venture capital fund.
She is appointed to the board of trustees of several charities and is involved in
a spectrum of community-based activities. She has over 20 years of experience
sitting on boards ranging from technology start-up companies to listed
companies, and is a strong advocate of climate governance, having founded the
country chapter of the World Economic Forum’s climate governance initiative.
DATIN SERI SUNITA MEI-LIN RAJAKUMAR
Chairperson and Independent
Non-Executive Director
Board Meeting
Attendance in 2024
4/4
Date of Appointment:
27 February 2019
Tenure of Directorship:
6 years 1 month
Membership of Board
Committee:
None
* 
Datin Seri Sunita was a
member of Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad’s board
committees up to 27
September 2021 when she
relinquished her positions in
all board committees.
Female
56 years old
Malaysian
AGE
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
116
PROFILES OF DIRECTORS
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
Bachelor of Science Degree in Economics, Banking and Finance, London School
of Economics, United Kingdom.
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Ms. Ramjeet has been with FrieslandCampina for over 13 years. Prior to her
current appointment, she was the Marketing Director for the Consumer Dairy
Business of the Company since 2018. Before that, she was the International
Marketing Manager at FrieslandCampina Asia based in Singapore, and Marketing
Manager at PT Frisian Flag Indonesia.
She has more than 20 years of experience in various commercial roles, namely
in marketing, sales and shopper functions. Her career started in other leading
fast-moving consumer goods organisations such as British American Tobacco
(M) Sdn Bhd and Heineken Malaysia Berhad (previously known as Guinness
Anchor Berhad).
RAMJEET KAUR VIRIK
Managing Director
Board Meeting
Attendance in 2024
4/4
Date of Appointment:
2 July 2021
Tenure of Directorship:
3 years 8 months
Membership of Board
Committee:
None
Female
48 years old
Malaysian
AGE
Section
117
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and MBA from the University of
Nebraska-Lincoln, USA
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Ms. Saw was formerly the Managing Director for Dutch Lady Milk Malaysia and
Singapore from 2015 to 2017. She was then re-designated as a Non-
Independent Non-Executive Director in January 2018.
Ms. Saw started her marketing career by joining the Unilever management training
programme and since then, she has held various senior managerial positions within
the fast-moving consumer goods industry. She first joined the Company in March
2003 as its Commercial Director. From March 2008 to 2010, she was appointed
as the General Manager for FrieslandCampina Hong Kong. She was then promoted
to become the Managing Director for FrieslandCampina Mainland China from 2011
to 2014.
She was appointed as the Adjunct Professor for Graduate Business School – MBA
Programme, University Kebangsaan Malaysia (UKM) in 2018. Currently, she is
actively involved in various mentoring programmes for young leaders with the
Lead-Women Malaysia Organisation.
SAW CHOOI LEE
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Board Meeting
Attendance in 2024
4/4
Female
Date of Appointment:
1 January 2014
Re-designation to
Independent Director:
15 January 2020
Tenure of Directorship as
Independent Director:
5 years 2 months
Membership of Board
Committee:
∞ Nominating &
Remuneration
Committee (Chairperson)
∞ Audit & Risk Committee
61 years old
Malaysian
AGE
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
118
PROFILES OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY
CORINE DANIELLE TAP
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Board Meeting
Attendance in 2024
3/4
Female
Date of Appointment:
1 January 2023
Tenure of Directorship:
2 years 3 months
Membership of Board
Committee:
Nominating & Remuneration
Committee
52 years old
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
∞ Master of Econometrics/Operations Research, University of Amsterdam
∞ Postgraduate Controllers degree (CMA equivalent), University of Amsterdam-
University of Maastricht
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Ms. Tap is the President for the CD Asia Business Group of FrieslandCampina
since October 2023. She joined FrieslandCampina in November 2022 as the
Senior Vice President of CD Asia.
Ms. Tap first started her career in 1996 at Unilever in Indonesia. After holding
roles in Finance, Category Management, Marketing, and Sales, she moved to
China in 2002 to build the Lipton business. In 2005, she came back to Indonesia
where her last role was Managing Director at Unilever Food Solutions.
Ms. Tap then joined Danone in 2010 as Sales Director PT Sari Husada, Indonesia
(Early Life Nutrition). Between 2012 and 2013 she served as Regional Sales
Manager for Early Life Nutrition SAPAC. In 2013, she was appointed as the
General Manager ELN Australia & New Zealand. In 2017, she moved to Aqua
Indonesia as General Manager.
In July 2019, Ms. Tap became Senior Vice-President, Waters Indonesia and
South East Asia. Under her leadership, Aqua Indonesia obtained the B Corp
certification, becoming the largest B Corp in Asia.
Prior to joining FrieslandCampina, Ms. Tap was Danone’s President of AMEA (Asia
Middle East Africa) and a Member of the Executive Committee (COMEX).
Dutch
AGE
Section
119
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
Doctor of Veterinary Medicine, DVM, Universiti Pertanian Malaysia
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
MYMBN Berhad
Working Experience:
Dato’ Dr. Rosini was formerly the Deputy Director-General of the Department of
Veterinary Services (DVS), Malaysia. Her career in the veterinary and agricultural
sector spans over 30 years, and her contribution and service to the veterinary
sector has been recognised through state honours and by industry patrons in
2015 and 2017.
DATO’ DR. ROSINI BINTI ALIAS
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Female
Date of Appointment:
16 March 2018
Tenure of Directorship
7 years
Membership of Board
Committee:
Audit & Risk Committee
67 years old
Malaysian
Board Meeting
Attendance in 2024
4/4
AGE
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
120
PROFILES OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
∞ Advocate and Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya
∞ Barrister-at-Law - The Honourable Society of Inner Temple
∞ School of Oriental & African Studies, London University, LLB (Hons)
TENGKU NURUL AZIAN BINTI
TENGKU SHAHRIMAN
Independent Non-Executive Director
Female
Date of Appointment:
25 June 2018
Tenure of Directorship:
6 years 9 months
Membership of Board
Committee:
∞ Audit & Risk Committee
(Chairperson)
∞ Nominating &
Remuneration Committee
62 years old
Malaysian Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
∞ PPB Group Berhad
∞ FM Global Logistics Holdings Berhad (formerly known as Freight Management
Holdings Berhad)
Working Experience:
Tengku Nurul Azian was formerly the Executive Vice President & Partner of
PEMANDU Associates Sdn Bhd, a management consulting firm focused on public
sector transformation and business turnaround with global experience.
She started her career in 1988 as an Advocate and Solicitor with Messrs. Shook
Lin & Bok before pursuing a career in investment banking in 1992. With over 19
years of broad experience in investment banking and corporate finance, her last
position was Head of Corporate Finance at RHB Investment Bank Berhad, a member
of the RHB Banking Group, an integrated financial services group in Malaysia.
In 2010, she was appointed as the Director of Education and Human Capital
Development in the Performance Management and Delivery Unit (PEMANDU) and
held this position until 2017. She was the Executive Vice President and Partner of
PEMANDU Associates Sdn Bhd, a management consultancy firm until June 2020.
She is also a Board member of Pemimpin GSL, Malaysia, affiliated with the Global
School Leaders network, an organisation that focuses on strengthening leadership
in schools across Malaysia. Pemimpin GSL is also the organiser of the Malaysia
Teacher Prize. She sits on the Board of Governors of her alma mater, Convent Bukit
Nanas.
Board Meeting
Attendance in 2024
4/4
AGE
Section
121
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
∞ Post-master Degree Certified Controller (RC), Vrije Universiteit, Amsterdam
∞ Post-master Degree Certified Public Accountant (RA), Rijksuniversiteit
Groningen (RUG), Groningen
∞ Master of Economics (Drs.), Auditing variant, Rijksuniversiteit Groningen (RUG),
Groningen
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Mr. Krol joined FrieslandCampina in 2002 as Commercial Controller Friesland
Foods Cheese, Wolvega. Subsequently, he served as Finance Director at
FrieslandCampina Thailand, Bangkok, from 2006 to 2010, followed by a tenure
as Finance Director at FrieslandCampina DOMO, Amersfoort, from 2010 to 2015,
before assuming the role of Finance Director at FrieslandCampina China, Shanghai,
in May 2015. In July 2019, he was appointed as the Director of Finance for
FrieslandCampina’s Specialised Nutrition Business Group and in 2023, he assumed
the position of Director of Finance Business Group Asia.
JEAN SERGE KROL
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Date of Appointment:
19 July 2019
Tenure of Directorship:
5 years 8 months
Membership of Board
Committee:
Audit & Risk Committee
Board Meeting
Attendance in 2024
4/4
Male
54 years old
Dutch
AGE
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
122
PROFILES OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Mr. Darren Kong is currently an independent corporate and business consultant and advisor
registered under the Malaysian Institute of Accountants and also Programme Director for
the Institute of Advisors - Malaysia Chapter. Previously, he was Chief Operating Officer of
AutoCraver Trading Sdn. Bhd., a private company providing automotive technology solutions
and Managing Director, Corporate Strategy & Alliance of a data technology company that
specialises in Analytics, Big Data, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. Mr. Darren
Kong has held senior management and finance positions in industries covering property
development, property management and the automotive industry. His area of work involves
various organisations from enterprises to small businesses, establishing partnerships with
trade and industrial associations and government agencies. Currently, he is an Independent
Non-Executive Director of the Company and member of its Audit & Risk Committee and
Nominating & Remuneration Committee. Prior to this, he held directorships of several private
and public companies.
Mr. Darren Kong is a fellow member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants
(ACCA), a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA), a member of Certified
Practising Accountant (CPA) Australia, a member of Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia
(ICDM), a global associate member of Singapore Institute of Directors (SID), a member of
the Institute of Advisors (IOA) Australia and an associate member of the Association of
Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE). He graduated from Oxford Brookes University, United
Kingdom with a BSc (Hons) in Applied Accounting and a professional qualification from the
Association of Chartered Certified Accountants. He also holds a Certificate in Data Analytics
(CertDA) from ACCA, a Certificate in Digital Marketing Specialist from Malaysian Institute of
Management, a Certified Digital Transformation Professional (International Programme) from
CASUGOL, a Certificate in Google Cloud Big Data & Machine Learning and a Certified
Professional Business Advisor (CPBA) from the Institute of Advisors, Australia.
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
∞ Fellow Member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA)
∞ Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA)
∞ Associate member of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE)
∞ Member of the Certified Practising Accountants, Australia (CPA)
∞ Member of the Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia (ICDM)
∞ Member of the Singapore Institute of Directors (SID)
∞ Member of the Institute of Advisors (IOA)
∞ BSc (Hons) in Applied Accounting, Oxford Brookes University, United Kingdom
DARREN KONG KAM SEONG
Independent Non-Executive Director
Male
Date of Appointment:
14 April 2021
Tenure of Directorship:
3 years 11 months
Membership of Board
Committee:
∞ Audit & Risk Committee
∞ Nominating &
Remuneration Committee
47 years old
Malaysian
Board Meeting
Attendance in 2024
4/4
AGE
Section
123
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Save as disclosed, the Directors and the Company Secretary do not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of the Company other than as nominee director of Royal FrieslandCampina N.V., do not have any conflict of interest with
the Company, has not been convicted of any offence within the past five years, and has not been imposed any penalty by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year 2024.
KATINA NURANI BINTI ABD RAHIM
Company Secretary
Female
Date of Appointment:
6 April 2018
50 years old
Malaysian
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
∞ LLB (Honours), University of Nottingham, United Kingdom
∞ Bar Vocational Course, University of Wales, Cardiff, United Kingdom
∞ Barrister-at-Law of England & Wales (Lincoln’s Inn)
∞ Advocate & Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya
∞ Licensed Company Secretary
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Ms. Katina was admitted as an Advocate & Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya
in 1999 after which she practiced in several law firms in Kuala Lumpur before
joining the Usaha Tegas Group as Legal Counsel in 2005. Subsequently, she
was attached to Lafarge Malaysia Berhad from March 2011 to March 2018
where she was the Head Counsel for Cement and Drymix businesses and the
Company Secretary.
She then joined the Company as the Legal & Company Secretarial head on 15
March 2018 and became a member of the Company’s Management Team on
1 October 2024. She is a licensed company secretary under Section 20(G) of
the Companies Commission of Malaysia Act 2001.
Board Meeting
Attendance in 2024
4/4
AGE
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
124
PROFILES OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Section
125
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
MANAGEMENT
TEAM
KAI DE KLERK
Finance Director
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Prior to his current role as Finance Director at DLMI, Kai was
Finance Director for FrieslandCampina Hong Kong since
September 2020. Before that, he has held various positions
in FrieslandCampina since 2015, starting in FC Netherlands
as Manager, Controlling and Reporting followed by Head of
Finance, Growth Markets for the Specialised Nutrition Business
Group.
Prior to joining FrieslandCampina, Kai worked in multiple
finance and business roles at SABIC, a petrochemical
manufacturer, in Netherlands, USA and Saudi Arabia for 8
years.
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
∞ Bachelor’s Degree in Business Studies, Tilburg University
∞ Master’s Degree in Marketing Management, Tilburg
University
∞ Master’s Degree in Finance & Control, Maastricht
University
∞ Certified Environmental, Social and Governance Analyst
(CESGA), European Federation of Financial Analysts
Societies (EFFAS)
Male
41 years old Dutch Appointed: January 2023
RAMJEET KAUR VIRIK
Managing Director
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Ms. Ramjeet has been with FrieslandCampina for over 13
years. Prior to her current appointment, Ms. Ramjeet was the
Marketing Director for the Consumer Dairy Business of the
Company since 2018.
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
Bachelor of Science Degree in Economics, Banking and
Finance, London School of Economics, United Kingdom.
Female
48 years old Malaysian Appointed: July 2021
Before that, she was the International Marketing Manager at
FrieslandCampina Asia based in Singapore, and Marketing
Manager at PT Frisian Flag Indonesia.
She has more than 20 years of experience in various
commercial roles, namely in marketing, sales and shopper
functions. Her career started in other leading fast-moving
consumer goods organisations such as British American
Tobacco (M) Sdn Bhd and Heineken Malaysia Berhad
(previously known as Guinness Anchor Berhad).
AGE
AGE
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
126
MANAGEMENT TEAM PROFILES
IMUN LIM
Marketing Director
WILSON CHUA
Sales Director
Working Experience:
Prior to his current role as Sales Director, Wilson was the
National Customer Development Manager - Modern Trade &
GT Chilled at DLMI. Wilson has 15 years of sales experience
and joined the company in April 2016. Prior to joining DLMI,
he worked in Reckitt Benckiser, Unilever and local company
Nibong Tebal Enterprise, all in various sales capacity. At DLMI,
he has been involved in multiple sales transformation projects
and was a part of the Future Leader Cohort 2018.
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
∞ Lead to Win Program, London Business School
∞ Dare to Lead Program, Vlerick Business School, Ghent,
Belgium
∞ Bachelor of Business in Information Technology, University
of Coventry, England
Male
40 years old Malaysian Appointed: January 2022
Working Experience:
Ms. Imun has more than 20 years of experience in the food
and beverage industry, focusing on brand and product
marketing with recent commercial experience, having worked
with companies such as Procter & Gamble, Coca-Cola, Fonterra,
Samsung, Munchworld Marketing, and Campbell’s. She is also
no stranger to the DLMI family, having previously worked for
FrieslandCampina Business Development Unit Sdn Bhd as an
International Marketing Manager.
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
BA (Hons) Economics & International Studies, University of
Warwick, U.K.
Female
49 years old Appointed: July 2022
Malaysian
AGE
AGE
Section
127
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
EDALYN HADJULA
Human Resources Director
EZMIR HAZIZI BIN AZHAR
Corporate Affairs Director
Working Experience:
Prior to Edalyn’s current role, she has accumulated more than
25 years of solid HR experience focusing on People, Culture
Strategy and Management in large multinational organisations.
Working Experience:
Ezmir has more than 15 years of experience in various roles
of government and external affairs, with multidisciplinary
specialisation including regulatory and fiscal affairs, international
trade, public campaigning, communication and stakeholder
management.
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
∞ Certified in Strategic Human Resource Transformation and
Organization Development from Pennsylvania State University
∞ Certified in Organisation Development and Talent and Career
Management from Ateneo de Manila University
∞ Diploma in Industrial Relations as a Barangay Scholar from the
University of the Philippines-Diliman
∞ Juris Doctor Program (units) from Ateneo de Manila University
∞ Bachelor of Science in Management, Major in Legal
Management, Ateneo de Manila University
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
∞ Bachelor of Economics (Honours), International Islamic
University of Malaysia
∞ Dare to Lead Program, Vlerick Business School, Ghent,
Belgium
She has worked for well-known brands and led organisational
transformations in companies such as AMA Group of
Companies, Emerson Electric Asia Ltd, Red Ribbon Bakeshop
Inc. (a company by the Jollibee group), Philip Morris HR
Shared Services, Philip Morris Asia Ltd and Alaska Milk
Corporation under Royal Friesland Campina.
She is also an Adjunct Professor and Program Director of the
Centre for Executive Education of the Asian Institute of
Management in Manila, Philippines, a premier Business School
in Asia.
She holds a Level 3 CHRME designation which is one of the
highest certification accomplishments for a HR Professional.
She is also a Certified Senior HR Practitioner by the CPHR/
CAHR United Kingdom.
She was awarded the Top Most HR Leaders (ASIA) Award
by the World HRD Congress in August 2022 and Top Most
HR Leader (PH) Award by the same organisation in June
2023. She was also recognised by White Page International
as one of the Global 200 Power Leaders in HR for 2023 and
Rising Tiger’s Women of Excellence for 2023. She then
achieved Most Iconic HR Leader (Global Listing) from World
HRD Congress in 2024. She conducts several speaking
engagements from Strategic Rewards, Inclusion & Diversity,
AI in HR and HR Transformations.
Ezmir started his career with DLMI as Public Affairs Manager in
2019. Prior to this, Ezmir worked with British American Tobacco
(Malaysia) Berhad for more than 10 years where he held
various managerial positions, including in global at the Centre
of Expertise.
As the Public Affairs Manager for DLMI, Ezmir has been
involved in key deliverables and achievements in recent years,
including managing government relations to ensure continued
license to operate during the COVID-19 pandemic and
re-establishing DLMI’s position as a preferred supplier for the
Ministry of Education’s School Milk Programme.
These achievements were realised through professionalising the
Corporate Affairs agenda and enhancing the company’s
reputation among key Government stakeholders.
Male
42 years old Malaysian Appointed: January 2024
Female
48 years old Philippines Appointed: January 2024
AGE
AGE
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
128
MANAGEMENT TEAM PROFILES
Save as disclosed, the members of the Management Team do not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of the Company other than as nominee director of Royal FrieslandCampina N.V., do not have any conflict of interest with
the Company, has not been convicted of any offence within the past five years, has not been imposed any penalty by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year 2024, and do not hold any shares in the Company.
KATINA NURANI BINTI ABD RAHIM
Head of Legal and Company Secretary
PAUL CEELEN
Operations Director
Working Experience:
Paul started his career as Supply Chain Coordinator at Philips
Lighting Netherlands in 2010. After 2.5 years, he was tasked
with the responsibility of Supply Chain Manager at the E2E
supply chain of an outdoor lighting factory of Philips in Spain.
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
∞ Master Strategic Management, Tilburg University
∞ Master exchange programme, Prague University of
Economics & Business
∞ Bachelor Business Economics, Tilburg University
∞ Green Belt Six Sigma certified
Male
40 years old Dutch Appointed: July 2024
Female
50 years old Malaysian Appointed: October 2024
Working Experience:
Ms. Katina was admitted as an Advocate & Solicitor of the
High Court of Malaya in 1999 after which she practiced in
several law firms in Kuala Lumpur before joining the Usaha
Tegas Group as Legal Counsel in 2005. Subsequently, she
was attached to Lafarge Malaysia Berhad from March 2011
to March 2018 where she was the Head Counsel for Cement
and Drymix businesses and the Company Secretary. She then
joined the Company as the Legal & Company Secretarial head
on 15 March 2018 and became a member of the Company’s
Management Team on 1 October 2024. She is a licensed
company secretary under Section 20(G) of the Companies
Commission of Malaysia Act 2001.
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
∞ LLB (Honours), University of Nottingham, United Kingdom
∞ Bar Vocational Course, University of Wales, Cardiff,
United Kingdom
∞ Barrister-at-Law of England & Wales (Lincoln’s Inn)
∞ Advocate & Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya
∞ Licensed Company Secretary
In 2016, Paul made his move to the Fast Moving Consumer
Goods (FMCG) industry by joining FrieslandCampina Maasdam
as Production Manager. After 1 year, he was promoted to
Operations Manager of Rotterdam factory and later spent 2.5
years as Plant Manager of Den Bosch factory. Paul was
appointed as Make Associate Director in July 2022 and
promoted to Operations Director of DLMI in July 2024.
Paul has 14 years of experience in various Supply Chain and
Operations leadership roles across different factories and
countries, and he has a track record of achieving results by
building a high-engagement culture with his teams.
AGE
AGE
Section
129
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
INTRODUCTION
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (“DLMI” or “Company”) is fully committed to
maintaining a high standard of Corporate Governance within the Company through its support and application of the
principles and practices as set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“Code”). DLMI’s Corporate
Governance framework lays down the structure, processes and lines of authority that governs how its businesses are
directed, managed and controlled while ensuring compliance with the applicable laws, rules and regulations, the Company’s
Constitution and adherence to good Corporate Governance practices. The Board believes that a sound Corporate
Governance structure is essential for the mitigation of risks, the cultivation of good business ethics, and is vital to ensure
sustainability and progressive business growth. The Board shall continue to evaluate its governance practices in response
to evolving best practices and changing requirements.
Board Leadership
and Effectiveness
A
B
C
Principle
Principle
Principle
Effective Audit and Risk
Management
Refer to pages 150-151
of this report
Refer to pages
131-149 of this
report
Refer to pages
152-153 of this
report
Integrity in
Corporate
Reporting and
Meaningful
Relationships with
Stakeholders
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
130
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
COMPLIANCE WITH THE CODE
The Board is pleased to report on governance compliance
activities adopted in line with the Principles as set out in
the Code that were applied throughout the financial year
ended 31 December 2024 (“FY2024”) in this Corporate
Governance Overview Statement (“CG Overview
Statement”). The Principles have, in all material respects,
been applied to achieve their intended outcomes, to the
extent that they were found to be suitable and appropriate
to the Company’s circumstances. Where appropriate, this
CG Overview Statement also seeks to disclose all information
that is required pursuant to the Main Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Listing
Requirements”), relevant developments in market practice
and regulations and any other requirements.
The application of the Practices set out in the Code
throughout FY2024 will also be disclosed to Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad in a prescribed format (“CG Report”)
which will be published together with the Company’s
Integrated Annual Report. In the CG Report, the Company
has also provided a timeline for the Practice that has been
adopted, apart from providing an explanation for the
departure. In summary, the Company has complied with and
has applied the Practices encapsulated in the Code with the
exception of Practice 8.2 and Step-Up Practice 8.3.
In relation to Practice 8.2, the Company has not disclosed
the remuneration of the top five senior management’s
remuneration in bands of RM50,000. The most senior
member of management is the Executive Director of the
Company, and her remuneration is disclosed in this report
and in the CG Report. The remuneration of the remaining
members of senior management is shared on general
terms and on an aggregated basis only as the Board is of
the view that it would not be in the best interest of the
Company to disclose these details given the competitiveness
in the market for good senior managers in the consumer
goods industry. The Board is of the view that the details
provided are sufficiently transparent and allows stakeholders
to assess the reasonableness of remuneration paid to
members of senior management. For the same reasons,
Step-Up 8.3 is not adopted.
The CG Report may be downloaded from the Company’s
corporate website (www.dutchlady.com.my).
OUR GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK
The Company prioritises good governance as fundamental
to its long-term success, driven by its responsibility to
shareholders and stakeholders. The Company believes that
a healthy corporate culture and robust governance
framework shall ensure that the organisation will continue
to run smoothly and efficiently.
The Board views corporate governance as a fundamental
process which contributes towards the achievement of
long-term shareholder value. The Board discharges its
responsibilities within a clearly defined governance
framework with robust mechanisms in place. Through this
framework, the Board responsibly delegates its governance
responsibilities to the Board Committees and management.
The Board retains ultimate accountability and responsibility
for the performance and affairs of the Company and
adheres to high standards of ethical behaviour. It embraces
transparency and accountability in the boardroom and
promotes these critical components of governance
throughout the Company.
The governance framework, its structures and processes,
are built upon the Board Charter and the Terms of
Reference of the Board Committees which are supported
by the Company’s management and its internal policies
and procedures. Effective operation of the Board relies on
clarity of the various roles and responsibilities and therefore
there is a clear division of responsibilities between
leadership of the Board and the Company’s Management
Team in line with the principles of the Code. When the
responsibilities between the Board and management are
clearly defined and functioning well, the organisation is
better positioned to meet stakeholder expectations, deliver
quality initiatives and comply with laws and regulations.
The Board works to ensure that the Company’s governance
structure continues to remain appropriate and that it keeps
abreast with relevant corporate governance and regulatory
requirements. The structure and associated practices are
reviewed when necessary to reflect the market and the
communities within which the Company operates.
PRINCIPLE A - BOARD LEADERSHIP
AND EFFECTIVENESS
Section
131
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
BOARD LEADERSHIP
The Board directs and oversees the business and affairs
of the Company by periodically reviewing and approving
its overall strategies. The Board also oversees the
Company’s core values and adopts proper standards to
ensure that the Company operates with integrity and in
compliance with relevant rules and regulations. The Board
has fiduciary responsibility for the financial and organisational
health of the Company and the Directors are collectively
responsible for steering long-term sustainable value for the
Company’s business. A pivotal responsibility of the Board
is to ensure that it balances the interests of the Board and
its various stakeholders.
DLMI’s Corporate Governance Framework, firmly rooted in
regulatory provisions, regulatory requirements, and best
practices, maintains its integrity amidst adaptation to the
evolving regulatory and market landscape. This well-
structured governance model supports the Board’s aim of
achieving sustainable value, and at the same time, fostering
a culture that values ethical behaviour, integrity and
accountability.
The Board is cognisant of the critical role it plays in
upholding ethical standards and ensuring legal compliance.
The Board exercises diligent oversight, establishes robust
internal controls, and imbues a culture of integrity at all
levels of the organisation. The Board ensures that the
Company’s strategic plan supports long-term value creation
and includes strategies on EESG considerations thereby
strengthening the integration of sustainability in the
Company’s operations. Through sustainable practices, the
Company becomes more resilient, is able to create durable
and sustainable value and maintains simultaneously, the
confidence of its stakeholders.
The Board ensures its oversight responsibility by periodically
assessing Board agenda priorities to stay informed of
matters requiring attention. Together with management,
the Board promotes a strong corporate governance culture
within the Company, ensuring ethical leadership, prudent,
and professional behaviour in all business and operational
aspects.
The Board embraces transparency and accountability in
the boardroom and promotes these critical components of
governance throughout the Company. With a well-balanced
composition that includes Non-Executive Directors (“NEDs”),
the Board ensures that no individual or small group of
Directors dominates the decision-making process and that
the interests of shareholders are protected. The Board is
satisfied that each Director has devoted sufficient time to
effectively discharge his/her responsibilities. The Board
considers each NED to be independent in character and
judgement. The current composition of Directors has a
blend of skills, experience and knowledge enabling them
to provide effective oversight, strategic guidance and
constructive challenge, examine, review and decide on the
Management Team’s proposals and empower the Managing
Director to implement strategies approved by the Board.
Company Secretary
Board of Directors
Internal Auditor Managing Director
Management Team
Sustainability Steering
Committee
Audit & Risk
Committee
Nominating & Remuneration
Committee
The diagram below shows DLMI’s governance structure and provides an overview of the key Committees of the Board
and the various management committees that provide governance oversight:
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
132
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
BOARD’S ROLES AND RESPONSIBILITIES
(Practice 1 to 4)
The Board is accountable to shareholders to create and
deliver sustainable value through oversight of the
management of the Company’s business, approving strategic
plans, monitoring the implementation and providing the
necessary support for their successful implementation. The
Board met regularly throughout the year to approve the
strategic objectives of the Company, to lead the Company
within a framework of effective controls which enable risk
to be assessed and managed, and to ensure that sufficient
resources are available to meet the objectives set. In
particular, the Board approved updates to the Company’s
2030 Strategy, milk supply strategy, 2025 Budget, and the
Sustainability Roadmap 2030.
While appropriately delegating its authority to Board
Committees or the Management Team, the Board does not
abdicate its responsibility and exercises at all times,
collective oversight of them. The Board further ensures that
it does not leave the management of the Company’s affairs
to the Board Committees without committing a breach of
duty and that the Directors remain responsible for the
exercise of such powers.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE PRIORITIES
The Board believes that good governance is crucial in
achieving sustainable development. The following matters
were identified as key focus areas going forward and will
be addressed and/or implemented in FY2025 and beyond:
Practice business ethics and integrity
i
Respect policies and processes
ii
Transparent reporting
iii
Protect privacy & security
iv
Practice good governance
v
Engage with stakeholders
vi
The Board reserves full decision-making powers, after
taking into consideration the policies, procedures and
guidelines of the Royal FrieslandCampina N.V. Group of
companies (“FC”), on the following matters:
a
e
b
f
c
g
d
h
Conflict of interest relating to a substantial
shareholder or a Director or person
connected to such substantial shareholder or
Director
Material acquisitions and disposition of assets
not in the ordinary course of business
Investment in capital expenditure projects
Authority levels
Treasury policies
Risk management policies
Key human resource issues
Related party transactions
Section
133
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Chairperson and Managing Director
The roles of the Chairperson and the Managing Director
(“MD”) are separately held, and the division of their
responsibilities is clearly defined. The MD is an appointee
of FC who is the Company’s major shareholder and
heads the Company’s Management Team. She is
responsible for leading and managing the Company’s
business within a set of authorities delegated by the
Board. She is also responsible for the implementation of
the Company’s strategy and policy. The Chairperson is
an independent director who has never assumed an
executive position in the Company.
The Chairperson is responsible for the operation and
leadership of the Board. She ensures that the Board is
effective and that the Company is guided by good
corporate governance practices. She facilitates robust
dialogue during Board meetings and draws out diverse
perspectives from the Board members. She also ensures
Company Secretary
The Company Secretary serves the Board and each of its
Committees and plays a pivotal role in coordinating the
Board’s governance structure. The Company Secretary is
a licensed secretary with over 14 years’ experience as
company secretary for public listed companies. She is
qualified to act as Company Secretary under Section 235
of the Companies Act 2016 and has a secretarial practicing
certificate from the Companies Commission of Malaysia
under Section 241(4) of the Companies Act 2016. The
Company Secretary is also a qualified lawyer and provides
legal and company secretarial advice to the Company’s
Management Team and the Board as a whole. All Board
members have access to the advice and services of the
Company Secretary in carrying out their duties. The
Company Secretary ensures the Board is provided with
sufficient information and time to prepare for Board
meetings. She prepares minutes of meetings and provides
advisory services on company administration and governance
matters, and actively steers the Board toward upholding
high standards of corporate governance. The Company
Secretary plays a proactive role in ensuring compliance with
the Listing Requirements, the Companies Act 2016, and the
recommendations in the Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance (as amended from time to time), consistently
guiding and challenging the Board to adhere to best
practices.
that there is a good balance between the time allocated
to governance matters and discussions on business
performance and strategies at board meetings. The
Chairperson is not a member of any of the Board
committees and the Chairperson does not attend or
otherwise participate in any of these committee meetings.
In FY2024, to further enhance discussions between the
Board members, the Chairperson has routinely held
meetings with the Non-Executive Directors without the
presence of management, as well as without the presence
of the FC nominee Directors. This allows for a frank
exchange of views amongst the non-executive directors
where all non-executive directors can share their views
on the issues discussed at the Board meetings and align
on any direction they wish to share with the other
directors and management.
Independent Directors
The primary responsibility of Independent Non-Executive
Directors is to protect and safeguard the interest of
minority shareholders and other stakeholders. The
effective participation of Independent Non-Executive
Directors serves to promote greater transparency,
accountability and balance in the Board’s decision-
making process. Ms. Saw Chooi Lee is the Board’s Senior
Independent Director.
Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors each
occupy, or have occupied, senior positions in industry,
bringing valuable external perspectives to the Board’s
deliberations through their working experience and
business insight from other sectors enabling them to
contribute significantly to Board decision-making process.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
134
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Board Meetings
The Board practices active and open discussions at
Board meetings so that opportunities are given to all
Directors to participate and contribute to the decision-
making process. Robust discussions and vigorous
deliberations at Board and Board Committee meetings
ensure the process of constructive and heathy dialogue
is achieved. Members of management have also been
invited to attend selected Board meetings to support the
Board Meeting Materials
Board meeting papers for all meetings are generally
provided to Directors at least seven days in advance
of the date of the proposed meetings. All proceedings
of Board meetings are minuted and circulated to the
Board members in advance of the next Board meeting
including with follow up action items duly updated.
The quality of information provided to the Board is
crucial for sound decision-making. In the course of
Board Meeting Attendance
The Board convenes at least four (4) scheduled Board
meetings during each financial year. More meetings will
be scheduled depending on business requirements,
where appropriate. In FY2024, four (4) scheduled
Scheduled Meetings
Board Members
Board
Meetings % AGM
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar
(Chairperson, Independent Non-Executive Director)
4/4 100 1/1
Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik (Executive Director) 4/4 100 1/1
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee (Senior Independent Non-Executive Director) 4/4 100 1/1
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias (Non-Independent Non-Executive Director) 4/4 100 1/1
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
4/4 100 1/1
Mr. Jean Serge Krol (Non-Independent Non-Executive Director) 4/4 100 1/1
Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong (Independent Non-Executive Director) 4/4 100 1/1
Ms. Corine Danielle Tap (Non-Independent Non-Executive Director) 3/4 75 1/1
Company Secretary
Ms. Katina Nurani Abd Rahim (Company Secretary) 4/4 100 1/1
The Directors’ attendance at Board meetings and the Annual General Meeting for the year ended 31 December 2024 are
as follows:-
Board with further and additional information on the
matters being deliberated. The Directors have direct
access to the Management Team and access to any
information relating to the Company to enable them to
discharge their duties. The Directors may, when necessary,
obtain independent professional advice at the Company’s
expense in the furtherance of their duties.
discharging their duties, all Directors are provided with
full and unfettered access to timely and accurate
information. The notice, agenda and a complete set of
Board papers are distributed to the Directors at least
seven days prior to each Board or Board Committee
meeting. If necessary, Directors may request and obtain
further information on the matters to be discussed in
order to be adequately prepared for the meetings.
Board meetings were held in total. In addition to the
scheduled Board meetings, all of the Board members also
attended the Company’s Annual General Meeting (“AGM”).
Section
135
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
All Directors complied with the minimum attendance requirement of at least 50% of Board meetings pursuant to the Listing
Requirements. The Board is satisfied with the level of commitment given by the Directors toward fulfilling their roles and
responsibilities.
Key activities and focus areas
During the year, key activities and focus areas of the
Board include:
∞ Reviewing and approving the 4th quarter and full year
financial results for the financial year ended
31 December 2023
∞ Reviewing and approving the Director’s Report and
Audited Accounts for the financial year ended
31 December 2023
∞ Reviewing and approving the quarterly financial results
up to the 3rd quarter for the financial year ended
31 December 2024
∞ Reviewing the financial report on the Company’s
quarterly performance and outlook for the year
∞ Approving dividend payments and reviewing the
solvency position of the Company
∞ Reviewing and approving the Company’s strategy and
business plans
∞ Receiving updates on risk management status
∞ Receiving updates from the Company’s Sustainability
Steering Committee (“SSC”) on critical and material
Economic, Environmental, Social and Governance
(“EESG”) matters
∞ Reviewing and approving updates to the Company’s
Sustainability Roadmap 2030
∞ Reviewing and approving updates to the Company’s
2030 strategy and milk supply strategy
∞ Receiving and approving the Company’s Annual Budget
and Capex Budget for FY2025
∞ Receiving updates on the Company’s Business Insights
and Competitor Analysis
∞ Reviewing and approving the Company’s Recurrent Related
Party Transactions, subject to the approval of the
shareholders
∞ Receiving updates on the Recurrent Related Party
Transactions by the Company
∞ Reviewing and approving the Related Party Transactions
entered into by the Company
∞ Reviewing the audit report findings of the Internal Audit,
its recommendations and management responses
∞ Reviewing the audit reports of the External Auditor
∞ Reviewing the term of office and assess the retirement
of Directors by rotation, the retention of Directors and
eligibility for re-election or retention
∞ Reaffirming and ratifying the Circular Resolutions passed
by the Board
∞ Reviewing, approving and noting the Company’s
announcements released to Bursa
∞ Assessing and recommending the re-appointment of the
Company’s External Auditor for the financial year ending
31 December 2024 and for the Directors to fix their
remuneration
∞ Reviewing and approving the draft Circular to
Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of
Shareholders’ Mandates for Recurrent Related Party
Transaction of revenue or trading nature.
∞ Reviewing and approving the Statement on Internal
Control and Risk Management for the Integrated Annual
Report 2023
∞ Preparing for and attending the 2024 AGM
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
136
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
BOARD CHARTER
The Board Charter sets out the Board’s strategic intent,
authority and terms of reference, and serves as a primary
source of reference and introductory information for the
Board members. The Board Charter clearly specifies the
roles and responsibilities of the Board, the Board
Committees, and individual directors. The Board reviews
and updates the Charter periodically wherein the latest
update was approved by the Board in November 2024.
The Charter is available on the Company’s website at
www.dutchlady.com.my.
THE COMPANY’S CODE OF CONDUCT
The Board is guided by the FC code for good business
conduct which is known as Compass. Compass is designed
to set a certain standard for all employees and officers of
the Company. It promotes integrity in the workplace with
focus on safety, rights of employees and human rights,
sustainability and avoidance of conflicts of interest.
Compass also promotes integrity in business practices with
focus on anti-bribery and anti-corruption, gifts and
hospitality, fair competition, and fair communication. Finally,
Compass focusses on the protection of the Company’s
interests with focus on protection of confidential
information, data protection, integrity of financial reporting
and the prevention of fraud. Compass plays an important
role in the management of compliance risks and sets out
the values, principles and guidelines as to how the
Company conducts its business to ensure integrity,
transparency and accountability.
Compass has, under its purview, underlying policies which
includes topics such as Avoiding Conflicts of Interest,
Protection of Confidential Information, Privacy, Doing Honest
Business (Anti-Bribery and Corruption) and Fair Competition.
Compass is embedded in the Company’s working culture
and encapsulated in the Company’s Employee handbook.
A copy of Compass is available on the Company’s
website at www.dutchlady.com.my.
DOING HONEST BUSINESS – THE
COMPANY’S ANTI-BRIBERY AND
CORRUPTION POLICY
The Company has adopted FC’s anti-bribery and corruption
policy which is known as the “Doing Honest Business”
policy. This policy, which must be always observed by all
of the Company’s directors and employees, is a policy to
conduct business in an honest and ethical manner. The
policy has been localised to set out values in Malaysian
Ringgit for easier application by the Company’s employees
and stakeholders. The Company takes a zero-tolerance
approach to bribery and corruption and is committed to
acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all its
business dealings and relationships. A Gift and Internal
Events and Corporate Sponsorship Policy is also contained
within this topic which clearly prohibits any form of bribery,
gratification or facilitation payments. Employees will be
guided by these policies in their day-to-day dealings. To
ensure that adequate monitoring of all anti-corruption
compliance matters is carried out, the Company’s Head of
Legal & Company Secretarial has been charged with the
responsibility to review and monitor all procedures, advise,
and report to Management Team and the Board of
Directors on these matters.
To further enforce the Company’s zero-tolerance approach
to bribery and corruption, the Company also requires its
business partners to conduct business dealings fairly and
honestly by requiring them to carry out business in the
manner set out in the Business Practices for Business
Partners Policy.
A copy of the Doing Honest Business - Gifts Policy and
Business Practices for Business Partners are available
on the Company’s website at www.dutchlady.com.my.
MACC CORPORATE LIABILITY
The Company has taken steps to ensure that it is in
compliance with Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-
Corruption Commission Act 2009 (Section 17A) which
introduces, amongst others, new corporate liability for
companies, arising from corrupt acts committed by
employees or person associated with the company. The
Company continuously takes steps to ensure that its
existing anti-bribery and corruption policies and procedures
are adequate and meets the Guidelines for Adequate
Procedures as prescribed by Section 17A.
In FY2024, the Company’s employees were provided with
training on anti-bribery and corruption which took into
consideration the provisions of the Malaysian Anti-
Corruption Commission Act 2009 (“MACC provisions”).
Further, the Company’s entire operations were assessed
for corruption related risks through a fraud risk assessment.
The Board is pleased to confirm that there were no
incidents of corruption by the Company or its employees
which took place during FY2024.
In addition to the training, to ensure that the importance
and significance of the MACC provision was not overlooked,
briefing materials on the topic of anti-bribery and corruption
which includes the MACC provision was made available
to all stakeholders on the Company’s website at
www.dutchlady.com.my.
Section
137
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
WHISTLEBLOWING – THE SPEAK-UP
PROCEDURE
All the Company’s employees and other stakeholders are
strongly encouraged to and have access to its whistle-
blowing procedure known as “Speak-Up”. The Speak-Up
procedure serves as an avenue for employees and other
stakeholders to voice out their concerns on matters
relating to Compass and to raise any suspicions of
wrongdoing, malpractice or impropriety in the management
of the Company’s business and affairs. The Speak-Up
procedure clearly sets out a well-defined process upon
which Compass-related matters can be raised in confidence
and anonymity (if requested) in good faith, and without
fear of reprisal. The Speak-Up phone and web service
which is managed by an independent third party is
available on any day of the year and at any time. Details
of the methods to raise Speak-Up Reports is made
available to employees via internal communication.
This information is also made available to
all stakeholders on the Company’s website along
with a copy of the Speak-Up Procedure at
www.dutchlady.com.my.
PERSONAL DATA PROTECTION
The Company handles and uses personal data in
accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act 2010
(“PDPA”). The Company has adopted the FrieslandCampina
Privacy Policy which outlines the requirements for the
Company and its employees in handling personal data.
Management also tracks complaints concerning breaches
of customer privacy and losses of customer data. The
Board is pleased to confirm that there were no substantiated
complaints regarding breaches of privacy of loss of data
in FY2024.
SUSTAINABILITY
Management is conscious and serious about the Company’s
responsibility towards sustainability issues and its role in the
Company’s long-term strategic plans. The Company’s
Sustainability Steering Committee (“SSC”) consists of various
functional teams and leads sustainability strategy formulation
as well as EESG integration approaches. The Management
Team or the Functional Heads are responsible to manage
EESG topics strategically and integrate EESG considerations
in the operations of the Company. In 2024, the Company
also hired an Internal Control Specialist – Sustainability, who
will design and implement effective controls which aim to
enhance DLMI’s sustainability framework and controls. This
role is in addition to our Sustainability Lead, who closely
works with the Management Team to align local, regional and
global agendas as well as monitor our compliance to existing
and evolving policies and regulations.
EESG oversight ultimately starts with the Board and the
Management Team, being the apex of corporate leadership.
DLMI’s approach to sustainability is shaped by our vision
to strengthen our position as the leading dairy company,
driving responsible growth, which has been translated into
initiatives that are embedded in our business strategy.
With the formulation of the Company’s Sustainability
Roadmap 2030, the Company has mapped out its business
and sustainability goals for a sharper focus on how we
create value for each of its priority material issues. The
sustainability goals will drive the sustainability performance
throughout the Company’s business and strengthen its
commitment to creating long-term value for all stakeholders.
For the Company, EESG issues are a business imperative
as we strive to become more resilient, agile and sustainable.
The Board and the Management Team are committed
towards ensuring responsible corporate conduct is
demonstrated and practiced in the Company’s daily
activities across all aspects of the Company’s operations.
The Board ensures that embedding EESG is not undertaken
in isolation and is at the core of how the Company
identifies its challenges, risks and opportunities. The
Board’s actions and decisions reflect a commitment to the
highest standards of EESG. Robust processes, controls and
governance are in place to ensure transparent disclosures.
The Board is responsible for overseeing the effectiveness
of policies, procedures and systems in place for EESG
monitoring and reporting. The governance, management,
and reporting on DLMI’s sustainability agenda is led by the
Managing Director who chairs the SSC and is overseen by
the Board. In the performance evaluation of the Board and
the Management Team for FY2024, the performance of
their respective roles in addressing material EESG risks and
opportunities was taken into account.
In FY2024, the Board received quarterly updates from the
SSC on critical and material EESG matters. The Board also
reviewed and approved updates to the Sustainability
Roadmap 2030.
Further information about the Company’s approach to
sustainability and its governance are disclosed in the
Sustainability Report in this Integrated Annual Report.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
138
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
BOARD COMPOSITION
(Practice 5 to 6)
The Board continuously strives to ensure that Directors
have a collective mix of skills, experience, expertise and
diversity to add value to Board processes and decisions.
These Directors bring their expertise and experience as
well as varied insights to bear in policy formulation and
decision-making. The Board’s size ensures that the
purpose, involvement, participation, harmony and sense of
responsibility of the Directors are not jeopardised and that
it achieves the correct balance to realise the Company’s
strategic objectives.
The Chair of the Nominating & Remuneration Committee
(“NRC”) takes note of the declarations made by Directors
on the number and nature of the external directorships
that they hold as well as their assurances on time
commitment in carrying out their duties and responsibilities
to the Company. The Directors are not allowed to hold
more than five directorships in listed issuers (including the
Company) simultaneously, pursuant to Chapter 15 of the
Listing Requirements. Prior to acceptance of other
appointment for directorship in other listed companies, the
Directors are required to first notify the Chairman to
ensure that such appointment would not unduly affect their
time commitment and responsibilities to the Board.
The NRC ensures that the composition of the Board is
refreshed periodically. To ensure that this is achieved, the
Board has adopted a policy to limit the tenure of an
independent director to 9 years without further extension.
The policy is available on www.dutchlady.com.my.
Accordingly, there shall be no further annual re-election of
directors apart from those re-elected due to retirement by
rotation or retirement of those who were appointed during
the year.
Currently the Board comprises 8 members, one of whom
holds an executive position as the Managing Director, while
the other 7 are Non-Executive Directors. Out of the 8
members, 4 are independent and 4 are non-independent
directors. The composition exceeds the requirements of
Paragraph 15.02 of the Listing Requirements as more than
one third of the Board are Independent Non-Executive
Directors (“INED”). Of the 4 non-independent directors, 3
are nominees of Royal FrieslandCampina N.V, and 1 is a
nominee of Permodalan Nasional Berhad. As such, a
majority (5 out of 8) of the Board members represents the
Company’s minority shareholders.
The Company’s major shareholder is a foreign co-operative
of farmers. The Board considers that the current
composition fairly reflects the foreign direct investment
and the investment of the minority shareholders. The
proportion of independent directors ensures effective
checks and balances on the Board and the independent
directors effectively safeguard the interest of the minority
shareholders.
The Company’s Board consists of qualified individuals with
a good mix of operational and commercial experience.
Members of the Board have both local and international
experience and together, they bring a wide range of
competencies, capabilities, technical skills and relevant
business experience.
Details of all Directors and their biographies are
provided in the Integrated Annual Report.
BOARD CONDUCT
Achieving boardroom effectiveness is essential for the
success of an organisation. The Board believes that
fostering a culture of collaboration where Directors work
together harmoniously to make well-informed decisions is
extremely important. In this regard, the Board ensures that
the roles and responsibilities of each Director are clearly
defined to avoid overlap and to ensure accountability.
Directors are expected to provide strategic guidance,
oversee performance, manage risks, ensure compliance,
engage stakeholders and plan for succession. The Directors
acknowledge that adhering to their liabilities is crucial to
ensure financial stability and legal compliance of the
organisation. By fulfilling their duties diligently, Directors
are able to safeguard the Company‘s reputation and
operational integrity.
Section
139
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
All Directors commit themselves to ethical business and
lawful conduct, including proper use of authority and
appropriate decorum when acting as Board members. All
Directors discharge their duties and responsibilities at all
times as fiduciaries in the best interest of the Company.
They are expected to act with integrity, lead by example,
keep abreast of their responsibilities as Directors and of
the conduct, business and development of the Company.
In directing or managing the Company’s business and
affairs, they exercise reasonable care, skill and diligence
by applying their knowledge, skill and experience. The
Board ensures that key transactions or critical decisions
are deliberated and decided on by the Board in a meeting.
The Board also ensures that decisions and basis for those
decisions, including any dissenting views are made known
and properly minuted.
THE APPOINTMENT PROCESS
In respect of the appointment of all directors, appropriate
candidates for independent directors are sourced through
recruitment firms based on the needs of the Board. The
Directors are selected based on their individual merits and
experience. The current composition of Directors offer a
blend of skills, experience, and knowledge, enabling effective
oversight, strategic guidance, and constructive challenge. It
also allows the Board to examine, review, and decide on
management proposals, and empowers the Managing
Director to implement Board-approved strategies. The Board
continuously strives to ensure that Directors have a
collective mix of skills, experience, expertise and diversity
to add value to Board processes and decisions. In line with
the Listing Requirements, none of the members of the Board
holds more than five directorships in listed companies.
In respect of the appointment of all Directors:
ELECTION AND RE-ELECTION OF
DIRECTORS
In compliance with the Company’s Constitution, one third
of the Directors shall retire by rotation at each AGM.
Directors who are appointed during the year shall also
retire at the next AGM. The Company’s Constitution further
provides that all Directors shall retire from office at least
once in every three years.
In the forthcoming AGM, Ms. Saw Chooi Lee, Ms. Corine
Danielle Tap and Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik1 will retire by
rotation in accordance with Rule 105 of the Company’s
Constitution (collectively, the “Retiring Directors”).
Appropriate candidates for independent directors
are sourced through recruitment firms based on
the needs of the Board;
i
For the Managing Director who is an Executive
Director on the Board, appropriate candidates
are sourced through recruitment firms as well as
from the global FrieslandCampina leadership
talent pool;
ii
The NRC considers shortlisted candidates based
on their profiles, professional achievements, and
personality assessments, with the needs of the
Board in mind; and
iii
The NRC then ensures that the candidates are
suitable and of sufficient calibre for recommendation
to and approval of the Board.
iv
The Board had, through its NRC, assessed each of the
Retiring Directors, and considered the following:
For item (i) the NRC have considered and have found that
the Retiring Directors each meet the criteria for appointment
and re-appointment of directors as set out in the Directors’
Fit and Proper Policy.
If there is any evidence of any interest, position
or relationship that might influence, or reasonably
be perceived to influence, in a material respect,
the Directors’ capacity to bring an independent
judgement to bear on issues before the Board
and to act in the best interests of the Company
as a whole; and
i
the Retiring Directors’ performance and
contribution based on the Directors’ Peer
Assessment results for FY2024.
ii
∞ Integrity and Ethics – they behave with honesty and
honourably at all times
∞ Strategic Perspective – they understand the
implications of issues, trends and events on the
organisation and its capabilities
∞ Judgement and Decision Making – they are able to
understand principal issues and use experience to
offer sound advice
∞ Teamwork – they work constructively with fellow
board members and contributes to board activities
and discussions
∞ Communication – they are able to express themselves
clearly and effectively
For item (ii), the NRC reviewed and assessed the
performance of the Retiring Directors on the following
criteria:-
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
140
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Leading the process for Board appointments
and making recommendations of new members
to the Board;
a
Reviewing and recommending to the Board that
the Independent Directors provide an annual
Declaration of Independence;
b
Review the composition of the Board and Board
Committees;
c
Review and make recommendations to the
Board on the remuneration of the Non-Executive
Directors;
d
Nominate the directors who are due for
retirement and eligible to stand for re-election
at the AGM;
e
Assess the effectiveness of the Board as a
whole, the Committees of the Board and the
individual directors on an on-going basis; and
f
Review the required skills and core competencies
of the Managing Director.
g
The NRC found that the Retiring Directors have performed
well based on the above performance criteria.
In light of the above, the NRC submitted its recommendation
to the Board and the Board has approved and supports
the re-election of Ms. Saw Chooi Lee, Ms. Ramjeet Kaur
Virik1 and Ms. Corine Danielle Tap to the shareholders for
approval.
1 Pursuant to the Company’s announcement on 17 March 2025, Ms.
Ramjeet Kaur Virik has resigned as the Company’s Executive Director
with effect from 15 April 2025 and accordingly, she will not be
seeking re-election at the forthcoming AGM
BOARD DIVERSITY
The Board acknowledges the importance of gender diversity
and recognises the benefits that it can bring. The Board’s
prime focus is the strength of the Board and therefore the
overriding aim in any new appointments must always be to
select the best candidate available. With this in mind, the
Board shall at all times make best endeavours to have at
least 30% women Directors on the Board. Currently, out of
the 8 members on the Board, 6 are women. As such the
Board comprises 75% women directors.
The Company also seeks to maintain strong women
representation in its Management Team. Currently, out of
the 8 members on the Management Team, 4 are women.
As such the Management Team comprises 50% women.
BOARD INDEPENDENCE
Every INED is required to provide a declaration of his/her
independence annually. Based on the outcome of the Board
Evaluation for the year under review, all the INEDs had
scored favourably and there were no conflicts of interest
that could have affected their independent judgement.
Board decisions are made taking into account the views of
the INED which carry substantial weight. The INED fulfil their
roles in ensuring that strategies proposed by the
Management Team are deliberated and examined taking
into account the interests of the shareholders and
stakeholders. Their role is also particularly critical for related
party transactions as these require independence of
judgement and objective impartiality to protect the interests
of minority shareholders.
The Board also believes that each INED has retained his/her
independence throughout his/her tenure and has not under
any circumstances formed any association with management
that might compromise his/her ability to exercise independent
judgement that could ultimately affect the interest of
stakeholders. Prior to each Board meeting, the Independent
Directors declare any interest that they may have with
respect to any of the transactions of the Company or confirm
that they have no interest to declare with respect to the
transactions of the Company. Further, based on the outcome
of the Board Evaluation for the year under review, which was
conducted internally, all the INEDs scored highly and there
were no conflicts of interest that could have affected their
independent judgement.
THE NOMINATING & REMUNERATION
COMMITTEE
The NRC establishes for itself the procedure and frequency
of its meetings but shall meet at least once annually. The
quorum for the meeting shall consist of any two independent
non-executive Directors appointed to the NRC. The
Managing Director, other Board members and any other
persons may be invited to attend the meetings as necessary.
In assessing a Director’s ability for re-election at the AGM,
the NRC assessed each of the retiring Directors and
considered the following: (i) If the retiring Director meets
the criteria for appointment and re-appointment of directors
as set out in the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy; and (ii)
The retiring Director’s performance and contribution based
on the Directors’ Peer Assessment results.
The activities of the NRC during the financial year were as
follows:
The terms of reference of the NRC are available on
the Company’s website, www.dutchlady.com.my.
Section
141
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Training and Development
Induction programmes are conducted for newly appointed
Directors, which include briefings by members of Management
Team and the Company Secretary. The Directors will be
provided with the necessary information to assist them in
understanding the operations of the Company, current
issues and corporate strategies as well as the management
structure of the Company and the FC Group.
From time to time, the Company Secretary provides the
Directors with updates on relevant legal and regulatory
matters. In addition, Directors are encouraged to attend
continuous education programmes, talks, seminars,
workshops, and conferences to enhance their skills and
knowledge and stay abreast of new developments in the
business environment and corporate governance. All
Directors have attended and successfully completed the
Mandatory Accreditation Programme as well as the
Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II: Leading for
Impact. Management also arranged for the Board to
receive a talk on the “Malaysian Ringgit & Malaysia’s
Economic Fundamentals – FX Impact on Business” from Mr.
Chu Kok Wei, the Co-Chief Executive Officer, Group
Wholesale Banking, CIMB in view of the concerns arising
from the volatile currency fluctuations in 2024.
In light of the diverse skill sets possessed by each Board
member, meetings occasionally featured sessions for
Directors to share their areas of expertise with fellow
Board members and management. In FY2024, Directors
shared insights on the importance of sustainability
stewardship by Boards and provided an update on the FC
Asia Supply Chain network.
The Committee met two (2) times in FY2024 and the attendance of each individual is set out below:
Members Attendance %
Current Members
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee (Chairperson, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director) 2/2 100
Tengku Nurul Azian (Member, Independent Non-Executive Director) 2/2 100
Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong (Member, Independent Non-Executive Director) 2/2 100
Ms. Corine Danielle Tap (Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive) 2/2 100
Secretary
Ms. Katina Nurani Binti Abd Rahim (Company Secretary) 2/2 100
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
142
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Directors attended the following training programmes in FY2024 to further enhance their knowledge and to enable
them to discharge their duties and responsibilities more effectively:
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar
* Datin Seri Sunita attended 95 courses in FY2024, some of which are as follows:
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
22 January BCG Dialogue | Post-COP28: What’s Next on the Climate
Agenda?
Boston Consulting Group (BCG)
3 February Making Business More Environmentally Sustainable (Hybrid
Masterclass)
Asia School of Business
6 February Central Banking in an Evolving International Financial System
(Fireside Chat with Former Governors)
Asia School of Business
27 February Enterprise Compliance - Introduction to Competition Law PETRONAS
27 February Personal Data and Privacy PETRONAS
27 February Human Rights in PETRONAS PETRONAS
27 February Code of Conduct and Business Ethics (COBE) PETRONAS
27 February Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and Guidelines PETRONAS
27 - 28
February
Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II: Leading for Impact
(LIP)
ICDM
4 March ASEAN-Australia Summit: Climate and Energy Transition track Australia Prime Minister’s Office
5 March ASEAN-Australia Summit: Emerging Leaders track Australia Prime Minister’s Office
7 March Risk Management PETRONAS
8 March Climate Training HSBC Malaysia
9 March What is ESG? A mapping across Southeast Asia Asia School of Business
11 March Net Zero and Climate Risk briefing HSBC Malaysia
8 April Cyber Resilience Awareness Session MCIS Life Insurance
15 April CBD x Ecosperity Week: The Climate in the Boardroom Council for Board Diversity,
Singapore Stock Exchange
15 – 17 April Ecosperity Week 2024 - Zeroing In on Common Ground Temasek
24 April Responsibility Mapping with Directors of Financial Institutions
(BNM – FIDE Forum Engagement)
FIDE Forum
27 May MYR and Malaysia's Economic Fundamentals - FX Impact Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
28 May A Just Transition towards a Shared Future BNM’s Global Forum on Islamic
Economics and Finance
12 June Cybersecurity Training Zurich
13 June Masterclass on Biodiversity with Dr Faisal Parish Climate Governance Malaysia
20 – 21 June Mobilising Directors for Climate Action (Climate Governance
Initiative)
World Economic Forum
Section
143
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
2 July “Implement: Doing it Right in a Digital World” by Robin Speculand Asia School of Business ICLIF
19 August Sustainability Workshop Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
26 – 27
September
Petrochemicals Sustainability Conference 2024 PETRONAS
1 October GIAS Training PETRONAS
9 October COP29 Masterclass ISIS
10 October Climate Transition Planning (FIDE Forum Roundtable) FIDE Forum
19 October “Embeddings: The Unsung Workhorse of AI" by Prof. Ong Shien
Jin
Asia School of Business
22 October Global Board Chairman Training HSBC Global
24 October Stewardship Asia Leadership Summit Stewardship Asia Center
28 October ASP Climate Related Briefing HSBC Global
25 November Cognisant on Use Cases for Artificial Intelligence MCIS Life Insurance
27 November Anti-Money Laundering Training MCIS Life Insurance
29 November Geopolitics and Malaysia/ASEAN by Amb Ilango Karuppannan Zurich General Insurance
3 December Orange Talk - Innovating for Sustainable Palm Oil Embassy of Netherlands
4 December Cybersecurity Training HSBC Malaysia
8 December “Hope & Harmony” with Dr. Jane Goodall and Dr. Sylvia Earle City Development Ltd (CDL)
16 December Post UN Conventions – Nexus of Climate & Nature: Global
Ambitions, Businesses Actions
PETRONAS
17 December Boardroom Insights 2025: Navigating Governance, Risk and
Strategic Foresight
ICDM
Ramjeet Kaur Virik
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
3 January Compass Modules 1 & 2 (E-Learnings) Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
15 March Fair Competition (E-Learning) Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
5 May Cyber Security Awareness for desk workers Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
5 May MobileXpense E-Learning Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
8 May Finance Essential for Non-Finance Directors ICDM
27 May MYR and Malaysia's Economic Fundamentals - FX Impact Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
24 – 25 June Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II: Leading for Impact
(LIP)
ICDM
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
144
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
19 August Sustainability Workshop Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
17 September Marketing of Infant Foods Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
Saw Chooi Lee
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
20 February Higher Ground with Alison Taylor Harvard Business Review
27 February Geopolitical Risks: Board Essentials for International Business with
Savita Saigal
Lead Women Sdn Bhd
21 March Aspire with Telekom Malaysia Mentoring Programme Lead Women Sdn Bhd
26 April A Practitioner's Viewpoint on Integrating ESG into Business with
Molly Fong, Body Shop
Lead Women Sdn Bhd
15 May What Directors Must Know about Recent Developments in
Climate Science
Climate Governance Malaysia
27 May MYR and Malaysia's Economic Fundamentals - FX Impact Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
5 June Interview Techniques for Independent Directors Lead Women Sdn Bhd
17 July Latest Development in Climate Aligned Executive Compensation Climate Governance Malaysia
19 August Sustainability Workshop Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
10 September National Climate Governance Summit 2024 Climate Governance Malaysia
Dato’ Dr. Rosini Alias
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
27 May MYR and Malaysia's Economic Fundamentals- FX Impact Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
12 – 13 June Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II: Leading for Impact
(LIP)
ICDM
13 August Conflict of Interest (COI) and Governance of COI Bursa
14 August Board and Top Team Effectiveness – Project Converse (Fireside
Chat with Nominee Directors of PNB)
PNB
19 August Sustainability Workshop Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
27 August Professionalism in Service Department of Veterinary
Services (DVS)
6 November Purposeful Leadership and Sustainability - Project Converse
(Fireside Chat with Nominee Directors of PNB)
PNB
Section
145
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Tengku Nurul Azian Tengku Shahriman
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
4 January ESG Awareness Training PwC Malaysia
30 January Specialist Talk on the Evolution of Shopping Malls and Retail in
Malaysia
Sunway REIT
1 March Sustainable Sustainability – Why ESG is Not Enough Asia School of Business
25 – 26 April Brainstorming Session Sunway REIT
27 May MYR and Malaysia's Economic Fundamentals- FX Impact Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
19 August Sustainability Workshop Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
5 September Audit Committee Conference 2024 MIA & IIA Malaysia
10 September Malaysian REIT Forum 2024 MRMA
18 September Conflict of Interest (COI) and Governance of COI Bursa
7 October Aligning Risk Management to Strategy and Purpose ICDM
24 October Annual Refresher Training on ABAC PPB Group
9 December Directors’ Training PPB Group
17 December IT Security Awareness Training 2024 PPB Group
Jean Serge Krol
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
27 May MYR and Malaysia's Economic Fundamentals- FX Impact Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
21 June Cyber Security Awareness for desk workers FrieslandCampina
19 August Sustainability Workshop Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
5 September Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II: Leading for Impact
(LIP)
ICDM
Darren Kong Kam Seong
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
7 March Transparency Matters: A Director’s Approach to Handling Conflicts
of Interest
ICDM
10 May Being Sued as an INED - A Personal Journey by Ms. Chithra A/P
Ganesalingam
ICDM
16 May MIA Public Practice Programme 2024 - Non Audit MIA
27 May MYR and Malaysia's Economic Fundamentals- FX Impact Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
19 August Sustainability Workshop Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
146
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
5 November ESG Updates Locally and Internationally; Climate-Related Litigation
— What's Happening? and Sustainability Reporting Best Practices
and Tips
ICDM
22 November Board of Directors: Steering the Path with Net Zero Strategy ICDM
2 December Strategic Data and Frameworks in Board Governance ICDM
9 December Webinar: Navigating the Cyber Security Act 2024 MIA
Corine Danielle Tap
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
27 May MYR and Malaysia's Economic Fundamentals - FX Impact Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
19 August Sustainability Workshop Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad
5 September Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II: Leading for Impact
(LIP)
ICDM
Board Evaluation
The Board believes that effectiveness of the Board is
imperative to the success of the Company. An effective
Board can guide the Company through both the present
and the future. The Board conducts a thorough evaluation
each year through the Board Evaluation to assess how well
the Board, its Committees and each individual Director are
performing. The objective of the Board Evaluation is to
enhance the Board’s effectiveness and the Company’s
overall performance.
In FY2024, the Board undertook an internal annual
evaluation of the Board’s effectiveness. The internal
evaluation was led by the NRC Chairperson and facilitated
by the Company Secretary. The evaluation was conducted
on the Board, the Nominating and Remuneration Committee,
the Audit and Risk Committee, the Managing Director and
on each individual Board member through a peer evaluation.
Key findings regarding Board effectiveness indicate
that the Board and its Committees have established
strong foundational practices. Notably, the Board
scored particularly well in areas related to Board
Discussions and Member Time Commitment. A
significant increase was also observed for Discussions
in Company Strategy. This feedback positively
solidifies the belief that the Board members:
∞ Are able to have open and robust discussions
whereby the NEDs can act effectively as check and
balance to Management
∞ Are open in their communication with Management
∞ Commit a sufficient amount of time to the Company
∞ Make themselves available for meetings, discussions
and events which are organised by and/or relevant
to the Company
∞ Commit time to learn about the Company Strategy
and discuss the strategic initiatives with Management
Section
147
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Therefore, there is generally low concern regarding the
effectiveness of the Board and its Committees. Nevertheless,
it was agreed that focus should be placed on improving
the following areas in FY2025:
∞ Risk Discussions by the Board
∞ Review of remuneration for Non-Executive Directors
by the Nominating & Remuneration Committee
Remuneration for the Managing Director of the Company is
approved by the Board in consultation with the FC Group.
The remuneration for the Managing Director follows the
performance appraisal system and compensation and
benefits scheme of the FC Group which is based on the
human resource policies and procedures of the FC Group.
Corporate and individual performance, market
competitiveness, business results and individual performance
are considered by the FC Group in evaluating the Managing
Director’s remuneration. The Managing Director is not paid
meeting attendance allowance or Directors’ fees by the
Company. The FC nominee directors are also not paid
Directors’ fees or meeting attendance allowance by the
Company. The Directors’ fees for the FC nominee directors
are paid as corporate management service fees to the FC
group which, being a recurrent related party transaction, is
part of the shareholders’ mandate for recurrent related party
transactions sought from the minority shareholders at each
Annual General Meeting.
The other Non-Executive Directors are paid fixed annual
Directors’ fees as members of the Board, and these are
approved by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting.
The Chairperson of the Board Committees receives
additional Board Committee Chairperson fees, and the
members of the Audit & Risk Committee also receives an
additional fee. All Non-Executive Directors receive benefits
by way of a meeting allowance for each meeting that they
attend.
The NRC reviews the fees periodically by considering the
performance of the Company and benchmarking with other
companies in the same industry and of similar size. The
responsibilities and duties of the directors are also
considered when reviewing the fees.
The Terms of Reference for the NRC and the Board’s
Remuneration Policy are available on the Company’s
website www.dutchlady.com.my
Furthermore, based on the evaluation carried out in
FY2023, it was agreed that focus would be spent on the
following areas in FY2024:
∞ Use of Experts by the Board
∞ Review of the performance of External Auditors by
the Audit & Risk Committee
REMUNERATION
(Practice 7 and 8)
The DLMI Board’s remuneration policy was last reviewed
in November 2024. The policy provides that the NRC will
take into account all factors which it deems necessary in
order to attract, retain and motivate Non-Executive
Directors of high calibre who are able to provide the
necessary skills and experience as required. The level of
remuneration shall be commensurate with the responsibilities
of the Non-Executive Directors and should also be in
alignment with the business strategy and long-term
objectives of the Company.
Regarding these areas, the NRC and the Board found clear
improvement in the review of the external auditors’
performance, with no change in the Use of Experts.
Nevertheless, the NRC and the Board are satisfied that
time, attention, and effort have been dedicated to
addressing these matters, and that continued attention will
be given to these areas.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
148
Remuneration of Directors and Top Senior Management
The aggregate remuneration of Directors of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 is as follows:
Executive
Directors
Non-Executive
Directors
RM RM
Directors’ Fees and Committee Member Allowances – 455,144
Benefits – 61,100
Salaries and other emoluments 1,673,182 –
Benefits in kind – –
The details of the total remuneration of the directors on a named basis for the financial year ended 31 December 2024
are as follows:-
Name
Directors’
Fees
Directors’
Benefits
Salaries
and other
emoluments
Benefits
in kind
Total
RM RM RM RM RM
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin
Rajakumar
129,865 6,500 – – 136,365
Ramjeet Kaur Virik – – 1,673,182 – 1,673,182
Saw Chooi Lee 81,928 14,300 – – 96,228
Corine Tap – – – – –
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias 80,104 11,700 – – 91,804
Tengku Nurul Azian binti
Tengku Shahriman
83,143 14,300 – – 97,443
Jean Serge Krol – – – – –
Darren Kong Kam Seong 80,104 14,300 – – 94,404
Total 455,144 61,100 1,673,182 – 2,189,426
For the top remaining senior management personnel, the
aggregate remuneration wages, salaries, benefits and
contributions to state plans) paid for FY2024 is
approximately RM3.1 million. The most senior member of
management is an Executive Director of the Company, and
her remuneration is disclosed above. As such, details of
the remaining members of senior management are shared
on general terms and on an aggregated basis only as the
Board is of the view that it would not be in the best
interest of the Company to disclose these details given the
competitiveness in the market for good senior managers
in the consumer goods industry. The Board is of the view
that the disclosure of remuneration details may be
detrimental to its business interests, given the competitive
landscape for key personnel with the requisite knowledge,
technical expertise and working experience in the
Company’s business activities, where intense headhunting
is a common industry challenge. Accordingly, such
disclosure of specific remuneration information may give
rise to recruitment and talent retention issues. The Board
feels that the details provided are sufficiently transparent
and allows stakeholders to assess the reasonableness of
remuneration paid to members of senior management.
Section
149
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
PRINCIPLE B - EFFECTIVE AUDIT
AND RISK MANAGEMENT
FINANCIAL CONTROL AND REPORTING
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Company
maintains adequate and accurate records for timely
reporting of the financial position of the Company and the
results of its activities to enable stakeholders to make
informed assessments of the Company’s performance and
prospects. To assist the Board in effectively discharging
this duty, the Company has in place financial reporting
procedures and processes. As at the date of this statement,
the Board is not aware of any circumstances which have
not been dealt with in the financial reports or financial
statements, which would render any amount in the financial
statements misleading.
DIRECTORS’ RESPONSIBILITY
STATEMENT IN RESPECT OF THE
PREPARATION OF THE AUDITED
FINANCIAL STATEMENT
As required by the Companies Act 2016, the Board hereby
provides its opinion that the Company’s financial statements
for FY2024 were drawn up in accordance with Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards, Main Market Listing Requirements
(MMLR) of Bursa Securities and the Companies Act 2016
so as to provide a true and fair view of the Company’s
financial position and the performance and cash flow for
the financial year. Towards this, the Board has ensured
that relevant accounting policies have been used and
applied consistently and that reasonable and prudent
judgements and estimates have been made, in the
preparation of financial statements. The Board also ensured
that applicable approved accounting standards have been
followed and that proper accounting records were kept so
as to enable disclosure of the Company’s financial position
in compliance with laws and regulations.
THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE
(Practice 9)
Chairperson of the Audit and Risk Committee
The Audit and Risk Committee consists of a majority of
independent directors. The Committee is chaired by
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman who is an
Independent Non-Executive Director. She is not the
Chairperson of the Board. Currently, the Committee
comprised 5 members consisting of 3 independent
directors and 2 non-independent directors. However, one
of the non-independent directors, Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti
Alias, is a nominee director of Permodalan Nasional
Berhad. As such, 4 out of 5 of the Audit and Risk Committee
members represents the Company’s minority shareholders.
The members of the Audit and Risk Committee are all
financially literate and have a full understanding of the
financial reporting process and the financial matters
discussed. The members also attend training on new rules
or standards relating to the accounting standards, tax
rulings or corporate governance changes. Details on the
members of the Audit and Risk Committee are contained
in the Report of the Audit and Risk Committee.
The Board has not appointed any of the Company’s former
key audit partners as a member of the Audit and Risk
Committee. The Audit and Risk Committee will observe a
minimum three (3) year cooling-off period before any
former key audit partner can be appointed as a member
of the Audit & Risk Committee. This requirement is set out
in the Audit & Risk Committee’s Terms of Reference.
In August 2024 the Audit and Risk Committee had a
meeting with the Company’s External Auditor, Messrs.
PricewaterHouse Coopers (“PwC”), where PwC presented
the annual audit plan for FY2024. In that meeting, PwC
highlighted the key focus areas, methodology and new
accounting standards. The External Auditor also briefed the
Audit and Risk Committee on their team members and the
resources allocated to the Company. After discussion and
deliberation, the Audit and Risk Committee approved the
audit plan. The Company also sought the confirmation of
independence from PwC. The Company has in place a
process to consider the appointment/re-appointment of
External Auditors. The process requires the Audit and Risk
Committee to assess the External Auditors’ compliance
with the qualification criteria including, evaluating the
independence, objectivity and performance of the External
Auditors. As part of its remit, the Audit and Risk Committee
must ensure that the objectivity, independence and
effectiveness of the External Auditors are maintained.
The written terms of reference for the Audit and Risk
Committee are available on the Company’s website
www.dutchlady.com.my.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL
CONTROL FRAMEWORK (Practice 10 and 11)
In the discharge of its responsibility to effectively manage
risks across the Company, determining its risk appetite and
ensuring the implementation of adequate and appropriate
controls, the Board reviews its risk management processes
and internal control procedures to ensure a sound system
of risk management and internal control to safeguard
shareholders’ investments and the assets of the Company.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
150
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Company’s system of internal financial control is
primarily aimed at safeguarding the Company’s assets,
ensuring proper accounting records are kept, identifying
and managing business risks and maintaining compliance
with appropriate legislation and regulations.
Apart from having oversight of the Company’s risk
management, internal control and financial reporting, the
Audit and Risk Committee also ensures the required in-
depth review of specific financial, operational and regulatory
areas of the Company’s business.
The Company adopts the Enterprise Risk Management
programme based on the framework that was developed
and issued by FC, which in turn is based on COSO
framework (developed by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission for evaluating
internal controls), of which the International Institute of
Internal Auditors is a sponsoring organisation. The
programme establishes an enterprise risk assessment
(“ERA”) for identifying, evaluating, monitoring, reporting
and managing significant business risks. The Internal Audit
function also carries out activities under the ERA.
The Company’s Management team and Internal Audit team
meets periodically to assess whether any conditions
associated with a particular risk have changed, and to
ensure that action and risk mitigation plans have been
implemented. Progress and status of the mitigation action
plans are presented to the Audit and Risk Committee
quarterly or new critical risks are escalated immediately for
deliberation.
The risk profile of the Company is established during the
annual risk assessment session facilitated by the Internal
Audit team. Risks identified are categorised and rated
based on the impact on the relevant business objectives,
likelihood of the risks occurring, and the potential for
improvement of the way the risk is being managed, taking
into account the existing internal control framework and
risk management measures implemented.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Internal Audit function is performed in-house and
reports directly to the Audit and Risk Committee. It assists
the Audit and Risk Committee and the Management in the
effective discharge of their responsibilities and its principal
role is to undertake independent and systematic reviews
of the Company’s internal control system so as to provide
objective assurance on the adequacy, integrity and
effectiveness of the Company’s risk management, internal
controls and the overall governance processes.
The activities of the Internal Audit function are carried out
based on the Internal Audit Plan approved by the
Committee. The Internal Audit Plan is developed based on
the risk profiles identified in accordance with the Company’s
Risk Management Framework and in consultation with the
Management Team. The Audit and Risk Committee reviews
the extent of the audit scope and coverage of the Internal
Audit activities; and the adequacy and competency and the
internal audit resources to support the completion of the
plan. At the quarterly Audit and Risk Committee meetings,
the Head of Internal Audit reports to the Audit and Risk
Committee on the progress of Internal Audit activities and
the resource requirements, including interim changes and
the impact of resource limitations. The report to the Audit
and Risk Committee also covers significant risk and control
issues, including fraud risks, governance issues and other
matters that require the Committee’s attention.
The Internal Audit function also works collaboratively with
the Global Risk & Internal Controls team to review the risk
management process of the Group as a whole. The Audit
and Risk Committee evaluated the performance of the
Internal Audit function for FY2024 and was satisfied with
the overall performance of the function as it had been
effective in performing its duties. The Internal Audit
function also provided value added recommendations to
the organisation, strengthening its internal controls,
improving efficiency of processes whilst enabling cost
savings, and was able to function independently.
The ERA categorises the risk in the following way:
∞ Strategic, which are risks that affect the overall direction
of the business.
∞ Operational, which are risks that impact the delivery of
the Company’s products.
∞ Financial, which are risks associated with financial
processes and reporting.
∞ Compliance, which are risks associated in relation to
legal, statutory and corporate governance
Section
151
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
The Company’s Internal Audit is headed by Mr. Inderjit
Singh who has over 11 years of experience in various
finance functions including internal audit. Mr. Inderjit holds
a Bachelor’s Degree of Accounting (Honours) from
Multimedia University (MMU) and is a member of the
Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia (IIA). He is supported
by a Senior Internal Controls Specialist and Internal Control
Specialist. Further information on the Internal Audit function
is set out in the Statement of Internal Control and Risk
Management and the Report of the Audit & Risk Committee.
PRINCIPLE C - INTEGRITY IN
CORPORATE REPORTING AND
MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIPS
WITH STAKEHOLDERS
The Board is committed to providing a fair, objective and
meaningful assessment of the financial position and
prospects of the Group in the quarterly financial results,
annual financial statements, integrated annual report and
all other reports to shareholders, investors, regulatory
authorities and other stakeholders. The Company has
consistently maintained an open dialogue with relevant
stakeholder groups such as regulatory agencies, employees,
shareholders, investors, consumers and the general public,
non-governmental associations and suppliers. Their views
and concerns on the Company’s business, its policies on
governance, the environment and social responsibility are
given due consideration in our decision-making process.
ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS
(Practice 12 and 13)
Ongoing engagement and communication with shareholders
are vital in fostering a healthy relationship between the
Company and its stakeholders and are critical for the
sustainable growth of our business as this gives stakeholders
a much better insight of the Company and facilitates mutual
understanding of each other’s expectations.
The Board takes steps to ensure, as far as is practicable,
that there is effective, transparent and regular communication
between the Company and its stakeholders. The Company
disseminates information to its stakeholders utilising the
following methods:
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETINGS
The Company’s Notice of AGM is published in a local
newspaper and is issued to shareholders at least 28 days
prior to the date of the AGM. The Company’s AGM in May
2024 was fully virtual. All Malaysian resident Directors
were physically present at the Broadcast Venue of the
meeting whilst the Directors who are based overseas
joined the meeting virtually. The Chairperson, who chaired
the proceedings provided fair opportunity and time to all
shareholders to exercise their rights to raise questions and
make recommendations.
Website
The Company’s corporate website provides quick
access to information about the Company. The
information on the corporate websites includes the
corporate overview, information on the Board of
Directors and the Management team, Compass and
other Company policies, the Board Charter and Board
Committee Terms of References, financial results,
announcements to Bursa, minutes of general meetings,
the Company’s Integrated Annual Reports and Circulars
to shareholders, the Company’s products, media
releases, and other corporate news.
Analyst briefings
The Company also meets up with investment analysts
and fund managers periodically. The Company also
actively responds to requests for discussions with
institutional shareholders and analysts, locally and
abroad, to provide them better insights into the
Company. In FY2024, the Company held an investor
relations meeting in November.
	
The presentation shared during the meeting is available
on the Company’s website at www.dutchlady.com.my
Integrated Annual Report
The Integrated Annual Report provides a comprehensive
report on the Company’s operations and financial
performance.
	
An online version of the full Integrated Annual Report
is available and downloadable from the Company’s
website www.dutchlady.com.my.
General Meetings
The Board shares information to its shareholders
during general meetings and encourages shareholders
to ask questions which are addressed during the
meeting. Minutes of the general meetings, together
with a summary of the questions discussed during the
meeting are shared on the Company’s website within
one month of the date of the meeting.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
152
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Company has leveraged technology to facilitate
greater shareholders’ participation and enhance the
proceedings of the AGM. Resolutions during the AGM were
arrived at via online electronic poll voting to enable all
shareholders to cast their votes. The Share Registrar,
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd acted as the Poll
Administrator to conduct the online electronic polling
process. Sky Corporate Services Sdn was appointed as the
Independent Scrutineer to verify the poll results.
Since FY2020, the Company’s general meetings have been
held virtually through live streaming and online remote
voting. In FY2024, it was decided that a virtual meeting
be held as a physical AGM would require use of more
energy and resources, also contributing to more emissions
and waste compared to a virtual meeting. With a virtual
AGM the Company sought to reduce the potential
environmental impact by using a small meeting venue in
the offices of the poll administrator as a broadcast venue,
minimising the need for travel to the meeting venue, and
significantly cut-down the amount of physical materials to
be generated for the meeting.
For virtual meetings, only shareholders who have registered
and who have been verified by the poll administrator were
allowed to participate in the meetings. The meeting and
online voting was conducted using a system which
contains data privacy and security features. Information on
how the shareholders can register, participate and vote
during the virtual meeting was provided in the notice of
meetings which were delivered to each shareholder in
accordance with the terms of the Company’s Constitution.
Shareholders are always encouraged to provide questions
on the resolutions being proposed or on the Company’s
operations and performance in general via email before the
meeting and via the Q&A portal during the meeting.
Answers to questions received beforehand will be dealt
with during the Managing Director’s presentation or
answered verbally during the meeting. Questions received
from MSWG are also presented and answered during the
meetings. The broadcast of the virtual general meeting
held in FY2024 ran smoothly and shareholders were able
to see and hear the meeting proceedings clearly.
Shareholders were also able to participate in the meetings
by asking questions via the Q&A portal. These questions
were either answered via the portal which was visible to
the shareholders or were answered verbally by the
Managing Director and the Finance Director during the
meeting. The Board finds that virtual meetings are not only
convenient for the shareholders as they allow all
shareholders to participate in the meeting from the comfort
of their home or office, but that they are also more
environmentally friendly as virtual meetings help to reduce
the carbon footprint from such meetings by amongst
others, using a smaller meeting venue, reducing the
number of attendees travelling to the meeting venue, and
reducing the amount of physical materials to be generated
for the meeting. The Company will continue its endeavour
to reduce the carbon footprint generated from its general
meetings by utilising such environmentally friendly methods.
The full minutes of the meetings which includes the
answers to the shareholders’ questions were available on
the Company website within 30 days after the general
meetings.
A hybrid meeting will be held for the 62nd AGM on 23 May
2025. The Main Venue will be held at the Grand Ballroom,
Sime Darby Convention Centre, No. 1A, Jalan Bukit Kiara,
Bukit Kiara, 60000 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
COMPLIANCE STATEMENT BY THE
BOARD OF DIRECTORS ON CORPORATE
GOVERNANCE STATEMENT
(a) Utilisation of Proceeds
The Company did not carry out any corporate
exercise to raise funds during the financial year.
(b) Audit Fees
(i) Audit Fees for the Company:
The Company’s internal audit function is
performed in-house by a team of internal auditors
led by the Head of Internal Audit and Internal
Control. The total cost incurred by the Internal
Audit and Internal Control Department in relation
to the conduct of its functions for FY2024
was RM695,772.37. The amount of audit fees
paid to External Auditors by the Company for
FY2024 was RM127,227.
(ii) Non-Audit Fees
The amount of non-audit fees paid to External
Auditors by the Company for the FY2024 was
RM23,600 for the review of Statement of Risk
Management & Internal Control.
(c) Material Contracts Involving Substantial Shareholders
Save and except for the recurrent related party
transactions entered into pursuant to the shareholders’
mandate, there were no material contracts either still
subsisting at or entered into since the end of FY2024
by the Company and/or its subsidiaries which involved
Directors’ and/or substantial shareholders’ interest.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement is made
in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors
dated 20 February 2025.
Section
153
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
The Audit and Risk Committee (“Committee”) provides critical oversight of the Company’s
financial reporting process, monitoring the external and internal auditing process, compliance
with relevant legal and statutory matters and other matters delegated by the Board.
The primary purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board of Directors to:
(i) discharge its statutory and fiduciary responsibilities of overseeing the financial risk processes and accounting and
financial reporting practices within the Company;
(ii) review the quality of the Company’s accounting function, financial reporting and internal controls;
(iii) enhance the independence of the External and Internal Audit functions by providing direction to and oversight of
these functions.
A. COMPOSITION
The Committee is chaired by Tengku Nurul Azian binti
Tengku Shahriman who is an Advocate and Solicitor of the
High Court in Malaya, a Barrister of Law of the Honourable
Society of Inner Temple and has an LLB (Hons) from the
School of Oriental & African Studies, University of London.
She has over 18 years of broad experience in investment
banking and corporate finance and was previously the
Executive Vice President & Partner of PEMANDU Associates
Sdn Bhd, a management consulting firm which is focused
on public sector transformation and business turnaround
with global experience. She sits on the Boards and Audit
and Risk Committees of other listed companies in Malaysia.
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee has a Bachelor of Science in Business
Administration and an MBA from the University of
Nebraska-Lincoln, USA. She first joined the Company in
March 2003 as its Commercial Director after which she
held various leadership positions in the FrieslandCampina
Group including the role of the Company’s Managing
Director from 2015 to 2017. She was appointed as the
Adjunct Professor for Graduate Business School – MBA
Programme for Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia in 2018
and mentors in the Women in Leadership (WIL) programme
by Lead-Women Malaysia Organisation.
Mr. Darren Kong has a BSc (Hons) in Applied Accounting,
Oxford Brookes University, United Kingdom. He is a Fellow
Member of the Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants (ACCA), a Member of the Malaysian Institute
of Accountants (MIA) Associate, and a member of the
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE). He was
previously the Chief Operating Officer of AutoCraver
Chairperson
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman –
Independent Non-Executive Director
Members
Mr. Jean Serge Krol
Non-Independent
Non-Executive
Director
Senior Independent
Non-Executive
Director
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee
Mr. Darren Kong
Kam Seong
Independent
Non-Executive
Director
Dato’ Dr. Rosini
binti Alias
Non-Independent
Non-Executive
Director
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
154
AUDIT AND RISK
COMMITTEE REPORT
Trading Sdn Bhd, a company providing automative
technology solutions and prior to that, he was the Managing
Director, Corporate Strategy & Alliance of a data technology
company that specialises in Analytics, Big Data, Machine
Learning and Artificial Intelligence.
Dato’ Dr. Rosini Binti Alias is a Doctor of Veterinary
Medicine, DVM, from Universiti Pertanian Malaysia. She
was formerly the Deputy Director-General of the
Department of Veterinary Services (“DVS”), Malaysia and
has vast experience in the veterinary and agricultural
sector with a career spanning over 30 years.
Mr. Jean Serge Krol has a Master’s of Economics as well
as a Post-Master’s Degree for Certified Public Accountants
from the Rijksuniversiteit in Groningen. He also has a
Post-Master’s Degree for Certified Controllers from the
Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam. He has held various senior
finance managerial positions within the FrieslandCampina
group from 2002 to 2019. In July 2019, he was appointed
as the Director of Finance for FrieslandCampina’s
Specialized Nutrition Business Group and in 2023, he
assumed the position of Director of Finance Business
Group Asia.
B. TERMS OF REFERENCE
Structure of the Audit and Risk Committee
The Committee’s roles and responsibilities are clearly
defined in its Terms of Reference. The Terms of Reference
is reviewed periodically whereby the latest review was
carried out and approved by the Board in November 2024.
The Committee is appointed by the Board and shall
comprise of at least three (3) directors. All members
should be Non-Executive Directors with Independent Non-
Executive Directors making up the majority. The Chairperson
of the Board shall not be a member of the Committee. In
the event of any vacancy in the Committee (including
Chairperson) resulting in non-compliance to the above, the
Board shall within three (3) months of the event fill the
vacancy. At least one (1) member of the Committee must
be a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants or
have at least three (3) years’ working experience and be
a member of one of the Associations of Accountants
specified in Part II of the First Schedule of the Accountants
Act 1967. The Chairperson of the Committee shall be an
Independent Non-Executive Director and be elected from
amongst the members of the Committee. All members of
the Committee, including the Chairperson, will hold office
until otherwise determined by the Board.
Authority
The Committee has authority to carry out the following:
(i) investigate any matter within its terms of reference;
(ii) has full and unrestricted access to any information,
records and documents pertaining to the Company;
(iii) has the resources which are required to perform its
duties;
(iv) has direct communication channels with both the
External and Internal Auditors;
(v) be able to obtain independent professional or other
advice; and
(vi) be able to convene meetings with External Auditors,
the Internal Auditors or both, excluding the attendance
of other Directors and employees of the Company,
whenever deemed necessary.
Functions
The functions of the Committee are as follows:-
1. In relation to External Auditors
(i) To consider and recommend to the Board the
appointment or re-appointment of the External
Auditors and fix their audit fee, and to consider any
issues regarding their resignation or dismissal and the
reasons thereof. In considering the appointment or
re-appointment of the external auditors, to consider
among others:-
(a) the adequacy of the experience and resources
of the accounting firm;
(b) the persons assigned to the audit;
(c) the accounting firm’s audit engagements;
(d) the size and complexity of the Group being audited;
(e) the number and experience of supervisory and
professional staff assigned to the particular audit;
and
(f) the performance of the external auditors and its
independence inter-alia:-
i. communication with the management;
ii. the external auditors’ ability to meet deadlines
in providing services and responding to
issues in a timely manner as contemplated
in the external audit plan;
iii. the competence, audit quality and resource
capacity of the external auditors in relation
to the audit;
iv. the nature of the non-audit services
Section
155
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
provided by the external auditors and fees
paid for such services relative to the audit
fee; and
v. whether there are safeguards in place to
ensure that there is no threat to the
objectivity and independence of the audit
arising from the provision of non-audit
services or tenure of the external auditors.
In making the assessment on the External Auditor’s
performance and independence, the Committee should
consider the information presented in the Annual
Transparency Report of the audit firm, to the extent that
it is applicable.
(i) To take note and be informed of the audit tender
process that is run by FrieslandCampina globally
including ensuring that an objective criterion is
established when assessing the appointment of
External Auditors;
(ii) To review and discuss with the External Auditors their
audit plan, the nature and scope of audit, evaluation
of the Company’s systems of internal controls and
their audit report on the annual financial statements,
including Key Audit Matters, and report the same to
the Board;
(iii) Ensure External Auditors have sufficient understanding
of business, operations and risk areas, that senior
audit team members are sufficiently involved
throughout the audit process, and that the team has
the capacity and ability to work in different
geographical regions;
(iv) To assess the External Audit firm’s measures to
uphold audit quality and manage risks including
adopting indicators of audit quality;
(v) To discuss issues and reservations arising from the
interim and final audits with the External Auditors, and
any other matters the External Auditors or other
consultants may wish to discuss, in the absence of
Executive Directors and management, where necessary
and in any case at least twice a year;
(vi) To review the External Auditors’ Management letter
and management’s response thereon and ensure
management provides information and records in a
timely manner;
(vii) Obtain assurance from the External Auditors that they
are and have been independent throughout the
conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with
the terms of all relevant professional and regulatory
requirements, and that following such annual
assessment review and the assurance obtained, the
Committee to remain confident of the External
Auditor’s independence and suitability;
(viii) Ensure that advance approval by the Board of
Directors is required for non-audit services provided
by the External Auditor, on recommendation of the
Committee; and
(ix) Review all non-audit services performed by the
External Auditors to reinforce the independence and
objectivity of the External Auditors. In the event the
non-audit fees paid to External Auditors or a firm or
corporation affiliated to the External Auditors are
significant i.e. constitutes 50% of the total audit fees
paid to the External Auditors, the Committee is
required to state the details on the nature of the non-
audit services rendered in the Committee’s report.
2. In relation to the financial statements
(i) To review the quarterly and annual financial statements
of the Company before submission to the Board of
Directors, focusing particularly on:-
(a) Public announcement of the results and dividend
payment;
(b) Any changes in accounting policies and practices;
(c) The going concern assumption;
(d) Compliance with approved accounting standards;
(e) Compliance with Bursa Securities and legal
requirements;
(f) Significant adjustments arising from the audit;
(g) Significant matters highlighted including financial
reporting issues; and
(h) Significant judgements made by management,
significant and unusual events or transactions
and how these matters are addressed.
(ii) Review the Company’s dividend proposals including
considering the quantum, timing and cash flow of
dividend payments, and recommending the same to
the Board for approval;
(iii) To consider and review the appropriateness of any
related party transaction and conflict of interest
situations that may arise within the Company including
ensuring compliance with applicable laws and
regulations to ensure:
(a) internal control procedures with regards to such
transactions are sufficient and have been
complied with;
(b) transactions are fair, reasonable and undertaken
on the Company’s normal commercial terms; and
(c) transactions are not detrimental to the interest
of minority shareholders;
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
156
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
(iv) Review the Company’s annual report prior to
submission to the Board for their perusal and approval,
to ensure compliance in accordance with the
provisions of the Companies Act 2016 and Bursa
Securities Main Market Listing Requirements, the
applicable approved accounting standards as per
MASB Standards and any other laws or regulations
which might apply;
(v) Review major audit findings and management’s
response during the year with management, External
Auditors and Internal Auditors, including the status of
previous audit recommendations; and
(vi) Review the assistance given by the Company’s
officers to the External Auditors and any issues
encountered in the course of the audit work, including
restrictions on the scope of activities or access to
required information.
3. In relation to Internal Audit and Internal
Controls
(i) To do the following, in relation to the Internal Audit
Department:
(a) Review the adequacy of the scope, functions,
competency and resources of the Internal Audit
Department, and that it has the necessary
authority and resources to carry out its work,
including training programmes for the staff;
(b) Consider whether internal audit personnel are
free from any relationships or conflicts of interest,
which could impair their objectivity and
independence;
(c) Review the internal audit plan for the year and
findings of the internal audit assessment and,
where necessary, ensure that appropriate actions
are taken on the recommendations of the Internal
Audit Department by management;
(d) Ensure the Head of Internal Audit reports
functionally to the Committee directly and that
the Committee reviews the performance of the
Internal Audit function annually. The Head of
Internal Audit should have the relevant
qualifications and be responsible for providing
assurance to the Committee that the internal
controls are operating effectively.
(ii) Ensure that the Company has an Internal Control
Frameworks, and periodically reviews the controls,
organises self-assessments and ensures effectiveness
of the system. The Global Risk and Control Team
coordinates both the Control Design Assessment and
the Control Self-Assessment exercise which is
performed at different frequencies throughout the
year in accordance with FC’s Internal Control
Framework (ICF) compliance programme. This
programme emphasises on key controls surrounding
the financial reporting process, the Company’s
compliance with applicable laws and internal policies,
and the effectiveness of the internal processes. The
Global Risk and Control Team shall provide reports on
the Internal Control assessment results, deficiencies
and controls requiring improvement to the Head of
Internal Audit who will share these reports with the
Committee during quarterly Committee meetings. The
Committee may also request for the Global Risk and
Control team to provide reports directly to the
Committee when further discussion or inquiries are
necessary. Further, the Head of Internal Audit shall
raise any disagreements and/or seek alignment on the
findings of the reports with management and the
Global Risk and Control Team;
(iii) Ensure the Company adopts the Standards and
Principles outlined in the International Professional
Practices Framework (IPPF) of The Institute of Internal
Auditors;
(iv) Review and appraise the performance of the Internal
Audit Department on an annual basis;
(v) Approve any appointment and termination of senior
staff members of the Internal Audit Department; and
(vi) Takes cognisance of resignations of internal audit
staff members and provide the resigning staff member
an opportunity to submit his reasons for resigning.
4. In relation to Enterprise Risk Management
(i) To review and assess the adequacy of the Enterprise
Risk Management framework and controls on a
quarterly basis to mitigate identified business risks
which enables the Company to update key risks
direction, identify material economic, environmental,
social or governance (EESG) risks and other emerging
risks and to define an adequate and practical
mitigation action plan where necessary;
(ii) To review and assess the effectiveness and adequacy
of the business continuity plan and monitoring its
implementation;
(iii) To ensure that the Enterprise Risk Management
Framework focuses on the Company’s core business
operations and it allows the Company to:
∞ Establish clear functional responsibilities and
accountabilities within the Company’s structures
for management of risks;
∞ Enhance and improve corporate governance with
a clear, concise and comprehensive structure for
the Company;
Section
157
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
∞ Put in place policies and procedures on business
ethics and good business conduct which includes
focus on anti-bribery and corruption;
∞ Promote an effective risk awareness where risk
management is an integral aspect of the Company’s
business plan and project portfolio;
∞ Ensure appropriate skills and resources are applied
to risk management;
∞ Review periodic reports from the management on
risk exposure, risk portfolio composition and risk
management activities;
∞ Review and recommend new policies or changes
to policies and to consider risk implications
including the procedures put in place by
management to prevent and detect fraud including
cyber fraud.
5. Other Scope of Work
(i) To consider major findings of any internal investigations
and management’s response thereon;
(ii) To review the draft circulars with respect to obtaining
shareholders’ mandate on any Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature, before
submission to the Board of Directors; and
(iii) To consider any other topics, as defined by the Board.
The Committee’s Terms of Reference can be found on the
Company’s website www.dutchlady.com.my
C. MEETINGS AND MINUTES
The Committee shall meet at least four (4) times a year
and the quorum for any meeting shall be two (2) members,
consisting of Independent Directors. The Managing
Director, Finance Director, Head of Internal Audit, Global
Risk and Control team member (when required by the
Audit and Risk Committee) and other members of the
Management Team may attend the meetings at the
invitation of the Committee. There shall be at least two (2)
meetings a year with External Auditors as well as two (2)
meetings without the members of Management. External
Auditors will be invited to attend additional meetings when
appropriate and they may request a meeting with the
Committee if they consider it necessary. Other Board
members may attend meetings upon the invitation of the
Committee.
The Company Secretary is the Secretary of the Committee
and as a reporting procedure, the minutes of each Committee
meeting is circulated to all members of the Board.
The Nominating and Remuneration Committee reviews the
performance of the Committee annually to determine
whether the Committee and its members have carried out
their duties in accordance with their terms of reference.
The Committee will observe a minimum three (3) year
cooling-off period before any former key audit partner can
be appointed as a member of the Committee.
A total of four (4) meetings were held during the financial
year 2024. The membership status and attendance record
of each of the members are as follows:-
D. SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES DURING
THE FINANCIAL YEAR
A summary of the key activities carried out by the
Committee during the financial year is listed below:-
(a) Financial Reporting and Compliance
The Company’s quarterly and annual financial
statements as well as announcements made to Bursa
Securities were reviewed by the Committee before
submission to the Board for its subsequent approval.
In doing so, the Committee deliberated and focused
on changes in major accounting policies and practices
as well as any adjustments and/or issues affecting
audit related matters to ensure compliance with Main
Market Listing Requirements, the approved Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards, the requirements of the
Companies Act and other relevant legal and regulatory
requirements with regards to the quarterly and year-
end financial statements.
Members Attendance
Tengku Nurul Azian binti
Tengku Shahriman
(Chairperson, Independent
Non-Executive Director)
4/4
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee
(Member, Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director)
4/4
Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong
(Member, Independent
Non-Executive Director)
4/4
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias
(Member, Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director)
4/4
Mr. Jean Serge Krol
(Member, Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director)
4/4
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
158
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
As part of their accounting oversight duties, the
Committee also reviewed the External Auditors’
(“PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT”, or “PwC”) annual and
interim audit reports, together with accompanying
Management responses.
(b) Assessing Independence, Suitability,
Objectivity and Cost Effectiveness of the
External Auditors
The Committee carried out an annual review of the
independence, suitability, objectivity and cost
effectiveness of PwC before approving their
remuneration and recommending their re-appointment
to the shareholders. The factors considered include
the competency, and the adequacy of experience and
resources of the firm and professional staff assigned
to perform the audit.
In February 2024, PwC shared its Transparency
Report for 2023 with the Committee. The Transparency
Report is provided as part of an initiative by the
Securities Commission’s Audit Oversight Board to
enhance transparency and audit quality. The
Transparency Report spells out PwC’s audit
methodology, describes what they do to maintain the
right culture, equip their employees with the right
training and invest in cutting edge audit tools.
As part of the annual audit exercise, the Committee
obtained assurance from PwC confirming that they
are and have been independent throughout the
conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with
the terms of all relevant professional and regulatory
requirements. Following the annual assessment review
and the assurance obtained, the Committee remains
confident of PwC’s independence and suitability.
(c) Risk Management and Internal Controls
The Committee took note of the Company’s risk
management and the control environment guidelines as
implemented using the FC Internal Control Framework
and the Enterprise Risk Management programme. In
November 2024, the Committee reviewed and
accepted a “light touch” Enterprise Risk Assessment. A
“light touch” assessment was carried out for FY2024
as the Company’s existing action plans were still in
progress and sufficient to mitigate the risks identified.
It is expected that the next detailed Enterprise Risk
Assessment will be carried out in FY2025, in accordance
with FC’s Enterprise Risk Assessment and Fraud Risk
Assessment reporting procedures. This structured
approach allows the Company to continuously monitor
and manage fraud risks while maintaining alignment
with its long-term goals.
The Committee also received Risk Management progress
reports from Management quarterly whereby the
Committee took note of the mitigating controls and action
plans taken to mitigate the identified business risks.
(d) Going Concern Assessment
The Committee reviewed the going concern basis for
preparing the Company’s financial statements,
including the assumptions underlying the going
concern statement and the period of assessment.
(e) External Audit
Throughout the financial year, the Committee had
three (3) meetings with External Auditors and two (2)
meetings with them without the presence of
Management. The Committee is pleased to report that
there was no significant matter of disagreement that
arose between the External Auditors and Management.
To reinforce the independence and objectivity of the
External Auditors, the Committee reviewed all non-
audit services performed by the External Auditors.
During the financial year, the fees incurred in respect
of non-audit related matters amounted to RM23,600
for the review of Statement of Risk Management and
Internal Control. The amount of audit fees paid to
External Auditors by the Company for FY2024 was
RM127,227. As such the non-audit fees make up
15.6% of the total fees paid to the External Auditors.
(f) Internal Audit and Internal Controls
During FY2024, the Committee had four (4) meetings
with the Internal Auditor. During the engagements, the
Committee discussed the results arising from the
Internal Audit findings and recommendations by the
Internal Auditor on the controls environment and
operational weaknesses and verified that timely
corrective actions were taken by Management.
In pursuit of FC’s one Global Risk and Control strategy
and direction setting, the Internal Auditor also works
collaboratively with the Global Risk and Internal
Control team to review the risk management process
of the FC Group as a whole. The Global Risk & Control
Team provides reports on the Internal Control
assessment results, deficiencies and controls requiring
improvement to the Internal Auditor who shared these
reports with the Committee during quarterly Committee
meetings. In the event that further discussion or
inquiries are necessary, the Global Risk & Control
team may provide reports directly to the Committee.
Section
159
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
(g) Governance
The Committee reviewed the Audit and Committee
Report and the Statement of Internal Control and Risk
Management and recommended to the Board for
inclusion in the 2023 Annual Report.
(h) Other Matters
During the financial year, the Committee also carried
out the following activities:-
∞ reviewed the Company’s dividend proposals
∞ considered the quantum, timing and cash flow of
dividend payments, and recommended the same
to the Board for approval
∞ reviewed the recurrent related party transactions,
and any conflict-of-interest situations during the
year
∞ reviewed its report for the year under review to
ensure that they were in compliance with the
relevant requirements and guidelines
∞ reviewed the Circular on the New and Renewal
of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related
Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading
Nature and recommended the same to the Board
for shareholders’ approval
∞ discussed with the External Auditors on Key
Audit Matters and any issues arising from the
audit (in the absence of the Management)
E. INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Committee is supported by the Internal Audit function
in discharging its duties and responsibilities. The Internal
Audit function is an integral part of the assurance
framework, and its principal role is to undertake independent
and systematic reviews of the Company’s internal control
system so as to provide objective assurance on the
adequacy, integrity and effectiveness of the Company’s
overall governance, risk management and internal control
processes.
The Internal Audit function is performed in-house and is
led by the Head of Internal Audit who reports functionally
to the Committee and administratively to the Finance
Director. It assists the Committee and Management in the
effective discharge of their responsibilities and its principal
role is to undertake independent and systematic reviews
of the Company’s internal control system so as to provide
objective assurance on the adequacy, integrity and
effectiveness of the Company’s risk management, internal
controls and the overall governance processes. The
Internal Auditors are empowered with strict accountability
for confidentiality and safeguarding records and information,
is authorised full, free, and unrestricted access to any and
all of the Company’s records, physical properties, to
carrying out any internal audit or investigation engagement.
The Internal Audit function is independent from the
activities of other operating departments and undertakes
to review key processes of the Company and its
relationships with third parties.
The Head of Internal Audit, Mr Inderjit Singh, is a holder
of a Bachelor’s Degree of Accounting (Honours) from
Multimedia University (MMU). He is a member of the
Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia (IIA). The Head of
Internal Audit has over 10 years of experience in various
finance functions including internal audit. The Head of
Internal Audit is currently supported by an Assistant
Manager Internal Audit and a Sustainability Control
Specialist.
The activities of the Internal Audit function are carried out
based on the Internal Audit Plan approved by the Committee
which is developed based on the risk profiles identified in
accordance with the Company’s Risk Management
Framework and in consultation with the Management
Team. The Committee reviews the extent of the audit
scope and coverage of the Internal Audit activities; and the
adequacy and competency and the internal audit resources
to support the completion of the plan. At the quarterly
Committee meetings, the Head of Internal Audit reports to
the Committee on the progress of Internal Audit activities
and the resource requirements, including interim changes
and the impact of resource limitations. The report to the
Committee also covers significant risk and control issues,
including fraud risks, governance issues and other matters
that require the Committee’s attention.
In carrying out the audit activities, the Internal Audit
function has adopted the International Standards for the
Professional Practice of Internal Auditing (IIA Standards)
issued by the International Internal Audit Standards Board.
The internal audit staff adhere to the Code of Ethics
adopted by the IIA which sets out, among others, the
principles relevant to the profession and practice of
internal auditing and the rules of conduct expected of
internal auditors.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
160
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
During the financial year, the Internal Auditors undertook
the following activities:
The Internal Audit function also works collaboratively with
the Global Risk and Internal Controls team to review the
risk management process of the Group as a whole. The
total costs incurred by the Internal Audit function in
discharging its functions and responsibilities for FY2024
amounted to RM695,772.37. The costs incurred comprised
mostly of salaries and departmental overheads.
The ARC had evaluated the performance of the Internal
Audit function for FY2024 and was satisfied with the
overall performance of the function as it had been effective
in performing its duties. The Internal Audit function also
provided value added recommendations to the organisation,
strengthening its internal controls, improving efficiency of
processes whilst enabling cost savings, and was able to
function independently.
Further details of the activities of the Internal Audit and
Internal Control Department are set out in the Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control of this Annual
Report.
F. ANNUAL REVIEW AND
PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
An annual performance evaluation was carried out on the
Committee in an effort to enhance and improve its
processes of the control environment.
The Committee’s responsibility is to monitor and review the
practices and processes performed by Management and
the External Auditors. It is not the Committee’s duty or
responsibility to conduct auditing or accounting reviews.
The Committee members are not employees of the
Company. Therefore, the Committee has relied, without
independent verification, on Management’s representation
that the financial statements have been prepared with
integrity and objectivity, in conformity with approved
accounting principles and standards generally accepted in
Malaysia and on the representations of the External
Auditors included in its reports on the Company’s financial
statements and internal control over financial reporting.
Prepared the internal audit plan for the year,
which is reviewed and approved annually by
the Committee, and updated where necessary
by the Committee;
Followed up on all the action plans agreed
from the previous internal audit reports to
ensure that all matters arising are adequately
addressed by the Management; and
Prepared the internal audit programme based
on the internal audit plan, for each activity or
process to be audited;
Attended both internal and external training
primarily focused on EESG reporting
standards and auditing methodology.
Discussed with auditees, process owners and
Management the findings of the audit for
each activity or process. Root cause analysis
will be assessed before any recommendations
are made to mitigate identified risks or
improve control workflows;
Carried out a review on the EESG
common material matters;
Reported to the Committee on a quarterly
basis, the results from the internal audit
and governance issues identified together
with Management Team’s response and
action plans;
a
b
c
d
e
f
g
Section
161
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Responsibility and Accountability
The Board is responsible and accountable for the Company’s
systems of risk management and internal control and for
reviewing the effectiveness, adequacy, and integrity of the
system. In this regard, the Board is assisted by the Audit
and Risk Committee (“ARC”) who is responsible for ensuring
that appropriate methods and procedures are adopted in
the risk management and internal control activities and to
obtain the level of assurance required by the Board.
The ARC assists the Board, in overseeing the following
operations and processes:-
The Board maintains full control over strategic, financial,
organisational and compliance matters and has put in place
an organisational structure with formal lines of responsibility
and delegation of authority. The board has received
assurance from the Managing Director and the Finance
Director via the bi-annual Management Statement process,
that the Company’s risk management and internal control
system is adequate and operating effectively, in all material
respect. The Board and the ARC have delegated to
Management the implementation of risk management
system and internal controls within an established
governance framework throughout the Company.
Risk Management Framework
The Company aims for transparency in identifying,
evaluating and mitigating risks by adopting the Enterprise
Risk Management (“ERM”) programme that was developed
and issued by Royal FrieslandCampina (“FC”) based on
internationally recognised COSO framework. This framework
describes the management’s risk appetite, structure,
responsibilities, processes and governance reporting
procedures. It has been developed to provide a reasonable
degree of certainty that strategic objectives are achieved
by creating focus, integrating control measures into the
Company’s activities, ensuring compliance with applicable
laws and regulations, and by safeguarding the reliability of
financial and non-financial reporting.
Integration of the Enterprise Risk Assessment (“ERA”)
practices throughout the organisation enables the Company
to accelerate its growth and enhance its performance. This
success is built upon by timely identifying, evaluating and
effectively mitigating risks that could prevent the
organisation from realising its strategic objectives.
In order to facilitate an effective risk management process,
a governance process has also been established. The
Three Lines Model is developed to ensure a structured
approach is used and clear roles and responsibility is
defined between the different roles.
The Board of Directors affirms its responsibility for maintaining a sound and effective system
of risk management and internal control and outlines the nature of risk management
procedures and internal control system within Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad for the
year under review.
1
3
2
4
Periodic reviews of the
business’s internal process
and operations as reported
by the Risk and Control
(“R&C”) and Internal Audit
(“IA”) team, including
action plans to address
the identified control
weaknesses and monitor
the implementation of its
recommendations, and
Review any key
findings highlighted
by the external
auditors on control
issues identified via
their audit–related
and non-audit-related
work and the scope
of their respective
reviews and findings.
Periodic reviews of
key business risks,
and control
measures to
mitigate or reduce
such risks;
Periodic reviews of
the strengths and
weaknesses of the
overall internal
controls system and
action plans to
address the risk of
the weaknesses or
key improvement
opportunities;
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
162
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Company’s risk management programme is led by the
Managing Director and supported by the Management
Team and Business Leaders from all functional units of the
Company.
The ERM framework focuses on the Company’s core
business operations and it allows the Company to:
• Establish clear functional responsibilities and
accountabilities within the Company’s structures for
management of risks;
• Enhance and improve corporate governance with a
clear, concise and comprehensive structure for the
Company;
• Promote an effective risk awareness where risk
management is an integral aspect of the Company’s
business plan and project portfolio; and
• Ensure appropriate skills and resources are applied to
risk management.
The Company stimulates a culture in which employee risk
awareness is continuously addressed through targeted
communication and periodic (mandatory) training, while
weak areas in its risk management programmes or control
measures can be transparently reported and effectively
dealt with, for example through the specific dashboards
and KPIs and the Company’s Speak-Up process.
In providing assurance to the Board of Directors on the
Company’s adequacy and effectiveness of risk management,
the R&C team coordinates a continuous risk dialogue
session with all the risk owners and functional heads.
These help the Company to:-
• Embed risk management in the mindset and behaviour of
employees
• Strengthen risk management capabilities and methods
• Continuously improve risk mitigation
• Unlock expertise/synergies to support business
• Keep things simple (speed, focus, pragmatism)
Governing bodies
Board/Audit committee
Management is responsible
for identifying and managing
risks on a day-to-day basis
and for maintaining a
system of effective internal
controls to mitigate these
risks.
Supports management in
building, maintaining and
monitoring an effective
internal governance structure
and acts as a 'legislator' in
setting the required
compliance levels, through
the ICF framework or
Corporate Manual within the
organisation.
Provides an independent
assessment of the design
and operating effectiveness
of internal controls, including
risk management activities
performed by functions in
both the first and second
lines of defense.
External assurance provider
Focus on the financial statements
MANAGEMENT
First line
Management
Second line
Legal, Quality, Risk & Control
Third line
Internal audit
Focus on business processes
The above is supported by assurance activities conducted by the external auditors, who are responsible for evaluating
and providing independent and reasonable assurance on the organisation’s financial reports
Section
163
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
The Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) Process
The ERM process involves a systematic application of the
risk management methodology to facilitate risk identification,
assessment, reporting as well as monitoring and review as
described below;
Risk Identification & Assessment
The ERM process begins with the business strategies and
objectives setting which is aligned to the Company’s vision
and mission. Subsequently, risks arising from the business
strategies and objectives to be pursued are identified.
The risks identified are assessed as part of the Risk
Assessment Criteria and categorised based on the level of
probability and likelihood to reflect the risk appetite
approved by the Board.
The outcome of the risk assessment process at respective
functional levels will then be consolidated at the Company
level. Deliberations and discussions are held with the
Management Team and Business Leaders. In 2024, the
Company, via the Group Enterprise Governance, Risk and
Compliance (“EGRC”) team, reviewed key risk areas,
conducted an overview of risk assessments, and updated
the Company's risk profiles. A Fraud Risk Assessment was
not conducted in FY24, as the action plans developed from
the FY23 assessment remain relevant and applicable.
Risk Reporting & Review
Risk appetite sets out the nature and extent of risks that the Company is willing to accept or retain in pursuit of its goals
and objectives.
Acceptance criteria
Balanced
The Company is prepared to accept
a moderate risk level, as long as
the strategic long-term goals are
not jeopardised as a result.
Low to none
The Company accepts minor risks
of reputation provided this does not
adversely affect consumers,
customers and member farmers.
None
The Company maintains the highest
food quality and food safety
standards with zero tolerance to
the risk. Consumers' health must
not be endangered under any
circumstances.
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT
Mission,
Vision, &
Core Values
Strategy
Development
Enhanced
Value
Implementation
& Performance
Business
Objective
Formulation
Governance
& Culture
Strategy &
Objective-Setting
Performance
Review &
Revision
Information,
Communication,
& Reporting
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
164
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Company’s general risk appetite depends on the risk categories, and is set out in the table below.
Risk Category and Risk Appetite
Risk Category General Risk Appetite
Strategic The Company is prepared to take a certain degree of calculated risks relating to the realisation
of its performance objectives and long-term goals.
Operational The Company attempts to minimise the impact of unforeseen disruption on its operating
activities.
Financial The Company has a conservative and sound framework of financial policies and procedures
to prevent risks that could have a significant impact on the financial results and material
misstatements in its financial statements reporting.
Compliance The Company applies a zero-tolerance policy.
Quarterly, the risk profiles are updated by the Management Team and Business Leaders The updated risk profiles are
then tabulated into a heat map, which sets out the priority and focus for risk mitigation strategies based on risk ratings
at net levels. The net risk level is determined after taking into consideration the effectiveness of existing controls and
risk mitigation plans. This exercise is facilitated by R&C team and is part of the continuous risk dialogue session.
Light Touch ERA planning and Quarterly Continuous Risk
Updates.
The finalised risk profiles and heat maps are identified and
promptly brought to the attention of the ARC.
Internal Control Structure and Processes
The system of internal controls is designed to safeguard
the assets of the Company, to ensure the maintenance of
proper accounting records and to provide reliable financial
and non-financial information for use within the business
and for publication. However, these controls provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
error, misstatement, loss or breach of set regulations.
The principal features of the Company’s internal control
structure are summarised as follows:
• Board Committees
The functions and responsibilities of the various committees
of the Board of Directors are defined in the terms of
reference. These include the Audit & Risk Committee and
the Nominating and Remuneration Committee.
As part of the Risk Management Framework, and in line
with the MCCG, the Board has an organisational structure
with clearly defined lines of accountability and
responsibilities and delegated authority to the Board
Committees and the Management to ensure they discharge
their duties. Matters concerning risk management and
internal controls are under the purview of the ARC which
is chaired by the ARC Chairperson.
Statement of
Risk
Management
& Internal
Control
(SORMIC)
Risk Review
& Heat Map
Presented
Risk
Review &
Heat Map
Presented
Risk Review
& Heat Map
Presented
Risk
Review &
Heat Map
Presented
A&RC A&RC A&RC A&RC
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
Quarterly continuous dialogues on risks
Jan Jan
Feb Feb
Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sept Oct Nov Dec
Light
Touch
ERA Plan
Section
165
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
• Organisational Structure and Responsibility
Levels
The Company has an organisational structure with formal
lines of responsibility and authorisation procedures within
which senior management operates with clear defined
accountability.
• Authority Levels, Acquisitions and Disposals
There are authorisation procedures and delegated authority
levels for major tenders, major capital expenditure projects,
acquisitions and disposal of businesses and other significant
transactions.
Investment decisions are made in accordance with authority
limits which include approval from Board. Appraisal and
monitoring procedures are applied to all major investment
decisions, and at times external consultants are used for
advisory services.
Board of Directors’ approval is required for key treasury
matters including equity and loan financing, material
acquisitions and disposals of assets not in the ordinary
course of business, investment in capital projects, cheque
signatories, and the opening of bank accounts.
On top of this, the FrieslandCampina Corporate Manual
includes the procedures and guidelines in which
responsibilities and authorisations are stipulated and are
applicable for the day-to-day management of the Company.
• Procedure and Control Environment
In addition to internal controls, the Directors have ensured
that health and safety regulations, environmental controls
and economic risks have been considered, and relevant
laws and regulations complied with. The quality of the
Company’s products is paramount. Quality Assurance,
Quality Control and meeting customers’ requirements are
prime considerations, and these are achieved by the
Company being FSSC 22000 certified. Ultimately, the
Company aims to deliver safe food to consumers, whilst
demonstrating compliance with the prevailing laws and
regulations.
In addition, strong emphasis is also given to food safety
with Good Manufacturing Practices and Hazard Analysis
and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”) System that cover all
plants.
The Company has in place the ISO 14001 Environment
Management System (EMS), a systematic management
approach to the environmental concerns of the Company,
and ISO 45001, the Occupational Health and Safety
Management System (OSHMS) for the protection of
employees from hazards and the mitigation of work-related
injuries and health-related issues.
The Company has formal guidelines on safety, health and
environment which apply to all employees and third-party
contractors.
The integrity and competence of personnel are continuously
assessed through the Performance Management System,
talent assessment programme, management organisation
development and Hay Reward Management System.
• Standards of Business Ethics
Employees are contractually bound to observe prescribed
standards of business ethics when conducting themselves
at work and in their relationship with external parties, such
as customers and suppliers.
The Company's code for good business conduct, Compass,
is pivotal in managing compliance risk by fostering honest,
respectful, and transparent business conduct among
employees and third parties. It encompasses guidelines like
the Speak-Up Procedure, Fair Competition Policy, and Doing
Honest Business Policy. These standards are disseminated
to all employees through a robust communication and
training programme via an internal learning platform.
Moreover, the appointment of local trusted representatives
across various departments provides an alternative platform
for employees to raise concerns effectively.
Compass is supported globally by FC Corporate Headquarters
with an established Integrity Committee and a reporting
platform (Speak-Up) that is available to employees 24 hours
a day, seven days a week so they can, in confidence,
express their concerns regarding a suspected infringement
of the code or a guideline.
In line with this, the Company has an Employee Handbook
that guides the Company’s employees in their day-to-day
conduct. Employees are expected to conduct themselves
with integrity and objectivity and not be placed in a position
of conflict of interest.
Suppliers are also bound by the “FC Business Practices for
Suppliers” to ensure honest conduct of business is being
practiced within the Company’s business operations.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
166
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
• Formalised Strategic Planning and
Operating Plan Processes
The Strategic Planning process is led by Royal
FrieslandCampina (“FC”) and is focused on the long-term
strategic direction of the Company, prioritising future
investments and resources. The Company performs
business planning and budgeting process each year, to
establish plans and targets against which performance is
monitored on a monthly basis by Management.
The annual planning process involves respective functions
preparing and reviewing their strategies and activity plans
including budgets before a new financial year commences.
The annual plan which embeds the budget is reviewed by
the Management Team and approved by the Board and the
Business Group. Monthly review of performance and
expenditure versus the plan is carried out by the Management
Team to ensure effectiveness of execution and spends are
managed in line with the strategic and financial objectives
of the organisation. Performance gaps or key variances, if
any, are followed up and addressed by respective functions.
The Company formulated a Sales & Operations Planning
process to align product demand and supply together with
financial resources in order to provide the Company with
defined business strategies and priorities. In addition, the
process also aims to continuously improve business
performance, improving customer service levels, forecasting
accuracy and inventory turnover management.
• Reporting and Review
The Company’s Management Team meets on a monthly basis
to review business performance, identify, discuss and resolve
operational, financial and key management issues. This is then
followed by monthly Business Performance Tracker (“BPT”)
process where key KPIs of the organisation are tracked and
reviewed with the Leadership Team of the Company. Last but
not least on a quarterly basis results are communicated to
employees at the Company’s town hall sessions.
The Managing Director reports on a quarterly basis to the
Audit & Risk Committee and the Board of Directors on
significant changes in the business and external environment
in which the Company operates including its key business
performance.
On behalf of the Management Team, the Managing
Director and the Finance Director sign off on a bi-annual
Management Statement to the Business Group as well as
the Audit & Risk Committee. By signing off on the
Management Statement, it demonstrates the management’s
accountability over financial and non-financial reporting
disclosures including;
a) adequacy of the Internal Control Framework (“ICF”)
b) responsibility for proper Segregation of Duty (“SOD”)
c) sustainability-related controls and
d) ensuring full and transparent disclosure is made on
any fraud and non-compliance with laws and
regulations.
• Financial Performance
The preparation of quarterly and full-year financial results
and the state of affairs, as published to shareholders, are
reviewed by the Audit & Risk Committee and later approved
by the Board.
• Assurance Compliance
The Board, Audit & Risk Committee and Management
review the Internal Control and Internal Audit reports on a
quarterly basis and monitor the status of implementation
of corrective actions that are prepared by the R&C and
Internal Audit team to address internal control weaknesses.
• Employee Competency and Awareness
On an annual basis, all employees are required to complete
the following online courses as part of the Company’s
efforts to drive awareness and assess their understanding
of the respective codes and the underlying principles, the
results from the online courses assessment are closely
monitored by the HR team.
Compass
Human Rights
Anti-Bribery
Safety at Work
Cyber-Security Awareness
Fraud Awareness
Silver & Golden Purchasing Rules
Responsible Marketing Code
(selected employees)
Section
167
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Training and development programmes such as health and
safety, psychological safety at work, technical knowledge
training, coaching and leadership capability building are
organised for employees to ensure that they are equipped
with necessary knowledge/skills and kept up to date with
the necessary competencies to carry out their responsibilities
towards achieving the Company’s objectives. The Company
leverages on FC’s integrated learning platform for employees
to access a vast selection of courses ranging from cross
functional business skills and digital trends to self-
development.
The Company relies on the IT systems to support its
operations via data, analysis and reports essential for
business decision making. As part of the measures to raise
awareness on cyber security, mandatory trainings were
conducted for all employees through an online learning
platform. A simulated phishing email exercise was also
carried out during the year to enhance awareness on
phishing and its methods of attack.
• Internal Control Framework (ICF)
The Company has adopted FC’s Internal Control Framework
(ICF) compliance programme that emphasises on key
controls surrounding the financial reporting process, the
Company’s compliance with applicable laws and internal
policies, and the effectiveness of the internal processes.
In an effort to drive the importance and awareness of
internal controls, the R&C team continuously creates
awareness on the principles of Internal Control Framework
(ICF) within the Company.
On an annual basis, a Risk Based Control Allocation (“RBA”)
exercise is performed to ensure the right coverage of
controls being implemented and assessed within the
Company. Thereafter, the assessment cycle starts with a
Test of Design (“ToD”) exercise to evaluate the control
design effectiveness to mitigate the risk, followed by
continuous Test of Effectiveness (“ToE”) exercise to evaluate
the effectiveness of the control execution activity. The R&C
team coordinates these 3 exercises (RBA, ToD & ToE) which
is performed in sequence annually.
The R&C team discusses non-compliance areas, if any, and
control deficiencies with relevant process owners and
reports it via an internal monitoring tool whilst ensuring the
necessary remediation action plan is in place. Completed
action plans are then retested to ensure adequate
remediation is in place. Assessment results, deficiencies and
controls requiring improvement are regularly reported and
updated to the Audit & Risk Committee during their quarterly
meetings.
• Update on Developments
Quarterly reporting is made to the Board on legal,
regulatory, accounting, and sustainability developments
where applicable. Briefings are also conducted to keep
employees informed of changes to legislation or local by-
laws that are expected to affect the Company’s operations
or the way the Company conducts its business, where
relevant.
In 2024, the Company has also taken the opportunity to
update key policies and procedures relating to functions
of the business: Finance, Sales, Corporate Affairs & Legal.
To enhance institutional memory and ensure robust
retention of key documents and information, the Company
embarked on a Document Retention project. As part of this
initiative, critical documents within the Supply Chain team
were identified and archived systematically.
Additionally, the Company automated the Donation &
Sponsorship process to improve efficiency and governance.
A policy has been established to provide clear guidelines on
this matter, developed in alignment with the Corporate
function. These efforts reflect the Company's commitment
to maintaining transparency, compliance, and operational
excellence.
All localised policies and procedures are reviewed and
updated every 2 years by the business owners in consultation
with the IA team to gather inputs in areas concerning
internal controls and risks. The Company has also developed
a SharePoint site where all approved policies and procedures
are published, and all employees have been given access
to the site. Data privacy and cyber security trainings are
conducted for all employees to enhance their understanding
and compliance. Additionally, the Company validates the
effectiveness of these trainings and raises awareness
through regular phishing simulations, which help assess
employees' vigilance and reporting capabilities.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
168
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Internal Audit Function
The Internal Audit function is performed in-house with its
primary function to provide an independent and objective
assessment on the adequacy and effectiveness of the
governance, risk management and internal control
processes established by the Management and the Board.
The Internal Audit function has an independent reporting
line to the ARC and its performance is reviewed by the
ARC annually. It focuses on key areas of the business and
operations risk based on the audit plan approved annually
by the ARC. The audit plan is developed based on the risk
profiles identified in accordance with the Company’s Risk
Management Framework and in consultation with the
Management Team. Internal audit reports are presented
every quarter to the ARC.
• Summary of Work Performed by Internal Audit
During 2024, the Internal Audit function completed the
audit assignments as approved by the ARC. The audit
assignments were inclusive of special reviews and
investigative audits as requested by the Management.
The Internal Audit team highlights, to the ARC and
Management, areas for improvement and follows-up on the
progress of implementation of the agreed actions arising
from the internal audit report. The Management is responsible
for ensuring all agreed action plans are addressed within
the required timeframe.
The ARC in turn reviews the effectiveness of the system
of internal controls in operation and reports the results
thereon to the Board.
Adequacy and effectiveness of Risk
Management and Internal Control
System
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness, adequacy
and integrity of the system of risk management and
internal controls in operation during the financial year
through the monitoring process set out above.
There were no material losses incurred during the current
financial year as a result of weaknesses in internal control.
Management continues to take measures to strengthen the
control environment.
Taking into account the limitations that are inevitably
inherent in any risk management and internal control
system, and the possibilities for improving the system, the
Company’s risk management and internal control systems
provide a reasonable degree of assurance that:
This Statement is prepared in accordance with the Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control – Guidelines for
Directors of Listed Issuers (Guidelines) with an effective
date of 31 December 2012, in line with the Paragraph
15.26(b) of the Bursa Malaysia Listing Requirements and
Principle B of the Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance
2017 as issued by the Securities Commission Malaysia.
The Review of the Statement by External
Auditors
As required by Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements, the
external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control. Their limited assurance
review was performed in accordance with Audit and
Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3, issued by the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”).
AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to form an
opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk
management and internal control systems of the Company.
The statement was approved by the Board on the 20th
February 2025.
The Board will be informed quarterly of
the degree to which the Company’s
strategic, operational, financial and
compliance objectives are being achieved;
1
The internal and external financial reporting do
not contain any material misstatement and that
the risk management and internal control
systems functioned effectively during 2024; and
2
The Company has complied with the relevant
legislation and regulations.
3
Section
169
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
The Directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended
31 December 2024.
DIRECTORS
The Directors in office during the financial year and during the period from the end of the financial year to the date of
the report are:
Saw Chooi Lee
Dato’ Dr Rosini binti Alias
Tengku Nurul Azian Tengku Shahriman
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar
Jean Serge Krol
Darren Kong Kam Seong
Ramjeet Kaur Virik A/P Bhagwan Singh
Corine Danielle Tap
In accordance with Article 105 of the Company’s Constitution, Saw Chooi Lee, Ramjeet Kaur Virik A/P Bhagwan Singh
and Corine Danielle Tap shall retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company and being
eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company manufactures and distributes a wide range of dairy products, such as specialised powders for infant and
growing up children, liquid milk in different packaging formats and yoghurts. The Company markets these products under
various brand names such as Dutch Lady, Dutch Baby, Frisolac, Friso Gold and Dutch Lady PureFarm. There has been
no significant change in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
RM’000
Net profit for the financial year 96,647
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year except as disclosed in the
financial statements.
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
There were no changes in the authorised, issued and paid-up capital of the Company during the financial year.
There were no debentures issued during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director has received or become entitled to receive a benefit (other than
the benefits for certain Directors shown under Directors’ Remuneration) by reason of a contract made by the Company
or by a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in
which the Director has a substantial financial interest.
Neither during nor at the end of the financial year was the Company a party to any arrangements whose object was to
enable the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any
other body corporate.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
170
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the financial year ended 31 December 2024
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES AND DEBENTURES
According to the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings required to be kept under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016,
none of the Directors who held office at the end of the financial year held any shares or debentures in the Company or
its holding company or subsidiaries of the holding company during the financial year except as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
As at
1.1.2024 Acquired Disposed
As at
31.12.2024
The Company
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar 2,000 – – 2,000
DIVIDENDS
Since the end of the previous financial year, the Company paid:
i) a first interim ordinary dividend of 25.00 sen per ordinary share, tax exempt under the single-tier tax system, totalling
RM16,000,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2024 on 20 June 2024; and
ii) a second interim ordinary dividend of 25.00 sen per ordinary share, tax exempt under the single-tier tax system,
totalling RM16,000,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2024 on 13 December 2024.
The Directors do not recommend any final dividend to be paid for the financial year ended 31 December 2024.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Directors’ remuneration for the financial year as set out in Note 16 to the financial statements are as follows:
RM’000
Fees 516
Remuneration 1,673
2,189
INSURANCE EFFECTED FOR DIRECTORS
During the financial year, the total cost of insurance effected for Directors of the Company is RM16,444 (2023:
RM19,359).
HOLDING COMPANIES
The immediate and ultimate holding companies are FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holding BV and Royal FrieslandCampina
NV respectively. Both companies are incorporated in the Netherlands.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
Section
171
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
(a) Before the financial statements of the Company were prepared, the Directors took reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
provision for doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that
adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets, which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including
the values of current assets as shown in the accounting records of the Company had been written down to an
amount which the current assets might be expected so to realise.
(b) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would render the amounts written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts
inadequate to any substantial extent; or
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Company
misleading; or
(iii) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of
the Company misleading or inappropriate.
(c) At the date of this report:
(i) there are no charges on the assets of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year which
secures the liabilities of any other person; and
(ii) there are no contingent liabilities in the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year.
(d) No contingent or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable within the period of twelve
months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the Directors, will or may affect the ability of the
Company to meet its obligations when they fall due.
(e) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report
or the financial statements of the Company which would render any amount stated in the respective financial
statements misleading.
(f) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) the results of the operations of the Company during the financial year were not substantially affected by any
item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature; and
(ii) there has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report any item,
transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the results of the operations
of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.
AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The auditors’ remuneration for the financial year amounted to RM127,227.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
172
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
For the financial year ended 31 December 2024
AUDITORS
The auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT (LLP0014401-LCA & AF 1146), have expressed their willingness to accept
re-appointment as auditors.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2025.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors:
Ramjeet Kaur Virik A/P Bhagwan Singh
Jean Serge Krol
20 February 2025
Section
173
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Note
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 3 620,135 503,206
Right-of-use assets 4 3,782 8,473
Intangible assets 5 25,032 27,492
Other receivables 6 2,029 1,987
Deferred tax assets 7 3,426 2,220
Total non-current assets 654,404 543,378
Inventories 8 236,756 241,098
Trade and other receivables 6 122,682 94,343
Prepayments 1,147 1,310
Cash and bank balances 9 47,796 66,152
Derivative financial assets 10 10,947 595
Total current assets 419,328 403,498
Total assets 1,073,732 946,876
Equity
Share capital 11 64,000 64,000
Retained earnings 437,892 373,245
Total equity 501,892 437,245
Liabilities
Lease liabilities 4 1,456 3,994
Provision 12 – 375
Borrowings 14 70,205 –
Total non-current liabilities 71,661 4,369
Trade and other payables 13 488,158 482,094
Provision 12 2,185 12,689
Current tax liabilities 6,239 1,123
Lease liabilities 4 2,538 6,961
Derivative financial liabilities 10 – 2,395
Borrowings 14 1,059 –
Total current liabilities 500,179 505,262
Total liabilities 571,840 509,631
Total equity and liabilities 1,073,732 946,876
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
174
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
As at 31 December 2024
Note
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Revenue from contracts with customers – sales of goods recognised point
in time 1,445,071 1,442,823
Cost of sales (957,142) (1,014,426)
Gross profit 487,929 428,397
Other income 7,347 18,620
Distribution expenses (197,385) (170,160)
Administrative expenses (38,442) (42,324)
Other expenses (128,055) (134,536)
Results from operating activities 131,394 99,997
Interest income 367 1,024
Finance costs (6,716) (4,528)
Profit before tax 15 125,045 96,493
Tax expense 17 (28,398) (24,099)
Net profit for the financial year/Total comprehensive income for the
financial year 96,647 72,394
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share (sen) 18 151.0 113.1
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Section
175
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS AND
OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
For the financial year ended 31 December 2024
Distributable
Note
Share
capital
RM’000
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
Equity
RM’000
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 64,000 373,245 437,245
Net profit/Total comprehensive income for the financial year – 96,647 96,647
Dividends to owners of the Company 19 – (32,000) (32,000)
At 31 December 2024 64,000 437,892 501,892
Note 11
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 64,000 332,851 396,851
Net profit/Total comprehensive income for the financial year – 72,394 72,394
Dividends to owners of the Company 19 – (32,000) (32,000)
At 31 December 2023 64,000 373,245 437,245
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
176
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
For the financial year ended 31 December 2024
Note
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash receipts from customers and other receivables 1,406,339 1,443,606
Cash paid to suppliers and employees (1,297,011) (1,215,808)
Cash generated from operations 109,328 227,798
Income tax paid (24,488) (21,191)
Net cash generated from operating activities 84,840 206,607
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 3(b) (128,089) (189,308)
Purchase of intangible assets 5(a) (4,326) (12,958)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment – 476
Interest received 367 1,024
Net cash used in investing activities (132,048) (200,766)
Cash flows from financing activities
Drawdown of revolving credit 14 73,470 –
Finance costs paid 14 (1,121) –
Interest paid (4,256) (4,041)
Dividends paid 19 (32,000) (32,000)
Payment for lease liabilities 4 (7,241) (8,589)
Net cash generated from/(used in) financing activities 28,852 (44,630)
Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (18,356) (38,789)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 66,152 104,941
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 9 47,796 66,152
Note to the statement of cash flows
The reconciliation of movement of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities is disclosed in Note 4 and Note 14.
Interest paid shown in cash flows from financing activities includes interest paid to a licensed financial institution to enable
certain trade customers to pay goods invoiced through a corporate purchasing card issued by the financial institution.
The accompanying notes form an integral part of the financial statements.
Section
177
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
For the financial year ended 31 December 2024
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is
listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The address of the principal place of business and
registered office of the Company is as follows:
Registered office
Level 5, Quill 9
No 112, Jalan Prof Khoo Kay Kim
46300 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan
Principal place of business
PT 1585, Persiaran Teknologi 6
Taman Teknologi 2 @ Enstek
71760 Bandar Enstek, Negeri Sembilan
The Company manufactures and distributes a wide range of dairy products, such as specialised powders for infant and
growing up children, liquid milk in different packaging formats and yoghurts. The Company markets these products under
various brand names such as Dutch Lady, Dutch Baby, Frisolac, Friso Gold and Dutch Lady PureFarm.
These financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 20 February 2025.
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION
(a) Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards (“MFRS”), International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia.
(i) Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations that are effective
The Company has applied the following standards and amendments for the first time for the financial year
beginning on 1 January 2024:
• Amendments to MFRS 101 ‘Classification of liabilities as current or non-current’ and ‘Non-current
Liabilities with Covenants’
• Amendments to MFRS 16 ‘Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback’
• Amendments to MFRS 107 and MFRS 7 ‘Supplier Finance Arrangements’
The adoption of Amendments to MFRS 107 and MFRS 7 ‘Supplier Finance Arrangements’ resulted in
changes in accounting policies.
The amendments require new disclosures about the supplier finance arrangements (‘SFA’) that enable the
users to understand the effects of SFA on the Company’s liabilities, cash flows and exposure to liquidity
risk.
As a result of adopting the amendments, the Company provided new disclosures for liabilities under SFAs
as well as the associated cash flows in Note 13.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
178
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(a) Statement of compliance (continued)
(i) Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations that are effective (continued)
Under the transitional provisions of the amendments, the Company is not required to disclose the following
information in the first year of adoption:
• comparative information for any reporting periods presented before the beginning of the annual reporting
period in which the Company first applies these amendments; and
• the information otherwise required by paragraph 44H(b)(ii)–(iii) of MFRS 107 as at the beginning of the
annual reporting period in which the Company first applies these amendments.
The adoption of other amendments listed above did not have any impact on the amounts recognised in
prior periods and are not expected to significantly affect the current or future periods. 
(ii) Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations that have been issued but not yet
effective:
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for the financial
year beginning after 1 January 2024. None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the financial
statements of the Company:
• MFRS 18 ‘Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements’ (effective 1 January 2027) replaces
MFRS 101 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’.
– The new MFRS introduces a new structure of profit or loss statement.
(a) Income and expenses are classified into 3 new main categories:
i. Operating category which typically includes results from the main business activities;
ii. Investing category that presents the results of investments in associates and joint ventures
and other assets that generate a return largely independently of other resources; and
iii. Financing category that presents income and expenses from financing liabilities.
(b) Entities are required to present two new specified subtotals: ‘Operating profit or loss’ and ‘Profit
or loss before financing and income taxes’.
– Management-defined performance measures are disclosed in a single note and reconciled to the
most similar specified subtotal in MFRS Accounting Standards.
– Changes to the guidance on aggregation and disaggregation which focus on grouping items based
on their shared characteristics.
Section
179
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(a) Statement of compliance (continued)
(ii) Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations that have been issued but not yet
effective: (continued)
• Management is currently assessing the detailed implications of applying MFRS 18 on the Company’s
financial statements. From the high-level preliminary assessment performed, the following potential
impacts have been identified:
– Although the adoption of MFRS 18 will have no impact on the Company’s net profit, the Company expects
that grouping items of income and expenses in the statement of profit or loss into the new categories will
impact how operating profit is calculated and reported. From the high-level impact assessment that the
Company has performed, the following items might potentially impact operating profit:
(a) Foreign exchange differences currently aggregated in ‘other income’ and ‘other expenses’ in
operating profit might need to be disaggregated with some foreign exchange gains or losses
presented below operating profit.
(b) MFRS 18 requires the derivative gains or losses to be classified in the same category as the
income and expenses affected by the risk that the derivative is used to manage. Although the
Company currently recognises some gains or losses in operating profit, there might be a change
to where these gains or losses are recognised, and the Company is currently evaluating the
need for change.
– The Company does not expect there to be a significant change in the information that is currently
disclosed in the notes because the requirement to disclose material information remains unchanged;
however, the way in which the information is grouped might change as a result of the aggregation/
disaggregation principles. In addition, there will be significant new disclosures required for:
(a) management-defined performance measures;
(b) a break-down of the nature of expenses for line items presented by function in the operating
category of the statement of profit or loss – this break-down is only required for certain nature
expenses; and
(c) for the first annual period of application of MFRS 18, a reconciliation for each line item in the
statement of profit or loss between the restated amounts presented by applying MFRS 18 and
the amounts previously presented applying MFRS 101.
MFRS 18 will be applied retrospectively.
• Amendments to MFRS 9 and MFRS 7 ‘Amendments to the Classification and Measurement of Financial
Instruments’ (effective 1 January 2026) have:
– require financial assets to be derecognised on the date the contractual rights to the cash flows expire
and financial liabilities to be derecognised when obligation under the contract is discharged (i.e. the
settlement date). In addition, there is an optional exception to derecognise financial liabilities before
the settlement date for settlement using electronic payment system if specified criteria are met;
– clarify and add further guidance for assessing whether a financial asset meets the solely payments
of principal and interest (SPPI) criterion;
– add new disclosures for certain instruments with contractual terms that can change cash flows (such
as some financial instruments with features linked to the achievement of environment, social and
governance targets); and
– update the disclosures for equity instruments designated at fair value through other comprehensive
income (FVOCI).
The amendments are in line with the Company’s current practices, where the financial assets are
derecognised on the date the contractual rights to the cash flows expire and financial liabilities are
derecognised when obligation under the contract is discharged (i.e. the settlement date). It is not expected
to have significant effect on the financial statements when the amendments become effective.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
180
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(a) Statement of compliance (continued)
(ii) Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations that have been issued but not yet
effective (continued):
The following amendments are not expected to have a significant impact on the financial statements of
the Company:
• Amendments to MFRS 121 ‘Lack of Exchangeability’
• MFRS 19 ‘Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures’
• Annual Improvements to MFRS Accounting Standards for enhanced consistency
(b) Basis of measurement
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by financial assets
and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or loss.
(c) Functional and presentation currency
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s functional currency.
All financial information is presented in RM and has been rounded to the nearest thousand, unless otherwise
stated.
(d) Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with MFRS requires management to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
There are no significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies
that have significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements, other than as disclosed in
Note 2(g)(iii).
Section
181
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
2. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these financial
statements, unless otherwise stated.
(a) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Recognition and measurement
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset, import duties and
any non-refundable purchase taxes and any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working
condition for its intended use, and the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site
on which they are located. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes the cost of materials and
direct labour.
Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of
that equipment.
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are
accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
The gain and loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined by comparing the
proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and is recognised net
within “other income” and “other expenses” respectively in profit or loss.
(ii) Subsequent costs
The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying
amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the component will
flow to the Company, and its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced
component is derecognised to profit or loss. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and
equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
(iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of individual
assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the remainder of that asset,
then that component is depreciated separately.
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each
component of an item of property, plant and equipment from the date that they are available for use.
Property, plant and equipment under construction are not depreciated until the assets are ready for their
intended use.
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows:
Description 2024 2023
Buildings 10 – 30 years 10 – 25 years
Plant and machinery 5 – 33 years 5 – 33 years
Furniture and equipment 5 – 15 years 5 – 10 years
Motor vehicles 5 years 5 years
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
182
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(a) Property, plant and equipment (continued)
(iii) Depreciation (continued)
During the financial year, the Company has revised the useful lives of its assets. Effective 1 September
2024, the revised useful lives apply to new assets acquired as part of the transition to the new facility in
Bandar Baru Enstek. Furthermore, the Company has reassessed the useful lives of plant and machinery as
well as furniture and equipment in its existing facilities to align with their estimated economic useful lives,
taking into account their transferability to the new facility.
As of 31 December 2024, the non-transferrable assets have been written-off.
During the financial year, the estimated total useful lives of certain items of plant and machinery, furniture
and equipment that were transferred to the new facilities were revised. The net effect of the changes in
the current financial year was a decrease in depreciation expense of RM710,351. Assuming that the assets
are held until the end of their estimated useful lives, depreciation in the future years in relation to these
assets will be decreased by the following amounts:
Year ending 31 December: RM’000
2025 1,586
2026 1,586
2027 1,557
2028 1,525
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period
and adjusted as appropriate.
(iv) Impairment
At the end of the reporting period, the Company assesses whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such indications exist, an analysis is performed to assess whether the carrying amount of the asset is
fully recoverable. A write down is made if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. See
accounting policy Note 2(c) on impairment of non-current assets.
(v) Change in useful life
The useful life and residual value of an item of property, plant and equipment is reviewed regularly and, if
expectations are significantly different from previous estimates, the depreciation charge for the current and
future periods should be adjusted. A change in the useful life or depreciation method is accounted for
prospectively as a change in accounting estimate.
(b) Leases – Accounting by lessee
Leases are recognised as right-of-use (“ROU”) asset and a corresponding liability at the date on which the
leased asset is available for use by the Company (i.e. the commencement date).
Contracts may contain both lease and non-lease components. The Company allocates the consideration in the
contract to the lease and non-lease components based on their relative stand-alone prices.
(i) Reassessment of lease liabilities
The Company is also exposed to potential future increases in variable lease payments that depend on an
index or rate, which are not included in the lease liability until they take effect. When adjustments to lease
payments based on an index or rate take effect, the lease liability is remeasured and adjusted against the
ROU assets.
Section
183
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
2. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Leases – Accounting by lessee (continued)
(ii) Sale and leaseback transactions (seller-lessee)
In a sale and leaseback transaction, the requirements of MFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’
are applied to ascertain whether the transfer of an asset to the buyer-lessor qualifies as a sale.
If the transfer of an asset does not satisfy the requirements of MFRS 15 to be accounted for as a sale of
the asset, the Company continues to recognise the asset. The consideration received for the transfer of
the asset is recognised as a financial liability in accordance with MFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’.
If the transfer of an asset is accounted for as a sale, the Company derecognises the underlying asset and
applies lessee accounting requirements to the sold asset if the Company leases it back from the buyer. A
right-of-use asset measured at the proportion of the previous carrying amount that relates to the right of
use retained is recognised and any gain or loss that relates to the rights transferred to the buyer-lessor
is recognised.
If the fair value of the consideration for the sale of an asset does not equal the fair value of the asset, or
if the payments for the lease are not at market rates, the Company makes the following adjustments to
measure the sale proceeds at fair value:
(a) any below-market terms shall be accounted for as a prepayment of lease payments; and
(b) any above-market terms shall be accounted for as additional financing provided by the buyer-lessor
to the seller-lessee.
(c) Impairment of non-current assets
The carrying amounts of non-current assets are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine
whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount
is estimated.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that
generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or
cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value
less costs of disposal. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present
value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and
the risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its related cash-generating unit exceeds
its estimated recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating
units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit (or
a group of cash-generating units) and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the cash-
generating unit (or a group of cash-generating units) on a pro rata basis.
Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at the end of each reporting period for any
indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a
change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was
recognised.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
184
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(c) Impairment of non-current assets (continued)
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been
recognised. Reversals of impairment losses are credited to profit or loss in the financial year in which the
reversals are recognised.
(d) Current and deferred income tax
Tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred income tax. The income tax expense or credit for
the period is the tax payable on the current period’s taxable income based on the applicable income tax rate
for each jurisdiction adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary
differences and to unused tax losses. Tax is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to
items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in
other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at
the end of the reporting period in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and
associates operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable
tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts
expected to be paid to the tax authorities. This liability is measured using the single best estimate of the most
likely outcome.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the amounts
attributed to assets and liabilities for tax purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred
tax is also not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than
a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by
the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or
the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against
which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilised.
In the current financial year, the Company decided to amend its accounting policy on the recognition of
investment tax allowance (“ITA”). Instead of recognising a deferred tax asset when the tax credit arises, the tax
benefit arising from ITA will only be recognised when the tax credit is utilised as a reduction of current tax.
There was no deferred tax assets recognised on the ITA under the previous policy as the Company did not
meet the conditions required to claim the ITA in the financial year 2023 and 2024. Hence, the change in
accounting policy does not affect the financial information for the current year or previous year.
The Company’s rationale for the change in accounting policy is to ensure the accurate timing of tax benefit
recognition, thereby preventing the premature recognition of tax benefits that may not be realised.
Deferred and income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset
current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate
to taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where
there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis. 
Section
185
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
2. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(e) Trade payables
Trade payables represent liabilities for goods or services provided to the Company prior to the end of financial
year which are unpaid. Trade payables are classified as current liabilities unless payment is not due within 12
months after the reporting period. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value net of transaction costs incurred, which include transfer
taxes and duties. Trade payables are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest
method.
The Company has implemented a supply chain financing programme aimed at optimising working capital
efficiency and enhancing relationships with key suppliers. Under this programme, the Company collaborates with
financial institutions to provide financing options to its suppliers, allowing them to receive early payment for
invoices at a discounted rate. This initiative facilitates improved cash flow management for suppliers while
extending payment terms for the Company.
The Company has not derecognised the trade payables that are part of the supplier finance arrangement
because neither a legal release was obtained nor the original liability was substantially modified on entering into
the arrangement. The arrangement does not significantly extend payment terms beyond the normal terms agreed
with other suppliers that are not participating. The Company does not incur any additional security towards the
bank on the amounts due to the suppliers.
Consequently, the Company presents the amounts factored to bank within trade payables because the nature
and function of the financial liability remain the same as those of other trade payables that are not part of the
arrangement. The cash flows associated with the arrangement are included within operating cash flows.
(f) Borrowings and borrowing costs
Borrowings are recognised initially at fair value, net of transaction costs incurred. Borrowings are subsequently
carried at amortised cost; any difference between the initial recognised amount and the redemption amount is
recognised in profit or loss over the period of the borrowings using the effective interest method.
Borrowings are derecognised from the statement of financial position when the obligation specified in the
contract is discharged, cancelled or expired. The difference between the carrying amount of a financial liability
that has been extinguished or transferred to another party and the consideration paid, including any non-cash
assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is recognised in profit or loss.
Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Company has an unconditional right to defer settlement
of the liability for at least 12 months after the end of the reporting period.
General and specific borrowing costs, directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of
qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of time to get ready for their
intended use or sale, are added to the cost of those assets, until such time as the assets are substantially
ready for their intended use or sale.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which they are incurred.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
186
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
2. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(g) Revenue from contracts with customers
(i) Goods sold
The Company manufactures and distributes a wide range of dairy products, such as specialised powders
for infant and growing up children, liquid milk in different packaging formats and yoghurts. Sales are
recognised when control of the products has transferred, being when the products are delivered to the
customer. Delivery occurs when the products have been shipped to the specific location, the risks of
obsolescence and loss have been transferred to the customer, and either the wholesaler has accepted the
products in accordance with the sales contract, the acceptance provisions have lapsed, or the Company
has objective evidence that all criteria for acceptance have been satisfied.
The dairy products are often sold with trade discounts and volume rebates based on aggregate sales.
Revenue from these sales is recognised based on the price specified in the contract, net of the estimated
trade discounts and volume rebates. Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the
discounts, using the expected value method, and revenue is only recognised to the extent that it is highly
probable that a significant reversal will not occur. No element of financing is deemed present as the sales
are made with a credit term ranging from 1 to 60 days, which is consistent with market practice.
A receivable is recognised when the goods are delivered as this is the point in time that the consideration
is unconditional because only the passage of time is required before the payment is due.
(ii) Accounting for refunds
The Company is obliged to refund the purchase price of the product sold in situations where the customer
has a contractual right to return the product within a given period. The Company recognised refund liability
for returns which was measured based on the sales consideration and the corresponding entry to revenue.
Under MFRS 15, a refund liability for the expected refunds to customers is recognised as an adjustment
to revenue and classified as part of the ‘trade and other payable’ balances.
(iii) Trade spend accruals
Trade spend accruals of RM112.5 million (2023: RM90.9 million), which consists primarily of conditional
rebates and promotional discounts, are based on agreed trading terms and promotional activities with trade
customers and distributors. Trade spend accruals are recognised under the terms of these agreements, to
reflect the expected rebates, promotional activities and historical experience based on estimated sales
volume. These accruals are reported within Trade and Other Payables (Note 13). The estimates for these
accruals are regularly reviewed by senior management of the Company.
A 5% (2023: 5%) increase in sales volume would have increase the trade spend accrual and decrease
post-tax profit by RM5.6 million (2023: RM4.5 million) and RM4.3 million (2023: RM3.5 million) respectively.
Section
187
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Freehold
land
RM’000
Buildings
RM’000
Plant and
machinery
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Furniture
and
equipment
RM’000
Capital
work-in
progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2023 60,311 3,773 189,065 170 50,574 221,102 524,995
Additions – – – – – 186,819 186,819
Written off – – (5,237) – (7,343) – (12,580)
Disposal – – (21,348) (4) (332) (6,893) (28,577)
Transfers – 380 1,135 – 929 (2,444) –
At 31 December 2023/
1 January 2024 60,311 4,153 163,615 166 43,828 398,584 670,657
Additions – – – – – 134,997 134,997
Reclassification – 12 (12) – – – –
Written off – – (114,926) – (25,521) – (140,447)
Transfers – 265,942 182,340 – 6,597 (454,879) –
Transfers from intangible
asset – – – – – 5,295 5,295
At 31 December 2024 60,311 270,107 231,017 166 24,904 83,997 670,502
Depreciation and
impairment loss
At 1 January 2023
Accumulated
depreciation – 3,750 126,956 170 40,597 – 171,473
Accumulated
impairment loss – – 2,427 – – 6,893 9,320
– 3,750 129,383 170 40,597 6,893 180,793
Depreciation for the year – 24 20,735 – 5,997 – 26,756
Impairment – – 177 – – – 177
Written off – – (5,046) – (7,216) – (12,262)
Disposal – – (20,784) (4) (332) (6,893) (28,013)
At 31 December 2023/
1 January 2024
Accumulated
depreciation – 3,774 124,465 166 39,046 – 167,451
Accumulated
impairment loss – – – – – – –
– 3,774 124,465 166 39,046 – 167,451
Depreciation for the year – 4,273 16,639 – 2,407 – 23,319
Written off – – (114,882) – (25,521) – (140,403)
At 31 December 2024
Accumulated
depreciation – 8,047 26,222 166 15,932 – 50,367
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2023 60,311 379 39,150 – 4,782 398,584 503,206
At 31 December 2024 60,311 262,060 204,795 – 8,972 83,997 620,135
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
188
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
(a) Included in property, plant and equipment of the Company are fully depreciated assets, which are still in use,
with an aggregate cost of approximately RM13,897,732 (2023: RM86,578,453).
(b) Payment for purchase of property, plant and equipment
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Additions during the year 134,997 186,819
Add:
Unpaid purchase as of prior year 67,135 69,624
Less:
Unpaid and included under accrued expenses (58,641) (46,086)
Unpaid and included under other payables (15,402) (21,049)
Payment during the year 128,089 189,308
Contractual commitments
Contractual commitments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment not yet recognised in the financial
statements amounted to RM62.5 million (2023: RM98.5 million).
4. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
The Company as a lessee
(i) Information about ROU assets, lease liabilities, expenses and cash flows related to leases:
ROU assets
Leasehold
land and
buildings
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Plant and
equipment
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2023 7,312 347 3,057 10,716
Additions 4,626 – 3,523 8,149
Derecognition (3,951) – (3,057) (7,008)
Modification 2,399 – – 2,399
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 10,386 347 3,523 14,256
Derecognition (5,659) (347) – (6,006)
At 31 December 2024 4,727 – 3,523 8,250
Accumulated depreciation charge
At 1 January 2023 4,692 197 2,781 7,670
Depreciation for the year 4,069 116 936 5,121
Derecognition (3,951) – (3,057) (7,008)
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 4,810 313 660 5,783
Depreciation for the year 3,776 34 881 4,691
Derecognition (5,659) (347) – (6,006)
At 31 December 2024 2,927 – 1,541 4,468
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2023 5,576 34 2,863 8,473
At 31 December 2024 1,800 – 1,982 3,782
Section
189
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
4. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
The Company as a lessee (continued)
(i) Information about ROU assets, lease liabilities, expenses and cash flows related to leases
(continued):
Lease liabilities
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Balance at 1 January 10,955 8,591
Additions – 8,067
Interest charged during the year 280 487
Repayment of lease liabilities (included in cash flows from financing
activities) (7,241) (8,589)
Modification – 2,399
3,994 10,955
Lease liabilities are presented in the statement of financial position as follows:
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Current liabilities 2,538 6,961
Non-current liabilities 1,456 3,994
3,994 10,955
Charged to statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income
Expenses related to leases are disclosed in Note 15.
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Lease payments not recognised as liabilities:
Expense related to low value leases 5,411 4,126
Expense related to short-term leases 605 277
Expense related to variable leases – 3
Non-lease components 493 525
(ii) The Company’s leasing activities and how these are accounted for
In 2021, the Company completed the disposal of its existing manufacturing land and buildings and subsequently
the land and buildings were leaseback and recorded as right-of-use assets. In the current financial year, the
lease expired on 30 September 2024 with further extension of one month to 31 October 2024.
The Company leases other offices, motor vehicles, plant and equipment, and office equipment. Rental contracts
are typically made for fixed periods of 2 to 4 years. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and
contain a wide range of different terms and conditions. The lease agreements do not impose any covenants,
but leased assets may not be used as security for borrowing purposes.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
190
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
4. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
The Company as a lessee (continued)
(iii) Variable lease payment
Variable lease payments relate to payments made for the lease of pallets which are based on the actual usage
of the pallets.
(iv) Extension and termination options
Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms and conditions.
Extension and termination options are included, when possible, to provide the Company with greater flexibility
to align its need for access to equipment with the fulfilment of customer contracts.
As of 31 December 2024, there is no potential future (undiscounted) cash outflows that have not been included
in lease liabilities.
5. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Computer
software
RM’000
Capital
work-in
progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Cost
At 31 January 2023 17,393 12,458 29,851
Additions – 14,583 14,583
Transfers 85 (85) –
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 17,478 26,956 44,434
Additions – 4,251 4,251
Written off (7,152) – (7,152)
Transfers 24,046 (24,046) -
Transfer to property, plant and equipment – (5,295) (5,295)
At 31 December 2024 34,372 1,866 36,238
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2023 16,670 – 16,670
Amortisation for the year 272 – 272
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 16,942 – 16,942
Amortisation for the year 1,416 – 1,416
Written off (7,152) – (7,152)
At 31 December 2024 11,206 – 11,206
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2023 536 26,956 27,492
At 31 December 2024 23,166 1,866 25,032
Section
191
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
5. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
(a) Payment for purchase of intangible assets
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Additions during the year 4,251 14,583
Add:
Unpaid purchase as of prior year 1,625 –
Less:
Unpaid and included under accrued expenses (1,270) (882)
Unpaid and included under other payables (280) (743)
Payment during the year 4,326 12,958
6. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Note
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Trade
Trade receivables 118,121 90,096
Less: Loss allowance 6.1 (173) (2,279)
Net trade receivables 117,948 87,817
Amounts owing by related companies 6.2 3,136 2,537
121,084 90,354
Non-trade
Other receivables 1,615 2,146
Deposits 2,012 3,830
3,627 5,976
124,711 96,330
Trade and other receivables is presented in the statement of financial position as follows:
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Current assets 122,682 94,343
Non-current assets 2,029 1,987
124,711 96,330
6.1 The movements in the loss allowance of trade receivables during the financial year are disclosed in Note 22.4.
6.2 The credit terms of amounts owing by related companies ranged from 0 to 30 days (2023: 0 to 30 days).
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
192
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
7. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Property, plant and equipment – – (29,068) (6,841) (29,068) (6,841)
Right-of-use assets – – (908) (2,034) (908) (2,034)
Inventories 2,721 635 – – 2,721 635
Receivables 42 558 – – 42 558
Payables 5,671 6,841 – – 5,671 6,841
Lease liabilities 959 2,629 – – 959 2,629
Derivatives – 432 (2,627) – (2,627) 432
Unutilised capital allowance 26,636 – – – 26,636 –
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 36,029 11,095 (32,603) (8,875) 3,426 2,220
Movement in temporary differences during the year
At
1.1.2023
RM’000
Recognised
in profit
or loss
RM’000
At
31.12.2023/
1.1.2024
RM’000
Recognised
in profit
or loss
RM’000
At
31.12.2024
RM’000
Property, plant and equipment (11,764) 4,923 (6,841) (22,227) (29,068)
Right-of-use assets (731) (1,303) (2,034) 1,126 (908)
Inventories 282 353 635 2,086 2,721
Receivables 28 530 558 (516) 42
Payables 6,646 195 6,841 (1,170) 5,671
Lease liabilities 2,062 567 2,629 (1,670) 959
Derivatives 1,155 (723) 432 (3,059) (2,627)
Unutilised capital allowance – – – 26,636 26,636
(2,322) 4,542 2,220 1,206 3,426
Note 17 Note 17
8. INVENTORIES
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Finished goods 116,966 166,013
Work-in-progress 6,785 1,528
Raw materials 85,219 56,829
Packaging materials 31,653 16,940
Spare parts 2,058 2,434
242,681 243,744
Provision for obsolescence of inventories (5,925) (2,646)
236,756 241,098
Section
193
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
9. CASH AND BANK BALANCES
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Cash and bank balances 47,796 66,152
Bank balances are held at call with licensed banks.
During the financial year, the Company placed deposits with a licensed bank have an average maturity period of
10 days (2023: 12 days) with weighted average interest rate of 1.88% (2023: 2.08%) per annum.
10. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSET/(LIABILITIES)
2024 2023
Nominal
value
RM’000
Assets
RM’000
Liabilities
RM’000
Nominal
value
RM’000
Assets
RM’000
Liabilities
RM’000
Derivatives held for trading at
fair value through profit or
loss
– Forward exchange
contracts 218,037 10,947 – 184,765 595 (2,395)
Forward exchange contracts are used to manage the foreign currency exposures arising from the Company’s
payables and borrowings denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company. All the
forward exchange contracts have maturities of less than one year after the end of the reporting period.
11. SHARE CAPITAL
Amount
2024
RM’000
Number
of shares
2024
’000
Amount
2023
RM’000
Number
of shares
2023
’000
Issued and fully paid:
Ordinary shares with no par value 64,000 64,000 64,000 64,000
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are entitled to
one vote per share at meetings of the Company and rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
194
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
12. PROVISION
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Employees’ pension contribution
At 1 January 214 164
Addition during the year 40 50
At 31 December 254 214
Restructuring provision
At 1 January 12,850 17,747
Addition during the year 524 4,523
Reversal during the year (2,499) (3,263)
Utilisation during the year (8,944) (6,157)
At 31 December 1,931 12,850
Provision is presented in the statement of financial position as follows:
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Current liabilities 2,185 12,689
Non-current liabilities – 375
2,185 13,064
Employees’ pension contribution
Provision for employees’ pension contribution reflects provisions made for additional contributions to be made to
the statutory Employees Provident Fund that would vest upon unionised staff having completed five years of service.
The provision has been made on the assumption that all relevant staff will complete their five year term and that
therefore their benefits will vest in its entirety.
Restructuring provision
In the prior financial year, the Company recognised a restructuring cost of RM12.9 million related to the
discontinuation of milk powder operations at the Petaling Jaya factory and the strategic shift to Ready-to-Drink
production at the new manufacturing facility in Bandar Enstek, as well as restructuring provision to optimise the
organisational structure. In the current financial year, RM8.9 million of the provision was utilised, and the restructuring
provision was partially reversed as the process has been largely settled, with most related payments completed and
some affected employees successfully redeployed within the Company. The remaining provision will be settled in
2025.
Section
195
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
13. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Note
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Trade
Amounts owing to related companies 13.1 73,527 100,035
Trade payables 13.2, 13.3, 13.4 157,527 125,129
Trade spend accrual 112,501 90,852
343,555 316,016
Non-trade
Amounts owing to related companies 13.1 325 11,360
Accrued expenses 111,577 116,810
Payroll liabilities 15,562 14,540
Other payables 13.3, 13.4 17,139 23,368
144,603 166,078
488,158 482,094
13.1 The current trade and non-trade portion of amounts due to related companies are unsecured, interest free
and is subject to credit terms ranged from 0 to 30 days (2023: 0 to 30 days).
13.2 Included in trade payables is refund liability in respect of market returns of RM2.9 million (2023: RM2.6
million).
13.3 The credit term for trade and non-trade payables that are not part of supplier financing arrangement is ranged
from 0 to 120 days (2023: 0 to 120 days)
13.4 Included in trade and non-trade payables is an amount of RM52.0 million (2023: RM40.7 million) under a
supplier financing arrangement. Out of which, RM16.6 million have been paid by the financier. The credit
terms for trade and non-trade payables under supplier financing arrangement is ranged from 90 to 120 days.
14. BORROWINGS
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Non-current
Unsecured
Revolving credits 70,205 –
Current
Unsecured
Revolving credits 1,059 –
71,264 –
Total borrowings 71,264 –
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
196
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
14. BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)
Movements in the borrowings to the cash flow are as follows:
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
At 1 January – –
Drawdown of borrowings 73,470 –
Finance costs 2,180 –
Finance costs paid (1,121) –
Exchange differences (3,265) –
At 31 December 71,264 –
14.1 The Company has a total intercompany revolving credit facility of USD35 million (2023: USD26 million). The
facilities shall remain in force until expiration on March 2026 (2023: September 2024) and the outstanding
balances is payable before expiration.
14.2 The weighted average effective interest rates per annum at the end of the reporting period for revolving
credit is 5.52% (2023: Nil).
Section
197
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
15. PROFIT BEFORE TAX
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Profit before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Amortisation of intangible assets 1,416 272
Auditors’ remuneration:
- Statutory audit - current year 127 109
- Other services 24 48
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment* 23,319 26,756
Depreciation of ROU assets 4,691 5,121
Finance costs:
- Interest expense 4,256 4,041
- Finance charge arising from lease liabilities 280 487
- Finance charge arising from borrowings 2,180 –
Interest income (367) (1,024)
Inventories recognised as cost of sales 860,716 918,547
Property, plant and equipment:
- Loss on disposal – 88
- Written off 44 318
- Impairment – 177
Marketing expenses 151,360 123,684
Net gain on derivatives (12,747) (3,011)
Net loss/(gain) on foreign exchange:
- Realised 17,231 (6,568)
- Unrealised (1,864) (1,640)
Personnel expenses (including key management personnel):
- Wages, salaries and others 68,547 68,272
- Contributions to state plans 11,089 11,056
Provision for obsolescence of inventories 3,279 1,469
Rental in respect of (Note 4):
- Premises 590 317
- Equipment 5,901 4,506
- Vehicles 18 108
Provision for loss allowance of trade receivables 76 2,163
Restructuring provision (1,975) 1,260
* Included in the depreciation of property, plant and equipment is the accelerated depreciation of RM6.3 million (2023: RM15.2
million).
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
198
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
16. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COMPENSATION
The key management personnel compensations are as follows:
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Directors:
- Fees 516 515
- Remuneration 1,673 1,524
2,189 2,039
Other key management personnel:
- Wages, salaries and others 3,089 4,934
- Contributions to state plans 358 479
3,447 5,413
5,636 7,452
Directors’ remuneration includes salaries, allowance and all other Directors related expenses.
Other key management personnel comprise persons other than Directors of the Company, having authority and
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company either directly or indirectly.
17. TAX EXPENSE
Note
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Recognised in profit or loss
Current tax expense
- current year 28,189 28,316
- under provision in prior financial year 1,415 325
29,604 28,641
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 7 (1,206) (4,542)
Total income tax expense 28,398 24,099
Reconciliation of tax expense
Profit before tax 125,045 96,493
Income tax calculated using Malaysian tax rate of 24% (2023: 24%) 30,011 23,158
Non-deductible expenses 438 638
Income not subject to tax (3,682) (22)
Over provision in prior financial year 1,534 (1,136)
Prior year tax impact from Bilateral Advance Pricing Arrangement
(“BAPA”) 97 1,461
28,398 24,099
Section
199
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
18. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share was based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders
and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, calculated as follows:
2024 2023
Net profit for the financial year (RM’000) 96,647 72,394
Average number of ordinary shares in issue (’000) 64,000 64,000
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share (sen) 151.0 113.1
There are no potential dilutive ordinary shares in issue as at 31 December 2024 and 2023, and therefore, diluted
earnings per share equal basic earnings per share.
19. DIVIDENDS
Dividends paid by the Company:
Sen
per share
Total
amount
RM’000
Date of
payment
RM’000
2024
Single tier first interim 2024 ordinary 25.00 16,000 20.06.2024
Single tier second interim 2024 ordinary 25.00 16,000 13.12.2024
Total amount 32,000
2023
Single tier first interim 2023 ordinary 25.00 16,000 22.06.2023
Single tier second interim 2023 ordinary 25.00 16,000 13.12.2023
Total amount 32,000
20. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Company operates principally in Malaysia and in one major business segment being manufacturing and
distribution of a wide range of dairy products. The Company’s Board of Directors (the chief operating decision maker)
reviews internal management reports in respect of this segment at least on a quarterly basis.
Accordingly, no segment information is provided as the financial position and performance are as already shown in
the Statement of Financial Position and Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income.
At the end of the financial year, there were no significant concentrations of revenue other than three major customers
with net revenues of approximately RM593.0 million (2023: three major customers with net revenues of approximately
RM606.1 million). These customers contribute to approximately 41% (2023: 42%) of the net revenues in the financial
statements or 21%, 10% and 10% respectively (2023: 20%, 11% and 11% respectively).
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
200
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
21. RELATED PARTIES
Identity of related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Company if the Company
has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control or jointly control the party or exercise significant influence over the
party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Company and the party are subject
to common control. Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
Related parties also include key management personnel defined as those persons having authority and responsibility
for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company either directly or indirectly. Key management
personnel include all the Directors of the Company, and certain members of senior management of the Company.
The key management personnel compensation are shown in Note 16.
The immediate and ultimate holding companies are FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holding BV and Royal
FrieslandCampina NV respectively. Both companies are incorporated in the Netherlands.
Related party transactions and balances
The significant related party transactions of the Company are shown below. The balances related to the below
transactions are shown in Note 6, Note 13 and Note 14.
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Management fee paid to fellow subsidiary
- Koninklijke FrieslandCampina NV (Comp) (148) (148)
Purchases of fully packed dairy products and raw materials from fellow
subsidiaries
- FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V. (198,938) (257,980)
- P.T. Frisian Flag Indonesia (311,399) (237,929)
- FrieslandCampina Domo B.V. (93,237) (107,425)
- FrieslandCampina Thailand (10,444) (3,522)
Sales of fully packed dairy products to fellow subsidiaries
- FrieslandCampina Domo B.V. 1,831 1,850
- FrieslandCampina (Singapore) Pte Ltd – 408
- FrieslandCampina Amea Pte. Ltd – 2,616
Borrowings from fellow subsidiary
- Koninklijke FrieslandCampina NV (Comp) 73,470 –
Section
201
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
21. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)
Related party transactions and balances (continued)
The significant related party transactions of the Company are shown below. The balances related to the below
transactions are shown in Note 6, Note 13 and Note 14 (continued).
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Interest charged by fellow subsidiary
- Koninklijke FrieslandCampina NV (Comp) (2,180) –
Know-how, trademark license and management support fees paid to fellow
subsidiary
- FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V. (40,720) (42,010)
Information, communication and technology services paid to fellow subsidiary
- FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V. (17,853) (16,363)
Finance shared services paid to fellow subsidiary
- FrieslandCampina Service Centre Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd (2,762) (1,914)
Shared services fee received from fellow subsidiary
- FrieslandCampina Service Centre Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd 290 231
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
22.1 Categories of financial instruments
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows:
(a) Amortised costs (“AC”); and
(b) Fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”):
Carrying
amount
2024
RM’000
AC
2024
RM’000
FVTPL
2024
RM’000
Carrying
amount
2023
RM’000
AC
2023
RM’000
FVTPL
2023
RM’000
Financial assets
Trade and other
receivables 124,711 124,711 – 96,330 96,330 –
Derivative financial
assets 10,947 – 10,947 595 – 595
Cash and bank
balances 47,796 47,796 – 66,152 66,152 –
183,454 172,507 10,947 163,077 162,482 595
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
202
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.1 Categories of financial instruments (continued)
Carrying
amount
2024
RM’000
AC
2024
RM’000
FVTPL
2024
RM’000
Carrying
amount
2023
RM’000
AC
2023
RM’000
FVTPL
2023
RM’000
Financial liabilities
Trade and other
payables (485,229) (485,229) – (479,524) (479,524) –
Derivative financial
liabilities – – – (2,395) – (2,395)
Borrowings (71,264) (71,264) – – – –
(556,493) (556,493) – (481,919) (479,524) (2,395)
22.2 Net gains and losses arising from financial instruments
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Net gains/(losses) from:
Fair value through profit or loss 12,747 3,011
Financial assets measured at amortised costs (2,117) (4,239)
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (19,676) 6,750
(9,046) 5,522
22.3 Financial risk management
The Company has exposure to the following risks relating to financial instruments:
• Credit risk
• Funding and liquidity risk
• Market risk
22.4 Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument
fails to meet its contractual obligations. The Company has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy
customers, based on evaluation of the customers’ financial condition and credit history, as a means of
mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally
from its receivables from customers and related companies and deposits placed with licensed banks.
Section
203
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
The Company performs credit evaluations on customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
The Company has entered into an arrangement with a licensed financial institution to enable certain trade
customers to pay goods invoiced through a corporate purchasing card issued by the financial institution. This
has resulted in the financial institution assuming the debts to the Company and credit risk is effectively
transferred to the financial institution.
A significant portion of these trade receivables are regular customers that have been transacting with the
Company. The Company uses ageing analysis to monitor the credit quality of the trade receivables. Any trade
receivables having significant balances past due more than 60 days which are deemed to have higher credit
risk, are monitored individually.
The Company’s approach to the expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of sales over a period
of 60 months before reporting date and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced within this
period. The historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect current and forward-looking information on
macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of the customers to settle the receivables. The Company has
identified the GDP and retail volume growth to be the most relevant factors.
The expected loss rate is depicted in the table below:
Age profile Not past due
Past due
1-7 days
Past due
7-14 days
Past due
14-30 days
Past due
31-90 days
Past due
more than
90 days
% 0.01 0.10 1.00 1.50 2.5 10.00
No significant changes to estimation techniques or assumptions were made during the reporting period.
Changes to loss allowance
The movements in the loss allowance of trade receivables during the financial year were:
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
At 1 January 2,279 116
Bad debt written off (2,182) –
Increase in loss allowance recognised in profit and loss during the
financial year 76 2,163
At 31 December 173 2,279
There were no significant changes to the gross carrying amount that contributed to changes in loss
allowances. The allowance account in respect of trade receivables is used to record expected credit losses
and individual impairment losses. Unless the Company is satisfied that recovery of the amount is possible,
the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the trade receivable directly.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
204
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from trade receivables is
represented by the gross carrying amounts in the statement of financial position. The following table contains
an analysis of the credit risks exposure for which expected credit loss is recognised:
Gross
RM’000
Individual
impairment
RM’000
Expected
credit loss
RM’000
Net
RM’000
2024
Not past due 86,206 – (6) 86,200
Past due 1 – 7 days 16,581 – (5) 16,576
Past due 7 – 14 days 7,391 – (18) 7,373
Past due 14 – 30 days 5,180 – (52) 5,128
Past due 31 – 90 days 2,180 – (19) 2,161
Past due over 90 days 583 – (73) 510
118,121 – (173) 117,948
2023
Not past due 75,619 – (6) 75,613
Past due 1 – 7 days 4,869 – – 4,869
Past due 7 – 14 days 3,525 – (15) 3,510
Past due 14 – 30 days 1,127 – (2) 1,125
Past due 31 – 90 days 2,411 – (27) 2,384
Past due over 90 days 2,545 (2,204) (25) 316
90,096 (2,204) (75) 87,817
The individually impaired receivables relate to customers who are under ongoing litigation.
Other receivables and deposits
Credit risk on other receivables and deposits are mainly arising from deposits paid to suppliers. The Company
monitors the exposure to credit risk on individual basis. Other receivables and deposits are written off when
there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators that there is no reasonable expectation of recovery
include amongst others, the failure of a debtor to engage in repayment plan with the Company, and a failure
to make contractual payments or refund. Nevertheless, other receivables and deposits that are written off
could still be subject to enforcement activities.
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the statement of financial position.
Section
205
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.4 Credit risk (continued)
Related company balances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company undertakes trade and non-trade transactions with a number of related companies. The Company
monitors the repayment from its related companies on a regular basis.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the statement of financial position. The Company regularly follows up on timely settlement of the
amount owing by related companies. The related companies are not required to place any collateral with the
Company.
As at the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the amounts owing by related companies
are not recoverable as substantially all of these amounts are aged less than a year.
Deposits placed with licensed banks
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Credit risk arises from deposits with licensed banks and financial institutions. The deposits are placed with
credit-worthy financial institutions with high credit rating. The Company considers the risk of material loss in
the event of non-performance by a financial counterparty to be unlikely.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the Company has only placed deposits with domestic licensed banks.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts in the statement of financial
position.
As deposits are only placed with licensed banks, management does not expect the banks to fail to meet
their obligations.
The deposits placed with licensed banks are unsecured.
22.5 Funding and liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises principally from its borrowings and various payables.
The Company maintains a level of cash and cash equivalents including intercompany loan and bank facilities
deemed adequate by the management to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to
meet its liabilities when they fall due.
In the current financial year, the Company is in a net current liabilities position of RM80.9 million in which
the Company has reassessed the cash flow and funding requirements for the upcoming 12 months. This
reassessment ensures the Company’s capability to fulfil financial obligations and utilise available facilities
efficiently. The Company is employing cash generated from its operations and working capital to fund the
property, plant & equipment investments into the new production facility at Bandar Enstek. Should there be
any short-term shortfall in working capital, the Company has sufficient committed undrawn overdraft facilities
and an intercompany credit facility that can be utilised.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
206
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.5 Funding and liquidity risk (continued)
The Company has an intercompany credit facility of USD35 million (approximately RM157.5 million) as part
of its financial infrastructure to obtain loans internally when the need arises. The intercompany revolving
credit facility expires March 2026. The purpose of these arrangements is to ensure that, when necessary,
the Company can access funds from other entities within its corporate structure, fostering financial stability
and strategic resource allocation.
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Undrawn committed credit facilities
Expiring within one year 26,871 122,200
Expiring beyond one year 84,526 19,200
111,397 141,400
It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis below could occur significantly earlier,
or at significantly different amounts.
Maturity analysis
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end of the
reporting period based on the undiscounted contractual payments:
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Contractual
interest
rate/coupon
RM’000
Contractual
cash flows
RM’000
Under
1 year
RM’000
Over 1 year
but not later
than 5 years
RM’000
2024
Non-derivative financial
liabilities
Trade and other payables 485,229 – 485,229 485,229 –
Lease liabilities 3,994 379 4,373 2,662 1,711
Borrowings 71,264 5,126 76,390 5,172 71,218
560,487 5,505 565,992 493,063 72,929
2023
Non-derivative financial
liabilities
Trade and other payables 479,524 – 479,524 479,524 –
Lease liabilities 10,955 1,171 12,126 7,752 4,374
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts 2,395 – 2,395 2,395 –
492,874 1,171 494,045 489,671 4,374
Section
207
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.6 Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and other
prices that will affect the Company’s financial position or cash flows.
22.6.1 Currency risk
The Company is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in
a currency other than the functional currency of the Company. The main currencies giving rise to
this risk are United States Dollar (“USD”) and Euro (“EUR”).
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its foreign currency risk. The forward
exchange contracts have maturities of less than one year after the end of the reporting period.
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Company’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the functional currency
of the Company) risk, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:
Denominated in
USD
RM’000
EUR
RM’000
2024
Amounts owing by related companies 187 372
Cash at bank 536 –
Trade payables (8,091) (10,888)
Amounts owing to related companies (52,764) (1,739)
Borrowings (71,264) –
(131,396) (12,255)
2023
Amounts owing by related companies 2,511 71
Cash at bank 5,764 –
Trade payables (10,330) (27,908)
Amounts owing to related companies (98,924) (6,613)
(100,979) (34,450)
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
208
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.6 Market risk (continued)
22.6.1 Currency risk (continued)
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
A 10% (2023: 10%) strengthening of RM against the following currencies at the end of the reporting
period would have increased equity and post-tax profit by the amounts shown below. This analysis
is based on foreign currency exchange rate variances that the Company considered to be reasonably
possible at the end of the reporting period. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular
interest rates, remained constant and ignores any impact of forecasted sales and purchases.
Increase/(Decrease)
Equity Profit
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
USD 9,986 7,674 9,986 7,674
EUR 931 2,618 931 2,618
A 10% (2023: 10%) weakening of RM against the above currencies at the end of the reporting period
would have had equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on
the basis that all other variables remained constant. The movements in other currency exchange
rates are not expected to have any significant effect on the profit or loss.
22.6.2 Interest rate risk
The Company does not have fixed rate borrowings. The Company’s variable rate borrowings are
primarily its overdraft facility and revolving credit which are exposed to a risk of change in cash
flows due to fluctuation in market interest rate. The Company places short term deposits with licensed
banks which are not significantly exposed to risk of changes in interest rates. Short term receivables
and payables are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk.
A change of 25 basis point in interest rate at the end of the reporting period would have decreased
equity and post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other
variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remain constant.
Increase/(Decrease)
Equity Profit
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
2024
RM’000
2023
RM’000
Increase in 25 basis points
in market interest rates (186) – (186) –
Decrease in 25 basis points
in market interest rates 186 – 186 –
Section
209
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.6 Market risk (continued)
22.6.3 Other price risk
Other price risk refers to the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument
will fluctuate due to changes in market prices, excluding risks arising from interest rate changes or
currency fluctuations. The Company’s exposure to other price risk primarily relates to commodity
price risk, specifically fluctuations in the price of dairy raw materials.
The Company is exposed to an overall weighted average price change (2024: decreased 8%; 2023:
decreased 23%) in the two key materials.
To mitigate this risk, the Company has implemented a pricing strategy by fixing milk purchase prices
with its related company five months in advance based on prevailing market rates.
The Company does not have exposure to equity price risk as it does not hold significant investments
in equity securities.
The Company is not exposed to any other price risk.
22.7 Fair value information
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents and short term receivables and payables reasonably
approximate their fair values due to the relatively short term nature of these financial instruments.
The carrying amounts of lease liabilities and borrowings reasonably approximate their fair value.
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value together with their carrying amounts
shown in the statement of financial position.
Fair value of financial instruments
carried at fair value
Carrying
amount
Level 1
RM’000
Level 2
RM’000
Level 3
RM’000
Total
RM’000 RM’000
2024
Financial assets
Forward exchange contracts – 10,947 – 10,947 10,947
2023
Financial assets
Forward exchange contracts – 595 – 595 595
Financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts – (2,395) – (2,395) (2,395)
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
210
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.7 Fair value information (continued)
Level 1 fair value
Level 1 fair value is derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
that the Company can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 fair value
Level 2 fair value is estimated using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are
observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 fair value
Level 3 fair value is estimated using unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
Derivatives
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is based on the quoted price provided by the licensed banks
with which the foreign exchange contracts are entered into.
23. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Company defines capital as share capital (Note 11) and this is unchanged from the prior year.
The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the Company’s
ability to continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain
future development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital, which the Company
defines as results from operating activities divided by total equity attributable to owners of the Company. The Board
of Directors also monitors the level of dividends to shareholders.
The return on capital at 31 December 2024 and 31 December 2023 were as follows:
2024 2023
Results from operating activities (RM’000) 131,394 99,997
Total equity attributable to owners of the Company (RM’000) 501,892 437,245
Return on capital (%) 26.2 22.9
The Company monitors and maintains a prudent level of total equity attributable to the owners of the Company to
ensure it is adequate to balance the support for future development of the business and the payment of dividends
to owners of the Company.
Section
211
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
We, Ramjeet Kaur Virik A/P Bhagwan Singh and Jean Serge Krol, two of the Directors of Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad, do hereby state that in the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 174 to 211 are
drawn up so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position and financial performance of the Company for the
financial year ended 31 December 2024 in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
Ramjeet Kaur Virik A/P Bhagwan Singh
Jean Serge Krol
20 February 2025
I, Kai Roelof Maria Henricus De Klerk, the Officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 174 to 211 are, to
the best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to
be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above named in Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan on 20 February 2025.
Kai Roelof Maria Henricus De Klerk
Before me:
COMMISSIONER FOR OATHS
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
212
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016
STATUTORY DECLARATION
pursuant to Section 251(1)(b) of the Companies Act 2016
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (“the Company”) give a true and fair view of
the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2024, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for
the financial year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
What we have audited
We have audited the financial statements of the Company, which comprise the statement of financial position as at
31 December 2024, and the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity
and statement of cash flows for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including material
accounting policies, as set out on pages 174 to 211.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of
the financial statements” section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and other ethical responsibilities
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’
International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”),
and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Our audit approach
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial
statements of the Company. In particular, we considered where the Directors made subjective judgements; for example,
in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are
inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls,
including among other matters, consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material
misstatement due to fraud.
We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the financial
statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the
industry in which the Company operates.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V)
Section
213
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the context of our
audit of the financial statements of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide
a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Use of estimates in revenue recognition arising from
rebates and discounts given to customers
Revenue is recognised net of rebates and discounts.
Rebates and discounts recognised are based on the
expected entitlement earned up to reporting date under
each customer trading agreement and promotions run.
The Company has two categories of rebates and discounts
where estimates are used:
- Conditional rebates
- Promotional discounts
Conditional rebates and promotional discounts are
triggered when certain conditions are met. The amount
payable is based on conditions achieved, multiplied by
rates contracted with each customer in their trading
agreements.
During the financial year, the Company incurred rebates
and promotional discounts totalling RM343.6 million. A
total of RM112.5 million of these rebates and discounts
were included in accruals as at 31 December 2024.
We focused on this area because of the high volume of
transactions incurred during the financial year and
estimation involved in determining the appropriate amount
of accruals as at financial year end and especially in
relation to those promotions and campaigns that were still
ongoing at the financial year end and those in which the
actual data with regards the conditions to be met have
not been confirmed.
Refer to Note 1(d) (Use of estimates and judgements) and
Note 2(g)(iii).
We read and understood the key terms and conditions of
significant contracts with customers regarding the rebates.
We evaluated and tested the operating effectiveness of
controls in relation to the authorisation of rebates and
promotional activities and the determination of year end
accruals.
We traced samples of rebates and discounts incurred
during the year to customers' claims.
We evaluated the reasonableness of management's
estimates on meeting volume or sales targets in relation to
conditional rebates and promotional discounts. For selected
samples we have performed the following:
(a) comparison of actual sales volume and values
achieved by the customer against the sales volume
and values recorded, or
(b) traced sample of accruals made to customers’
contracts and relevant supporting documents.
There were no material exceptions noted from our
procedures.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
214
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Information other than the financial statements and auditors’ report thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Directors’
Report and the 2024 Annual Report, which we obtained prior to the date of this auditors’ report, and Overview, Key
Highlights 2024, Chairperson’s Perspective, Managing Director’s Report, Finance Director’s Analysis, Market & Product
Review, Sustainability Statement, Sustainability Performance Report, Board at a Glance, Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, Audit & Risk Committee Report and Analysis of Shareholdings, which is expected to be made available to us
after that date. Other information does not include the financial statements of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not and will not
express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other information
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of the
Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditors’
report, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We
have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements of the Company that give a
true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards
and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control
as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Company that are free
from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s ability to
continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis
of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Company as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with
approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in
the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of
these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Company, whether due to
fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
Section
215
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by the Directors.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the
audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant
doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we
are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the
Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit
evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the
Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Company, including the
disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Company represent the underlying transactions and events
in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit
of the financial statements of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the key audit matters. We
describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or
when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because
the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such
communication.
OTHER MATTERS
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of
this report.
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS PLT ANG GUAT IM
LLP0014401-LCA & AF 1146 03515/08/2026 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
20 February 2025
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
216
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
TO THE MEMBERS OF DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V)
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 14 MARCH 2025
Class of Shares Ordinary shares
Voting Rights On show of hands : 1 vote
On a poll : 1 vote for each share held
DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE OF SHAREHOLDERS
Size of Holdings
No. of
Shareholders
% of
Shareholders
No. of
Shares
% of
Shareholding
Less than 100 shares 540 8.31 2,366 0.0
100 to 1,000 shares 4,071 62.66 1,907,312 3.0
1,001 to 10,000 shares 1,637 25.20 5,424,069 8.5
10,001 to 100,000 shares 216 3.32 5,850,746 9.1
100,001 to 3,199,999(*) 31 0.48 13,800,707 21.6
3,200,000 & above(**) 2 0.03 37,014,800 57.8
6,497 100.00 64,000,000 100.0
Note:
* – Less than 5% of Issued Holdings
** – 5% and above of Issued Holdings
Name of 30 Largest Shareholders
No. of
Shares
% of
Holdings
1. FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holding B.V. ** 32,614,800 50.96
2. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad **
Amanah Saham Bumiputera
4,400,000 6.88
3. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad **
Amanah Saham Malaysia
2,565,000 4.01
4. Cimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB for Siva Kumar A/L M Jeyapalan (PB)
1,715,100 2.68
5. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Maybank Trustees Berhad for Public Regular Savings Fund (N14011940100)
1,166,000 1.82
6. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd **
Employees Provident Fund Board
1,037,769 1.62
7. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Aun Huat & Brothers Sdn Bhd (E-IMO/BCM)
763,400 1.19
8. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Employees Provident Fund Board (Islamic)
650,638 1.02
9. CIMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB for Tan Kian Aik (PB)
585,700 0.92
10. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
ASN Umbrella for ASN Equity 3
567,200 0.89
Section
217
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
Name of 30 Largest Shareholders
No. of
Shares
% of
Holdings
11. Yong Siew Lee 550,000 0.86
12. HLB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Siva Kumar A/L M Jeyapalan
500,000 0.78
13 Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt an for Citibank New York (Norges Bank 22)
496,300 0.78
14. Yeo Khee Bee 442,900 0.69
15. Cimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB for Sharon A/P S I Josop (PB)
311,700 0.49
16. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Amanah Saham Bumiputera 3 - Didik
200,000 0.31
17. Neoh Choo Ee & Company Sdn Bhd 200,000 0.31
18. Chow Kok Meng 160,000 0.25
19. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Exempt an for Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad
(Wealth Management) (Tempatan)
157,200 0.25
20. Yayasan Guru Tun Hussein Onn 156,300 0.24
21. Cimsec Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB for Muthukumar A/L Jeyapalan (PB)
150,000 0.23
22. Hong Leong Assurance Berhad as Beneficial Owner (Unitlinked DP) 148,500 0.23
23. Pacific Trustees Berhad
Exempt an for Et Smart Wealth Sdn Bhd (Client’s Account)
143,800 0.23
24. AAHA Management (M) Sdn Bhd 130,000 0.20
25. Hong Leong Assurance Berhad as Beneficial Owner (Unitlinked FLF) 122,900 0.19
26. CIMSEC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
CIMB for Mahesh A/L Siva Kumar (PB)
122,000 0.19
27. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Islamic Treasures Growth Fund
119,100 0.19
28. Wong So-Ch’i 111,200 0.17
29. Wong So Haur 111,000 0.17
30. Wong Wai Kong 106,000 0.17
Total 50,504,507 78.91
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
218
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS AS PER THE REGISTER OF SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
Name Direct % Indirect %
1. FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holdings B.V. 32,614,800 50.96 0 0
2. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Amanah Saham Bumiputera
4,400,000 6.88 0 0
DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS
Name Direct % Indirect %
1. Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar 2,000 0.00 – 0.00
2. Ramjeet Kaur Virik – – – –
3. Saw Chooi Lee – – – –
4. Corine Danielle Tap – – – –
5. Dato‘ Dr. Rosini binti Alias – – – –
6. Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman – – – –
7. Jean Serge Krol – – – –
8. Darren Kong Kam Seong – – – –
PARTICULARS OF PROPERTIES AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2024
Location of Property PT 1585 & PT 1586, Mukim Bandar Baru Enstek, Daerah Seremban,
Negeri Sembilan
Brief description Factory buildings, office complex and warehouse
Approximate land area 1,419,759 sq ft.
Tenure leasehold land Freehold land
Date of acquisition 17.12.2020
Age of property N/A
Net Book Value (RM) 60.311 million
Section
219
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
Related Party Nature of Transaction
Value of Transactions
from 26 May 2023
to 31 Dec 2023
RM’000
FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V., and/or
FrieslandCampina Domo B.V., the Netherlands
Purchase by DLMI of fully packed
dairy products and raw materials
215,270
P.T. Frisian Flag Indonesia, Indonesia Purchase by DLMI of fully packed
dairy products including products and
raw materials
187,316
FrieslandCampina Foremost (Thailand) Pte Ltd,
Thailand
Purchase by DLMI of fully packed
dairy products and raw materials
3,522
FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V., the Netherlands
and/or FrieslandCampina Domo B.V., the
Netherlands
Sale by DLMI of fully packed dairy
products
904
FrieslandCampina Foremost (Thailand) Pte Ltd,
Thailand
Sale by DLMI of fully packed dairy
products
–
FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V., the Netherlands Payment of fees by DLMI for know-
how, Trademark licence and
Management support
19,126
FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holding B.V., the
Netherlands
Payment of fees by DLMI for
corporate management fees
112
FrieslandCampina B.V., the Netherlands Payment of fees by DLMI for shared
ICT and communication services
10,432
FrieslandCampina Service Centre Asia Pacific Sdn.
Bhd. Malaysia
Payment of fees by DLMI for shared
finance and procurement services
1,042
FrieslandCampina Service Centre Asia Pacific Sdn.
Bhd. Malaysia
Receipt of fees by DLMI for the
provision of shared corporate services
289
Royal FrieslandCampina N.V., the Netherlands Interest on inter-company credit
facility
–
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
220
RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Sixty-Second Annual General Meeting (“62nd AGM”) of
the Company will be carried out in a hybrid format, whereby Main Venue will be at Grand
Ballroom, Sime Darby Convention Centre, No. 1A, Jalan Bukit Kiara, Bukit Kiara, 60000
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia and the meeting will be equipped with live streaming and online
remote voting on Friday, 23 May 2025 at 10.00 a.m. for the purpose of transacting the
following purposes:
AGENDA
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2024,
together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon (Please refer to Explanatory Note
to the Agenda (i)).
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of up to RM500,000 for the financial year ending 31
December 2025, to be made payable quarterly (Please refer to Explanatory Note to the Agenda (ii)).
Resolution 1
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits of up to RM100,000 to Non-Executive Directors for
the financial year ending 31 December 2025 (Please refer to Explanatory Note to the Agenda (ii)).
Resolution 2
4. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation pursuant to Rule 105 of the Constitution
of the Company:
(a) Ms. Saw Chooi Lee; and
(b) Ms. Corine Danielle Tap
Resolutions 3,
and 4
5. To re-elect Veronika Winanti Wahyu Utami who retires pursuant to Rule 86.3 of the Constitution
of the Company.
Resolution 5
6. To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT (AF: 1146) as the Company’s Auditors for the ensuing
year and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Resolution 6
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and if thought fit, pass the following resolutions:
7. PROPOSED RENEWAL OF SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR RECURRENT RELATED PARTY
TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE (“PROPOSED SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE”)
“THAT approval be and is hereby given to the Company to enter into and to give effect to the
Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature with the specified classes of
Related Parties as stated in Sections 2.4 and 2.3 of the Circular to Shareholders dated 25 April
2025 which are necessary for the Company’s day-to-day operations subject to the following:-
(i) the transactions are in the ordinary course of business and are on terms not more favourable
to the Related Parties than those generally available to the public and are not to the detriment
of the minority shareholders; and
(ii) the aggregate value of such transactions conducted pursuant to the Shareholders’ Mandate
during the financial year will be disclosed in the Integrated Annual Report for the said financial
year;
Resolution 7
AND THAT such approval shall continue to be in force until:
(a) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company at which time it
will lapse, unless by a resolution passed at the Meeting the authority is renewed; or
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company subsequent to the
date it is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Companies Act, 2016 (“the
Act”) (but shall not extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4)
of the Act); or
(c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in a general meeting;
Section
221
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
whichever is the earlier.
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to complete and do all
such acts and things as they may consider expedient or necessary in the best interest of the
Company (including executing all such documents as may be required) to give effect to the
transactions contemplated and/or authorised by the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate”.
8. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given in accordance with the
Constitution of the Company and the Companies Act, 2016.
By Order of the Board
KATINA NURANI BINTI ABD RAHIM
(L.S. No. 9652)
SSM Practising Certificate No. 201908001190
Company Secretary
Petaling Jaya
25 April 2025
NOTES
1. The Sixty-Second Annual General Meeting (“62nd AGM”) will be conducted in a hybrid format, physically held at Grand Ballroom,
Sime Darby Convention Centre (“Main Venue”) and will be equipped with live streaming and online remote voting via Remote
Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities which are available on the meeting platform at https://meeting.
boardroomlimited.my. With RPEV facilities, members may exercise their rights to participate and vote at the 62nd AGM through
the following modes of communication: i) Typed text in the Meeting Platform ii) E-mail questions to finance.dept@
frieslandcampina.com prior to the Hybrid Meeting iii) You may submit questions in advance on the AGM resolutions and
Integrated Annual Report 2024 not later than 10.00 a.m. on Thursday, 22 May 2025 via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com, and select “SUBMIT QUESTION” to pose questions (“Pre-AGM Meeting Questions”). The
Company has appointed Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) as the Poll Administrator for the 62nd AGM to
facilitate the Hybrid Meeting. Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Guide for the 62nd AGM below to
register, participate and vote remotely via RPEV facilities.
2. A Member entitled to attend and vote at the 62nd AGM of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy/proxies to attend and
vote instead of him. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting
shall have the same rights as a Member to speak at the Meeting.
3. Save for an Exempt Authorised Nominee as defined under the Central Depositories Act which may appoint multiple proxies
in respect of each Omnibus Account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities
account, a Member (including an authorised nominee) shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend
and vote at the same meeting. In any case, where more than one (1) proxy is appointed, such appointment shall not be valid
unless the proportion of the holdings represented by each proxy is specified.
4. The instrument appointing the proxy must be signed by the Member or his attorney duly authorised in writing, or if the
appointer is a corporation, the instrument must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of its officer or
attorney duly authorised.
5. For the purpose of determining members who shall be entitled to attend the 62nd AGM, the Company shall be requesting
Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to issue a Record of Depositors as at 16 May 2025 (“General Meeting Record of
Depositors”). Only depositors whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 16 May 2025 shall be entitled to
attend the said meeting or appoint proxies to attend and vote on their behalf.
6. To be valid, the original instrument appointing a proxy, duly completed (and if applicable, the power of attorney or other
authority under which it is originally signed or notarially certified copy of that power of authority) must be deposited at the
office of Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay
Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia, not less than 48 hours before the time set for holding
the Meeting or any adjournment thereof (or in the case of poll, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the
taking of the poll); or by electronic means using the Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.
com not later than 48 hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. Please refer to
Administrative Guide below.
7. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions
set out in the Notice of the 62nd AGM will be put to vote by way of poll.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
222
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
EXPLANATORY NOTES TO THE AGENDA
(I) FIRST ITEM OF THE AGENDA
This item of the Agenda is meant for discussion only in accordance with the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the
Companies Act, 2016. As such this item on the Agenda is not put forward for voting.
(II) RESOLUTIONS 1 AND 2:
The Company is seeking for shareholders’ approval for payment of the increased Directors’ fees and the payment of benefits
for the financial year ending 31 December 2025. The amount of Fees and Benefits to be paid in FY2025 are as follows:
Directors’
Fees and Benefits
2024
(per annum)
2025
(per annum)
Chairperson’s Fees RM129,865 RM136,358
Non-Executive Directors’ fees
(other than FC DLMI’s Nominee Directors)
RM74,026 RM76,247
Chairperson of Audit & Risk Committee fees RM9,117 RM9,573
Member of Audit & Risk Committee fees
(other than FC DLMI’s Nominee Directors)
RM6,078 RM6,260
Chairperson of Nominating & Remuneration Committee fees RM1,824 RM1,915
Meeting Attendance allowance RM1,300 per meeting RM1,300 per meeting
The calculation is based on the estimated number of scheduled and/or special Board and Board Committees’ Meetings
and on the assumption that all the Directors will remain in office until the financial year ending 31 December 2025.
(III) RESOLUTIONS 3, 4 AND 5
The Board through its Nominating & Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) had assessed each of the retiring Directors and
considered the following: (i) If the retiring Directors meets the criteria for appointment and re-appointment of directors
as set out in the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy; and (ii) The retiring Director’s performance and contribution based
on the Directors’ Peer Assessment results.
For item (i), the NRC considered and found that the retiring Directors each met the criteria for appointment and re-
appointment of directors set out in the policy.
For item (ii), the NRC found that Ms. Saw Chooi Lee and Ms. Corine Danielle Tap had performed well based on the
performance criteria evaluated. Ms. Veronika Winanti Wahyu Utami was appointed on the Board on 15 April 2025 and
as such the performance evaluation carried out for FY2024 is not applicable.
In addition, as Ms. Saw Chooi Lee is an Independent Non-Executive Director, the NRC also considered her declaration
of independence given in January 2025.
Based on the above, the Board approved the NRC’s recommendation and supports the re-election of Ms. Saw Chooi
Lee and Ms. Corine Danielle Tap who retire in accordance with Rule 105 of the Company’s Constitution, and the re-
election of Veronika Winanti Wahyu Utami who retires in accordance with Rule 86.3 of the Company’s Constitution.
Section
223
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
(IV) RESOLUTION 7: PROPOSED RENEWAL OF SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR RECURRENT RELATED PARTY
TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE
Please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 25 April 2025.
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
1. Details of individuals who are standing for election as Directors
(Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Bursa Securities Listing Requirements)
The candidate recommended by the Board to be re-appointed as a Director at the 62nd AGM pursuant to Rule 86.3
of the Constitution of the Company is:
Name Position Age Nationality
Veronika Winanti Wahyu Utami Director 45 Indonesian
Profile of Veronika Winanti Wahyu Utami
Veronika Utami was appointed as a Non-Independent Executive Director with effect from 15 April 2025. She holds a
degree in Industrial engineering from the University of Indonesia where she graduated cum laude predicate.
Veronika Utami has been appointed as Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad’s Managing Director with effect from 15
April 2025. She joined the FrieslandCampina group of companies in August 2022 as Frisian Flag Indonesia’s Marketing
Director for Consumer Dairy & Specialized Nutrition. Prior to joining Frisian Flag Indonesia, she spent 20 years at
Unilever which she joined in 2002. Whilst at Unilever, she took on many marketing leadership roles in Indonesia and
the region. Amongst others, she was appointed the Fabric Cleaning Director for Southeast Asia and New Zealand at
Unilever Asia Pte Ltd from January 2018 to March 2019, and she was the Vice President/General Manager of the
Unilever Indonesia Home Care Business from April 2019 to July 2022.
She does not have any direct or deemed interests in the shares of the Company or its subsidiaries and does not hold
any directorships in any public companies. There are no family relationships with any other director or substantial
shareholder of the Company nor any personal interest in any business arrangement involving the Company. Save and
except for traffic offences, if any, she has not been convicted for any offences within the past 10 years.
2. Statement relating to general mandate for issue of securities in accordance with Paragraph 6.03(3) of the Main
Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
No general mandate to issue securities in the Company is being sought at the forthcoming 62nd AGM of the Company.
PERSONAL DATA PRIVACY:
By registering for the remote participation and electronic voting meeting and/or submitting an instrument appointing a
proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to participate, speak and vote at the Meeting and/or any adjournment thereof, a
member of the Company (i) consents to the processing of the member’s personal data by the Company (or its agents) for
the Meeting and matters related thereto, including but not limited to: (a) for the purpose of the processing and
administration by the Company (or its agents) of proxies and representatives appointed for the Meeting (including any
adjournment thereof); (b) for preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents relating to
the Meeting (including any adjournment thereof); and (c) for the Company (or its agents) to comply with any applicable
laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”); (ii) undertakes and warrants that where the
member discloses the personal data of the member’s proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents),
the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Company (or its agents)
processing of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes; and (iii) agrees that the
member will fully indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, legal suits, claims, demands, losses and
damages as a result of the member’s failure to provide accurate and correct information of the personal date or breach
of the member’s undertaking and/or warranty as set out herein.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
224
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE FOR THE SIXTY-SECOND ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“62ND AGM”)
Meeting Platform : https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my
Day and Date : Friday, 23 May 2025
Time : 10.00 a.m.
Main Venue &
Broadcast Venue
: Grand Ballroom, Sime Darby Convention Centre, No. 1A, Jalan Bukit Kiara,
Bukit Kiara, 60000 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Mode of Communication : 1) Typed text in the Meeting Platform.
2) E-mail questions to finance.dept@frieslandcampina.com prior to the Meeting.
3) Submit question via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com prior to the Meeting.
INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
1. Members are encouraged to download a digital copy of the Integrated Annual Report 2024 from the Company’s
website in the interest of preserving the environment. The Integrated Annual Report 2024 can be downloaded from
the Company’s website www.dutchlady.com.my.
2. If you need a copy of the printed Integrated Annual Report 2024, kindly complete the enclosed Request Slip and send
the same to the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd.
3. Any request for the Integrated Annual Report 2024 would be forwarded to the requestor within four (4) market days
from the date of receipt of the written request.
PROXY
1. Shareholders who are unable to remote participate in Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad’s 62nd AGM are encouraged
to appoint the Chairperson of the Meeting to vote on their behalf.
2. You may deposit the Proxy Form electronically with the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn
Bhd using Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not later than 48 hours before
the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. Kindly follow the link at https://investor.
boardroomlimited.com to login and select E-PROXY LODGEMENT” to deposit your Proxy Form electronically.
3. If you wish to participate in the Hybrid Meeting yourself, please do not submit any Proxy Form. You will not be
allowed to participate in the Hybrid Meeting together with a proxy appointed by you.
4. If you have submitted the Proxy Form prior to the Hybrid Meeting and subsequently decide to appoint another person
or wish to participate in the Hybrid Meeting yourself, please write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com to revoke
the earlier appointed proxy forty-eight (48) hours before the Meeting.
Section
225
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
POLL VOTING (FOR HYBRID MEETING)
1. The voting will be conducted by poll in accordance with Paragraph 8.29A of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main
Market Listing Requirements. The Company has appointed Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd as Poll Administrator
to conduct the poll by way of electronic voting (e-Voting).
2. For the purposes of this AGM, the remote participation and e-voting will be carried out via the following voting devices:-
a. Personal smart mobile phones ,
b. Tablets or
c. Laptops
3. There are 2 methods for members and proxies who wish to use their personal voting device to vote as follows:-
a. Using QR Scanner Code given in the email to you OR
b. Using website URL https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my
4. The polling will only commence after the announcement of poll voting session open by the Chairperson and until such
time when the Chairperson announces the closure of poll.
5. The Scrutineers will verify the poll result reports upon closing of the poll session by the Chairperson. Scrutineers will
announce the results thereafter and the Chairperson will declare whether the resolutions put to vote were successfully
carried or not.
REMOTE PARTICIPATION AND ELECTRONIC VOTING
6. Please note that this option is available to (i) individual member; (ii) corporate shareholder; (iii) Authorised Nominee;
and (iv) Exempt Authorised Nominee.
7. If you choose to participate in the meeting online, you will be able to view a live webcast of the Meeting, post
questions to the Board and submit your votes in real time whilst the meeting is in progress.
8. Kindly follow the steps below on how to request for login ID and password.
Step 1 – Register Online with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (for first time registration only)
[Note: If you have already signed up with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal, you are not required to register again. You may
proceed to Step 2. Submit request for Remote Participation user ID and password.]
a. Access website https://investor.boardroomlimited.com
b. Click <<Login>> and click <<Register>> to sign up as a user.
c. Please select the correct account type i.e. sign up as “Shareholder” or “Corporate Shareholder”.
d. Complete registration and upload softcopy of MyKAD (front and back) or Passport in JPEG, PNG or PDF format.
Upload the authorisation letter if for Corporate Shareholder.
e. Please enter a valid email address and wait for Boardroom’s email verification.
f. Once your email address is verified, you will be re-directed to Boardroom Smart Investor Portal for verification of
mobile number. Click on <<Request OTP Code>> and an OTP code will be sent to the registered mobile number. You
will need to enter the OTP code and click <<Enter>> to complete the process.
g. Your registration will be verified and approved within one (1) business day and an email notification will be provided.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
226
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Step 2 – Submit Request for Remote Participation User ID and Password
[Note: The registration for remote access will be opened on 25 April 2025]
Individual Members
– Login to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password above.
– Select “Meeting Event(s)” from main menu and select the correct Corporate Event “Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
62nd Annual General Meeting.
– Read and agree to the terms and conditions.
– Enter your CDS account and thereafter submit your request.
Corporate Shareholders, Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee
1) Via email
– Write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing the name of Member, CDS Account Number accompanied
with the Certificate of Appointment of Corporate Representative or Form of Proxy to submit the request.
– Please also provide a copy of Corporate Representative’s MyKad (Front and Back) in JPEG, PNG or PDF format or
Passport as well as his/her email address.
2) Via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal
– Login to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password from Step 1 above.
– Select “Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad 62nd Annual General Meeting” from the list of Meeting Event and click
“Enter”.
– Click on “Submit eProxy Form”.
– Select the company you would like to represent.
– Proceed to download the file format for “Submission of Proxy Form” from the investor portal.
– Prepare the file for the appointment of proxies by inserting the required data.
– Proceed to upload the duly completed proxy appointment file.
– Review and confirm your proxy appointment and click “Submit”.
– Download or print the eProxy form as acknowledgement.
Step 3 – Login to Meeting Portal
[Please note that the quality of the connectivity to the Meeting Portal for live web cast as well as for remote online voting is
highly dependent on the bandwidth and the stability of the internet connectivity available at the location of the remote users.]
a. The Meeting portal will be open for login starting one (1) hour before the commencement of Hybrid Meeting at 10:00
a.m. on 23 May 2025.
b. Follow the steps given to you in the email along with your remote access user ID and password to login to the
Meeting portal. (Refer to Step 2 above)
c. The steps will also guide you how to view live web cast, ask questions and vote.
d. The live web cast will end and the Messaging window will be disabled the moment the Chairperson announces the
closure of the Hybrid Meeting.
e. You can now logout from Meeting Portal.
Section
227
1 2 3 4 5 6 7
LIVE WEBCAST, QUESTION AND VOTING AT THE HYBRID MEETING
The Login User Guide for participation, posing questions and voting at the 62nd AGM, will be emailed to the shareholders
together with the remote access user ID and password once their registration have been approved.
Shareholders who participate in the Hybrid Meeting are able to view the Company’s presentation or slides via the live
web-streaming.
The Chairperson and the Board of Directors will endeavour their best to respond to the questions submitted by shareholders
which are related to the resolutions to be tabled at the 62nd AGM, as well as financial performance/prospect of the
Company.
Shareholders may proceed to cast votes on each of the proposed resolutions, to be tabled at the 62nd AGM, after the
Chairman has opened the poll voting session on the resolutions. Shareholders are reminded to cast their votes before the
poll is closed.
No recording or photography of the hybrid AGM proceedings is allowed without the prior written permission of the
Company.
Shareholders/Proxies must ensure that you are connected to the internet at all times in order to participate and vote when
the hybrid AGM has commenced. Therefore, it is your responsibility to ensure that connectivity for the duration of the
meeting is maintained. Kindly note that the quality of the live streaming is dependent on the bandwidth and stability of
the internet connection at the location of the remote participants.
Enquiry
Please email to the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com
if you have queries pertaining to the remote participation and electronic voting, prior to the Hybrid Meeting.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD • INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2024
228
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
I/We ___________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(full name in block letters, NRIC No./Company No.)
of _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________
being a member/members of DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD hereby appoint:-
Full name (in block letters) NRIC / Passport No.
Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Email Address
And/or (delete as appropriate)
Full name (in block letters) NRIC / Passport No.
Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Email Address
or failing him/her, the Chairperson of the Meeting as my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the Sixty-Second
Annual General Meeting of the Company which will be held in a hybrid format, physically at Grand Ballroom, Sime Darby
Convention Centre, No. 1A, Jalan Bukit Kiara, Bukit Kiara, 60000 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia (“Main Venue”) and will be equipped
with live streaming and online remote voting from the Main Venue, on Friday, 23 May 2025 at 10 a.m. and any adjournment
thereof, in respect of my/our shareholding in the manner indicated below:-
RESOLUTION NO. RESOLUTION FOR AGAINST
Resolution 1 Proposed payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year ending
31 December 2025, to be paid quarterly
Resolution 2 Proposed payment of Directors’ benefits (other than Directors’ fees) for
the financial year ending 31 December 2025
Resolution 3 Re-election of Ms. Saw Chooi Lee
Resolution 4 Re-election of Ms. Corine Danielle Tap
Resolution 5 Re-election of Ms. Veronika Winanti Wahyu Utami
Resolution 6 Re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT as the Company’s
Auditors
Resolution 7 Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions. In
the absence of specific instruction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he/she thinks fit.
Signed this …………….day of ……………………………… 2025 ………………………………………………………………
Signatures(s) of Shareholder/Attorney
(if Shareholder is a corporation, this
part should be executed under seal or
under the hand of its officer or attorney
duly authorised)
By submitting the proxy form, the member and its proxy(ies) consents to the Company (and/or its agents/service providers) to the collection, usage and disclosure of their personal
data (which may include sensitive data) therein in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act 2010 for the purpose of the AGM, including any adjournment thereof.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD
(Registration No.196301000165 (5063-V)
(incorporated in Malaysia under the then Companies Ordinances, 1940 – 1946)
CDS Account No. of shares
PROXY FORM
Notes:-
1. The Sixty-Second Annual General Meeting (“62nd AGM”) will be conducted in a hybrid format, physically at Grand Ballroom, Sime Darby Convention Centre (“Main Venue”), equipped
with live streaming from the Main Venue with online remote voting via Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities which are available on the meeting platform at
https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my. With RPEV facilities, members may exercise their rights to participate and vote at the 62nd AGM through the following modes of communication:
i) Typed text in the Meeting Platform ii) E-mail questions to finance.dept@frieslandcampina.com prior to the Hybrid Meeting iii) You may submit questions in advance on the AGM
resolutions and Integrated Annual Report 2024 not later than 10.00 a.m. on Thursday, 22 May 2025 via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com,
and select “SUBMIT QUESTION” to pose questions (“Pre-AGM Meeting Questions”). The Company has appointed Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) as the Poll
Administrator for the 62nd AGM to facilitate the Hybrid Meeting. Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Guide for the 62nd AGM below to register, participate and
vote remotely via RPEV facilities.
2. A Member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy/proxies to attend and vote instead of him. A proxy need not be
a member of the Company. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting shall have the same rights as a Member to speak at the Meeting.
3. Save for an Exempt Authorised Nominee as defined under the Central Depositories Act which may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account it holds with ordinary
shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account, a Member (including an authorised nominee) shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies
to attend and vote at the same meeting. In any case, where more than one (1) proxy is appointed, such appointment shall not be valid unless the proportion of the holdings represented
by each proxy is specified.
4. The instrument appointing the proxy must be signed by the Member or his attorney duly authorised in writing, or if the appointer is a corporation, the instrument must be executed
under its common seal or under the hand of its officer or attorney duly authorised.
5. For the purpose of determining members who shall be entitled to attend the 62nd AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to issue a Record of
Depositors as at 16 May 2025 (“General Meeting Record of Depositors”). Only depositors whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 16 May 2025 shall be entitled to
attend the said meeting or appoint proxies to attend and vote on their behalf.
6. To be valid, the original instrument appointing a proxy, duly completed (and if applicable, the power of attorney or other authority under which it is originally signed or notarially certified
copy of that power of authority) must be deposited at the office of Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo
Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia, not less than 48 hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof (or in the
case of poll, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll); or by electronic means using the Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.
boardroomlimited.com not later than 48 hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. Please refer to Administrative Guide.
7. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set out in the Notice of the Sixty-Second AGM will be
put to vote by way of poll.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD
(Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V))
c/o Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Malaysia
Please fold here to seal
Please fold here to seal
Affix
Stamp
www.dutchlady.com.my
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD
(196301000165 / 5063-V)
Level 5, Quill 9, 112, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
46300 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
