NOURISHING OUR NATION
ANNUAL REPORT 2021
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD
2 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
NOURISHING
OUR NATION
>>
As Malaysia’s leading dairy company, Dutch Lady
Milk Industries Berhad continues to make great
strides in our journey of growth as we stay true to
our Purpose of Nourishing Our Nation.
We are committed to Nourishing Malaysians with
trusted and sustainable dairy nutrition for now
and generations to come. We will also continue
supporting the national health agenda whilst
striving to improve the nutritional status of
Malaysians.
600
EMPLOYEES
2021 PROFIT
RM284.5
MILLION
ESTIMATED ANNUAL
CONSUMERS
3.75
MILLION
>50 YEARS & IMPLEMENTED
HALAL COMPLIANCE SYSTEM
SINCE 1963
HALAL
PRODUCER
ESTABLISHED IN
1963
Overview
1
Annual Report 2021
PACKAGING RECYCLABLE &
CIRCULAR
74%
DDP HAS PRODUCED
LITRES OF FRESH MILK
FROM 2011 - 2021
37.9 MILLION
PACKS
118 MILLION
STUDENTS
2 MILLION
TABLE OF
CONTENT
CORPORATE AND GOVERNANCE
6 Notice of Annual General Meeting
12 Corporate Information
13 5-Year Financial Summary
14 Profiles of Board of Directors and Company
Secretary
20 Management Team Profiles
26 Chairperson’s Statement
30 Management Discussion & Analysis
40 Corporate Governance Overview Statement
60 Audit & Risk Committee Report
69 Statement of Risk Management and Internal Control
76 Sustainability Report
FINANCIAL REPORTS
102 Directors’ Report
106 Statement of Financial Position
107 Statement of Profit or Loss and Other
Comprehensive Income
108 Statement of Changes in Equity
109 Statement of Cash Flows
110 Notes to the Financial Statements
153 Statement by Directors
153 Statutory Declaration
154 Independent Auditors’ Report
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
159 Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
160 Analysis of Shareholdings
• Proxy Form
QR Feature in this Annual Report
Follow the steps to scan the QR code reader in 3 easy steps
Download the
“QR Code Reader”
on App Store or
Google Play
Get access to the
soft copy of our
reports and contact
information
Run the QR Code
Reader app and
point your camera
to the QR Code
>>
Soft copy version
of Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
Annual Report
2021
OUR BRAND PORTFOLIO
TRUSTED BY
GENERATIONS FOR
150
YEARS
PRODUCTS
WITH
HEALTHIER
CHOICE LOGO
>60
6 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
AGENDA
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2021,
together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon (Please refer to Explanatory
Note to the Agenda (i)).
2. To approve the proposed increase and payment of Directors’ fees of up to RM500,000 for
the financial year ending 31 December 2022, to be made payable quarterly (Please refer to
Explanatory Note to the Agenda (ii)).
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits of up to RM100,000 to Non-Executive Directors
for the financial year ending 31 December 2022 (Please refer to Explanatory Note to the
Agenda (ii)).
4. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation pursuant to Rule 105 of the Constitution
of the Company:
(a) Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden; and
(b) Ms. Saw Chooi Lee
5. To re-appoint Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik who was appointed during the year and retires pursuant
to Rule 86.3 of the Constitution of the Company.
6. To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT (LLP0014401-LCA & AF: 1146) as the Company’s
auditors and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and if thought fit, pass the following resolutions:
7. PROPOSED RENEWAL OF SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR RECURRENT RELATED
PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE (“PROPOSED
SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE”)
“THAT approval be and is hereby given to the Company to enter into and to give effect to
the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature with the specified
classes of Related Parties as stated in Sections 2.4 and 2.3 of the Circular to Shareholders
dated 26 April 2022 which are necessary for the Company’s day-to-day operations subject to
the following:-
(i) the transactions are in the ordinary course of business and are on terms not more
favourable to the Related Parties than those generally available to the public and are not
to the detriment of the minority shareholders; and
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Fifty-Ninth Annual General Meeting (“59th AGM”) of the Company will be
carried out fully virtual through live streaming and online remote voting from the Broadcast Venue at Gallery
3, Level 3, New World Petaling Jaya Hotel, Paradigm, 1 Jalan SS7/26A, Kelana Jaya, 47301 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor, Malaysia on Wednesday, 25 May 2022 at 10.00 a.m. for the purpose of transacting the following
purposes:
Resolution 1
Resolution 2
Resolutions 3 and 4
Resolution 5
Resolution 6
Resolution 7
7
Annual Report 2021
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
(ii) the aggregate value of such transactions conducted pursuant to the Shareholders’ Mandate
during the financial year will be disclosed in the Annual Report for the said financial year;
AND THAT such approval shall continue to be in force until:
(a) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company at which time
it will lapse, unless by a resolution passed at the Meeting the authority is renewed; or
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company subsequent to
the date it is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Companies Act, 2016
(“the Act”) (but shall not extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant to Section
340(4) of the Act); or
(c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in a general meeting;
whichever is the earlier.
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to complete and do
all such acts and things as they may consider expedient or necessary in the best interest of
the Company (including executing all such documents as may be required) to give effect to the
transactions contemplated and/or authorised by the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate.”
8. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given in accordance with
the Constitution of the Company and the Companies Act, 2016.
By Order of the Board
KATINA NURANI BINTI ABD RAHIM
(L.S. No. 9652)
SSM Practising Certificate No. 201908001190
Company Secretary
Petaling Jaya
26 April 2022
NOTES
1. In light of the COVID-19 pandemic, in the interest of our stakeholders’ health and safety, the Fifty-Ninth Annual General Meeting
(“59th AGM”) will be conducted fully virtual through live streaming and online remote voting via Remote Participation and Electronic
Voting (“RPEV”) facilities which are available on Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my. With RPEV
facilities, members may exercise their rights to participate and vote at the 59th AGM through the following modes of communication:
i) Typed text in the Meeting Platform ii) E-mail questions to finance.dept@frieslandcampina.com prior to the Virtual Meeting iii) You may
submit questions in advance on the AGM resolutions and Annual Report 2021 not later than 10.00 a.m. on Monday, 23 May 2022 via
Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com, and select “SUBMIT QUESTION” to pose questions (“Pre-
AGM Meeting Questions”). The Company has appointed Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) as the Poll Administrator
for the 59th AGM to facilitate the Virtual Meeting. Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Guide for the 59th AGM
below to register, participate and vote remotely via RPEV facilities.
2. The Broadcast Venue of the 59th AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which
stipulates that the Chairman shall be at the main venue of the 59th AGM. Members will not be allowed to attend the 59th AGM in person
at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the 59th AGM.
3. A Member entitled to attend and vote at the 59th AGM of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy/proxies to attend and vote instead
of him. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting shall have the same rights
as a Member to speak at the Meeting.
8 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
4. Save for an Exempt Authorised Nominee as defined under the Central Depositories Act which may appoint multiple proxies in respect
of each Omnibus Account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account, a Member
(including an authorised nominee) shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting.
In any case, where more than one (1) proxy is appointed, such appointment shall not be valid unless the proportion of the holdings
represented by each proxy is specified.
5. The instrument appointing the proxy must be signed by the Member or his attorney duly authorised in writing, or if the appointer is a
corporation, the instrument must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of its officer or attorney duly authorised.
6. For the purpose of determining members who shall be entitled to attend the 59th AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn Bhd to issue a Record of Depositors as at 18 May 2022 (“General Meeting Record of Depositors”). Only depositors
whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 18 May 2022 shall be entitled to attend the said meeting or appoint proxies to
attend and vote on their behalf.
7. To be valid, the original instrument appointing a proxy, duly completed (and if applicable, the power of attorney or other authority under
which it is originally signed or notarially certified copy of that power of authority) must be deposited at the office of Boardroom Share
Registrars Sdn Bhd at Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia, not less than 48 hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof (or in
the case of poll, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll); or by electronic means using the Boardroom
Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not later than 48 hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or
any adjournment thereof. Please refer to Administrative Guide below.
8. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set out
in the Notice of the 59th AGM will be put to vote by way of poll.
Explanatory Notes to the Agenda
(i) First item of the Agenda
This item of the Agenda is meant for discussion only in accordance with the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act, 2016.
As such this item on the Agenda is not put forward for voting.
(ii) Resolutions 1 and 2:
The Company is seeking for shareholders’ approval for the proposed increase and payment of the Directors’ fees and the payment of
benefits for the financial year ending 31 December 2022, as follows:
Directors’ Fees and Benefits 2021 (per annum) 2022 (per annum)
Chairperson’s Fees RM122,411 RM126,083
Non-Executive Directors’ fees (other than FC DLMI’s Nominee Directors) RM69,777 RM71,870
Chairperson of Audit & Risk Committee fees RM8,593 RM8,851
Member of Audit & Risk Committee fees (other than FC DLMI’s Nominee
Directors)
RM5,729 RM5,901
Chairperson of Nominating & Remuneration Committee fees RM1,719 RM1,771
Meeting Attendance allowance RM1,300 per meeting RM1,300 per meeting
The calculation is based on the estimated number of scheduled and/or special Board and Board Committees’ Meetings and on the
assumption that all the Directors will remain in office until the financial year ending 31 December 2022.
(iii) Resolutions 3, 4 and 5
The Board through its Nominating & Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) had assessed each of the retiring Directors, and considered
the following: (i) If there is any evidence of any interest, position or relationship that might influence, or reasonably be perceived to
influence, in a material respect, the retiring Directors’ capacity to bring an independent judgement to bear on issues before the Board
and to act in the best interests of the Company as a whole; and (ii) The retiring Director’s performance and contribution based on the
Directors’ Peer Assessment results.
For item (i), the NRC considered and did not find evidence of any interest, position or relationship that might influence, or reasonably be
perceived to influence, in a material respect the retiring Directors’ capacity to bring an independent judgement to bear on issues before
the Board and to act in the best interests of the Company as a whole, save and except that Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden
and Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik are Board representatives of the majority shareholder Royal FrieslandCampina N.V (RFC). Accordingly,
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
9
Annual Report 2021
Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden and Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik are Non-Independent Board members. None of the retiring
Directors hold any shares in the Company whether directly or indirectly, have any family relationships with any other director or
substantial shareholder of the Company nor do they have any personal interest in any business arrangement involving the Company.
For item (ii), the NRC found that each of the retiring Directors had performed well based on the performance criteria evaluated.
Based on the above, the Board approved the NRC’s recommendation and supports the re-election of Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria
Kodden and Ms. Saw Chooi Lee who retire in accordance with Rule 105 of the Company’s Constitution, and the re-appointment of the
Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik who retires in accordance with Rule 86.3 of the Company’s Constitution.
(iv) Resolution 7: Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading
Nature
Please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 26 April 2022.
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
1. Details of individuals who are standing for election as Directors
(Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Bursa Securities Listing Requirements)
No individual is seeking election as a Director at the forthcoming 59th AGM of the Company.
2. Statement relating to general mandate for issue of securities in accordance with Paragraph 6.03(3) of the Main Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
No general mandate to issue securities in the Company is being sought at the forthcoming 59th AGM of the Company.
Personal Data Privacy:
By registering for the remote participation and electronic voting meeting and/or submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies) and/or
representative(s) to participate, speak and vote at the Meeting and/or any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company (i) consents
to the processing of the member’s personal data by the Company (or its agents) for the Meeting and matters related thereto, including
but not limited to: (a) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or its agents) of proxies and representatives
appointed for the Meeting (including any adjournment thereof); (b) for preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and
other documents relating to the Meeting (including any adjournment thereof); and (c) for the Company (or its agents) to comply with
any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”); (ii) undertakes and warrants that where the
member discloses the personal data of the member’s proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company (or its agents), the member has
obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Company (or its agents) processing of the personal data of
such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes; and (iii) agrees that the member will fully indemnify the Company in respect of
any penalties, liabilities, legal suits, claims, demands, losses and damages as a result of the member’s failure to provide accurate and correct
information of the personal date or breach of the member’s undertaking and/or warranty as set out herein.
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE FOR
THE FIFTY-NINTH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“59TH AGM”)
Meeting Platform : https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my
Day and Date : Wednesday, 25 May 2022
Time : 10.00 a.m.
Broadcast Venue : Gallery 3, Level 3, New World Petaling Jaya Hotel, Paradigm,
		 1, Jalan SS7/26A, Kelana Jaya, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Mode of Communication : 1) Typed text in the Meeting Platform
		 2) E-mail questions to finance.dept@frieslandcampina.com prior to the Meeting.
		 3) Submit question via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com prior
			 to the meeting
Broadcast Venue
1. Shareholders/proxies are not allowed to present and participate at Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad’s 59th AGM via the Broadcast
Venue as the venue is only meant to facilitate the conduct of the Virtual Meeting.
Annual Report 2021
1. Members are encouraged to download a digital copy of the Annual Report 2021 from the Company’s website in the interest of preserving
the environment. The Annual Report 2021 can be downloaded from the Company’s website www.dutchlady.com.my.
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
10 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
2. If you need a copy of the printed Annual Report 2021, kindly complete the enclosed Request Slip and send the same to the Company’s
Share Registrar, Board Share Registrars Sdn Bhd.
3. Any request for the Annual Report 2021 would be forwarded to the requestor within four (4) market days from the date of receipt of
the written request.
Proxy
1. Shareholders who are unable to remote participate in Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad’s 59th AGM are encouraged to appoint the
Chairperson of the Meeting to vote on their behalf.
2. You may deposit the Proxy Form electronically with the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd using
Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not later than 48 hours before the time set for holding
the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. Kindly follow the link at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com to login and select E-PROXY
LODGEMENT” to deposit your Proxy Form electronically.
3. If you wish to remote participate the Virtual Meeting yourself, please do not submit any Proxy Form. You will not be allowed to participate
the Virtual Meeting together with a proxy appointed by you.
4. If you have submitted Proxy Form prior to the Virtual Meeting and subsequently decide to appoint another person or wish to participate
in the Virtual Meeting by yourself, please write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com to revoke the earlier appointed proxy forty-
eight (48) hours before the Meeting.
Poll Voting (For Virtual Meeting)
1. The voting will be conducted by poll in accordance with Paragraph 8.29A of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing
Requirements. The Company has appointed Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd as Poll Administrator to conduct the poll by way of
electronic voting (e-Voting).
2. For the purposes of this AGM, the remote participation and e-voting will be carried out via the following voting devices:-
a. Personal smart mobile phones ,
b. tablets or
c. Laptops
3. There are 2 methods for members and proxies who wish to use their personal voting device to vote as follows:-
a. Using QR Scanner Code given in the email to you OR
b. Using website URL https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my
4. The polling will only commence after the announcement of poll voting session open by the Chairperson and until such time when the
Chairperson announces the closure of poll.
5. The Scrutineers will verify the poll result reports upon closing of the poll session by the Chairperson. Scrutineers will announce the
results thereafter and the Chairperson will declare whether the resolutions put to vote were successfully carried or not.
Remote Participation and Electronic Voting
6. Please note that this option is available to (i) individual members; (ii) corporate shareholder; (iii) Authorised Nominee; and
(iv) Exempt Authorised Nominee.
7. If you choose to participate in the meeting online, you will be able to view a live webcast of the Meeting, post questions to the Board
and submit your votes in real time whilst the meeting is in progress.
8. Kindy follow the steps below on how to request for login ID and password.
Step 1 – Register Online with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (for first time registration only)
[Note: If you have already signed up with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal, you are not required to register again. You may proceed
to Step 2. Submit request for Remote Participation user ID and password.]
a. Access website https://investor.boardroomlimited.com
b. Click <<Login>> and click <<Register>> to sign up as a user.
c. Complete registration and upload softcopy of MyKAD (front and back) or Passport in JPEG, PNG or PDF format.
d. Please enter a valid email address and wait for Boardroom’s email verification.
e. Your registration will be verified and approved within one (1) business day and an email notification will be provided.
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
11
Annual Report 2021
Step 2 – Submit Request for Remote Participation User ID and Password
[Note: The registration for remote access will be opened on 26 April 2022]
Individual Members
- Login to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password above.
- Select “Virtual Meeting” from main menu and select the correct Corporate Event “Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad 59th Virtual
Meeting.
- Read and agree the to the terms and conditions.
- Enter your CDS account and thereafter submit your request.
Corporate Shareholders
- Write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing the name of Member, CDS Account Number accompanied with the
Certificate of Appointment of Corporate Representative or Form of Proxy to submit the request.
Please also provide a copy of Corporate Representative’s MyKad (Front and Back) in JPEG, PNG or PDF format or Passport as well
as his/her email address.
Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee
- Write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing the name of Member, CDS Account Number accompanied with the
Form of Proxy to submit the request.
- Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee must also provide a copy of the Proxy Holder’s MyKad (Front and Back) or
Passport in JPEG, PNG or PDF format as well as his/her email address.
a. You will receive a notification from Boardroom that your request has been received and is being verified.
b. Upon system verification against the General Meeting Record of Depositors as at 18 May 2022, you will receive an email from
Boardroom either approving or rejecting your registration for remote participation.
c. You will also receive your remote access user ID and password along with the email from Boardroom if your registration is
approved.
d. Please note that the closing time to submit your request is at 10:00 a.m. on 23 May 2022 (48 hours before the Virtual Meeting).
Step 3 – Login to Virtual Meeting Portal
[Please note that the quality of the connectivity to Virtual Meeting Portal for live web cast as well as for remote online voting is highly
dependent on the bandwidth and the stability of the internet connectivity available at the location of the remote users.]
a. The Virtual Meeting portal will be open for login starting one (1) hour before the commencement of Virtual Meeting at 10:00 a.m.
on 25 May 2022.
b. Follow the steps given to you in the email along with your remote access user ID and password to login to the Virtual Meeting
portal. (Refer to Step 2 above)
c. The steps will also guide you how to view live web cast, ask questions and vote.
d. The live web cast will end and the Messaging window will be disabled the moment The Chairman announces the closure of the
Virtual Meeting.
e. You can now logout from Virtual Meeting Portal.
Live Webcast, Question and Voting at the Virtual Meeting
The Login User Guide for participation, posing questions and voting at the 59th AGM, will be emailed to the shareholders together with the
remote access user ID and password once their registration have been approved.
Shareholders who participate the Virtual Meeting are able to view the Company’s presentation or slides via the live web-streaming.
The Chairman and the Board of Directors will endeavour their best to respond to the questions submitted by shareholders which are related
to the resolutions to be tabled at the 59th AGM, as well as financial performance/prospect of the Company.
Shareholders may proceed to cast votes on each of the proposed resolutions, to be tabled at the 59th AGM, after the Chairman has opened
the poll voting session on the resolutions. Shareholders are reminded to cast their votes before the poll is closed.
No recording or photography of the virtual AGM proceedings is allowed without the prior written permission of the Company.
Shareholders/Proxies must ensure that you are connected to the internet at all times in order to participate and vote when the virtual AGM
has commenced. Therefore, it is your responsibility to ensure that connectivity for the duration of the meeting is maintained. Kindly note
that the quality of the live streaming is dependent on the bandwidth and stability of the internet connection at the location of the remote
participants.
Enquiry
Please email to the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com if you have
queries pertaining to the remote participation and electronic voting, prior to the virtual Meeting.
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
12 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
CORPORATE
INFORMATION
CHAIRPERSON
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin
Rajakumar
Independent Non-Executive Director
(appointed 27.02.2019)
DIRECTORS
Ramjeet Kaur Virik
Non-Independent Executive Director
Managing Director
(appointed 02.07.2021)
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Saw Chooi Lee
Senior Independent Non-Executive
Director
(appointed on 01.01.2014 and
re-designated to Independent
Non-Executive Director on 15.01.2020)
Bernardus Hermannus Maria
Kodden
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(appointed 01.01.2018)
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(appointed 16.03.2018)
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku
Shahriman
Independent Non-Executive Director
(appointed 25.06.2018)
Jean Serge Krol
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
(appointed 19.07.2019)
Darren Kong Kam Seong
Independent Non-Executive Director
(appointed 14.04.2021)
COMPANY SECRETARY
Katina Nurani binti Abd Rahim
Licensed Secretary
(L.S. No. 9652)
SSM Practising Certificate No.
201908001190
REGISTRAR
BOARDROOM SHARE REGISTRARS
SDN BHD
12th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Telephone : 03-7890 4800
Facsimile : 03-7841 8151
REGISTERED OFFICE
Level 5, Quill 9,
112, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
46300 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Telephone : 03-7953 2600
Facsimile : 03-7953 2700
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
PUBLIC BANK BERHAD
12, Jalan 14/14
46100 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
CITIBANK BERHAD
Level 45, Menara Citibank
No 165 Jalan Ampang
50450 Kuala Lumpur
MALAYAN BANKING BERHAD
18A, Jalan 14/14
46100 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
AUDITORS
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS PLT
(LLP0014401-LCA & AF 1146)
Chartered Accountants
Level 10, 1 Sentral, Jalan Rakyat
Kuala Lumpur Sentral
50706 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
Stock Code: DLADY 3026
WEBSITE
www.dutchlady.com.my
INVESTOR RELATIONS
& ENQUIRIES
Arent Naber
Finance Director
finance.dept@frieslandcampina.com
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
CHAIRPERSON
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku
Shahriman
MEMBERS
Saw Chooi Lee
Darren Kong Kam Seong
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias
Jean Serge Krol
NOMINATING &
REMUNERATION COMMITTEE
CHAIRPERSON
Saw Chooi Lee
MEMBERS
Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku
Shahriman
Darren Kong Kam Seong
13
Annual Report 2021
5-YEAR
FINANCIAL SUMMARY
REVENUE
(RM ‘mln)
‘17
‘17
‘17
1,064.5
1,048.6
1,066.6
1,100.6
1,133.7
‘19
‘19
‘19
‘18
‘18
‘18
‘20
‘20
‘20
‘21
‘21
‘21
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
(RM ‘mln)
‘17
‘17
‘17
157.5
171.3
137.6
97.5
284.5
‘19
‘19
‘19
‘18
‘18
‘18
‘20
‘20
‘20
‘21
‘21
‘21
NET PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
(RM ‘mln)
‘17
‘17
‘17
117.7
129.4
102.9
73.4
248.0
‘19
‘19
‘19
‘18
‘18
‘18
‘20
‘20
‘20
‘21
‘21
‘21
NET DIVIDEND PAID
(RM ‘mln)
179.2
128.0
64.0
51.2
32.0
PAID-UP SHARE CAPITAL
(RM ‘mln)
64.0
64.0
64.0
64.0
64.0
SHAREHOLDERS FUND
(RM ‘mln)
104.0
105.5
144.4
166.6
382.6
TOTAL ASSETS
(RM ‘mln)
392.3
404.8
443.6
498.8
701.2
NET ASSET BACKING
PER SHARE
(RM ‘mln)
1.63
1.65
2.26
2.60
5.98
EARNINGS PER SHARE
(SEN)
183.9
202.3
160.8
114.7
387.5
14 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Malaysian Female Age 53
Date of Appointment: 27 February 2019
Tenure of Directorship: 3 years 1 month
Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 4/4
Membership of Board Committee: None
Datin Seri Sunita was a member of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad’s board committees
up to 27 September 2021 when she relinquished her positions in all board committees.
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
• Berjaya Corporation Berhad
Non-listed public company
• MCIS Insurance Berhad
• Zurich General Insurance Malaysia Berhad
• Climate Governance Malaysia Berhad
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• LLB (Honours), Bristol University
• Qualified as Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of England & Wales in
1994
Working Experience:
Datin Seri Sunita’s career began at the Audit and Insolvency Divisions of Ernst & Young
in London. Thereafter she was attached to the Corporate Finance Department of RHB
Investment Bank Berhad in Kuala Lumpur before becoming a consultant at MIMOS Berhad,
where she was invited to manage a foreign technology venture capital fund. She is appointed
to the board of trustees of several charities and is involved in a spectrum of community-
based activities. She has a cumulative 20 years of experience sitting on boards ranging from
technology start-up companies to listed companies, and is a strong advocate of climate
governance, having founded the country chapter of the World Economic Forum’s climate
governance initiative.
DATIN SERI SUNITA MEI-LIN RAJAKUMAR
Chairperson and Independent Non-Executive Director
COMMITTEE MEMBER KEY
BOARD COMPOSITION
GENDER
4
5
3
3 1
A
N
Audit & Risk Committee
Nominating &
Remuneration Committee
Independent Non-Executive
Directors
Male
Non-Independent Non-Executive
Directors
Female
Executive Directors
15
Annual Report 2021
PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Malaysian Female Age 45
Date of Appointment: 2 July 2021
Tenure of Directorship: 8 months
Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 2/2
Membership of Board Committee:
None
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed
Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Bachelor of Science Degree in Economics, Banking and Finance,
London School of Economics, United Kingdom.
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed
Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Ramjeet has been with FrieslandCampina for 10 years. Prior to her
current appointment, Ramjeet was the Marketing Director for the
Consumer Dairy Business of the Company since 2018. Before that,
she was the International Marketing Manager at FrieslandCampina
Asia based in Singapore, and Marketing Manager at PT Frisian Flag
Indonesia.
She has more than 20 years of experience in various commercial
roles, namely in marketing, sales and shopper functions. Her career
started in other leading fast-moving consumer goods organisations
such as British American Tobacco (M) Sdn Bhd and Heineken
Malaysia Berhad (previously known as Guinness Anchor Berhad).
Malaysian Female Age 58
Date of Appointment: 1 January 2014
Re-designation to Independent Director: 15 January 2020
Tenure of Directorship as Independent Director: 2 years 2 months
Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 4/4
Membership of Board Committee:
• Nominating & Remuneration Committee (Chairperson)
• Audit & Risk Committee
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed
Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and MBA from
the University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA
Working Experience:
Ms. Saw was formerly the Managing Director for Dutch Lady
Milk Malaysia and Singapore from 2015 to 2017. She was then
re-designated as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director in
January 2018.
Ms. Saw started her marketing career by joining the Unilever
management training programme and since then, she has held
various senior managerial positions within the fast-moving
consumer goods industry. She first joined the Company in March
2003 as its Commercial Director. From March 2008 to 2010, she
was appointed as the General Manager for FrieslandCampina Hong
Kong. She was then promoted to become the Managing Director for
FrieslandCampina Mainland China from 2011 to 2014.
She also teaches at the Graduate Business School – MBA Program,
Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia and mentors in the Women in
Leadership (WIL) programme by Lead-Women Malaysia Organisation.
RAMJEET KAUR VIRIK
Executive Director
SAW CHOOI LEE
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
A N
16 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Dutch Male Age 48
Date of Appointment: 1 January 2018
Tenure of Directorship: 4 years 2 months
Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 4/4
Membership of Board Committee:
• Nominating & Remuneration Committee
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed
Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• BA in International Economics/Modern Japanese Studies
University of Rotterdam in the Netherlands
• MA International Relations, University of Gronigen in the
Netherlands
• MBA from University of Bradford/NIMBAS University
Working Experience:
Mr. Kodden assumed the position of President of Business
Group, Specialised Nutrition for Royal FrieslandCampina N.V on
1 January 2018. Prior to that, he was the Managing Director for
FrieslandCampina, Branded Netherlands. He has also held various
director and managerial positions for Infant & Toddler Nutrition,
Brand and Innovation and Sales within Royal Friesland Foods and
later FrieslandCampina N.V. He has extensive experience in the areas
of sales, marketing, general management and crisis management.
Malaysian Female Age 64
Date of Appointment: 16 March 2018
Tenure of Directorship: 4 years
Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 4/4
Membership of Board Committee:
• Audit & Risk Committee
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed
Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Doctor of Veterinary Medicine, DVM, Universiti Pertanian
Malaysia
Working Experience:
Dato’ Dr. Rosini was formerly the Deputy Director-General of the
Department of Veterinary Services (DVS), Malaysia. Her career in
the veterinary and agricultural sector spans over 30 years, and
her contribution and service to the veterinary sector has been
recognised through state honours and by industry patrons in 2015
and 2017.
BERNARDUS HERMANNUS
MARIA KODDEN
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
DATO’ DR. ROSINI BINTI ALIAS
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
A
N
17
Annual Report 2021
Malaysian Female Age 59
Date of Appointment: 25 June 2018
Tenure of Directorship: 3 years 9 months
Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 4/4
Membership of Board Committee:
• Audit & Risk Committee (Chairperson)
• Nominating & Remuneration Committee
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed
Issuers:
• Sunway REIT Management Sdn Bhd (management company of
Sunway REIT)
• FM Global Logistics Holdings Berhad (formerly known as Freight
Management Holdings Berhad)
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Advocate and Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya
• Barrister-at-Law - The Honourable Society of Inner Temple
• School of Oriental & African Studies, London University, LLB
(Hons)
Working Experience:
Tengku Nurul Azian was formerly the Executive Vice President
& Partner of PEMANDU Associates Sdn Bhd, a management
consulting firm focused on public sector transformation and
business turnaround with global experience.
She started her career in 1988 as an Advocate and Solicitor with
Messrs. Shook Lin & Bok before pursuing a career in investment
banking in 1992. She has over 18 years of broad experience in
investment banking and corporate finance, the last position held
as Head of Corporate Finance in RHB Investment Bank Berhad,
a member of RHB Banking Group, the 4th largest fully integrated
financial services group in Malaysia.
In 2010, she was appointed as the Director of Education and Human
Capital Development in the Performance Management and Delivery
Unit (PEMANDU) and held this position until 2017.
She is also a Board member of Pemimpin GSL, Malaysia, a member
of the Global School Leaders network,an organisation involved
in providing school leadership programs to head teachers in
approximately 195 schools and sits on the Board of Governors of
her alma mater, Convent Bukit Nanas.
PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
TENGKU NURUL AZIAN
BINTI TENGKU SHAHRIMAN
Independent Non-Executive Director
A N
Dutch Male Age 51
Date of Appointment: 19 July 2019
Tenure of Directorship: 2 years 8 months
Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 4/4
Membership of Board Committee:
• Audit & Risk Committee
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed
Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Post-master Degree Certified Controller (RC), Vrije Universiteit,
Amsterdam
• Post-master Degree Certified Public Accountant (RA),
Rijksuniversiteit Groningen (RUG), Groningen
• Master of Economics (Drs.), Auditing variant, Rijksuniversiteit
Groningen (RUG), Groningen
Working Experience:
Mr. Krol joined FrieslandCampina in 2002 as Commercial Controller
Friesland Foods Cheese, Wolvega. He then held the position as a
Finance Director at FrieslandCampina Thailand, Bangkok from
2006 to 2010 and as Finance Director at FrieslandCampina DOMO,
Amersfoort from 2010 to 2015 before assuming the position as
Finance Director of FrieslandCampina China, Shanghai in May
2015. In July 2019, he was appointed as the Director of Finance for
FrieslandCampina’s Specialised Nutrition Business Group.
JEAN SERGE KROL
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
A
18 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Malaysian Female Age 47
Date of Appointment: 6 April 2018
Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 4/4
Directorship in Public Listed Companies:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• LLB (Honours), University of Nottingham, United Kingdom
• Bar Vocational Course, University of Wales, Cardiff, United
Kingdom
• Barrister-at-Law of England & Wales (Lincoln’s Inn)
• Advocate & Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya
• Licensed Company Secretary
Working Experience:
Katina was admitted as an Advocate & Solicitor of the High Court of
Malaya in 1999 after which she practiced in several law firms in Kuala
Lumpur before joining the Usaha Tegas Group as Legal Counsel in
2005. Subsequently, she was attached to Lafarge Malaysia Berhad
from March 2011 to March 2018 where she was the Head Counsel for
Cement and Drymix businesses and the Company Secretary. She
then joined the Company on 15 March 2018 as the Legal & Company
Secretarial head. She is a licensed company secretary under Section
20(G) of the Companies Commission of Malaysia Act 2001.
KATINA NURANI BINTI ABD RAHIM
Company Secretary
PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Save as disclosed, the Directors and the Company Secretary
do not have any family relationship with any Director and/or
major shareholder of the Company other than as nominee
director of Royal FrieslandCampina N.V., do not have
any conflict of interest with the Company, has not been
convicted of any offence within the past five years, has not
been imposed any penalty by the relevant regulatory bodies
during the financial year 2021.
Malaysian Male Age 44
Date of Appointment: 14 April 2021
Tenure of Directorship: 11 months
Board Meeting Attendance in 2021: 3/3
Membership of Board Committee:
• Audit & Risk Committee
• Nominating & Remuneration Committee
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed
Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Fellow Member of the Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants (ACCA)
• Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA)
• Associate member of the Association of Certified Fraud
Examiners (ACFE)
• Member of the Certified Practising Accountants, Australia (CPA)
• Member of the Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia (ICDM)
• Member of the Singapore Institute of Directors (SID)
• BSc (Hons) in Applied Accounting, Oxford Brookes University,
United Kingdom
Working Experience:
Mr. Darren Kong is currently Managing Director, Corporate Strategy
& Alliance of Fusionex Group, an established multi-award winning
data technology provider that specialises in Analytics, Big Data,
Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. Prior to venturing into
the ICT sector, he has held senior management and finance positions
in industries covering property development, property management
and the automotive industry. His area of work involves various
organisations from enterprises to small businesses, establishing
partnership with trade and industrial associations and government
agencies.
Mr. Darren Kong is a fellow member of the Association of Chartered
Certified Accountants (ACCA), a member of the Malaysian Institute
of Accountants (MIA), a member of Certified Practising Accountant
(CPA) Australia, a member of Institute of Corporate Directors
Malaysia (ICDM), a global associate member of Singapore Institute
of Directors (SID) and an associate member of the Association
of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE). He graduated from Oxford
Brookes University, United Kingdom with a BSc (Hons) in Applied
Accounting and a professional qualification from the Association of
Chartered Certified Accountants. He also holds a Certificate in Data
Analytics (CertDA) from ACCA, a Certificate in Digital Marketing
Specialist from Malaysian Institute of Management, a Certified Digital
Transformation Professional (International Program) from CASUGOL
and a Certificate in Google Cloud Big Data & Machine Learning.
DARREN KONG KAM SEONG
Independent Non-Executive Director
A N
20 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
MANAGEMENT TEAM
PROFILES
Appointed: July 2021
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Bachelor of Science Degree in Economics, Banking and Finance, London School of
Economics, United Kingdom.
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Ramjeet has been with FrieslandCampina for 10 years. Prior to her current appointment,
Ramjeet was the Marketing Director for the Consumer Dairy Business of the Company since
2018. Before that, she was the International Marketing Manager at FrieslandCampina Asia
based in Singapore, and Marketing Manager at PT Frisian Flag Indonesia.
She has more than 20 years of experience in various commercial roles, namely in marketing,
sales and shopper functions. Her career started in other leading fast-moving consumer
goods organisations such as British American Tobacco (M) Sdn Bhd and Heineken Malaysia
Berhad (previously known as Guinness Anchor Berhad).
RAMJEET KAUR VIRIK
Managing Director
Appointed: September 2020
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Leading to Succeed program, Ashridge University, United Kingdom
• Executive Master in Finance and Control, Tias Nimbas Business School, Netherlands
• Master of Science in Financial Management, Nyenrode Business University, Netherlands
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Prior to his current role as Finance Director, Arent was the Customer Finance Manager for
FrieslandCampina Philippines - Alaska Milk Corporation since 2017. Prior to that, Arent held
various positions in FrieslandCampina since 2009 including Manager Corporate Internal
Audit and Supply Chain Finance Manager FrieslandCampina Domo USA 2015 – 2017.
ARENT NABER
Finance Director
Dutch Male Age 35
Malaysian Female Age 45
21
Annual Report 2021
MANAGEMENT TEAM
PROFILES
Appointed: November 2019
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Degree in Biomedical Science, National University of Malaysia
• Leading to Succeed Program, Ashridge University, United Kingdom
• MBA Essential Certificate, London School of Economics and Political Science
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Zatur has more than 20 years of experience in pharmaceutical and FMCG, with the last
8 years focusing specifically on Nutrition/Dairy. Before assuming her current role, Zatur was
the Specialised Nutrition Director for the Company and prior to that, she was Specialised
Nutrition Director at FrieslandCampina Nigeria.
She joined FrieslandCampina in Singapore as International Medical Marketing Manager
in October 2013. Zatur was then invited to move to Nigeria in 2015 where she led the
Specialised Nutrition portfolio as Marketing Manager before moving into the Specialised
Nutrition Director role in 2018. Prior to joining FrieslandCampina, Zatur worked with Sanofi-
Aventis, GlaxoSmithkline Pharmaceutical, Wyeth Pharmaceutical and Kimberly-Clark.
ZATUR BINTI HASSIM
Marketing Director
Appointed: September 2018
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Bachelor of Communications (Honours), University Science of Malaysia
• Leaders of the Future Programme, Ashridge Business School, Hertfordshire,
United Kingdom
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
In addition to his role as Corporate Affairs Director for the Company, Hadi was also appointed
as FrieslandCampina’s Public Affairs Coordinator for AMEA Region. Prior to joining the
Company, Hadi was the Manager, Government & Corporate Affairs with JT International
Berhad from 2001 to 2018.
Hadi has over 29 years’ experience in various roles in the areas of government & external
relations, regulatory affairs, corporate communications, public relations, CSR and corporate
branding. He previously held positions at Communication Resource Group Public Relations
Sdn Bhd, Kuala Lumpur Sentral Sdn Bhd (a member of the Malaysian Resources Corporation
Berhad Group of Companies), Malaysian Resources Corporation Berhad and Dialog Group
Berhad.
Effective 1 December 2020, Hadi has been appointed as Public Affairs AMEA Region
Coordinator. Hadi will take a seat in the most important regional bodies and partner the
local teams within Asia, Middle East and Africa region, acting as a sparring business partner
for regional public affairs.
MUHAMMAD ABDUL HADI
BIN ABDULLAH
Corporate Affairs Director
Malaysian Male Age 54
Malaysian Female Age 43
22 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
MANAGEMENT TEAM
PROFILES
Appointed: January 2022
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Leadership Program, Executive Education, London Business School, United Kingdom
• Certified Master Performance Coach, JMC Academy, Malaysia
• Hallos Relationship Practitioner, Hallos Relationship Community, Spain
• The Change Cycle Practitioner, The Change Cycle Series, USA
• 360 Degree Profiler Practitioner, Korn Ferry, India
• Thomas Emotional Intelligence Certified Practitioner, Thomas International, United
Kingdom
• Post Graduate Diploma in Management, Human Resources (Major) & Marketing (Minor),
Symbiosis Center for Management and Human Resource Development, India
• Bachelor of Engineering, Computer Engineering, North Maharashtra University, India
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Prior to her current role as Human Resources Director, Anjali was the Regional Head of
Talent Centre of Competence, for Nestlé in Asia Pacific and Sub-Saharan Africa Region,
based in Kuala Lumpur since 2018. Prior to that, Anjali has held various positions in Nestlé
since 2006, including Corporate People Development and Employee Communications Lead
for South Asia (based in India), and Change, Organisation Design and Communications Lead
for Indochina (based in Thailand) between 2013 – 2018.
ANJALI VELAYUDHAN
MENON
Human Resources Director
Appointed: October 2018
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Management Development Program, Ashridge Business School, UK
• Food Economics (MSc), Wageningen University, The Netherlands
• Dairy Process Technology, HAS University, The Netherlands
• Business Administration, Fulton Montgomery Community College, USA
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Before assuming his current role, Sander was the Operations Director at DLMI. He also
held different roles within Asia, amongst others Performance Excellence Manager with
Frisian Flag Indonesia and prior to that Plant Manager and later Site Manager at Alaska Milk
Corporation in the Philippines.
He started his career in 2000 with Calvé Delft, a part of Unilever N.V. and joined
FrieslandCampina in 2001. He has over 19 years of experience in operations, continuous
improvement, project management and supply chain and has held various management
positions in the Netherlands, France, USA, Philippines and Indonesia.
SANDER JANMAAT
Program Director
Dutch Male Age 46
Indian Female Age 40
23
Annual Report 2021
MANAGEMENT TEAM
PROFILES
Appointed: January 2022
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Dare to lead program, Vlerick Business School, Ghent, Belgium
• Bachelor of Business in Information Technology University of Coventry, England
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Prior to his current role as Sales Director, Wilson was the National Customer Development
Manager - Modern Trade & GT Chilled for Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad. Wilson is
equipped with 14 years of sales experience and joined the company in April 2016. Prior to
DLMI, he worked in Reckitt Benckiser, Unilever and local company Nibong Tebal Enterprise,
all in various sales capacity. At DLMI, he was part of multiple sales transformation projects
and was a part of the Future Leader Cohort 2018.
WILSON CHUA
Sales Director
Appointed: April 2021
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Advanced Diploma in Business Administration (Association of Business Executive,
ABE UK)
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Poh Lian started her career with FrieslandCampina in 2013 when she joined as Supply
Planning Manager.
Since then, she had progressively expanded her role to encompass Shipping, Logistics and
then Warehousing as a Plan & Deliver Manager prior to her current role as a Customer
Supply Chain Lead.
She started her Supply Chain career with Unilever. During her tenure, Poh Lian had also
been part of Finance, GL reporting and was also tasked to lead outsourcing transformation
of the Accounts Payable function before moving back to Supply Chain as Demand and
Supply Manager.
She has more than 13 years of experience in various managerial positions, managing
different part of the supply chain.
TAN POH LIAN
Plan & Deliver Lead
Malaysian Female Age 45
Malaysian Male Age 37
Save as disclosed, the members of the Management Team do not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of the Company other than as nominee director of Royal FrieslandCampina N.V., do not have any conflict of interest with
the Company, has not been convicted of any offence within the past five years, has not been imposed any penalty by the relevant
regulatory bodies during the financial year 2021, and do not hold any shares in the Company.
26 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
CHAIRPERSON’S
STATEMENT
Nourishing Our Nation
Dear Shareholders,
On behalf of the Board of Directors, I am pleased to
present the Company’s Annual Report and Audited
Financial Statements for the financial year ended
31 December 2021.
Facing Headwinds
2021 proved to be an extension to the previous year’s
unprecedented challenges facing our country, community
and businesses across all industries. Economic headwinds
coupled with the COVID-19 pandemic produced an
environment of uncertainty, impacting traditional ways of
working and disrupted established business models.
At Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (“DLMI”), we have
managed to thus far, weather this economic and COVID-19
storm mainly due to the resilience and agility of our talented
workforce and business partners. These factors continue
to be critical for the ongoing success of our business
operations.
The sustainability of our purpose, ‘Nourishing our Nation’
continues to guide us in these difficult times. Recognised as
‘essential services’ by the Government during the Movement
Control Order (MCO), DLMI continued to provide our popular
nutritious products to further the national health agenda.
We remain resolutely guided by FrieslandCampina’s global
mantra on people safety, focus on our primary processes,
staying connected and making impactful decisions with the
future in mind.
Persevering through the COVID-19 Storm
Despite the challenges faced in 2021, DLMI posted a 3%
revenue growth to RM1.13 billion, resulting in a Profit Before
Tax of RM284.5 million.
Our purpose of Nourishing Our Nation could not have been
more clearer during this pandemic. With the greenlight from
the Government to operate during the MCO in 2021, DLMI
worked purposefully, delivering quality dairy products to
all parts of the country and simultaneously supported the
Government’s national health agenda.
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar
Chairperson
27
Annual Report 2021
CHAIRPERSON’S
STATEMENT
Supporting the Nation’s Wellbeing
Since our establishment in 1963, DLMI
has contributed much to the nation’s
wellbeing. Consistently aligned to our
core purpose, we continue to deliver
innovative dairy products. We remain
very excited to support and nourish
the generations of Malaysians yet to
come.
To elevate our overall business
operations, DLMI has infused our
Leadership Philosophy into our
everyday operations, to maximise our
business foundation model on the 4Ps:
Purpose, People, Performance and
Potential.
Purpose
Throughout our 58 years of operating
in the country, DLMI has remained
steadfast to our purpose of Nourishing
Our Nation by encouraging the
consumption of nutritious milk
products. We now have a wide range
of well-loved iconic products, covering
our Dutch Lady Liquid Milk range, Dutch
Lady and Friso Gold formulated milk
powder for children, and Yogurt range.
It is indeed heartening to see children
grow up on these products and in turn,
nourish their own children with the
same trusted brand. We are deeply
gratified that it is Malaysians, our
customers, who have made DLMI the
No. 1 dairy company in Malaysia.
We shoulder this responsibility as a
sacred trust. DLMI strongly supports
the Government’s national health
agenda regarding non-communicable
diseases, i.e., stunting, obesity and
micronutrient deficiencies in children.
To boost nutritional levels of our dairy
products, we constantly reformulate
our products based on consumer
research and nutritional deficiencies.
This includes reducing sugar and fat
content as well as increasing calcium,
protein, vitamins and minerals.
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
RM284.5
MILLION
REVENUE
RM1.13 BILLION
+3%
RM32
MILLION
It is indeed heartening
to see children grow up
on these products and in
turn, nourish their own
children with the same
trusted brand. We are
deeply gratified that it is
Malaysians, our customers,
who have made DLMI the
No. 1 dairy company in
Malaysia.
We continue to partner the authorities
and healthcare stakeholders, exploring
avenues to increase access to nutrition
in our quest to a healthier Malaysia.
People
We stand proud in recognition of
our people who make DLMI and our
brands great. It is their expertise and
experience that drives our continued
business growth.
During the ongoing pandemic, our
primary focus has been on ensuring
the safety, health and mental wellbeing
of our people. Besides the mandatory
requirements, we implemented
further measures such as frequent
testing using Rapid Test Kits, driving
vaccination campaigns, pushing the
work-from-home approach for office-
based employees with full focus
to support our primary processes,
manufacturing and sales.
Having an agile mindset and framework
proved hugely beneficial in adapting to
these changes. This helped to ensure
a seamless transition to a digital
platform, with employees using virtual
tools and data analytics in day-to-day
decision making and adapting to the
New Way of Working.
Performance
Our 2021 results showing internal
topline growth is a strong testament
to the strength of our trusted brands
to meet the needs of consumers in
this fast-paced and rapidly evolving
environment. To our valued customers,
we extend our heartfelt thanks for your
strong support and confidence.
DLMI is cognisant that in order to
grow market share, productivity
and profitability are critical factors.
Immersed in a performance-oriented
culture, DLMI is committed to increase
productivity across all aspects of its
operation, from logistics of supply, to
storage and distribution.
dividends paid to shareholders
28 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
CHAIRPERSON’S
STATEMENT
Our winning profitability formula which has served us well in
2021 will continue well into 2022. We will strive to achieve our
topline numbers and align our business parameters with the
environmental outlook. The business will keep close watch
on our mix, pricing and stock levels as well as managing
costs and maintaining a healthy cash level. Achieving our
target gross margin will enable us to continue to invest in
our key assets - our strong brands and committed staff.
With this combination of factors, we are confident we will
continue to achieve our targets now and for years to come.
Potential
As Malaysia remains a very important market with a bright
outlook, we will be investing RM400 million in our new
manufacturing plant at Techpark in Bandar Enstek, Negeri
Sembilan to support the company’s long-term expansion
plans in Malaysia. This demonstrates DLMI’s continued
commitment to nurturing the goodness of milk and growing
milk consumption in Malaysia.
This upcoming facility, at close to 33 acres, is three times
the size of our existing factory in Petaling Jaya and will allow
us to double our production capacity. It was chosen for its
strategic location, connected by excellent infrastructure and
road linkages to all urban centres and ports. Additionally,
it is located within an Industrial Park with Halal status,
a distinctive advantage in the local market.
We take great pride in building a Smart Factory with
Industry 4.0 standards that will create a myriad of future
opportunities to benefit the nation. Our new facility will
also incorporate green and high-technology, improved
sustainability and efficiencies with future innovations that
include energy efficient utilities, zero-losses processing,
reuse of rainwater as well as improved recyclability.
DLMI will continue adopting new strategies to ensure
continuity and sustainability of the business to win in the
market.
Sustainability Commitment
Sustainability across our value chain is a critical element in
our business, ensuring our ability to provide trusted quality,
safe and affordable nutrition to a growing population.
We call this our ‘Grass to Glass’ philosophy.
On this philosophy, we have built our Company’s
sustainability roadmap, outlining four specific areas:
Nourishing Malaysians with better and affordable nutrition,
leading sustainable actions at the farm, striving for a
balance with nature via our carbon footprint reduction and
post-consumption initiatives.
These areas are further aligned with FrieslandCampina’s
‘Nourishing A Better Planet’, which in turn drives support
for 7 out of the 17 United Nations’ Sustainable Development
Goals.
In the course of creating high-quality affordable nutritional
products as our main objective and nourishing our
nation, we also remember that water management is a
core component of DLMI’s Sustainability roadmap. DLMI
embarked on a tributary cleaning project of Sungai Penchala
to revitalise its ecosystem from August to December 2021.
We welcome future collaborations with other businesses,
residents, students, state agencies and local government so
we can work together and learn to be better river guardians
together.
At industry level, DLMI will continue to play an active role in
driving and advocating the recyclable and circular packaging
agenda through the Malaysian Recycling Alliance Berhad
(MAREA), aiming ultimately for a sustainable, recycling
ecosystem.
We are also part of the CEO Action Network (CAN), a closed-
door peer-to-peer informal network of CEOs and Board
members, focusing on sustainability advocacy, capacity
building and action and performance. Such networking
opens up opportunities to forge partnerships that are
committed to responsible business practices and sustainable
development.
Sustainability across our value chain is a
critical element in our business, ensuring
our ability to provide trusted quality,
safe and affordable nutrition to a growing
population. We call this our ‘Grass to
Glass’ philosophy.
29
Annual Report 2021
CHAIRPERSON’S
STATEMENT
Industry Awards and Recognition
I am proud to share that we won 2 gold and 1 bronze award at the Employee
Experience Awards Malaysia 2021.
1. Best Employee Wellness Strategy (Gold)
2. Best Organisation Upskilling and Reskilling Strategy (Gold)
3. Best Crisis Management & Leadership (Bronze)
The Employee Experience Awards rewards top-notch Human Resource (HR) teams
and individuals with business stories that inspire, educate and move the dial on
employee experience and are judged by a panel of top HR leaders.
This recognition serves as an amazing testimony of a truly nourishing organisation
and the impact made by nurturing our people via Body.Mind.Soul (BMS) and
growing our people through talent development.
I am also immensely proud that DLMI continues to be the strong number 1 dairy
company* in Malaysia in 2021, with Dutch Lady leading in the liquid milk and
mainstream IFT segments.
Our other brand, Friso Gold, was also awarded The Motherhood Choice Award
2021 by The World Brands Foundation (TWBF). The Motherhood’s Choice Award
seeks out favorite brands for pregnancy, maternity, toddler and kids’ products and
services in line with the Government’s commitment to regulate and improve child
safety measures and aims to showcase top quality, safe and innovative products
that are endorsed by mothers from all over the world.
*Dairy includes liquid milk, infant milk, yogurt/yogurt drink/cultured milk
Dividends
During the financial year ended 31 December 2021, a total of RM32 million was paid
out as standard and special interim dividends to shareholders. This represents a
13% distribution of the Company’s net profit attributable to shareholders. I wish
to remind shareholders that the payment of any special and extraordinary interim
dividends is very much dependent on the Company’s profitability, business and
operational needs during the year as well as for the future.
Board and Management Changes
In 2021, we saw some changes to the Board composition. I assumed the role of
Chairperson, following the close of the Company’s 58th Annual General Meeting
(AGM). I would like to take this opportunity to thank Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih
for being Chairman and Independent Director of the Board for 12 years and I wish
to extend our utmost gratitude to him for his contribution through the years.
In 2021, we welcomed Darren Kong
Kam Seong to DLMI as our newest
member of the Board. We also saw
several changes to our management
team. DLMI’s Managing Director, Tarang
Gupta left the Company to further his
career at FrieslandCampina in the
Philippines and he was succeeded by
DLMI’s Marketing Director of Consumer
Dairy, Ramjeet Kaur Virik. We then bid
farewell to our Sales Director, Katrina
Neo as she embarked on a new career
and we warmly welcomed Wilson Chua,
our National Customer Development
Manager who assumed the role of
Sales Director. We also welcomed
Anjali Menon, our new Human
Resource Director as Sharon Foo
began the next phase of her journey
at FrieslandCampina as well as Inderjit
Singh who joined us as Head of Internal
Audit. We thank Tarang, Katrina and
Sharon for their contribution to the
Company.
Acknowledgement
Whilst the pandemic continues to
significantly roil social and economic
networks almost everywhere in the
world, it has also demonstrated that
people are able to face these challenges
head on and adapt for better outcomes.
I have seen this resilience and grit in
our Management team, employees and
business partners alike and applaud
them for their commendable team
spirit.
I take this opportunity to also thank
the members of the Board for their
dedication and direction in guiding
the company progressively forward
through this very challenging period.
Looking at the team we have, the
resources, the experience and
expertise, I have every confidence that
DLMI will continue to persevere with
high performance and success in the
year ahead.
#NourishingOurNation
#StrongMeStrongerUs
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar
Chairperson
1 2 3
30 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
Datin Seri Sunita
Mei-Lin Rajakumar
Chairperson
Ramjeet Kaur Virik
Executive Director
Distributing over
180,000
milk packs
to key frontliners and
partnered various
Non-Government
Organisations, Key
Opinion Leaders and
Foodbanks
Nourishing by Nature
Our Dairy Development
Programme (DDP) has
helped produce
37.9 million
LITRES OF MILK
31
Annual Report 2021
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
Purpose: Nourishing Our Nation
During Unprecedented Times
Everything we do at DLMI is driven by our
Purpose. Nourishing Our Nation with trusted
and sustainable dairy nutrition, is our mantra to
continue to achieve accelerated growth. More so
during this COVID-19 pandemic and beyond, we
continued to empower Malaysians to focus on
nutrition. As a leading dairy company in Malaysia,
we support the Government’s national health
agenda to mitigate the public health crisis such
as non-communicable diseases i.e. stunting,
obesity and micronutrient deficiencies in children
to improve the nutritional status of Malaysians.
Nourishing Our Nation guided by our leadership
philosophy focusing on our 4Ps: Purpose, People,
Performance and Potential has helped us meet
the needs of our shareholders, consumers and
communities, while caring for our environment.
This strategy helps us address key challenges
facing our Company during the COVID-19
pandemic including a highly competitive
operating environment, a rapidly changing retail
landscape, and an ever evolving regulatory, social
and cultural landscape.
As an organisation categorised in the ‘essential’
sector, DLMI was given the necessary approvals
by the Government to operate during the
Movement Control Order, hence allowing us to
continue advocating the Government’s national
health.
In the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic, pivoting
was necessary to help us navigate unprecedented
times while continuing to meet the needs of
our consumers. We realised the importance of
delivering products, experiences and services
that meet our customers’ new needs with
empathy and care during the pandemic. Our
agility helped us to evolve quickly as we observed
shifts in the behaviour of consumers during the
pandemic. From a conventional journey, we have
embarked on a new, unexplored one. We have
learned to adapt and adopt new ways of working.
More importantly, it has also taught us how to
turn adversity into opportunity.
Besides ensuring full product availability
throughout these challenging times, including
the floods at the end of 2021 that impacted many
different communities across the country, DLMI
continued to nourish key frontliners and partnered
various Non-Government Organisations, Key
Opinion Leaders and Foodbanks by distributing
over 180,000 milk packs. We take great pride
in being able to make a difference in society by
supporting our Rakyat.
Everything we do at Dutch Lady
Milk Industries Berhad’s (DLMI) is
driven by our Purpose. Nourishing
Our Nation with trusted and
sustainable dairy nutrition, is our
mantra to continue to achieve
accelerated growth.
PURPOSE
PEOPLE
PERFORMANCE
POTENTIAL
32 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Driving The Nation’s Sustainable Dairy Farming
DLMI achieved a milestone in April 2021 when we
established a strategic public-private partnership by signing
a Memorandum of Collaboration with the Department of
Veterinary Services (DVS) to boost our nation’s supply of
quality local fresh milk and to achieve a fully sustainable
milk supply for the future. The collaboration allows DLMI
to partner the Government, especially the Ministry of
Agriculture and Food Industry to support the growth of the
local dairy industry. This is in line with the Government’s goal
to achieve 100 percent Self-Sufficiency of local fresh milk by
2025 as part of the National Dairy Industry Development
Programme. Since 2011, our Dairy Development Programme
(DDP) has helped produce 37.9 million litres of milk while our
Farmer2Farmer (F2F) Programme has benefitted more than
536 farmers. In 2021, we introduced a new digital F2F format
that revolved around video blogs and was aptly named F2F
Vlogs. Via this initiative, a total of 70 local dairy farmers
were trained virtually during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Environmental Sustainability
DLMI is constantly working to reduce our environmental
footprint. Efforts to care for our environment are practiced
everydayacrossourbusinessforexamplethroughpurchasing
100% green electricity. As such, we’re committed to using
less energy and water, reducing waste and decreasing
emissions. In 2021, we achieved an Energy ratio of 1.20 GJ/
ton and Water ratio of 3.23 m3/ton against the budgeted
1.12 GJ/ton and 3.59 m3/ton, respectively. This was done by
implementing a few mechanical and systematical initiatives
including energy recovery from steam condensate, reducing
and reusing water usage from our manufacturing facility,
compressed air optimisation through installation of booster
pumps and air receiver tanks as well as energy conservation.
Tributary Cleaning: Revitalisation of Sungai Penchala
Ecosystem
Public-private partnerships are vital in mapping and
addressing environmental and societal needs. DLMI is happy
to lead the path for effective and sustainable measures to
ensure sustainable development of our river ecosystem -
a key natural resource we need to preserve. As such, DLMI
began tributary cleaning of Sungai Penchala in partnership
with Selangor Maritime Gateway, an initiative by the
Selangor Government to clean, rehabilitate and develop
areas along the Sungai Klang ecosystem to make it an
engine of growth for the state. During the clean-up from 15
August right up to 31 December 2021, a total of 11.1 metric
ton of waste was removed from Sungai Penchala. DLMI has
also recently embarked on a partnership with the Global
Environment Centre, a highly reputable organisation that
shares a common goal in caring for the environment with
various activities and solutions driven on river care. We
look forward to supporting relevant activities pertaining
to the river care of Sungai Penchala especially in driving
greater effectiveness in river monitoring in the community
via education and provision of the right infrastructure
and tools. Our tributary cleaning efforts were recognised
by the Selangor state government to be amongst the five
key public-private collaborations involved in the cleaning,
rehabilitation and sustainable development of Klang river.
We realise that that greater collaboration is critical for
efficient sustainable plans, particularly in shaping broader
solutions. We will continuously engage with our local
community in Petaling Jaya to join us in this mission as we
strive to catalyse meaningful and substantial change for our
river and ecosystem.
Investing in our PEOPLE: People Growth = Business
Growth
Our Purpose, next to our brand, would not be realised
without our greatest asset: our PEOPLE. When COVID-19 hit
Malaysia, it reshaped the landscape of work and productivity
as health and safety took priority, which carried on through
2021. Staying strong and connected together during
this unprecedented time was pivotal, even more so with
the various location demographics in the workforce: the
manufacturing plant, our corporate office and field workforce
– where the method of care and attention differs. With all
these external challenges, the collective contributions and
strength of our People, mattered more than ever.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
Energy ratio Water ratio
Achieved Achieved
1.20 GJ/ton 3.23 m3/ton
budgeted
1.12 GJ/ton
budgeted
3.59 m3/ton
33
Annual Report 2021
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
Through the course of 2021, we had carried out various
initiatives in ensuring our People stayed connected through
strong adoption of CARE (C-Connected; A-Appreciated;
R-Responsive; E-Energised) principles, wellness initiatives
to remain engaged and energised, and enabled a forward,
flexible way of working through Agile Transformation.
Despite all external challenges, we continue to invest in our
People, and will continue doing so for years to come.
Capability Building
We remain committed and passionate about talent
management and development as our employees are drivers
of sustainable success. Hence, various initiatives have been
deployed to enhance capability building:
Winning Through Volatility – Body.Mind.Soul (BMS)
Thecurrentvolatilebusinesslandscaperepresentsachallenge
to employees where mental, spiritual and physical energies
are shifting. This amplified the relevance of personal energy
management - that an Engaged, Enabled, and Energised
workforce is key in motivating our business forward.
In 2021, many wellness-focused initiatives were deployed via
our Employee Engagement model, Body.Mind.Soul (BMS),
which included:
01
Local employee participation in
FrieslandCampina Academy programmes
(Nourishing Leadership, Future Leader) – in
developing the next class of high potential
leaders
02
Driving Coaching Culture via the Solution
Focused Coaching programme (74 pax
which accounts for 75% of our Business
Leadership Team + selected Talent across
DLMI involving up to 3,552 man-hour
spent)
03
Enterprise Agile Transformation:
Introducing the Agile fundamentals; Agile
Coaching (Total 106 pax of employees has
went through Agile Fundamental training;
768 of Agile coaching hours)
04
Employee Growth and Development:
10,259 training man-hours from 81 training
programmes completed by our employees
throughout the year in 2021, this translate
to average of 12.28 hours per employee in
DLMI. Compulsory syllabus established
10 virtual fitness sessions (Zumba, Muay Thai)
1
10 virtual Mindfulness sessions
2
3 Milk Donation Drives in partnership with
Blue Brigade
5
13 Fun Visuals (internal communication) on
Self-Care, Mental Health, and Gratitude
8
3 informative visuals during notable
International World Days
9
1 Employee Assistance Provider – NALURI
(Support Hotline)
10
27 Relax with Ramjeet Sessions from August
to November 2021
6
9 Energy Workshop sessions for Departments
(Resilience Strategies for Transformational
Change) and Team Energisers (Terrarium and
The Map)
7
10 Talk sessions by doctors, medical
professionals, clinical psychologists: focused
on Health and Wellness, Mental Health, and
Employee Care (COVID-19, Vaccination Isolation)
3
3 mini competitions (DLMI What’s Cookin’),
also in conjunction with festivities and RFC’s
Diversity Month
4
34 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
Celebrating notable International World Days – the highlights: With the support and direction from
the top management as well as strong
inter-department collaboration, all
this was made possible through our
USP: a strong adoption of the ‘CARE’
principles.
Many initiatives were deployed as
follows:
Body.Mind.Soul is a continuous program while riding the waves of volatility, in
keeping our People feeling energised, supported, and valued. For now, we are
encouraged knowing that with this employee experience, our PEOPLE remain
energised to continue WINNING through volatility.
From the above, honouring HR’s commitment to workplace transformation as well
as growing and nurturing our People, we have won 2 GOLD and 1 BRONZE Awards
at the 2021 Employee Experience Awards Malaysia, external awards, that rewards
top-notch HR teams and individuals with business stories that inspire, educate
and move the dial on employee experience (EX). The awards are judged by a panel
of top HR leaders.
Talk session with
Malaysian celebrity,
JoJo Struys, on
wellness
Body.Mind.
Soul. (BMS)
Agile
Transformation
C.A.R.E
Principles
Talk Session with
Doctor on Diabetes
Talk session by
clinical psychologist
from NALURI on
managing COVID-19
in a post-pandemic
reality
World Mental
Health Day:
World
Health Day:
International
Women’s Day:
Best Employee
Wellness Strategy
(Gold)
Best Organisation
Upskilling and Reskilling
Strategy (Gold)
Best Crisis
Management &
Leadership (Bronze)
This recognition serves as a strong testimony of a truly Nourishing organisation
and the impact made: People Growth = Business Growth!
Keeping People Connected During Unprecedented Times
In light of the COVID-19 pandemic and the impact on businesses, Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad has undergone many sudden changes to adapt to the crisis: the
organisation resorted to a full Working From Home (WFH), implemented changes
in shift for Productions, and there was the urgent need for DLMI to continuously
Nourish Malaysians with our trusted dairy nutrition.
With all these rapid changes during these unprecedented times, the strength and
contributions of our People mattered more than ever to ensure that business
stayed afloat, stemming from the organisation’s Purpose to Nourish Malaysians.
Keeping employees
informed on COVID-19 SOPs
and developments
1
COVID-19 on-site Testing
(Factory)
2
RTK Home Saliva Test Kits
for Office Employees
3
Talks on managing isolation
and stress (well-being)
8
Charity Opportunities (Milk
Donation) via Blue Brigade
9
EAP Support – Mental
Health (isolation)
6
COVID-19 Vaccination (Stats:
99% Fully Vaccinated as at
31 December 2021)
4
Talks by doctors to ease fear,
uncertainties on COVID-19
and COVID-19 Vaccination
7
Distribution of Care Packs
(Masks, Vitamin C, Hand
Sanitiser)
5
35
Annual Report 2021
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR): Our Purpose
In emphasising the CARE principles, partnerships with DLMI Blue Brigade
(employee-led CSR team) in carrying out various initiatives such as mobilising
support during times of crisis, ensuring that DLMI continues to fulfil our Purpose
of Nourishing Malaysians with our trusted dairy nutrition:
COVID-19 Vaccination for employees: In collaboration with Corporate
Affairs and PIKAS
10
Visuals on Appreciation, Self-Care, and Gratitude, recognising signs of
anxiety, depression, burnout
15
Buddy System for COVID-19 Positive staff
11
COVID-19 Allowance
12
Support framework – Employee Death by COVID-19
13
COVID-19 Vaccination Leave granted
14
With the leadership of People
Organisation in providing CARE for our
employees through the Blue Brigade,
ultimately, the satisfaction of the
whole organisation emerging stronger
together during unprecedented times
in fulfilling our Purpose, is priceless.
Embracing the new normal:
Return To Office
The COVID-19 pandemic has changed
the work landscape and redefined the
way we work, collaborate and interact
with each other. To remain productive
and competitive and also riding the
waves of volatility (with so many SOP
changes, etc), it was important to
review the existing process and focus
on what makes sense to employees in
DLMI.
In embracing the new normal, the
Return To Office (RTO) initiative was
introduced and designed to enable a
flexible way of working, where the office
is utilised for collaboration activities
and facilitates employees working out
of office. The RTO also at the same
time, promotes inclusion as the needs,
personalities and demographics of
employees were carefully considered.
The last few months of 2021
represented a pilot for the Return
To Office, a test and learn – where
employees had their Team Days
Rosters, parking arrangement and Our
Way of Working (OWOW) Subsidy and
Enablers communicated.
Employees inputs, suggestions,
corporation to SOP compliance and
constructive feedback on RTO were
also greatly valued during this time –
truly emphasising the made BY YOU,
FOR YOU element!
Milk Donation
initiatives for people
impacted by the recent
Klang Valley flash
floods
Milk Donations
to childrens’
homes, charitable
organisations
Milk Donations to
schools
36 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
DLMI is committed to sustaining an
inclusive and high performing culture.
In 2021, DLMI’s Board of Directors
together with the Managing Director
(previous), Tarang Gupta, had signed
the Women’s Empowerment Principles
(WEPs), established by the UN Women
and United Nations Global Compact.
The signing of the WEPs demonstrates
robust commitment by CEOs, of the
highest calibre, to collaborate with
multi-stakeholder networks on issues
such as increased representation of
women in key decision-making roles,
equal pay for work of equal value,
gender-responsive supply chain
practices and zero tolerance against
sexual harassment in the workplace.
This partnership will therefore permit and accelerate the overarching objective
of increasing women’s representation at the leadership level and across entire
organisations and the marketplace.
For DLMI, the key opportunities are to support driving gender equality and moving
into 2022, the focus would be Psychological Safety and Inclusion.
Performance: Winning Inside and Outside!
While we have been true to our purpose in Nourishing Malaysian, 2021 has really
been the year where that purpose is clearly brought to live. Movement Control
Orders (MCO) has changed the way consumer consume and perceive dairy. Not
only the nutritional value of our milk is highly appreciated during this time,
the delicious taste of our products has also leads to various creative ways of
consumptions during this unprecedented time.
All this has led to strong overall volume growth of +7% vs 2020. Within the total
Dairy category, our market share improved to 26.6% (+1p.p. vs 2020 and +2.9p.p
vs 2019, Nielsen Retail Audit Dec 2021), where we remain a strong #1 Dairy
Player in Malaysia, showing the trust and connection we have with our Malaysian
consumers.
Within Consumer Dairy segment, after a spike in 2020 due to lockdown and
panic buying, the Liquid Milk category normalised in 2021 with -1% value decline.
Despite the category decline, Dutch Lady continued to drive growth of +4%, giving
us 38.7% value share (+2p.p. vs 2020, Nielsen Retail Audit Dec 2021) further
strengthening our market leadership. Dutch Lady is also high on household
penetration, with almost 6 out of 10 households in Malaysia consuming Dutch
Lady products (52 wks, Kantar HH Panel, Dec 2021).
The growth is contributed by the continuous efforts to ensure supply continuity
despite restrictions and SOPs, and impactful consumer campaigns such as
Ramadan & Morning Campaigns, and successful innovation such as Dutch Lady
Banana Flavored Milk range, Juicy Milk Mango and reinventing our communication
approach to stay connected to our consumers during the new norm.
Diversity and Inclusion
In 2018, McKinsey & Co. corroborated
that Gender equality drives economic
growth and improves business
performance. USD 4.5 trillion
could be added to the Asia Pacific
economics by 2025 through advancing
women’s equality. By having balanced
representation in management,
businesses can boost revenue by 19%.
For this reason, DLMI Board of
Directors are deliberately equally
gender balanced, setting the right tone
at the top. Similarly, our Management
Team is also equally gender balanced,
something we are really proud of as an
organisation.
Management Team
50% 50%
Male Female
37
Annual Report 2021
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
The Mainstream Growing Up milk (GUM) for 1-3 years
old experienced a decline compared to previous year as
consumers balance their overall spend impacted by the
pandemic. This lead to a 12% category decline in penetration
(Kantar 52 week Dec 2021) with a similar drop for the Dutch
Lady GUM Brand. The decline for the GUM Mainstream also
reflected a 5% drop in value vs the previous year, however
Dutch Lady GUM sales remained rather flat resulting in an
increase in value share in the mainstream segment to 43.6%.
This is contributed by our key 2021 meaningful campaign;
Dana Sejuta Harapan in quarter two of 2021. The campaign
sought to benefit both the parent and child, whereby we
worked with SSPN-i to award 40 Child Education funds (with
Insurance plan) and 160 smart devices to aid children in
their education while away from school.
Efforts also continue in the Specialised Diet segment of
MaxGro to support the Optimal Growth of Malaysian children
in an effort to minimise the Stunting issue faced in Malaysia.
MaxGro has gained 4.5% value share in this segment in
the past year since launch with an expansion of portfolio in
second half of the year with larger pack sizes and portion
packs and now has achieved third position within this
segment.
In 2021, Friso Gold continued to dial up product superiority
via the launch of Novas Signature Milk which contains small
molecules & soft structure, high-quality milk produced
by our farms & premium bred cows in the Netherlands to
enable Good Digestion for Stronger Inside. We leveraged
on 150 years’ celebration of our Dutch Dairy heritage in Q3,
2021 to further amplify brand trust & expertise. Having a
pool of strong advocates called Friso Gold Mombassadors,
we led digital share of voice and positive sentiments were
up to 10x more than the next brand. As a result, Friso hit the
highest number of buyers for IFFO & GUM (Kantar, 24 weeks
data), doubling up GUM buyers by Nov ‘21, contributed by a
strong focus in driving penetration. This led to Friso hitting
its highest market share (YTD Nov ‘21 @ 10.3%) in the past
3 years.
2021 has not only changed the way consumer consumed
dairy. It has also changed the way consumer shop which lead
to emerging of the e-commerce channel for convenience
and increased relevancy of neighborhood stores like
99Speedmart and Baby Stores which show growth of 16%
vs PY. With the growth of neighborhood stores, hypermarket
suffers a sharp decline of 17% due to lower traffic. With
all the changes in the channel dynamic in 2021, our sales
team has also adapted our approach to ensure product’s
availability across the country.
At the same time, 2021 has also been a year where data
automation has been accelerated. Usage of data for
market insights by our sales team has helped in improving
operational efficiency and improve brands profitability
through effective promotions. At the same time keep up with
the ever-changing retail landscape to cater to the shopper
behavior and needs.
Winning Profitably in unprecedented and uncertain times
Despite stricter COVID-19 restrictions, DLMI realised a
3% revenue growth versus 2020. The revenue growth is
resulting from continued strong in-home consumption of our
three main categories – Dutch Lady liquid milk, Dutch Lady
Growing Up Milk and Friso Growing Up Milk Products. During
the COVID-19 pandemic DLMI has been able to continue to
drive its purpose of Nourishing the Malaysian people.
Profit performance details are broken down in profit
resulting from sales of products sourced from the existing
manufacturing facilities (profit from existing operations) and
reported profit including the exceptional results in relation
to the construction of the future manufacturing expansion
in Bandar Baru Enstek.
Profit before tax from existing operations is improving
to RM142.8 million at index 141 versus previous year on
the back of a strong focus to improve long-term business
profitability. Increasing input cost as a result of increasing
global dairy raw materials, supply chain disruptions, one-
off COVID cost are more than offset by topline growth,
focus on Revenue Growth Management activities (e.g. mix
management of channel and portfolio) and improvement
of the Return on Investment of commercial activities. This
result is a testament to DLMI’s focus to Win Profitably
supported by an agile mindset and relying on usage of data
in all our decision making.
During the year 2021, prices of global dairy raw materials
have been escalating resulting from continued strong global
demand for milk as an essential good, lower production of
milk in large milk producing countries and continued supply
chain disruptions leading to delays of incoming goods.
38 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Cashflow from operating
activities
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION
& ANALYSIS
Reported profit in 2021 DLMI is
exceptionally high resulting from the
completion of the sales of the land
underlying the manufacturing facilities
in Petaling Jaya. This income is partially
offset by the start of accelerated
depreciation of existing assets that will
not be transitioned to the new site in
Bandar Baru Enstek. Reported profit
before tax is RM284.5 million at index
292 versus previous year.
Cashflow from operating activities was
at negative RM15 million inclusive of
a prepayment to a related company
amounting to RM126 million. When
excluding the prepayment cashflow
from operating activities is at RM111
million which is a decrease of RM33
million versus 2020 mainly resulting
fromhigherinputcostandrequirements
to build inventory to weather the global
supply chain challenges.
Property, Plant and Equipment (PPE)
increased to RM206 million resulting
from the start-up of the investment
in the new manufacturing facilities
in Bandar Baru Enstek offset by the
write-off of the land and buildings
underlying existing facilities in Petaling
Jaya as part of the completion of the
beforementioned sale of land.
Based on our 2021 result, DLMI paid
to its shareholders a total of RM32.0
million in interim dividends consisting
of two standard dividends of RM0.25
each.
Reported profit in 2021
DLMI is exceptionally
high resulting from the
completion of the sales of
the land underlying the
manufacturing facilities in
Petaling Jaya.
Outlook
For 2022 economic recovery is
anticipated, however unprecedented
inflationary headwinds are making
the outlook for 2022 uncertain and
volatile. Due to global supply chain
challenges and strong demand for
milk as an essential product, prices of
global dairy raw materials are affected
and are at an all-time high. Global
uncertainties can continue to impact
the economic situation and foreign
exchange developments.
DLMI will stay focused on its purpose of
‘Nourishing Malaysians with its trusted
and sustainable dairy nutrition’.
In order to deliver on this purpose
healthy gross margins are essential in
order to continue to invest behind our
brands and people. These assets will
drive long term engagement with DLMI
as an employer of choice and continue
to increase penetration of milk.
DLMI is determined to invest in
Malaysia even in these trying times.
In 2020, we announced the plans to
invest RM400 million between the
years of 2021 and 2025 for our future
manufacturing activities.
DLMI will continue to focus on
optimising the companies cashflow to
battle the inflationary headwinds and
secure sufficient funding of the new
manufacturing facilities.
Over the long term, the outlook
for DLMI remains positive due to
the strength of our brands, and the
increasing need and recognition of the
goodness and nutritional value of milk
amongst Malaysians.
RM111 million
2021
RM144 million
2020
COMPANY SOLVENCY
88%
2021
RM118.3
million
2021
27%
2020
RM38.9
million
2020
ABSOLUTE CASH
DEVELOPMENT
40 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES
Board Leadership and
Effectiveness
Effective Audit and Risk
Management
Integrity in Corporate
Reporting and Meaningful
Relationship with
Stakeholders
The Board is pleased to report on
governance compliance activities
adopted in line with the Principles
as set out in the Code that were
applied throughout the financial year
ended 31 December 2021 (“FY2021”)
in this Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (“CG Overview
Statement”). The Principles have, in
all material respects, been applied
to achieve their intended outcomes,
to the extent that they were found
to be suitable and appropriate to
the Company’s circumstances.
Where appropriate, this CG Overview
Statement also seeks to disclose all
information that is required pursuant to
the Main Market Listing Requirements
of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Listing Requirements”) and any
other requirements.
The application of the Practices set out
in the Code throughout FY2021 will also
be disclosed to Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad in a prescribed format (“CG
Report”) which will be published together
with the Company’s Annual Report.
The CG Report may be downloaded
from the Company’s corporate website
(www.dutchlady.com.my).
Introduction
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (“DLMI”
or “Company”) is fully committed to maintaining a high standard of Corporate
Governance within the Company through its support and application of the
principles and practices as set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance
2021 (“Code”). DLMI’s Corporate Governance framework lays down the structure,
processes and lines of authority that governs how its businesses are directed,
managed and controlled while ensuring compliance with the applicable laws, rules
and regulations, the Company’s Constitution and adherence to good Corporate
Governance practices. The Board believes that a sound Corporate Governance
structure is essential for the mitigation of risks, the cultivation of good business
ethics, and is vital to ensure sustainability and progressive business growth. The
Board shall continue to evaluate its governance practices in response to evolving
best practices and changing requirements.
More information
please refer page 41
More information
please refer page 56
More information
please refer page 58
Principle Principle Principle
A B C
41
Annual Report 2021
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
A
TENURE
GENDER
2
5 3
5 1
Male Female
TYPE OF DIRECTORSHIP
4 3 1
Independent Non-Executive
Directors
Non-Independent Non-Executive
Directors
Executive Directors
AGE
3 4 1
40-49 50-59 60-69
<1 years 1-4 years >4 years
Principle
Board’s Responsibilities
(Practice 1.1)
The Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s shareholders for the
direction and oversight of the Company and plays an active role in the development
of Company’s strategy. The Board met regularly throughout the year to approve
the strategic objectives of the Company, to lead the Company within a framework
of effective controls which enable risk to be assessed and managed, and to ensure
that sufficient resources are available to meet the objectives set.
The Board reserves full decision-making powers, after taking into consideration
the policies, procedures and guidelines of the Royal FrieslandCampina N.V. (“RFC”)
Group, on the following matters:
a
Conflict of interest relating to a substantial shareholder or a Director
or person connected to such substantial shareholder or Director;
b
Material acquisitions and disposition of assets not in the ordinary
course of business;
c Investment in capital expenditure projects;
d Authority levels;
e Treasury policies;
f Risk management policies;
g Key human resource issues; and
h Related party transactions.
42 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Board Roles and Their Responsibilities
Chairperson and Managing Director
(Practice 1.2, 1.3 and 1.4)
The roles of the Chairperson and the Managing
Director (“MD”) are separately held and the division
of their responsibilities is clearly defined. The
Chairperson is an independent director who has
never assumed an executive position in the Company.
The MD is an appointee of the major shareholder and
heads the Company’s management team.
The Chairperson is responsible for the operation and
leadership of the Board. The Chairperson ensures
that the Board is effective and that the Company is
guided by good corporate governance practices. She
facilitates robust dialogue during Board meetings
and draws out diverse perspectives from the Board
members. She also ensures that there is a good
balance between the time allocated to governance
matters and discussions on business performance
and strategies at board meetings.
The MD is responsible for leading and managing
the Company’s business within a set of authorities
delegated by the Board. She is also responsible
for the implementation of Board strategy and
policy. Commencing from 27 September 2021, the
Chairperson is no longer a member of any of the
Board committees and the Chairperson does not
attend or otherwise participate in any of these
committee meetings.
Independent Directors
The primary responsibility of Independent Non-
Executive Directors is to protect and safeguard
the interest of minority shareholders and other
stakeholders. The effective participation of
Independent Non-Executive Directors serves to
promote greater transparency, accountability and
balance in the Board’s decision making process.
Senior Independent Director
On 25 May 2021, Ms. Saw Chooi Lee succeeded
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih as the Board’s Senior
Independent Director, following Dato’ Zainal’s
retirement. In this capacity, Ms. Saw provides an
avenue for shareholders and the Directors to express
any concerns that they may have affecting the
Company.
Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors
The Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors
each occupy, or have occupied, senior positions in
industry, bringing valuable external perspectives
to the Board’s deliberations through their working
experience and business insight from other sectors
enabling them to contribute significantly to Board
decision-making process.
Company Secretary
(Practice 1.5)
The Company Secretary is a licensed secretary
qualified to act as Company Secretary under
Section 235 of the Companies Act 2016 and has a
secretarial practicing certificate from the Companies
Commission of Malaysia under Section 241(4) of
the Companies Act 2016. She is a qualified lawyer
and provides legal and company secretarial advice
to the Company’s management team and the Board
as a whole. All Board members have access to the
advice and services of the Company Secretary in
carrying out their duties. The Company Secretary
facilitates overall compliance and adherence with
the Listing Requirements, the Companies Act 2016
and the recommendations in the Malaysian Code on
Corporate Governance (as amended from time to
time).
Board Meeting Materials
(Practice 1.6)
Board meeting papers for all meetings are generally provided to Directors seven days in advance of the date of the proposed
meetings. All proceedings of Board meetings are minuted and circulated to the Board members well in advance of the next
Board meeting including with follow up action items duly updated.
43
Annual Report 2021
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Board Meeting Attendance
The Board convenes at least four (4) scheduled Board meetings during each financial year. More meetings will be scheduled
depending on business requirements, where appropriate. In FY2021, four (4) Board meetings were held in total. In addition
to the scheduled Board meetings, all of the Board members also attended the Company’s Annual General Meeting (“AGM”),
the Company’s Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) and a Budget and Strategy Workshop (“Workshop”).
The Directors’ attendance at Board meetings, the Annual General Meeting, the Extraordinary General Meeting and the
Workshop held for the year ended 31 December 2021 are as follows:-
Board Members
Ms. Katina Nurani binti Abd Rahim
(Company Secretary)
Company Secretary
100%
Board Meetings AGM EGM Workshop
1/1 1/1 1/1
4/4
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih(1)
(Chairperson, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)
Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden
(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lee Rajakumar(2)
(Chairperson, Independent Non-Executive Director)
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias
(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
Mr. Tarang Gupta(3)
(Executive Director)
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik(4)
(Executive Director)
Mr. Jean Serge Krol
(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee(5)
(Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)
Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong(6)
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
100%
Board Meetings AGM EGM Workshop
1/1 N/A N/A
2/2
100%
Board Meetings AGM EGM Workshop
1/1 1/1 1/1
4/4
100%
Board Meetings AGM EGM Workshop
1/1 1/1 1/1
4/4
100%
Board Meetings AGM EGM Workshop
1/1 1/1 1/1
4/4
100%
Board Meetings AGM EGM Workshop
1/1 1/1 1/1
2/2
100%
Board Meetings AGM EGM Workshop
1/1 1/1 1/1
4/4
100%
Board Meetings AGM EGM Workshop
N/A N/A 1/1
2/2
100%
Board Meetings AGM EGM Workshop
1/1 1/1 1/1
4/4
100%
Board Meetings AGM EGM Workshop
1/1 1/1 1/1
4/4
100%
Board Meetings AGM EGM Workshop
1/1 1/1 1/1
3/3
Notes:
(1) Retired as Chairperson and Senior Independent Director on
25 May 2021
(2) Appointed as Chairperson on 25 May 2021
(3) Resigned as Director on 2 July 2021
(4) Appointed as Director on 2 July 2021
(5) Re-designated to Senior Independent Director on 25 May 2021
(6) Appointed as Director on 14 April 2021
44 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Key activities
During the year, key activities of the Board include:
• Reviewing and approving the 4th quarter and full
year financial results for the financial year ended
31 December 2020.
• Reviewing and approving the Director’s Report
and Audited Accounts for the financial year ended
31 December 2020.
• Reviewing and approving the quarterly financial results
up to the 3rd quarter for the financial year ended
31 December 2021.
• Reviewing the financial report on the Company’s
quarterly performance and outlook for the year.
• Approving dividend payments and reviewing the
solvency position of the Company.
• Reviewing and approving the Company’s strategy and
business plans.
• Receiving updates on risk management status and
sustainability initiatives.
• Attending and participating in the Budget 2022 and
Strategy Workshop.
• Receiving and approving the Company’s Annual Budget
and Capex Budget for FY2022.
• Reviewing and approving the Company’s Recurrent
Related Party Transactions, subject to the approval of
the shareholders.
• Receiving updates on the Recurrent Related Party
Transactions by the Company.
• Reviewing and approving the updated Board Charter,
Terms of Reference of the Audit & Risk Committee,
Terms of Reference of the Nominating and Remuneration
Committee and Remuneration Policy.
• Reviewing and approving the Independent Director
Tenure Policy.
• Reviewing the audit report findings of the Internal Audit,
its recommendations and Management responses.
• Reviewing the audit reports of the External Auditor.
• Reviewing the term of office and assess the retirement
of Directors by rotation, the retention of Directors and
eligibility for re-election or retention.
• Reviewing and approving the recommendation for the
proposed director fees and the related benefits to be
paid to the Non-Executive Directors for FY2022, subject
to the approval of the shareholders.
• Reaffirming and ratifying the Circular Resolutions
passed by the Board.
• Reviewing, approving and noting the Company’s
announcements which had been released to Bursa.
• Evaluating and approving the sale of the Company’s land
in Section 13 Petaling Jaya, Selangor and the related
announcement to Bursa.
• Reviewing and approving the circular to shareholders
relating to the Company’s sale of its land in Section 13
Petaling Jaya, Selangor.
• Assessing and recommending the re-appointment of
the Company’s External Auditor for the financial year
ending 31 December 2021 and for the Directors to fix
their remuneration.
• Reviewing and approving the draft Circular to
Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of
Shareholders’ Mandates for Recurrent Related Party
Transaction of revenue or trading nature.
• Reviewing and approving the Statement on Internal
Control and Risk Management for the Annual Report
2020.
• Preparing for and attending the 2021 AGM.
• Preparing for and attending the 2021 EGM.
Board Charter
(Practice 2.1)
The Board has adopted a Board Charter since 2014, which
sets out the Board’s strategic intent and outlines the
Board’s roles and responsibilities, the vision, mission, shared
values and principles, as well as the policies and strategic
development of the Company. The Board Charter specifies
clearly the roles and responsibilities of the Board, the Board
Committees, individual directors and management. The
Board reviews and updates the Charter periodically. The
latest update to the Board Charter was approved by the
Board in November 2021. The Charter is available on the
Company’s website at www.dutchlady.com.my.
45
Annual Report 2021
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Company’s Code of Conduct
(Practice 3.1)
The Board is guided by the RFC code for good business
conduct which is known as Compass. Compass is designed
to set a certain standard for all employees and officers of
the Company. It promotes integrity in the workplace with
focus on safety, rights of employees and human rights,
sustainability and avoidance of conflicts of interest. Compass
also promotes integrity in business practices with focus
on anti-bribery and anti-corruption, gifts and hospitality,
fair competition, and fair communication. Finally, Compass
focusses on the protection of the Company’s interests
with focus on protection of confidential information, data
protection, integrity of financial reporting and the prevention
of fraud. Compass plays an important role in the management
of compliance risks and sets out the values, principles and
guidelines as to how the Company conducts its business to
ensure integrity, transparency and accountability.
Compass has, under its purview, underlying policies which
includes topics such as Avoiding Conflicts of Interest,
Protection of Confidential Information, Privacy, Doing Honest
Business (Anti-Bribery and Corruption) and Fair Competition.
Compass is embedded in the Company’s working culture
and encapsulated in the Company’s Employee handbook.
A copy of Compass is available on the Company’s website at
www.dutchlady.com.my.
Doing Honest Business – the Company’s Anti-Bribery &
Corruption Policy
The Company has adopted RFC’s anti-bribery and corruption
policy which is known as the “Doing Honest Business” policy.
This policy, which must be observed by all of the Company’s
directors and employees at all times, is a policy to conduct
business in an honest and ethical manner. The policy has been
localised to set out values in Malaysian Ringgit for easier
application by the Company’s employees and stakeholders.
The Company takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery
and corruption and is committed to acting professionally,
fairly and with integrity in all its business dealings and
relationships. A Gift and Internal Events and Corporate
Sponsorship Policy is also contained within this topic which
clearly and prohibits any form of bribery, gratification or
facilitation payments. Employees will be guided by these
policies in their day to day dealings. To ensure that adequate
monitoring of all anti-corruption compliance matters is
carried out, the Company’s Legal Counsel has been charged
with the responsibility to review and monitor all procedures,
advise and report to Management and the Board of Directors
on these matters.
To further enforce the Company’s zero-tolerance approach
to bribery and corruption, the Company also requires its
business partners to conduct business dealings fairly and
honestly by requiring them to carry out business in the
manner set out in the Business Practices for Business
Partners Policy.
A copy of the Doing Honest Business - Gifts Policy and
Business Practices for Business Partners are available on
the Company’s website at www.dutchlady.com.my.
MACC Corporate Liability
The Company has taken steps to ensure that it is in
compliancewithSection17AoftheMalaysianAnti-Corruption
Commission Act 2009 (Section 17A) which introduces,
amongst others, new corporate liability for companies,
arising from corrupt acts committed by employees or person
associated with the company. The Company continuously
takes steps to ensure that its existing anti-bribery and
corruption policies and procedures are adequate and meets
the Guidelines for Adequate Procedures as prescribed by
Section 17A. Since then, the Company has continued to
review and assess the corruption risks and procedures to
ensure that they remain efficient and effective. Trainings,
briefings, and communication on the topic were provided to
employees and stakeholders throughout FY2021 to ensure
that the importance and significance of the provision were
not overlooked.
Whistleblowing – the Speak Up Procedure
(Practice 3.2)
All the Company’s employees and other stakeholders are
strongly encouraged to and have access to its whistle-
blowing procedure known as the “Speak-Up”. The Speak-
Up procedure serves as an avenue for employees and other
stakeholders to voice out their concerns on matters relating
to Compass and to raise any suspicions of wrongdoing,
malpractice or impropriety in the management of the
Company’s business and affairs. The Speak-Up procedure
clearly sets out a well-defined process upon which Compass-
related matters can be raised in confidence and anonymity (if
so requested), in good faith, and without fear of reprisal. The
Company has also established a procedure whereby certain
Speak Up Reports which are of a financial or fraudulent
nature will be escalated to the Company’s Audit & Risk
Committee. A copy of the Speak Up Procedure is available
on the Company’s website at www.dutchlady.com.my.
46 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Personal Data Protection
The Company handles and uses personal data in accordance
with the Personal Data Protection Act 2010 (“PDPA”). The
Company has adopted the Friesland Campina Privacy Policy
which outlines the requirements for the Company and its
employees in handling personal data.
Sustainability
(Practice 4.1, 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4)
Management is conscious and serious about the Company’s
responsibility towards sustainability issues and its role in
the Company’s long-term strategic plans. Management is
committed towards ensuring responsible corporate conduct
is demonstrated and practised in the Company’s daily
activities across all aspects of the Company’s operations.
The Board together with Management takes responsibility
for the governance of sustainability in the Company including
setting the Company’s sustainability strategies, priorities
and targets. The Board takes into account sustainability
considerations when exercising its duties including among
others the development and implementation of Company
strategies, business plans, major plans of action and
risk management. Strategic management of material
sustainability matters are driven by the Management
and updates are provided to the Board every quarter
on the Company’s sustainability challenges, goals and
achievements. The Board takes appropriate action to ensure
they stay abreast with and understand the sustainability
issues relevant to the Company and its business, including
climate-related risks and opportunities.
The performance evaluation of senior Management is carried
out in accordance with human resource policies of RFC
group. DLMI’s performance in formulating the Company’s
sustainability strategy and addressing the company’s
material sustainability goals, risks and opportunities is
a part of the assessment. Sustainability is also taken into
account when evaluating the performance of the Board.
In particular, it is considered during the evaluation whether
conversations on Environmental, Social and Governance
(ESG) form part of the Board Agenda and if progress on
sustainability initiatives are monitored at the Board level.
Further details on the Company’s sustainability strategy
including the Company’s sustainability priorities and targets
as well as performance against these targets are contained
in the Sustainability Statement.
Tenure of directorship
(Practice 5.1, 5.3 and 5.4)
TheNominating&RemunerationCommittee(“NRC”)ensures
that the composition of the board is refreshed periodically.
To ensure that this is achieved, the Board has in November
2021, adopted a policy to limit the tenure of an independent
director to 9 years without further extension. The policy is
available on www.dutchlady.com.my. Accordingly, there shall
be no further annual re-election of directors apart from
those re-elected due to retirement by rotation or retirement
of those who were appointed during the year (see Practice
5.7 below).
Board Composition
(Practice 5.2)
Currently the Board consists of 4 independent and 4
non-independent directors. Of the 4 non-independent
directors, 3 are nominees of Royal FrieslandCampina N.V,
and 1 is a nominee of Permodalan Nasional Berhad. As such,
a majority (5 out of 8) of the Board members represents the
Company’s minority shareholders.
The Company’s major shareholder is a foreign co-operative
of farmers. The Board considers that the current composition
fairly reflects the foreign direct investment and the
investment of the minority shareholders. The proportion of
independent directors ensures effective checks and balances
on the Board and the independent directors effectively
safeguard the interest of the minority shareholders.
Details of all Directors and their biographies are provided in
the Annual Report.
Appointments to the Board
(Practice 5.5)
The Company’s Board consists of qualified individuals with
a good mix of operational and commercial experience.
Members of the Board have both local and international
experience and together, they bring a wide range of
competencies, capabilities, technical skills and relevant
business experience.
47
Annual Report 2021
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Appointment Process
(Practice 5.6)
In respect of the appointment of all directors, the NRC
considers shortlisted candidates based on their profiles,
professional achievements and personality assessments.
Appropriate candidates for independent directors are
sourced through recruitment firms based on the needs of
the Board. The NRC then ensures that the candidates are
suitable and of sufficient caliber for recommendation for the
approval of the Board by reviewing the profiles of candidates
and where deemed appropriate, conducting interviews with
the shortlisted candidates.
Election and Re-Election of Directors
(Practice 5.7)
In compliance with the Company’s Constitution, one third of
the Directors shall retire by rotation at each AGM. Directors
who are appointed during the year shall also retire at the
next AGM. The Company’s Constitution further provides that
all Directors shall retire from office at least once in every
three years.
In the forthcoming AGM, Ms. Saw Chooi Lee and
Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden will retire by
rotation in accordance with Rule 105 of the Company’s
Constitution and Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik will retire in
accordance with Rule 86.3 of the Company’s Constitution as
she was appointed during the year.
The NRC considered and did not find evidence of any
interest, position or relationship that might influence, or
reasonably be perceived to influence, in a material respect
the abovenamed retiring Directors’ capacity to bring an
independent judgement to bear on issues before the Board
and to act in the best interests of the Company as a whole,
save and except that Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden
and Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik are Board representatives of
RFC and as such Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden
and Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik are Non-Independent Board
members. None of the retiring Directors hold any shares
in the Company whether directly or indirectly, have any
family relationships with any other director or substantial
shareholder of the Company nor do they have any personal
interest in any business arrangement involving the Company.
The NRC also reviewed and assessed the performance of the
retiring Directors on the following criteria:-
• Integrity & Ethics – they behave with honesty and
honourably at all times
• Strategic Perspective – they understand the implications
of issues, trends and events on the organisation and its
capabilities
• Judgement and Decision Making – they are able to
understand principal issues and use experience to offer
sound advice
• Teamwork – they work constructively with fellow board
members and contributes to board activities and
discussions
• Communication – they are able to express himself
clearly and effectively
The NRC found that the retiring Directors have performed
well based on the above performance criteria.
In light of the above, the NRC submitted its recommendation
to the Board and the Board has approved and recommends
the re-election of Ms. Saw Chooi Lee, Mr. Bernardus
Hermannus Maria Kodden and Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik to the
shareholders for approval.
Composition of the Nominating & Remuneration
Committee
(Practice 5.8)
The NRC establishes for itself the procedure and frequency
of its meetings, but shall meet at least once annually. The
quorum for the meeting shall consist of any two independent
non-executive Directors appointed to the NRC. The Managing
Director, other Board members and any other persons may
be invited to attend the meetings as necessary.
Activities of the Nominating & Remuneration Committee
The activities of the NRC during the financial year were as
follows:
a) Leading the process for Board appointments and making
recommendations of new members to the Board;
b) Review the composition of the Board and Board
Committees;
c) Make recommendations to the Board on the
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors;
d) Nominate the directors who are due for retirement and
eligible to stand for re-election at the AGM;
e) Assess the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, the
Committees of the Board and the individual directors on
an on-going basis;
48 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Committee met two (2) times in FY2021 and the attendance of each individual is set out below:
100%
100%
100%
100%
Attendance
Attendance
Attendance
Attendance
2/2
2/2
2/2
1/1
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee(1)
(Chairperson,
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director)
Mr. Bernardus Hermannus
Maria Kodden
(Member, Non-Independent
Non-Executive)
Tengku Nurul Azian
(Member, Independent
Non-Executive Director)
Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong(2)
(Member, Independent
Non-Executive Director)
Current Members
100%
100%
100%
Attendance
Attendance
Attendance
1/1
2/2
1/1
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih(3)
(Chairman, Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director)
Ms. Katina Nurani binti
Abd Rahim
(Company Secretary)
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin
Rajakumar(4)
(Member, Independent
Non-Executive Director)
Former members
Secretary
Notes:
(1) Appointed as Chairperson of NRC on 25 May 2021
(2) Appointed as Member of NRC on 27 September 2021
(3) Retired as Chairperson of NRC on 25 May 2021
(4) Resigned as Member of NRC on 27 September 2021
Training and Development
Induction programs are conducted for newly appointed
Directors, which include briefings by members of
Management and the Company Secretary. The Directors will
be provided with the necessary information to assist them
in understanding the operations of the Company, current
issues and corporate strategies as well as the management
structure of the Company and the RFC Group. All Directors
have attended and successfully completed the Mandatory
Accreditation Program as required under the Listing
Requirements.
In addition, the Directors are encouraged to attend
continuous education programs, talks, seminars, workshops
and conferences to enhance their skills and knowledge and
to ensure that they are kept abreast with new developments
in the business environment, corporate governance and
enhance their skills and knowledge.
The Directors who were on the Board in FY2021 attended
the following training programs during the year to further
enhance their knowledge and to enable them to discharge
their duties and responsibilities more effectively:
Director Date of Training Course Details Organiser
Datin Seri Sunita
Mei-Lin Rajakumar
*Datin Seri Sunita
attended 88 courses
in FY2021, some of
which are as follows:
12 January Risk, Strategy and Governance - How Integrated
Thinking Can Support Boards in Creating Long-
Term Value
Malaysian Institute of
Accountants
19 January Ensuring Equality, Inclusive Growth and Access
to Opportunities
United Nations
Department of Economic
and Social Affairs
27 January Davos Agenda: Carbon Markets: A Conversation
with Bill Gates, Mark Carney, Annette Nazareth
and Bill Winters
World Economic Forum
f) Review the recommendations on Board Effectiveness
made by external consultant following the Board
Evaluation carried out in FY2020 and propose actions
to be taken arising therefrom; and
g) Review the required skills and core competencies of the
Managing Director.
The terms of reference of the NRC are available on the
Company’s website, www.dutchlady.com.my.
49
Annual Report 2021
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Director Date of Training Course Details Organiser
3 - 4 February Basics of Climate Change and Organisational
Greenhouse Gas Accounting
Malaysian Institute
Accountants
25 February LeadWomen UN’s Women Empowerment
Principles Campaign Awareness Session
LeadWomen
25 February Royal FrieslandCampina Sustainability Strategy Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
3 March Moving from Sustainability to Climate Action in
the Palm Oil Sector
Climate Governance
Malaysia
16 March World Bank Flagship Report ‘Aiming High
– Navigating the Next Stage of Malaysia’s
Development’ Launch
World Bank Group
23 March Climate Change: The Evolving Role of
Non-Executive Boards
Climate Governance
Global Summit, World
Economic Forum
25 March Accelerating Corporate Climate Action Goal 13
Impact Platform
Climate Governance
Global Summit, World
Economic Forum
14 April Is there a Race Towards a Global Green
Recovery?
Institute of Strategic and
International Studies
1 June Implementing Amendments in the Malaysian
Code on Corporate Governance
Asian School of Business
2 June Dialogue on The Role of Independent Director in
Embracing Present and Future Challenges
BNM-FIDE FORUM
8 June Framing the Future for Nature and Climate ASEAN-UK COP26
9 June Dialogue on The Future of Malaysia’s Financial
Sector
BNM-FIDE FORUM
17 June The Future of Malaysia’s International Climate
Commitments
Institute of Strategic &
International Studies
Malaysia (ISIS)
29 June Voluntary Carbon Markets Ministry of Environment
and Water (KASA)
7 July MCCG Revision 2021 – Changing the Game in
Corporate Governance
ICDM
12 July Round Table on Property Sector I “Reducing
Embodied Carbon in the Built Environment”
Climate Governance
Malaysia-CEO Action
Network
19 July Round Table on Energy Sector II “Low Carbon
Mobility”
Climate Governance
Malaysia-CEO Action
Network
30 August Round Table on Energy Sector V “Carbon Sinks” Climate Governance
Malaysia-CEO Action
Network
3 September “Making Informed Decisions About Climate
Risks” with S&P Global, in collaboration with the
Institutional Investors Council
Climate Governance
Malaysia
50 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Director Date of Training Course Details Organiser
4 September Public relations training on crisis management Dutch Lady Milk
Industries
9 September The Net Zero Journey: What Board Members
Need to Know Part II
Climate Governance
Malaysia
28 September Bursa Malaysia’s Focus Group Sessions
[Session 10: Key capital market stakeholders]
Bursa Malaysia
28 October Cyber Kill Chain and Cybersecurity Capabilities Deloitte
12 November Dialogue: “The 2050 Net Zero Carbon Emissions
Target: Finance’s Role”
FIDE FORUM
15 – 18 November LESA 2021 (Leadership For Enterprise
Sustainability Asia)
Asia School of Business
26 November 2022 Strategy Workshop Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
2 December Sesi pembangunan kapasiti dan kesedaran
pemegang taruh bagi Nationally Determined
Contribution (NDC) Malaysia kepada Paris
Agreement yang telah dikemaskini selaras
dengan keputusan UNFCCC
Ministry of Environment
and Water (KASA)
Ramjeet Kaur Virik 22 - 23 February Solution Focused Coaching - Module 1 HC Consultants Group
28 February Sustainability Essential ACE Academy
22 - 23 March Solution Focused Coaching - Module 2 HC Consultants Group
19 - 20 April Solution Focused Coaching - Module 3 HC Consultants Group
1 June Lead to Win Cohort 5 Launch Webinar London Business School
8 June GA-Legal Essentials for Marketing Horizon e-Learning/
Friesland Campina
7 – 8 September Mandatory Accreditation Program Asia School of Business
15 September Lead to Win C5 Peer Development Group session I London Business School
21 September Lead to Win C5 M1 W1 The New Normal London Business School
23 September Lead to Win C5 M1 W1 Aligning the Organisation I London Business School
28 September Lead to Win C5 M1 W2 Leading through
Strengths I
London Business School
29 September Lead to Win C5 M1 W2 Peer Development Group
session II
London Business School
30 September Lead to Win C5 M1 W2 Aligning the Organisation
II
London Business School
5 October Lead to Win C5 M1 W3 Leading through
Strengths II
London Business School
7 October Lead to Win C5 M1 W3 What Needs to Change? London Business School
12 October Lead to Win C5 M1 W4 Coaching Skills Workshop London Business School
14 October Lead to Win C5 M1 W4 Coaching Skills Workshop London Business School
24 October GA-Compass Module 1 Horizon e-Learning/
Friesland Campina
51
Annual Report 2021
Director Date of Training Course Details Organiser
24 October GA-Compass Module 2 Horizon e-Learning/
Friesland Campina
2 November Lead to Win C5 Peer Development Group session
III
London Business School
26 November 2022 Strategy Workshop Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
29 November Lead to Win C5 M2 W1 Translating Strategy into
Action
London Business School
30 November Lead to Win C5 M2 W1 Experimentation & Causal
Chains
London Business School
1 December Lead to Win C5 M2 W1 Execution Risks &
Hypotheses
London Business School
2 December Lead to Win C5 M2 W1 Experimental Design &
Next Steps
London Business School
1 - 4 December Management Team Away Day HC Consultants Group
6 December ACE Workshop 1 ACE Academy
Saw Chooi Lee 25 February Royal FrieslandCampina Sustainability Strategy Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
19 March Critical Thinking MP Muar
19 April Work Based Learning Connecting Higher
Education Industry & Future Talents
Taylor College, Zubedy &
HRDF
20 April Increasing Expectations on Reporting &
Disclosure
Climate Governance
Malaysia
4 May Unlocking Future Opportunities Focusing
on Digital Innovation, Business Scalability &
Sustainability
HSBC Malaysia
4 June ESG in Malaysia – Priority or Fad by Datuk
Muhammad Umar Swift CEO Bursa Malaysia
ICAEW Malaysia
13 July 2021 Asia Pacific Emerging Women Leadership
Program (as Panelist)
ConocoPhillips
21 - 22 September Sustainable Reset: The Role of NRC in a
Post-Pandemic World
Institute of Corporate
Directors Malaysia
26 November 2022 Strategy Workshop Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
6 December AOB Conversation with Audit Committees Securities Commission
of Malaysia
Bernardus
Hermannus Maria
Kodden
25 February Royal FrieslandCampina Sustainability Strategy Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
26 November 2022 Strategy Workshop Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
52 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Director Date of Training Course Details Organiser
Dato’ Dr. Rosini
Alias
25 February Royal FrieslandCampina Sustainability Strategy Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
7 July MCCG Revision 2021 – Changing the Game in
Corporate Governance
Institute of Corporate
Directors Malaysia
14 July Rising Above COVID-19: Reimagining Work in
Malaysia & Beyond
Permodalan Nasional
Berhad
7 September Prosedur Import/Eksport Haiwan dan Produk
Haiwan Serta Pemeriksaan Veterinar
Jabatan Perkhimatan
Veterinar (DVS)
19 October Climate Change: A New Green Deal for Malaysia Permodalan Nasional
Berhad
29 October Shariah Awareness Strengthening Shariah
Culture
Permodalan Nasional
Berhad
26 November 2022 Strategy Workshop Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
Tengku Nurul Azian
Tengku Shahriman
25 February Royal FrieslandCampina Sustainability Strategy Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
15 - 16 March Nominating and Remuneration Committees:
Beyond Box-Ticking and Enhancing Effectiveness
Asia School of Business
27 May Reimagining your Business with AI Federation of Public
Listed Companies Bhd
22 - 23
September
Business Foresight Forum (BFF) 2021 Virtual
Conference
Securities Industry
Development
Corporation
19 November Driving Sustainability through Digital
Governance
Tricor
23 November Building an Inclusive Digital Economy –
Empowering People and Enabling Business for a
Digital Malaysia
Malaysian Institute of
Management
26 November 2022 Strategy Workshop Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
29 November SC’s Audit Oversight Board Conversation with
Audit Committees
Securities Commission
of Malaysia
2 December Fraud Risk Management Workshop 2021 PricewaterhouseCoopers
13 December Powertalk Global Series, ASEAN Board Trends
Survey 2022: What Keeps You Awake At Night?
Institute of Corporate
Directors Malaysia
Jean Serge Krol 21 February FrieslandCampina Road Safety – Life saving rules
E-learning
FrieslandCampina
25 February Royal FrieslandCampina Sustainability Strategy Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
19 July FrieslandCampina Compass Code of Conduct
E-learning
FrieslandCampina
19 July FrieslandCampina Purchase policy E-learning FrieslandCampina
26 November 2022 Strategy Workshop Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
53
Annual Report 2021
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Director Date of Training Course Details Organiser
Darren Kong Kam
Seong
27 January ACCA 6th APAC Thought Leadership Forum:
Growth Recovery Leveraging on Analytics Driven
Forward-Based Insights
ACCA
25 February Royal FrieslandCampina Sustainability Strategy Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
19 March Certificate In Data Analytics ACCA
23 March Building the Mindsets of Tomorrow Institute of Corporate
Directors Malaysia
10 April Certificate in Digital Marketing Specialist Malaysian Institute of
Management
20 – 22 April Board Dynamics Bootcamp Institute of Corporate
Directors Malaysia
28 April Funding Options for SMEs CPA Australia
6 May Innovate for Exponential Growth Institute of Corporate
Directors Malaysia
19 May PIKOM Digital Summit 2021 PIKOM
20 May Governance in SMEs – SMEs, A Key Strategic
Business Partner in the Supply Chain
Malaysian Institute of
Corporate Governance
27 May Corporate Governance in South East Asia: What
Investors Need to Know
Asian Corporate
Governance Association
1 June Implementing Amendments in the Malaysian
Code on Corporate Governance
Asia School of Business
23 June 8th ACCA Asia Pacific Thought Leadership
Forum. Rethinking Risks: Opportunities In The
Midst Of A Prolonged Crisis
ACCA
24 June Power to the people: building a data-driven
organisation
The Economist
30 June – 2 July Certified Digital Transformation Professional CASUGOL
7 July Is Your Team Future Ready Peoplelogy
4 August The Tech Edge for ESG Asia IOT Business
Platform
2 September Google Cloud Platform – Big Data & Machine
Learning
Fusionex/Google Cloud
23 September The Cooler Earth Sustainability Summit 2021 CIMB/CEO Action
Network
24 November Asia’s Climate-Change Challenge Financial Times Live
26 November 2022 Strategy Workshop Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad
6 December Securities Commission’s AOB Conversation with
Audit Committees
Securities Commission
of Malaysia
54 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Board Diversity
(Practice 5.9 and 5.10)
The Board acknowledges the importance of gender diversity
and recognises the benefits that it can bring. The Board’s
prime focus on is the strength of the Board and therefore
the overriding aim in any new appointments must always be
to select the best candidate available. With this in mind, the
Board shall at all times make best endeavors to have at least
30% women Directors on the Board. Currently, out of the
8 members on the Board, 5 are women. As such the Board
comprises of 63% women directors.
The Company also seeks to maintain strong women
representation in its Management Team. Currently, out of
the 8 members on the Management Team, 4 are women.
As such the Management Team comprises of 50% women.
Following the Malaysia Board Diversity Study & Index which
was carried out by Willis Tower Watson, DLMI was amongst
the top 10 companies of the Malaysia Board Diversity Index
2021- Large-Cap. As part of this holistic study, Willis Towers
Watson analysed disclosed data for a total of 312 companies
listed on Bursa Malaysia and assessed each company’s
Board Diversity across the following eight dimensions,
Gender, Age, Tenure, Independence, Culture, International
Expertise, Domain Expertise, and Industry Expertise. Based
on this analysis, Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad stood
out as an exemplary company.
Board Evaluation
(Practice 6.1)
The Board undertakes an internal annual evaluation of the
Board’s effectiveness. An evaluation by External Consultants
was carried out in FY2020 and moving forward, evaluation
by External Consultants will be carried out on a periodic
basis. In FY2021, the NRC reviewed the proposals given
by the External Consultant and took steps to implement
the same. These includes taking steps to strengthen Board
interactions with Management, improving the structure of
the Board Committees and Board Committee meetings, and
taking steps to improve the process on board succession
and recruitment.
In FY2021, an internal evaluation was carried out which was
led by the NRC Chairperson and facilitated by the Company
Secretary. The evaluation was conducted on the Board, the
Nominating & Remuneration Committee, the Audit & Risk
Committee, the Managing Director and on each individual
Board member through a peer evaluation. It was found
that the Board and Board Committees had foundational
good practices in place. Key findings in relation to the
effectiveness of the Board are as follows:
• The Board would focus on ensuring that all the
Directors exhibit the requisite business acumen and are
knowledgeable about future trends that could potentially
affect the business. To do this, recommendations on
suitable business related trainings will be provided
to the Board by the Company Secretary, as guided
by the Nomination & Remuneration Committee and
discussions on relevant and suitable business topics
will be presented by Management to the Board in the
upcoming year.
• The Board would also seek to enhance the inclusion of
conversations on Environmental, Social and Governance
(ESG). To achieve this it was agreed that in FY2022,
Sustainability/ESG agenda will be a key priority for
Management and will be included as a standing item
in the Board agenda throughout the year with a focus
on developing clear commitments and roadmap.
Management would ensure that discussions on ESG
are integrated into Board and committee meetings
and that more in-depth discussions on the Company’s
sustainability initiatives will be held.
Remuneration - Policies and Procedures
(Practice 7.1 and 7.2)
The DLMI Board has a remuneration policy in place since
2018 and this policy was recently reviewed in November
2021. The policy provides that the NRC will take into account
all factors which it deems necessary in order to attract, retain
and motivate Non-Executive Directors of high calibre who
are able to provide the necessary skills and experience as
required. The level of remuneration shall be commensurate
with the responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors and
should also be in alignment with the business strategy and
long-term objectives of the Company.
Remuneration for the Managing Director of the Company
is approved by the Board in consultation with the RFC
Group. The remuneration for the Managing Director follows
the performance appraisal system and compensation
and benefits scheme of the RFC Group which is based on
the human resource policies and procedures of the RFC
Group. Corporate and individual performance, market
competitiveness,businessresultsandindividualperformance
are considered by the RFC Group in evaluating the Managing
Director’s remuneration. The Managing Director is not paid
meeting attendance allowance or Directors’ fees by the
Company.
55
Annual Report 2021
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Non-Executive Directors are paid fixed annual Directors’
fees as members of the Board and these are approved
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. The
Chairperson of the Board Committees receives additional
Board Committee Chairperson fees and the members of
the Audit & Risk Committee also receives an additional fee.
All Non-Executive Directors receive benefits by way of a
meeting allowance for each meeting that they attend.
The NRC reviews the fees periodically by taking into account
the performance of the Company and benchmarking with
other companies in the same industry and of similar size.
The responsibilities and duties of the directors are also
taken into account when reviewing the fees.
The Terms of Reference for the NRC and the Board’s
Remuneration Policy , as updated in November 2021, are
available on the Company’s website www.dutchlady.com.my.
Remuneration of Directors and Top Senior Management
(Practice 8.1 and 8.2)
The aggregate remuneration of Directors of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 is as follows:
Executive Directors
RM
Non-Executive Directors
RM
Directors’ Fees and Committee Member Allowances - 449,411
Benefits - 74,100
Salaries and other emoluments 1,638,399 -
Benefits in kind 145,051 -
The details of the total remuneration of the directors on a named basis for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 are
as follows:-
Name
Directors’
Fees
RM
Directors’
Benefits
RM
Salaries
and other
emoluments
RM
Benefits in
kind
RM
Total
RM
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih(1) 64,930 7,800 - - 72,730
Tarang Gupta(2) - - 1,208,831 128,133 1,336,964
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin
Rajakumar(3)
101,906 13,000 - - 114,906
Ramjeet Kaur Virik(4) - - 429,568 16,918 446,486
Saw Chooi Lee 73,501 13,000 - - 86,501
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias 75,506 13,000 - - 88,506
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku
Shahriman
76,938 15,600 - - 92,538
Darren Kong Kam Seong(5) 56,630 11,700 - - 68,330
Total 449,411 74,100 1,638,399 145,051 2,306,961
Notes:
(1) Retired as Chairman on 25 May 2021
(2) Resigned as Director on 2 July 2021
(3) Redesignated to Chairperson on 25 May 2021
(4) Appointed as Director on 2 July 2021
(5) Appointed as Director on 14 April 2021
No Directors’ fees or allowances were paid to Bernardus Hermannus Kodden and Jean Serge Krol in lieu of the management fee paid to RFC.
56 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
For the top remaining senior management personnel,
the aggregate remuneration wages, salaries, benefits
and contributions to state plans) paid for FY2021 is
approximately RM4.632 million. The most senior member
of management is an Executive Director of the Company
and her remuneration is disclosed above. As such, details
of the remaining members of senior management are
shared on general terms and on an aggregated basis only
as the Board is of the view that it would not be in the best
interest of the Company to disclose these details given the
competitiveness in the market for good senior managers in
the consumer goods industry. The Board is of the view that
EFFECTIVEAUDITANDRISKMANAGEMENT
B
Principle
Financial Control and Reporting
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Company
maintainsadequateandaccuraterecordsfortimelyreporting
of the financial position of the Company and the results
of its activities to enable stakeholders to make informed
assessments of the Company’s performance and prospects.
To assist the Board in effectively discharging this duty, the
Company has in place financial reporting procedures and
processes. As at the date of this statement, the Board is not
aware of any circumstances which have not been dealt with
in the financial reports or financial statements, which would
render any amount in the financial statements misleading.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement in Respect of the
Preparation of the Audited Financial Statement
As required by the Companies Act 2016, the Board hereby
provides its opinion that the Company’s financial statements
for FY2021 were drawn up in accordance with Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards, Main Market Listing Requirements
(MMLR) of Bursa Securities and the Companies Act 2016 so
as to provide a true and fair view of the Company’s financial
position and the performance and cash flow for the financial
year. Towards this, the Board has ensured that relevant
accounting policies have been used and applied consistently
and that reasonable and prudent judgments and estimates
have been made, in the preparation of financial statements.
The Board also ensured that applicable approved accounting
standards have been followed and that proper accounting
records were kept so as to enable disclosure of the Company’s
financial position in compliance with laws and regulations.
The Audit & Risk Committee
(Practice 9.1, 9.2, 9.3 and 9,5)
Chairperson of the Audit & Risk Committee
The Audit & Risk Committee consists of a majority of
independent directors. The Committee is chaired by Tengku
Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman who is an Independent
Non-Executive Director. She is not the Chairperson
of the Board. Currently, the Committee comprised 5
members consisting of 3 independent directors and 2 non-
independent directors. However one of the non-independent
directors, Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias, is a nominee director
of Permodalan Nasional Berhad. As such, 4 out of 5 of
the Audit & Risk Committee members represents the
Company’s minority shareholders. The members of the
Audit & Risk Committee are all financially literate and have
a full understanding of the financial reporting process and
the financial matters discussed. The members also attend
training on new rules or standards relating to the accounting
standards, tax rulings or corporate governance changes.
Details on the members of the Audit & Risk Committee are
contained in the Report of the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Board has not appointed any of the Company’s former
key audit partners as a member of the Audit & Risk
Committee. The Audit & Risk Committee will observe a
minimum three (3) year cooling-off period before any former
key audit partner can be appointed as a member of the Audit
& Risk Committee. This requirement is set out in the Audit &
Risk Committee’s Terms of Reference.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
the disclosure of remuneration details may be detrimental
to its business interests, given the competitive landscape
for key personnel with the requisite knowledge, technical
expertise and working experience in the Company’s
business activities, where intense headhunting is a common
industry challenge. Accordingly, such disclosure of specific
remuneration information may give rise to recruitment
and talent retention issues. The Board feels that the
details provided are sufficiently transparent and allows
stakeholders to assess the reasonableness of remuneration
paid to members of senior management.
57
Annual Report 2021
InAugust2021theAudit&RiskCommitteehadameetingwith
the Company’s External Auditor, Messrs. PricewaterHouse
Coopers (PwC), where PwC presented the annual audit plan
for FY2021. In that meeting, PwC highlighted the key focus
areas, methodology and new accounting standards. The
External Auditor also briefed the Audit & Risk Committee
on their team members and the resources allocated to the
Company. After discussion and deliberation, the Audit &
Risk Committee approved the audit plan. The Company also
sought the confirmation of independence from PwC.
The written terms of reference for the Audit & Risk
Committee are available on the Company’s website
www.dutchlady.com.my.
Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
(Practice 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3)
The Company adopts the Enterprise Risk Management
program based on the framework that was developed and
issued by RFC, which in turn is based on COSO framework
(developed by the Committee of Sponsoring Organisations of
the Treadway Commission for evaluating internal controls),
of which the International Institute of Internal Auditors
is a sponsoring organisation. The program establishes
an enterprise risk assessment (“ERA”) for identifying,
evaluating, monitoring, reporting and managing significant
business risks. The Internal Audit function also carries out
activities under the ERA.
The Company’s Management team and internal audit
team meets periodically to assess whether any conditions
associated with a particular risk have changed, and to ensure
that action and risk mitigation plans have been implemented.
Progress and status of the mitigation action plans are
presented to the Audit & Risk Committee quarterly or new
critical risks are escalated immediately for deliberation.
The ERA categorises the risk in the following way:
• Strategic, which are risks that affect the overall direction
of the business.
• Operational, which are risks that impact the delivery of
the Company’s products.
• Financial, which are risks associated with financial
processes and reporting.
• Compliance, which are risks associated in relation to
legal, statutory and corporate governance.
The risk profile of the Company is established during
the annual risk assessment session facilitated by Royal
FrieslandCampina N.V. (RFC). Risks identified are categorised
and rated based on:
• Impact on the relevant business objectives;
• Likelihood of the risks occur; and
• Potential for improvement of the way the risk is being
managed, taking into account the existing internal
control framework and risk management measures
implemented.
In FY2021, the Board decided that the Company’s risk
management framework and policies would be assumed
by the Audit Committee. Accordingly the Audit Committee
became the Audit & Risk Committee on 27 September 2021.
Internal Audit
(Practice 11.1 and 11.2)
The Company has an in-house Internal Audit and Internal
Control Department which reports directly to the Audit &
Risk Committee and assists the Audit & Risk Committee in
the discharge of its duties and responsibilities. Its role is
to provide independent assurance of the adequacy and the
effectiveness of the risk management, internal control and
governance process as well as to carry out investigations
on any complaints received. The investigation findings and
audit recommendations and measures are reported by the
Internal Audit Manager to the Audit & Risk Committee at
each meeting.
The Head of Internal Audit, Mr Inderjit Singh, is a holder of a
Bachelor’s Degree of Accounting (Honours) from Multimedia
University (MMU). He is a member of the Institute of Internal
Auditors Malaysia (IIA). The Head of Internal Audit has over
10 years of experience in various finance functions including
internalaudit.TheHeadofInternalAuditiscurrentlysupported
by an Internal Control Specialist. Further information in the
Internal Audit function is set out in the Statement of Internal
Control and Risk Management and the Report of the Audit &
Risk Committee.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
58 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
C
Principle
Communication with stakeholders
(Practice 12.1)
The Board takes steps to ensure, as far as is practicable, that
there is effective, transparent and regular communication
between the Company and its stakeholders. The Company
disseminates information to its stakeholders utilising the
following methods:
Website: The Company’s corporate website provides quick
access to information about the Company. The information
on the corporate websites includes the corporate overview,
information on the Board of Directors and the Management
team, Compass and other Company policies, the Board
Charter and Board Committee Terms of References, financial
results, announcements to Bursa, minutes of general
meetings, the Company’s Annual Reports and Circulars to
shareholders, the Company’s products, media releases, and
other corporate news.
Annual Report: The Annual Report provides a
comprehensive report on the Company’s operations and
financial performance. An online version of the full Annual
Report is available and downloadable from the Company’s
website www.dutchlady.com.my.
General Meetings: The Board shares information to its
shareholders during general meetings and encourages
shareholders to ask questions which are addressed during
the meeting. Minutes of the general meetings, together with
a summary of the questions discussed during the meeting
are shared on the Company’s website within one month of
the date of the meeting.
Analyst briefings: The Company also meets up with
investment analysts and fund managers periodically. The
Company also actively responds to requests for discussions
with institutional shareholders and analysts, locally and
abroad, to provide them better insights into the Company.
Annual General Meetings
(Practice 13.1 to 13.6)
The Company’s Notice of AGM is published in a local
newspaper and is issued to shareholders at least 28 days
prior to the date of the AGM. The Company’s AGM in May
2021 was fully virtual and attended by all Directors.
In accordance with the guidelines and standard operating
procedures imposed during the Movement Control Order in
FY2021, only the Managing Director, the Chairman and the
Company Secretary were physically present at the Broadcast
Venue of the meeting. All the other directors joined virtually.
The Company also held a fully virtual Extraordinary General
Meeting on 1 July 2021 where all Board members and the
Company Secretary joined virtually due to the Movement
Control Order restrictions at the time.
Since FY2020, the Company’s general meetings have been
held virtually through live streaming and online remote
voting due to the COVID-19 pandemic. For virtual meetings,
only shareholders who have registered and who have
been verified by the poll administrator were allowed to
participate in the meetings. The meeting and online voting
was conducted using a system which contains data privacy
and security features. Information on how the shareholders
can register, participate and vote during the virtual meeting
was provided in the notice of meetings which were delivered
to each shareholder in accordance with the terms of the
Company’s Constitution.
Shareholders are always encouraged to provide questions
on the resolutions being proposed or on the Company’s
operations and performance in general via email before
the meeting and via the Q&A portal during the meeting.
Answers to questions received beforehand will be dealt with
during the Managing Director’s presentation or answered
verbally during the meeting. Questions received from MSWG
are also presented and answered during the meetings. The
broadcast of the virtual general meetings held in FY2021 ran
smoothly and shareholders were able to see and hear the
meeting proceedings clearly. Shareholders were also able to
participate in the meetings by asking questions via the Q&A
portal. These questions were either answered via the portal
which was visible to the shareholders or were answered
verbally by the Managing Director during the meeting.
The full minutes of the meetings which includes the answers
to the shareholders’ questions were available on the
Company website within 30 days after the general meetings.
In view that the pandemic is still on-going, a virtual meeting
will be held for the 59th AGM on 25 May 2022. The Broadcast
Venue will be held at Gallery 3, the New World Petaling
Jaya Hotel, Paradigm, 1 Jalan SS7/26A, Kelana Jaya, 47301
Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
59
Annual Report 2021
Compliance Statement by the Board of Directors on
Corporate Governance Statement
(a) Utilisation of Proceeds
The Company did not carry out any corporate exercise
to raise funds during the financial year.
(b) Audit Fees
(i) Audit Fees for the Company:
The Company’s internal audit function is performed
in-house by a team of internal auditors led by the
Head of Internal Audit and Internal Control. The
total cost incurred by the Internal Audit and Internal
Control Department in relation to the conduct of its
functions for FY2021 was RM417,243. The amount of
audit fees paid to External Auditors by the Company
for FY2021 was RM92,367.
(ii) Non-Audit Fees
The amount of non-audit fees paid to External
Auditors by the Company for the FY2021 was RM
100,000 as follows:
(i) Non-audit fees of RM20,000 is in respect of
the review of Statement of Risk Management &
Internal Control; and
(ii) Non-audit fees of RM80,000 is for the
preparation of the Pro Forma Consolidated
Financial Information (“Pro Forma Statement”)
as set out in the Guidance Note for Issuers of
Pro Forma Financial Information as issued
by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants in
relation to the transaction for the sale of the
Company’s land (“Land Disposal”).
The non-audit fees paid to the External Auditors in
FY2021 is higher than usual and higher compared to
the audit fees as the External Auditors were required
to prepare the Pro Forma Statement in FY2021. This
was necessary as the Land Disposal is subject to the
approval of the Company’s shareholders at a general
meeting and therefore a Circular to Shareholders in
accordance with Appendix 10B of the MMLR had to be
prepared. As the Land Disposal was a Very Substantial
Transaction within meaning of paragraph 10.02 of the
MMLR, the Circular to Shareholders was required to
include a pro forma consolidated statement of financial
position together with the notes and the auditors’ letter
showing effects before and after the transaction based
on the Company’s published or announced audited
financial statements for the latest financial period
ended. In the circumstances, the Company incurred non-
audit fees of RM80,000 for the preparation of the Pro
Forma Statement.
(c) Material Contracts Involving Substantial Shareholders
Save and except for the recurrent related party
transactions entered into pursuant to the shareholders’
mandate, there were no material contracts either still
subsisting at or entered into since the end of FY2021
by the Company and/or its subsidiaries which involved
Directors’ and/or substantial shareholders’ interest.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement is made
in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors
dated 23 February 2022.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
60 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
REPORT
The Audit & Risk Committee (“ARC”) provides critical oversight of the Company’s financial reporting process,
monitoring the external and internal auditing process, compliance with relevant legal and statutory matters and
other matters delegated by the Board. The committee was formerly known as the Audit Committee and became
the ARC on 27 September 2021 following the Board’s approval for the Audit Committee to assume the duties
of a Risk Committee.
The primary purpose of the Audit & Risk Committee (“Committee”) is to assist the Board of Directors to:
(i) discharge its statutory and fiduciary responsibilities of overseeing the financial risk processes and accounting and
financial reporting practices within the Group;
(ii) review the quality of the Company’s accounting function, financial reporting and internal controls;
(iii) enhance the independence of the External and Internal Audit functions by providing direction to and oversight of these
functions.
COMPOSITION
Members		
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee(2)
Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong(3)		
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias		
Mr. Jean Serge Krol
Former Members		
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar(4)
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih(5)
A
Chairperson		
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman(1) Independent Non-Executive Director
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Independent Non-Executive Director
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Independent Non-Executive Director
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Notes:
(1) Appointed as Chairperson of the ARC on 25 May 2021
(2) Appointed as Member of the ARC on 25 May 2021
(3) Appointed as Member of the ARC on 14 April 2021
(4) Resigned as Chairperson of the ARC on 25 May 2021 and as
Member of the ARC on 27 September 2021
(5) Retired as Member of the ARC on 25 May 2021
The ARC is chaired by Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku
Shahriman who is an Advocate and Solicitor of the High
Court in Malaya, a Barrister of Law of the Honourable
Society of Inner Temple, and has an LLB (Hons) from the
School of Oriental & African Studies, University of London.
She has over 19 years of broad experience in investment
banking and corporate finance and was previously the
Executive Vice President & Partner of PEMANDU Associates
Sdn Bhd, a management consulting firm which is focused on
public sector transformation and business turnaround with
global experience. She sits on the Boards and Audit and Risk
Committees of other companies in Malaysia.
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee has a Bachelor of Science in Business
Administration and an MBA from the University of Nebraska-
Lincoln, USA. She first joined the Company in March 2003
as its Commercial Director after which she held various
leadership positions in the FrieslandCampina Group including
the role of the Company’s Managing Director from 2015 to
2017. She is currently teaching at the Graduate Business
School – MBA Program, Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia and
mentors in the Women in Leadership (WIL) programme by
Lead-Women Malaysia Organisation.
61
Annual Report 2021
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
REPORT
TERMS OF REFERENCE
B
Structure of the Audit & Risk Committee
The ARC is a Committee appointed by the Board and shall
comprise of at least 3 directors. All members should be
Non-Executive Directors with Independent Non-Executive
Directors making up the majority. At least one (1) member
of the ARC must be a member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants, or have at least 3 years’ working experience
and be a member of one of the Associations of Accountants
specified in Part II of the First Schedule of the Accountants
Act 1967. The Chairperson of the ARC shall be an Independent
Non-Executive Director and be elected from amongst
the members of the ARC. All members of the Committee,
including the Chairperson, will hold office until otherwise
determined by the Board.
Authority
The ARC has authority to carry out the following:
(i) investigate any matter within its terms of reference;
(ii) has full and unrestricted access to any information,
records and documents pertaining to the Company;
(iii) has the resources which are required to perform its
duties;
(iv) has direct communication channels with both the
External and Internal Auditors;
(v) be able to obtain independent professional or other
advice; and
Mr. Darren Kong has a BSc (Hons) in Applied Accounting,
Oxford Brookes University, United Kingdom. He is a
Fellow Member of the Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants (ACCA), a Member of the Malaysian Institute
of Accountants (MIA) Associate, and a member of the
Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE). He is
currently Managing Director, Corporate Strategy & Alliance
of Fusionex International, an established multi-award winning
data technology provider that specialises in Analytics, Big
Data, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence.
Dato’ Dr. Rosini Binti Alias is Doctor of Veterinary Medicine,
DVM, from Universiti Pertanian Malaysia. She was formerly
the Deputy Director-General of the Department of Veterinary
Services (“DVS”), Malaysia and has vast experience in the
veterinary and agricultural sector with a career spanning
over 30 years.
Mr. Jean Serge Krol has a Master’s of Economics as well as
a Post-Master’s Degree for Certified Public Accountants
from the Rijksuniversiteit in Groningen. He also has as a
Post-Master’s Degree for Certified Controllers from the
Vrije Universiteit in Amsterdam. He has held various senior
finance managerial positions within Royal FrieslandCampina
N.V. from 2002 to 2019. In July 2019, he was appointed as the
Director of Finance for the Specialised Nutrition Business
Group for Royal FrieslandCampina, Netherlands.
(vi) be able to convene meetings with External Auditors,
the Internal Auditors or both, excluding the attendance
of other Directors and employees of the Company,
whenever deemed necessary.
Functions
1. The functions of the ARC are as follows:
In relation to External Auditors
(i) To consider and recommend to the Board the
appointment or re-appointment of the External
Auditors and fix their audit fee, and to consider
any issues regarding their resignation or
dismissal and the reasons thereof; In considering
the appointment or re-appointment of the
external auditors, to consider among others:
(a) the adequacy of the experience and
resources of the accounting firm;
(b) the persons assigned to the audit;
(c) the accounting firm’s audit engagements;
(d) the size and complexity of the Group being
audited;
(e) the number and experience of supervisory
and professional staff assigned to the
particular audit; and
62 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
(f) the performance of the external auditors
and its independence inter-alia:
i. communication with the management;
ii. the external auditors’ ability to meet
deadlines in providing services and
responding to issues in a timely
manner as contemplated in the
external audit plan;
iii. the competence, audit quality and
resource capacity of the external
auditors in relation to the audit;
iv. the nature of the non-audit services
provided by the external auditors and
fees paid for such services relative to
the audit fee; and
v. whether there are safeguards in place
to ensure that there is no threat to
the objectivity and independence of
the audit arising from the provision
of non-audit services or tenure of the
external auditors.
In making the assessment on the External
Auditor’s performance and independence,
the Committee should consider the
information presented in the Annual
Transparency Report of the audit firm, to
the extent that it is applicable.
(ii) To take note and be informed of the audit tender
process that is run by FrieslandCampina globally
including ensuring that an objective criteria is
established when assessing the appointment of
External Auditors.
(iii) To review and discuss with the External Auditors
their audit plan, the nature and scope of audit,
evaluation of the Company’s systems of internal
controls and their audit report on the annual
financial statements, including Key Audit Matters,
and report the same to the Board;
(iv) Ensure External Auditors have sufficient
understanding of business, operations and
risk areas, that senior audit team members
are sufficiently involved throughout the audit
process, and that the team has the capacity and
ability to work in different geographical regions;
(v) To assess the External Audit firm’s measures to
uphold audit quality and manage risks including
adopting indicators of audit quality;
(vi) To discuss issues and reservations arising from
the interim and final audits with the External
Auditors, and any other matters the External
Auditors or other consultants may wish to
discuss, in the absence of Executive Directors
and Management, where necessary and in any
case at least twice a year;
(vii) To review the External Auditors’ Management
letter and Management’s response thereon and
ensure Management provides information and
records in a timely manner;
(viii) Obtain assurance from the External Auditors
that they are and have been independent
throughout the conduct of the audit engagement
in accordance with the terms of all relevant
professional and regulatory requirements, and
that following such annual assessment review
and the assurance obtained, the Committee
to remain confident of the External Auditor’s
independence and suitability.
(ix) Ensure that advance approval by the Board
of Directors is required for non-audit
services provided by the External Auditor, on
recommendation of the Committee;
(x) Review all non-audit services performed by the
External Auditors to reinforce the independence
and objectivity of the External Auditors. In the
event the non-audit fees paid to External Auditors
or a firm or corporation affiliated to the External
Auditors are significant i.e. constitutes 50% of
the total audit fees paid to the External Auditors,
the Committee is required to state the details on
the nature of the non-audit services rendered in
the Committee’s report.
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
REPORT
63
Annual Report 2021
In relation to the financial statements
(i) To review the quarterly and annual financial statements
of the Company before submission to the Board of
Directors, focusing particularly on:-
(a) Public announcement of the results and dividend
payment;
(b) Any changes in accounting policies and practices;
(c) The going concern assumption;
(d) Compliance with approved accounting standards;
(e) Compliance with Bursa Securities and legal
requirements;
(f) Significant adjustments arising from the audit;
(g) Significant matters highlighted including financial
reporting issues; and
(h) Significant judgements made by management,
significant and unusual events or transactions
and how these matters are addressed.
(ii) Review the Company’s dividend proposals including
considering the quantum, timing and cash flow of
dividend payments, and recommending the same to
the Board for approval;
(iii) To consider and review the appropriateness of any
related party transaction and conflict of interest
situations that may arise within the Company
including ensuring compliance with applicable laws
and regulations to ensure:
(a) internal control procedures with regards to
such transactions are sufficient and have been
complied with;
(b) transactions are fair, reasonable and undertaken
on the Company’s normal commercial terms; and
(c) transactions are not detrimental to the interest
of minority shareholders;
(iv) Review the Company’s annual report prior to
submission to the Board for their perusal and approval,
to ensure compliance in accordance with the provisions
of the Companies Act 2016 and Bursa Securities Main
Market Listing Requirements, the applicable approved
accounting standards as per MASB Standards and any
other laws or regulations which might apply;
(v) Review major audit findings and Management’s
response during the year with Management, External
Auditors and Internal Auditors, including the status of
previous audit recommendations;
(vi) Review the assistance given by the Company’s officers
to the External Auditors and any issues encountered
in the course of the audit work, including restrictions
on the scope of activities or access to required
information.
In relation to Internal Audit
(i) To do the following, in relation to the Internal Audit
Department:
(a) Review the adequacy of the scope, functions,
competency and resources of the Internal Audit
Department, and that it has the necessary
authority and resources to carry out its work,
including training programs for the staff;
(b) Consider whether internal audit personnel
are free from any relationships or conflicts of
interest, which could impair their objectivity and
independence;
(c) Review the internal audit plan for the year
and findings of the internal audit assessment
and, where necessary, ensure that appropriate
actions are taken on the recommendations of the
Internal Audit Department by Management;
(d) Ensure the Head of Internal Audit reports
functionally to the Committee directly and
that the Committee reviews the performance
of the Internal Audit function annually. The
Head of Internal Audit should have the relevant
qualifications and be responsible for providing
assurance to the Committee that the internal
controls are operating effectively. The Head of
internal Audit will be responsible for the regular
review and/or appraisal of the effectiveness
of the risk management, internal controls and
governance processes of the Company.
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
REPORT
64 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
(ii) Ensure that the Company has an Internal Control
Framework, and periodically reviews the controls,
organises self-assessments and ensures effectiveness
of the system;
(iii) Ensure the Company adopts the Standards and
Principles outlined in the International Professional
Practices Framework (IPPF) of The Institute of Internal
Auditors;
(iv) Review and appraise the performance of members of
the Internal Audit Department on an annual basis;
(v) Approve any appointment and termination of senior
staff members of the Internal Audit Department; and
(vi) Takes cognisance of resignations of internal audit staff
members.
In relation to Enterprise Risk Management
(i) To review and assess the adequacy of the Enterprise
Risk Management framework and controls on a quarterly
basis including Enterprise Risk Assessment updates,
internal and/or external auditors’ evaluation of the
framework and controls, mitigating controls and action
plans to mitigate identified business risks which enables
the Company to update key risks direction, identify
material environmental, social or governance (ESG)
risks and other emerging risks and to define an adequate
and practical mitigation action plan where necessary;
(ii) To review and assess the effectiveness and adequacy
of the business continuity plan and monitoring its
implementation;
(iii) To ensure that the Enterprise Risk Management
Framework focuses on the Company’s core business
operations and it allows the Company to:
• Establish clear functional responsibilities and
accountabilities within the Company’s structures
for management of risks;
• Enhance and improve corporate governance with
a clear, concise and comprehensive structure for
the Company;
• Put in place policies and procedures on business
ethics and good business conduct which includes
focus on anti-bribery and corruption;
• Promote an effective risk awareness where
risk management is an integral aspect of the
Company’s business plan and project portfolio;
• Ensure appropriate skills and resources are
applied to risk management;
• Review periodic reports from the management
on risk exposure, risk portfolio composition and
risk management activities;
• Review and recommend new policies or changes
to policies and to consider risk implications
including the procedures put in place by
management to prevent and detect fraud
including cyber fraud.
Other Scope of Work
(i) To consider major findings of any internal investigations
and Management’s response thereon;
(ii) To review the draft circulars with respect to obtaining
shareholders’ mandate on any Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature, before
submission to the Board of Directors; and
(iii) To consider any other topics, as defined by the Board.
The ARC’s Terms of Reference can be found on the Company’s
website www.dutchlady.com.my
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
REPORT
65
Annual Report 2021
MEETINGS AND MINUTES
C
The ARC shall meet at least 4 times a year and the quorum for
any meeting shall be 2 members, consisting of Independent
Directors. The Managing Director, Finance Director and the
Internal Auditor will be invited to attend all meetings of the
ARC. There shall be at least 2 meetings a year with External
Auditors including 2 meetings without the members of
Management. External Auditors will be invited to attend
additional meetings when appropriate and they may request
a meeting with the ARC if they consider it necessary. Other
Board members may attend meetings upon the invitation of
the ARC.
Members Attendance
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman(1)
(Chairperson, Independent Non-Executive Director)
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee(2)
(Member, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)
Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong(3)
(Member, Independent Non-Executive Director)
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias
(Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
Mr. Jean Serge Krol
(Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
Former Members Attendance
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih(4)
(Member, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar(5)
(Chairperson, Independent Non-Executive Director)
The Company Secretary shall be the Secretary of the ARC
and as a reporting procedure, the minutes of each ARC
meeting shall be circulated to all members of the Board.
A total of 4 meetings were held during the financial year
2021. The membership status and attendance record of each
of the members are as follows:-
4/4
4/4
4/4
2/2
2/2
3/3
3/3
Notes:
(1) Redesignated as Chairperson of the ARC on 25 May 2021
(2) Appointed as Member of the ARC on 25 May 2021
(3) Appointed as Member of the ARC on 14 April 2021
(4) Retired as Member of the ARC on 25 May 2021
(5) Resigned as Chairperson of the ARC on 25 May 2021 and as
Member of the ARC on 27 September 2021
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
REPORT
66 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
REPORT
A summary of the key activities carried out by the ARC
during the financial year is listed below:
(a) Financial Reporting and compliance
The Company’s quarterly and annual financial
statements as well as announcements made to
Bursa Securities were reviewed by the ARC before
submission to the Board for its subsequent approval. In
doing so, the ARC deliberated and focused on changes
in major accounting policies and practices as well as
any adjustments and/or issues affecting audit related
matters to ensure compliance with Main Market Listing
Requirements, the approved Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards, the requirements of the Companies Act
and other relevant legal and regulatory requirements
with regards to the quarterly and year-end financial
statements.
As part of their accounting oversight duties, the
ARC also reviews the External Auditors’ annual and
interim audit reports, together with accompanying
Management responses.
(b) Assessing Independence, Suitability, Objectivity and
Cost Effectiveness of the External Auditors
The ARC carried out an annual review of the
independence, suitability, objectivity and cost
effectiveness of the External Auditors before
approving their remuneration and recommending
their re-appointment to the shareholders. The
factors considered include the competency, and the
adequacy of experience and resources of the firm and
professional staff assigned to perform the audit.
As part of the annual audit exercise, the ARC obtained
assurance from the External Auditors confirming that
they are and have been independent throughout the
conduct of the audit engagement in accordance with
the terms of all relevant professional and regulatory
requirements. Following the annual assessment
review and the assurance obtained, the ARC remains
confident of the External Auditor’s independence and
suitability.
(c) Risk management and internal controls
The ARC took note of the Company’s risk management
and the control environment guidelines as implemented
using the RFC Internal Control Framework and the
Enterprise Risk Management programme.
The ARC also received Risk Management progress
reports from Management quarterly whereby the ARC
took note of the mitigating controls and action plans
taken to mitigate the identified business risks.
(d) Going Concern assessment
The ARC reviewed the going concern basis for preparing
the Company’s financial statements, including the
assumptions underlying the going concern statement
and the period of assessment.
(e) External audit
Throughout the financial year, the ARC had three
meetings with External Auditors and two meetings
with them without the presence of Management. The
ARC is pleased to report that there was no significant
matter of disagreement that arose between the
External Auditors and Management.
To reinforce the independence and objectivity of the
External Auditors, the ARC reviewed all non-audit
services performed by the External Auditors.
During the financial year, the fees incurred in respect
of non-audit related matters amounted to RM100,000
as follows:
(i) Non-audit fees of RM20,000 is in respect of
the review of Statement of Risk Management &
Internal Control; and
(ii) Non-audit fees of RM80,000 is for the
preparation of the Pro Forma Consolidated
Financial Information (“Pro Forma Statement”)
as set out in the Guidance Note for Issuers of
Pro Forma Financial Information as issued by the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants in relation
to the transaction for the sale of the Company’s
land (“Land Disposal”).
SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
D
67
Annual Report 2021
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
REPORT
The non-audit fees paid to the External Auditors in
FY2021 is higher than usual and higher compared to
the audit fees as the External Auditors were required
to prepare the Pro Forma Statement in FY2021. This
was necessary as the Land Disposal is subject to the
approval of the Company’s shareholders at a general
meeting and therefore a Circular to Shareholders in
accordance with Appendix 10B of the Main Market
Listing Requirements (“MMLR”) had to be prepared. As
the Land Disposal was a Very Substantial Transaction
within meaning of paragraph 10.02 of the MMLR, the
Circular to Shareholders was required to include a pro
forma consolidated statement of financial position
together with the notes and the auditors’ letter showing
effects before and after the transaction based on the
Company’s published or announced audited financial
statements for the latest financial period ended. In the
circumstances, the Company incurred non-audit fees
of RM80,000 for the preparation of the Pro Forma
Statement.
The ARC reviewed the financial statements to take
note of changes to the approved accounting standards
and new application on financial reporting disclosures
under the Listing Requirements.
(f) Internal Audit
During FY2021, the ARC had four meetings with
the Internal Auditor. During the engagements, the
ARC discussed the results arising from the Internal
Audit findings and recommendations by the Internal
Auditor on the controls environment and operational
weaknesses, and verified that timely corrective actions
were taken by Management.
(g) Governance
The ARC reviewed the ARC Report and the Statement
of Internal Control and Risk Management and
recommended to the Board for inclusion in the 2020
Annual Report.
(h) Other Matters
During the financial year, the ARC also carried out the
following activities:
• reviewed the Company’s dividend proposals
• considered the quantum, timing and cash flow of
dividend payments, and recommended the same
to the Board for approval
• reviewedtherecurrentrelatedpartytransactions,
and any conflict of interest situations during the
year
• reviewed the Circular on the Renewal of
Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related
Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading
Nature and recommended the same to the Board
for shareholders’ approval
• discussed with the External Auditors on Key
Audit Matters and any issues arising from the
audit (in the absence of the Management)
• reviewed the Circular to Shareholders for the
Extraordinary General Meeting together with the
Pro Forma Consolidated Financial Information as
set out in the Guidance Note for Issuers of Pro
Forma Financial Information as issued by the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants in relation to
the transaction for the Land Disposal
The ARC is supported by the Internal Audit function in
discharging its duties and responsibilities. The Internal Audit
function is an integral part of the assurance framework and
its principal role is to undertake independent and systematic
reviews of the Company’s internal control system so as to
provide objective assurance on the adequacy, integrity and
effectiveness of the Company’s overall governance, risk
management and internal control processes.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
E
The Internal Audit function is performed in-house and is led
by the Head of Internal Audit who reports functionally to
the ARC while administratively to the Finance Director. The
Internal Auditors are empowered with strict accountability
for confidentiality and safeguarding records and information,
is authorised full, free, and unrestricted access to any and all
of the Company’s records, physical properties, to carrying
out any internal audit or investigation engagement.
68 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
ANNUAL REVIEW AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
F
(c) Prepared the internal audit programme based on the
internal audit plan, for each activity or process to be
audited;
(d) Maintained the Company’s Internal Control Framework,
including periodically reviewing controls, organising
self-assessments and ensured effectiveness of the
system;
(e) Discussed with auditees, process owners and
Management on the results of the audit for each
activity or process, root cause analysis will be assessed
prior any recommendations in order to mitigate the
identified risk or control work flow improvements;
(f) On a quarterly basis, reviewed the Enterprise Risk
Assessment updates, which enables the Company to
update key risks direction, identify emerging risks and
to define an adequate and practical mitigation action
plan where necessary;
(g) Reported to the ARC on a quarterly basis, the results
from the internal audit and governance issues
identified together with Management Team’s response
and action plans; and
(h) Followed up on all the action plans agreed from
the previous internal audit reports to ensure that
all matters arising are adequate addressed by the
Management.
Costs amounting to RM417,243 were incurred in relation
to the internal audit function for the financial year ended
31 December 2021.
Further details of the activities of the Internal Audit and
Internal Control Department are set out in the Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control of this Annual
Report.
The Internal Audit function is independent from the activities
of other operating departments and undertakes to review
key processes of the Company and its relationships with third
parties. It also carries out risk management activities under
the Enterprise Risk Management programme developed by
the RFC Group. The programme incorporates a process to
facilitate risk identification, assessment, reporting as well
as review and mitigation risks that affect the achievement
of the Company’s objectives and policies.
The Head of Internal Audit, Mr Inderjit Singh, is a holder of a
Bachelor’s Degree of Accounting (Honours) from Multimedia
University (MMU). He is a member of the Institute of Internal
Auditors Malaysia (IIA). The Head of Internal Audit has over
10 years of experience in various finance functions including
internal audit. The Head of Internal Audit is currently
supported by an Internal Control Specialist.
The activities of the Internal Audit function are carried out
based on the Internal Audit Plan approved by the ARC. The
ARC reviews the extent of the audit scope and coverage of
the IA activities; and the adequacy and competency and the
internal audit resources to support the completion of the
plan. At the quarterly ARC meetings, the Head of Internal
Audit reports to the ARC on the progress of Internal Audit
activities and the resource requirements, including interim
changes and the impact of resource limitations. The report
to the ARC also covers significant risk and control issues,
including fraud risks, governance issues and other matters
that require the ARC’s attention.
During the financial year, the Internal Auditors undertook
the following activities:
(a) Prepared the internal audit plan for the year, which
is reviewed and approved annually by the ARC, and
updated where necessary by the ARC;
(b) Carried out all internal audit activities in accordance
with the audit plan and adopts the Standards and
Principles outlined in the International Professional
Practices Framework (IPPF) of The Institute of Internal
Auditors and best practices in COSO Framework;
An annual performance evaluation was carried out on the
ARC in an effort to enhance and improve its processes of the
control environment.
The ARC’s responsibility is to monitor and review the
practices and processes performed by Management and the
External Auditors. It is not the ARC’s duty or responsibility to
conduct auditing or accounting reviews. The ARC members
are not employees of the Company. Therefore, the ARC has
relied, without independent verification, on Management’s
representation that the financial statements have been
prepared with integrity and objectivity, in conformity with
approved accounting principles and standards generally
accepted in Malaysia and on the representations of the
External Auditors included in its reports on the Company’s
financial statements and internal control over financial
reporting.
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
REPORT
69
Annual Report 2021
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Responsibility and Accountability
The Board continues its commitment and responsibility
towards effective risk management practices and system of
internal controls which includes the adoption of appropriate
Control Frameworks established by Royal FrieslandCampina
N.V. (“RFC”) and reviewing its effectiveness, adequacy and
integrity. The Board is responsible for identifying the key
internal and external business risks faced by the Company
and for determining the course of actions to manage
those risks. The Company continuously evaluates and
manages risks and reviews the planned actions to safeguard
shareholders’ investments and the Company’s assets.
The Board has received assurance from the Managing
Director and the Finance Director that the Company’s risk
management and internal control system is adequate and
operating effectively, in all material aspects.
The Board maintains full control over strategic, financial,
organisational and compliance matters and has put in
place an organisational structure with formal lines of
responsibility and delegation of authority. The Board and the
Audit & Risk Committee have delegated to Management the
implementation of system of risk management and internal
controls within an established governance framework
throughout the Company.
The Board of Directors affirms its responsibility for maintaining a sound and effective system of risk management
and internal control and outlines the nature of risk management procedures and internal control system within
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad for the year under review.
Risk Management Framework
The Company aims for transparency in identifying,
evaluating and mitigating risks by adopting the Enterprise
Risk Management (“ERM”) programme that was developed
and issued by RFC based on internationally recognised COSO
framework. This framework describes the management’s
risk appetite, structure, responsibilities, processes and
governance reporting procedures. It has been developed
to provide a reasonable degree of certainty that strategic
objectives are achieved by creating focus, integrating
control measures into the Company’s activities, ensuring
compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and by
safeguarding the reliability of financial and non-financial
reporting and the related explanatory notes.
Integration of the Enterprise Risk Management (“ERA”)
practices throughout the organisation enables the Company
to accelerate its growth and enhance its performance.
This success is built upon by timely identifying, evaluating
and effectively mitigating risks that could prevent the
organisation from realising its strategic objectives.
In order to facilitate an effective risk management process,
a governance process has also been established. The Three
Lines Models is developed to ensure a structured approach
is used and clear roles and responsibility is defined between
the different roles.
GOVERNING BODY
Accountable to stakeholders for organisational oversight
Governing body roles: Integrity, Leadership & Transparency
EXTERNAL ASSURANCE
PROVIDERS
INTERNAL AUDIT
Independent Assurance
Third line roles:
Independent and objective assessment
of the governance, risk management and
internal control processes
MANAGEMENT
Actions (including managing risk) to achieve
organisational objectives
First line roles:
Identify, assess and
mitigate risks
Second line roles:
Expertise, support,
monitor and challenge
on risk – related matters
Accountability,
reporting
Delegation, direction resources,
oversight
Alignment, communication,
coordination, collaboration
70 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Company’s risk management programme is led by the
Managing Director and supported by a Risk Management
Committee comprising of the Management Team and
Business Leaders from all functional units of the Company.
In providing assurance to the Board of Directors on the
Company’s adequacy and effectiveness of risk management,
the Risk Management Committee carried out continuous
reviews and updates of the status of risk mitigation actions
and identified emerging risks.
The ERM framework focuses on the Company’s core business
operations and it allows the Company to:
• Establish clear functional responsibilities and
accountabilities within the Company’s structures for
management of risks;
• Enhance and improve corporate governance with a clear,
concise and comprehensive structure for the Company;
• Promote an effective risk awareness where risk
management is an integral aspect of the Company’s
business plan and project portfolio; and
• Ensure appropriate skills and resources are applied to
risk management.
The Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) Process
The ERM process involves a systematic application of the risk
management methodology to facilitate risk identification,
assessment, reporting as well as monitoring and review as
described below:
Risk Identification & Assessment
The ERM process begins with the business strategies and
objectives setting which is aligned to the Company’s vision
and mission. Subsequently, risks arising from the business
strategies and objectives to be pursued are identified.
The risks identified are assessed as part of the Risk
Assessment Criteria and categorised based on the level
of probability and likelihood to reflect the risk appetite
approved by the Board.
The outcome of the risk assessment process at respective
functional levels will then be consolidated at the Company
level. Deliberations and discussions are held with the
Management Team and Business Leaders. This exercise
is facilitated by the Internal Audit (IA) Team and is fully
embedded as a key activity of the Risk Management
Committee (RMC).
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT
Mission, Vision
& Core Values
Strategy
Development
Business
Objective
Formulation
Implementation
& Performance
Enhanced
Value
Governance
& Culture
Strategy &
Objective-Setting
Performance Review
& Revision
Information,
Communication &
Reporting
71
Annual Report 2021
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Risk Reporting & Review
Risk appetite sets out the nature and extent of risks that the
Company is willing to accept or retain in pursuit of its goals
and objectives.
The Company’s general risk appetite depends on the risk
categories, is set out in the table below.
Risk Category and Risk Appetite
Internal Control Structure and Processes
The system of internal controls is designed to safeguard
the assets of the Company, to ensure the maintenance of
proper accounting records and to provide reliable financial
and non-financial information for use within the business
and for publication. However, these controls provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
error, misstatement, loss or breach of set regulations.
The principal features of the Company’s internal control
structure are summarised as follows:
• Board Committees
The functions and responsibilities of the various
committees of the Board of Directors are defined in
the terms of reference. These include the Audit &
Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and the
Remuneration Committee.
• Organisational Structure and Responsibility Levels
The Company has an organisational structure with
formal lines of responsibility and authorisation
procedures within which senior management operates
and is accountable for.
• Authority Levels, Acquisitions and Disposals
There are authorisation procedures and delegated
authority levels for major tenders, major capital
expenditure projects, acquisitions and disposal of
businesses and other significant transactions.
Investment decisions are delegated to Management
in accordance with authority limits. Appraisal and
monitoring procedures are applied to all major
investment decisions, and at times using external
consultants for advisory services.
Board of Directors’ approval is required for key treasury
matters including equity and loan financing, material
acquisitions and disposals of assets not in the ordinary
course of business, investment in capital projects,
cheque signatories and the opening of bank accounts.
On top of this, the FrieslandCampina Corporate Manual
includes the procedures and guidelines in which
responsibilities and authorisations are stipulated and
are applicable for the day to day management of the
Company.
Operational (including external risk)
The Company attempts to minimise the impact of
unforeseen disruption on its operating activities.
Strategic
The Company is prepared to take a certain degree
of calculated risks relating to the realisation of its
performance objectives and long-term goals.
Financial
The Company has a conservative and sound
framework of financial policies and procedures to
prevent risks that could have a significant impact on
the financial results and material misstatements in
its financial statements reporting.
Compliance
The Company applies a zero tolerance policy.
On a quarterly basis, the risk profiles are updated by the
Management Team and Business Leaders. The updated risk
profiles are then tabulated into a heat map, which set out
the priority and focus for risk mitigation strategies based
on risk ratings at net levels. The net risk level is determined
after taken into consideration the effectiveness of existing
controls and risk mitigation plans.
The finalised risk profiles and heat maps are identified and
promptly brought to the attention of the ARC.
72 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
• Procedure and Control Environment
Inadditiontointernalcontrols,theDirectorshaveensured
that health and safety regulations, environmental
controls and economic risks have been considered, and
relevant laws and regulations complied with. The quality
of the Company’s products is of paramount. Quality
Assurance, Quality Control and meeting customers’
requirements are prime considerations, and these are
achieved by the Company being FSSC 22000 certified.
Ultimately, the aim of the Company is to deliver safe
food to consumers, whilst demonstrating compliance
with the prevailing laws and regulations.
In addition, strong emphasis is also given to food safety
with Good Manufacturing Practices and Hazard Analysis
and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”) System that cover
all plants.
The Company has in place the ISO 14001 Environment
Management System, a systematic management
approach to the environmental concerns of the Company,
and ISO 45001, the Occupational Health and Safety
Assessment Series for the protection of employees
from hazards and the mitigation of work-related injuries
and health-related issues.
In 2021, the Company has embarked upon ONE Audit
which is a FrieslandCampina’s internal maturity
assessment conducted on the quality system for
Food Safety and Quality Management System and
Safety Health and Environment Management System
within FrieslandCampina. In addition, a review is also
conducted to ensure a proper maintenance system and
organisational structure is in place. ONE audit is carried
out by the global team every two years once to ensure
that products produced by the Company and the way
in which they are being produced meet the necessary
high standards on food safety, quality, labour safety and
environment.
The Company has formal guidelines on safety, health
and environment which apply to all employees and third-
party contractors.
The integrity and competence of personnel are
continuously assessed through the Performance
Management System, talent assessment programme,
management organisation development and Hay Reward
Management System.
• Standards of Business Ethics
Employees are contractually bound to observe
prescribed standards of business ethics when
conducting themselves at work and in their relationship
with external parties, such as customers and suppliers.
In this regard, the RFC Company’s code for good business
conduct, Compass, plays an important role in the
management of compliance risk. This code of conduct
and its underlying guidelines (which include the Speak-
Up Procedure, Fair Competition guidelines and Doing
Honest Business, amongst others forms the basis of the
honest, respectful and transparent business conduct of
the Company’s employees and third parties with whom
the Company transacts with. Compliance with this
code of conduct and the guidelines is cascaded to all
employees by means of a comprehensive communication
and training programmes, with designated local trusted
representatives, set in place.
The Compass is supported globally by RFC Corporate
Headquarters with an established Integrity Committee
and a reporting platform (SpeakUp) that is available to
employees 24 hours a day, seven days a week so they
can, in confidence, express their concerns regarding a
suspected infringement of the code or a guideline. The
Company has also established a procedure whereby
certain Speak Up Reports which are of a financial or
fraudulent nature will be escalated to the Company’s
Audit & Risk Committee.
In line with this, the Company has an Employee
Handbook that guides the Company’s employees in
their day-to-day conduct. Employees are expected to
conduct themselves with integrity and objectivity and
not be placed in a position of conflict of interest. In 2021,
trainings, briefings, and communication were conducted
for employees and stakeholders in regards to Section
17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission
(MACC) Act 2009. This update is done to strengthen the
Company’s internal processes and practices to ensure
that it has adequate procedures in place to prevent
persons associated with the Company from corrupt
conduct.
Suppliers are also bound by the “RFC Business Practices
for Suppliers” to ensure honest conduct of business
is being practiced within the Company’s business
operations.
73
Annual Report 2021
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
• Formalised Strategic Planning and Operating Plan
Processes
The Strategic Planning process is led by RFC Company
and is focusing on long term strategic direction of the
Company, prioritising future investments and resources.
The Company performs business planning and budgeting
process each year, to establish plans and targets against
which performance is monitored on a monthly basis by
Management.
The Company formulated a Sales & Operations Planning
process to align product demand and supply together
with financial resources in order to provide the Company
with defined business strategies and priorities. In
addition, the process also aims to continuously improve
business performance, especially on the improvement
in customer service levels, forecasting accuracy and
inventory turnover management.
• Reporting and Review
The Company’s Management Team monitors the monthly
reporting and reviews the financial results and forecasts
for the business against the operating plans and annual
budgets. The results are communicated to employees at
the Company’s town hall sessions. A separate monthly
financial report is also disseminated to the Management
Team members, with periodical meetings organised with
core business managers.
The Managing Director reports on a quarterly basis to
the Audit & Risk Committee and the Board of Directors
on significant changes in the business and external
environment in which the Company operates.
On behalf of the Management Team, the Managing
Director and the Finance Director sign-off on a
bi-annual Management Statement to the Business
Group. By signing off on the Management Statement,
it demonstrates the management’s accountability
over financial and non-financial reporting disclosures,
adequacy of the Internal Control Framework (ICF),
responsibility for proper Segregation of Duty (“SOD”)
and ensuring full and transparent disclosure is made on
any fraud and non-compliance with laws and regulations.
• Financial Performance
Thepreparationofquarterlyandfull-yearfinancialresults
and the state of affairs, as published to shareholders,
are reviewed by the Audit & Risk Committee and later
approved by the Board.
• Assurance Compliance
The Board, Audit & Risk Committee and Management
review the Internal Audit reports on a quarterly basis
and monitor the status of implementation of corrective
actions that are prepared by the Internal Audit team to
address internal control weaknesses noted.
• Internal Control Framework (ICF)
The Company has adopted RFC’s Internal Control
Framework (ICF) compliance programme that
emphasises on internal controls over financial reporting
where assessment is performed on key controls
surrounding the financial reporting process based
on materiality level; and focusing on transparency,
accountability and safeguarding of assets in its review.
The ICF comprises prescribed control measures that
are evaluated by means of regular internal assessments
for which if shortcomings are discovered, improvement
measures are set in place and regularly tracked. The
assessments are performed by competent assessors and
the outcome of the assessments are tested by qualified
independent testing reviewers. The Internal Audit (IA)
team discusses non-compliance areas, if any, and control
deficiencies with relevant business owners to ensure
remediation action plan is undertaken. Completed
action plans are then retested to ensure adequate
remediation is in place. Unremediated deficiencies and
controls requiring improvement are regularly reported
and updated to the Audit & Risk Committee during their
quarterly meetings.
• Update on Developments
Quarterly reporting is made to the Board on legal,
accounting, and sustainability developments where
applicable. Briefings are also conducted to keep
employees informed of changes to legislation or local
by-laws that are expected to affect the Company’s
operations or the way the Company conducts its
business, where relevant.
In 2021, the Company has also taken the opportunity to
update key policies and procedures relating to functions
of the business: - Sales, Finance & HR. The policies and
procedures are reviewed and updated by the business
owners in agreement with the relevant management
team members. Furthermore, the Company has also
developed a SharePoint site, all approved policies and
procedures would be published here, and all employees
have been given access to the site.
74 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
Internal Audit Function
The Internal Audit function is performed in-house with its
primary function to provide an independent and objective
assessment on the adequacy and effectiveness of the
governance, risk management and internal control processes
established by the Management and the Board. The Internal
Audit function has an independent reporting line to the
ARC and its performance is reviewed by the ARC annually.
It focuses on key areas of the business and operations risk
based on the audit plan approved annually by the Audit &
Risk Committee. The audit plan is developed based on the
risk profiles identified in accordance with the Company’s
Risk Management Framework and in consultation with the
Management Team. Internal audit reports are presented on
a quarterly basis to the Audit & Risk Committee.
• Summary of Work Performed by Internal Audit
During FY2021, the Internal Audit function completed
the audit assignments as approved by the Audit & Risk
Committee. The audit assignments were inclusive of
investigative audits as requested by the management
and the support rendered to the RFC Central Internal
Audit (“CIA”) team on their audits on selected Capital
Expenditure projects.
The Internal Audit team highlights, to the Audit & Risk
Committee and Management, areas for improvement
and follows-up on the progress of implementation of the
agreed actions arising from the internal audit report.
The Management is responsible in ensuring all agreed
action plans are address within the required timeframe.
The Audit & Risk Committee in turn reviews the
effectiveness of the system of internal controls in
operation and reports the results thereon to the Board.
Adequacy and effectiveness of Risk Management and
Internal Control System
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness, adequacy
and integrity of the system of risk management and internal
controls in operation during the financial year through the
monitoring process set out above.
There were no material losses incurred during the current
financial year as a result of weaknesses in internal control.
Management continues to take measures to strengthen the
control environment.
Taking into account the limitations that are inevitably
inherent in any risk management and internal control
system, and the possibilities for improving the system, the
Company’s risk management and internal control systems
provide a reasonable degree of assurance that:
• The Board will be informed quarterly of the degree to
which the Company’s strategic, operational, financial
and compliance objectives are being achieved;
• The internal and external financial reporting do not
contain any material misstatement and that the risk
management and internal control systems functioned
effectively during 2021; and
• The Company has complied with the relevant legislation
and regulations.
This Statement is prepared in accordance with the Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control – Guidelines for
Directors of Listed Issuers (Guidelines) with an effective date
of 31 December 2012, in line with the Paragraph 15.26(b) of
the Bursa Malaysia Listing Requirements and Principle B of
the Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance 2017 as issued
by the Securities Commission Malaysia.
The Review of the Statement by External Auditors
As required by Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements,
the external auditors have reviewed this Statement on
Risk Management and Internal Control. Their limited
assurance review was performed in accordance with Audit
and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3, issued by the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”).
AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to form
an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk
management and internal control systems of the Company.
75
Annual Report 2021
76 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
Sustainability and
responsibility remain
a key pillar of our
business strategy. As a
leading dairy company,
we are committed to
demonstrate responsible
corporate conduct
across all aspects of our
operations.
This Sustainability Report was prepared in
accordance with the guidelines set out in the
Main Market Listing Requirements relating to
Sustainability Statement in Annual Report of
Listed Issuers (“Guidelines”) issued by Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad and covers the
Company’s business operations in Malaysia for
the financial year ended 31 December 2021.
77
Annual Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STRATEGY: DAIRY WITH
A PURPOSE
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (DLMI) mission is to
create shared value to all our stakeholders through our
strategic initiatives, in line with that of our parent company,
Royal FrieslandCampina N.V. (“RFC”). Based on RFC’s global
theme of Nourishing A Better Planet, we leverage our Dutch
dairy heritage and unique global milk chain in a sustainable
way. As one of the leading dairy players in Malaysia, we are
committed to demonstrate responsible corporate conduct
across all aspects of our operations.
Board Commitment & Reporting Framework
Our Board of Directors is mindful of the Company’s
responsibility towards sustainability issues and its role in
our long-term strategic plans. The Board, in partnership with
the Management and other stakeholders, remains steadfast
towards ensuring that responsible corporate conduct
is demonstrated and practised in DLMI’s daily business
activities across all aspects of DLMI’s operations.
Board of Directors
• Provides strategic advice and input
from an external perspective
• Ensures adherence with Bursa and
other regulatory requirements
Management Team
• Monitors and acts on related risks
and report on progress
• Responsible for sustainable
business policies and practices
• Formulates sustainable strategies,
policies and KPI goals
• Monitors, aligns and facilitates
adherence to our sustainability
policy
• Facilitates and supports operating
divisions to meet sustainability
goals
• Conducts sustainability awareness
and engagement activities
• Quarterly sustainability
performance reporting
Operating Divisions
• Day-to-day management of
sustainability risks and issues
• Own and ensure compliance of
relevant sustainability-related
policies and practices
• Record all sustainability source
data
Sustainability Governance Framework
Sustainability is embedded within DLMI and is led from
the top. Sustainability matters are managed by a team
consisting of members from various departments within
the company based on the Economic, Environmental and
Social Framework and in line with DLMI’s vision of nourishing
Malaysians with trusted and sustainable dairy nutrition, for
now and generations to come. We aspire to demonstrate our
commitment to sustainability within the market we operate
in, the environment, the surrounding community and in the
workplace.
Materiality Assessment
In order to achieve DLMI’s sustainability objectives, a
comprehensive risk materiality assessment was conducted
internally. This was done through a series of workshops with
various internal stakeholders where issues were identified
by internal stakeholders and survey results from employees
were considered.
Based on the risk materiality assessment, the top 5
principal risks were identified. A summary of the key risks
and uncertainties as well the mitigation factors undertaken
by DLMI to meet the challenges can be in found in the
Statement of Risk Management and Internal Controls. The
risks and the mitigation factors for 2021 were shared with
the Board and quarterly updates have been provided to the
Board on developments or outcomes of the steps taken.
78 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
FY2021 Materiality Matrix
Food Quality, Safety and Nutrition
Halal Certification
Raw Material
Prices
Customer Satisfaction
COVID-19 Pandemic
Foreign Exchange Rates
Responsible Advertising
(WHO Code Compliance)
Talent Management
Anti-Corruption and
Corporate Governance
Innovation and
Digitalisation
Competitive Pricing
Risk Management
Sustainable
Supply Chain
Water Management
Energy Consumption
Climate Change
National Socio-
Economic Performance
Recyclable/
Circular Packaging
Emissions
Diversity and
Equal Opportunity
Waste Management
and Recycling
Socio Economic Progress of
Local Communities
Biodiversity
Low
Low
Medium
Medium
High
High
Highest
Highest
Impact to Business Model
Impact to Stakeholders
Sustainability Development Goals
The United Nations has formulated 17 Sustainable Development Goals (“SDG”) related to responsible production and
consumption, climate change, sustainable communities, health and well-being and efforts to fight poverty and starvation.
79
Annual Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
Of these 17 goals, DLMI and our parent company, RFC, have identified seven SDGs that we contribute to. These are:
SDG 1: No poverty
End poverty in all its forms everywhere
SDG 2: Zero hunger
End hunger, achieve food security and improve
nutrition and promote sustainable agriculture
SDG 3: Good Health and Well-being
Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being
for all at all ages
SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth
Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable
economic growth, full and productive
employment and decent work for all
SDG 12: Responsible Consumption and
Production
Ensure sustainable consumption and
production patterns
SDG 13: Climate Action
Take urgent action to combat climate change
and its impacts
SDG 15: Life on Land
Protect, restore and promote sustainable use
of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage
forests, combat desertification and halt and
reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity
loss
These seven SDGs form the backbone of the RFC’s sustainability principles. They also ensure DLMI’s competitive advantage
in the marketplace and in building a long-term product brand value. The following framework is implemented:
Focus Areas Economic Environmental Social
Strategic Goals To strengthen innovation and
operational efficiency to ensure
food safety and towards a more
balanced resource –efficient
management
To adopt best practice solutions
through innovative quality
processes
To act as catalysts for boosting
community development and
support systems for long-term
talent pipeline
Material Matters • Right culture and shared
values
• Safety and health
• Supply chain dynamics
• Client-centric services
• Value for shareholders
• Environmental protection
• Material efficiency
• Energy and water
consumption management
• Waste, noise and effluent
management
• Equal employment and
employee engagement
• Talent development
• Community services
80 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
DLMI Sustainability Roadmap: Reinforcing Our Sustainability Commitment for The Future
We worked tirelessly throughout 2021 to bring real meaning and action to our sustainability agenda, underpinned by a clear
sustainability roadmap established at the end of 2020 to drive comprehensive initiatives across 4 focus areas that supports
our Grass to Glass philosophy and RFC’s ‘Nourishing a Better Planet’, which is aligned with 7 out the 17 UN Sustainable
Development Goals.
DLMI Sustainability Roadmap - Aligned to RFC’s Sustainability agenda & UN’s Sustainable Development Goals
FrieslandCampina’s ‘Nourishing A Better Planet’ agenda is aligned with UN’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDG),
which is supported by the Malaysian Government.
2. Better living for farmers
3. Better climate, carbon
neutral future
4. Better nature, improving
biodiversity
3 Better climate,
carbon neutral
future
6. Better sourcing,
100% responsible
1. Better affordable nutrition
for everyone
5. Better packaging,
100% circular
2 3 4 1 3 6 5
DLMI’s Sustainability Roadmap is aligned with
FrieslandCampina’s ‘Nourishing A Better Planet’ agenda
• Drive dairy farming
which focuses on
sustainability for animals
and ecosystem, while
minimising carbon
footprint
• Enhance farmer’s skill
and knowledge
• Drive productivity and
purchase of raw milk
from local farmers
• Provide healthy and
sustainable nutrition to
all people, at all ages
• Reduce hunger in
Malaysia and promote
good health and well-
being
• Educate and amplify the
goodness of milk
• Exercise
production
processes that
reduce water
and energy
consumption,
circular and
CO
2
neutral
• 100% sourcing
responsibly and
sustainably
Internal
Ensure our
entire packaging
portfolio is
reusable,
recyclable or both
External
Partnership with
MAREA and CAN
groups
Farm
(Grass)
Accelerate Defend
Nutrition
(Glass)
Post-Consumption
(Glass)
Carbon Footprint
(Glass)
UN
RFC
DLMI
81
Annual Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
The sustainable actions and initiatives
in 2021 focused on leading sustainable
action at the farm, nourishing
Malaysians with better and affordable
nutrition and ensuring our business
operations were in balance with nature
via our carbon footprint and post-
consumption.
We achieved commendable progress in
2021 across the 4 key areas, reflecting
our commitment to the sustainability
roadmap and the prominence and
value we place on sustainability.
The following sections discuss the various efforts DLMI has undertaken in 2021 to
meet the 4 pillars of our strategic roadmap.
Improving Dairy Self-Sufficiency
Our Dairy Development Programme (DDP) helps accelerate
the development of local dairy farmers by raising milk quality
and safety, increasing farm productivity and supporting
farmers in selling their milk. In 2021 we provided continuous
support to local dairy farmers in creating a market for their
milk.
Our DDPalsorepresentsourproactiveinitiativeinsupporting
the Government’s plan to achieve 100% self-sufficiency in
domestic milk production by 2025.
DLMI inked a memorandum of collaboration (MoC) with
the Department of Veterinary Services Malaysia (DVS) in
2021 to implement sustainable dairy farming practices. The
strategic partnership involves the participation of local dairy
farmers in our DDP and Farmer2Farmer (F2F) Programme.
These initiatives involve Dutch dairy farmers transferring
their skills and knowledge to local dairy farmers to improve
the quality and quantity of local raw milk. Since 2011, DDP
has helped produce 37.9 million litres of local fresh milk.
Through our F2F initiative, milk production which we
purchased from local dairy farmers increased by 88% from
2.5 million litres in 2011 to 4.72 million litres in 2021.
PILLAR 1: FARM
Memorandum of Collaboration: DVS – DLMI
KSTNMB Female farmer (Madam Vijaya)
PILLAR 1:
FARM
PILLAR 2:
NUTRITION
PILLAR 3:
CARBON
FOOTPRINT
PILLAR 4:
POST
CONSUMPTION
82 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
farmers trained
(2013 - 2021)
litres local
fresh milk
(2011 - 2021)
37.9
million
536
F2F continued to conduct virtual safety training for raw milk tanker drivers. 2021
also saw the introduction of F2F Video Blogs (Vlogs) in our training of local dairy
farmers with a total of 70 Malaysian local dairy farmers trained virtually during
the COVID-19 Pandemic.
As for our virtual Good Dairy Farming Practice Training sessions conducted, 144
farmers were trained in 2021 in the areas of milk hygiene and quality, safety,
animal health and soft skills relevant to farmers.
We also celebrated International Women’s Day on 8 March 2021 to recognise our
women farmers.
We embarked on the F2F initiative in 2013 as part of our long-term commitment
to increase the supply of local milk and empower farmers to build sustainable
businesses and improve their livelihoods. To date, F2F has benefitted 536 farmers.
PILLAR 2: NUTRITION
Quality & Balanced Nutrition
The need for consistent and sustainable provision of quality
nutrition to provide the right nutrients to our consumers
grows in tandem with the continued growth of the world’s
population. As such, ensuring the availability of sufficient
nutritious food to help combat undernourishment and a
shortage of nutrients forms one of the four cornerstones of
our parent company RFC’s own CSR priorities.
On the local front, DLMI aims to continue our efforts
in combating Malaysia’s dual problems of malnutrition:
undernutrition and overnutrition (obesity) and nutrient
deficiency by ensuring our products are responsibly
manufactured, of high quality, healthy and available in
various choices and portion sizes.
We innovate to provide our consumers with more product
offerings to attract more consumers to drink milk at all
occasions. In addition, we educate our consumers on healthy
eating, to have a strong start to the day with breakfast
and the need to make lifestyle changes, emphasising the
importance of being active with daily exercise.
DLMI Halal Toyyiban & Good Practices Commitment
All our locally produced and imported products are Halal-
certified. We also ensure our products manufactured
abroad obtain Halal Certification from the relevant Halal
certification bodies and authorities recognised by Jabatan
Kemajuan Islam Malaysia (JAKIM). As such, we remain
committed to providing Halal products to our consumers
by putting in place Halal systems that comply with JAKIM
and Jabatan Agama Islam Selangor (JAIS) requirements.
The requirements cover the highest standards of hygiene,
quality and safety conditions from the purchasing of raw
materials to the distribution of our products.
DLMI’s Internal Halal Committee (IHC) was established in 2011
to ensure our collective responsibility towards ensuring our
compliance with Halal Policy and Procedures is in alignment
with JAKIM and JAIS’ requirements. IHC is responsible
for ensuring, developing, implementing, monitoring and
controlling the effectiveness of our JAKIM Halal Assurance
System (HAS) and compliance with the requirements of
Malaysian Halal Certification. In 2021, DLMI’s IHC comprised
of 13 members from various fields and divisions within the
company. Five of our IHC members are certified by the
JAKIM Halal Professional Board (HPB) as Halal Executives.
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
KOPTEN Female farmer
(Madam Wong Siew Moi)
Agro Dairy Farm
