52
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
SUSTAINABILITY
STATEMENT
The global sustainability debates intensified during
the year. The Annual Conference of the Parties of the
UNFCC, commonly known as COP, was held for the 27th
time in November 2022 in Sharm El Sheikh, Egypt.
COP27 reinforced the need for urgent climate action
and social justice to avoid reaching a point of no-return
for both businesses and humanity. In Malaysia, we have
seen much progress.
Institutional investors, regulators, and policymakers
went to market with EES&G guidelines, disclosure
requirements, and mandates on various standards and
frameworks. The emphasis has been on the need for
businesses to monitor and manage their EES&G risks
as well as performance.
Amid the fast maturing conversations on sustainability,
at DLMI, we continued to examine it as a business
imperative. For us, it is about improving our efficiencies
and doing more with less. It is about growing equity
and making business better for now and for future
generations of all stakeholders. It is about creating
value for all – from our mission “Nourishing Our
Planet and People in Every Stage of Life”, to building a
resilient business. It is about making possible a win-win
co-existence of business, economy, society and nature.
It is about operating with greater accountability
towards the systemic relationships between these. This
philosophy and approach to sustainability, far from an
apocalyptic narrative, strengthens our business case.
We do not look at sustainability as a mere compliance
risk. It is an enterprise risk. This means, alongside
economic performance risks, we take into consideration
environmental, social and governance risks that could
potentially compromise our financial position, people
productivity, operational integrity, stakeholders’
BUSINESS CASE FOR SUSTAINABILITY:
BEYOND AN APOCALYPTIC NARRATIVE
interests and market reputation. When devising
strategies or steering business performance, such
risks must be in full visibility of the Board of Directors
and Management. Therefore, in 2022, we revisited our
Board Charter. We now are more explicit on what long-
term value creation means also in the sense of EES&G
risks monitoring and management, which will drive
value for both shareholders and multiple stakeholders
to business. Setting the right tone at Board-level is the
first of many critical steps to getting the business case
and sustainability governance right.
During the year, we also took a critical assessment
of our sustainability material matters and realigned
them to meet our global priorities and local market
expectations. We also took stock of various gaps and
challenges, which will give us a sound foundation to
strategise a Sustainability Roadmap 2030 for DLMI
Malaysia, with specific commitments and targets. We
will continue to engage all critical stakeholders in our
value chain in making our journey collaborative and
meaningful in both intent and outcomes. Our future
report/s will include comprehensive EES&G disclosures.
Meanwhile, as the leading dairy company in Malaysia,
we remain committed to our purpose of “Nourishing
Our Planet and People in Every Stage of Life”.
Dr. Kishore Ravuri,
Head, Sustainability
53
Sustainability Statement
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
ABOUT SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS REPORT
Introduction
Sustainability is about accountability at Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad (“DLMI”). As a leading dairy company,
we remain committed to responsible business practices
and long-term value creation while fulfilling our purpose of
“Nourishing Our Planet and People in Every Stage of Life”.
This Sustainability Report 2022 (“SR2022”) presents
our consistent efforts to address material sustainability
matters across the key pillars of EES&G.
The reporting period of SR2022 is from 1 January 2022 to
31 December 2022 (“FY2022”), unless otherwise stated.
Where applicable and where possible, a 2-year historical data
for certain disclosures may have been included to highlight
important trends and DLMI’s year on year progress.
Scope: Reporting Boundary and Principles
The scope of SR2022 includes business operations and
manufacturing activities of DLMI as specified. Unless
otherwise mentioned, SR2022 excludes all outsourced
activities and/or operations of our parent company and its
operating companies elsewhere in Asia and beyond.
DLMI’s boundaries are defined based on the established
materiality topics as well as sound reporting principles
that preserve report content and quality. Data for SR2022
has been sourced, verified and validated internally by
the respective data owners from the relevant business
departments.
We are aware of certain data collection challenges
persisting for some indicators, and we are continuously
working internally to implement stronger data tracking
and gathering mechanisms for enhanced reporting going
forward.
Material Matters: Re-Assessment & Alignment
In the year under review, we have undertaken a re-assessment and alignment exercise for better clarity and in keeping
with best industry practices.
Revision and
recategorisation
of main pillars - Farm,
Nutrition, Carbon Footprint,
Post-Consumer under
Economic, Environmental
and Social categories using
Royal FrieslandCampina
(“RFC”) pillars as a guide
for better representation of
sustainability focus areas
as well as Bursa Malaysia’s
Common Topics.
Revision and re-articulation
of the pillar topics as well
as existing material matters
to ensure we are effectively
managing our risk exposure
in all critical areas, and are
clearly establishing the
scope and boundary where
we may have direct control
and influence.
Validation and prioritisation
of the material topics
by critical stakeholder
groups such as Consumers,
Employees, Suppliers,
and DLMI Management
Team through qualitative
engagement and
quantitative ranking
exercise.
54
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Based on the prescribed process by Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, we have covered the highlighted
sections below.
Below is our revised materiality matrix:
Engage with relevant
stakeholders and experts
Test the material
topics with experts
and information
users
Test the material
topics against
the topics in the
Sector Standards
Use the Sector
Standards to
understand the
sectors’ context
Consider the
topics and impacts
described in the
Sector Standards
Identify and assess impacts on an ongoing basis Determine material topics for reporting
We Did These!
Lowest priority
Highest priority
Importance to Stakeholders (External)
Impact on DLMI (Internal)
4.7
4.6
4.5
4.4
4.3
4.2
4.1
4.0
3.9
2.6 2.8 3.0 3.2 3.4 3.6 3.8
M1
M6
M2
M3
M9
M4
M10
M5
Nutrition & Product
Responsibility
M1
TOP 10 MATERIAL MATTERS
Innovation & Technology
M2
Responsible Supply Chain
M3
Energy, Water, Waste &
Emissions
M4
Recovery & Circularity
M5
Growth
M8
Purpose & Culture
M6
Farmers & Communities
M9
Employee Experience
M7
Social & Economic Continuity
M10
Material Topics
M1
M2
M3
M4
M5
M8
M6
M9
M7
M10
1
Understand
the
organisation’s
context
2
Identify actual
and potential
impacts
4
Prioritise the
most significatnt
impacts for
reporting
Assess the
significance of
the impacts
3
M8
M7
55
Sustainability Statement
Standards: Compliance and Alignment
The SR2022 has taken into consideration various frameworks and guidelines in documenting DLMI’s ambition and
progress:
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of DLMI is the highest
decision-making body in the Group and therefore
acknowledges responsibility for this statement of use:
“The information reported by DLMI for the financial year
ended 31 December 2022 has been prepared in reference
to the GRI Standards and Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad’s Standards”.
* Please note that the structure and format of this report has been planned
to support:
• Our 3-year journey to improve quality of reporting and enhance
the level of compliance to <IR> Framework as well as alignment
with Taskforce on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD),
Sustainability Accounting Standards Board or SASB and GRI
Standards.
Assurance: Internal Review & External Audit
The financial data presented in SR2022 has been
independently audited and assured by an external auditor,
PwC. Non-financial data has been internally assured by
the Management Team and the respective data owners.
While DLMI has not sought external assurance for its non-
financial data presented in SR2022, it plans to garner
this external assurance for non-financial data in the near
future.
Feedback: Commitment to Continuous Improvement
SR2022 as part of DLMI Integrated Annual Report
2022 can be downloaded from our official website at
https://www.dutchlady.com.my/investors/.
DLMI remains open to inquiries and feedback from its
valued stakeholders on its sustainability focus areas
and performance. DLMI’s Investor Relations contact is
finance.dept@frieslandcampina.com. DLMI’s Sustainability
contact is sustainabilityMY@frieslandcampina.com.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Main Market Listing
Requirements relating
to Sustainability
Statement in Annual
Report of Listed
Issuers (“Guidelines”),
issued by Bursa
Malaysia Securities
Berhad
Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI)
Standards*
Royal
FrieslandCampina’s
Reporting
Guidelines
Sustainability
Accounting
Standards
Board (SASB)
Standards*
United Nations
Sustainability
Development
Goals (“UN
SDGs”)
56
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
57
Sustainability Statement
58
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Priorities/Pillars Material Matters Addressing Systemic
Issues
Global Goals
Nutrition & Product
Responsibility
Degradation of
Environment &
Depletion of Resources
(Desired Transition to
Restoration & Renewal)
Innovation & Technology
Responsible Supply Chain
Energy, Water, Waste & Emissions
Recovery & Circularity
Purpose & Culture
Employee Experience
Growth
Disparity & Disease
in workplace and
communities
(Desired Transition
to Responsibility &
Revitalisation)
Farmers & Communities
Social & Economic Continuity
Disconnection from
Technology and
Disruption of Operations
(Desired Transition to
Rewiring & Resilience)
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE
Board Charter
Sustainability is a real risk to business and its resilience, and its thriving future.
The Board acknowledges this alongside the importance of taking a long-term
view on both shareholder and stakeholder value creation by managing material
EES&G risks.
In 2022, we revisited and revised our Board Charter at Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad. We are now more explicit on what long-term value creation
means also in the sense of EES&G risks monitoring and management, which
will drive value for both shareholders and multiple stakeholders to business.
This clarity on sustainability at Board-level is the first of many critical
steps to getting our business case and sustainability governance right.
Access our Board Charter on https://www.dutchlady.com.my/investors/
board-charter/.
Risk Management Framework
Critical to shaping a sustainable
business is our preparedness,
capability, and capacity to identify
and address both financial and non-
financial risks arising from EES&G
impacts on our business, operations,
and growth. These risks may arise
in the process of fulfilling DLMI’s
multiple roles as dairy manufacturer,
investor, purchaser, corporate donor,
employer and industry/business
partner. Such risks may have serious
consequences in terms of DLMI’s
market position and reputation,
financial losses, legal implications,
and stakeholders’ perceptions.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
M1
M7
M2
M8
M3
M9
M4
M10
M5
M6
Better
Sourcing
Better
Climate
Better
Packaging
Better
Governance
Better
Society
Better
People
Better
Nutrition
59
Sustainability Statement
DLMI’s Risk Management Framework has integrated EES&G risks and our management approaches.
EES&G Risks Integrated into DLMI’s Risk Management Framework
Economic Risks Environmental Risks Social Risks Governance Risks
Market & External Risks
(Resource crunch, pricing
fluctuations, and consumer
activism)
Product, Technology &
Innovation Risks
(Product development,
quality, and consumer
activism)
Supply Chain &
Procurement Risks
(Procurement irregularities
and supplier disruptions)
Water, Waste & Emissions
Management Risks
(Evolving regulations,
corporate liability, and
compliance rules)
People Performance &
Productivity Risks
(Welfare/wellbeing and
DEI of employees/workers,
including risks related to
human rights, and safety
and health)
Internal Policy Risks
(greivance mechanisms,
policy breaches,
monitoring, evaluation, and
learning processes)
Fraud & Anti-Bribery Risks
Regulatory & Legal Risks
Policy Support and Commitments
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
• Golden
Purchasing
Rules
• Silver
Purchasing
Rules
• Fair
Competition
Policy
• Policy on
Marketing of
Infant Foods
• Golden Quality
Rules
• FrieslandCampina
Sustainability
Policy
• Human Rights
Policy
• Life-saving
Rules
• Data
Protection/
Privacy Policy
• Policy on
Preventing
Fraud
• Policy on
Responsible
Advocacy
• Doing Honest
Business Policy
• Conflicts of
Interest Policy
• Speak Up
Policy
60
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Sustainability Steering Committee
Established in 2022 for operationalisation with effect from 2023, the main purpose of the Sustainability Steering
Committee (SSC) is to lead sustainability strategy formulation as well as EES&G integration approaches by supporting
various functional teams. Chaired by the Managing Director, SSC assumes the following roles and responsibilities:
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
Global Chief Sustainability Officer
Nomination &
Remuneration Committee
Audit & Risk Committee
Sustainability
Sponsor (proposed)
Board of Directors
Managing Director (MD)
Management Team
Promoting the value of accountability in
mindset, behaviour, and action motivating
meaningful sustainability action
01 Reviewing sustainability strategies
proposed by the Head of Sustainability
and recommending to the Board of DLMI
represented by the Chair/Managing Director
04
Providing necessary oversight and counsel
for devising, implementing, monitoring
and reporting on sustainability framework,
strategies, policies, and programmes
including climate action and social justice
02
Reviewing and approving external
reporting frameworks, disclosures, and
assurance processes in keeping with
relevant local legislation and regulatory
requirements as well as global values/
strategies of FrieslandCampina
06
Pre-empting and deliberating on various
sustainability risks as well as related
governance
03
Reviewing and approving of various
sustainability-related policies and
programmes
05
Functional Teams
Better
Nutrition
Better
Sourcing
Better
Climate
Better
Packaging
Better
People
Better
Society
Better
Governance
- The Chair reports to the Board of DLMI on critical/material EES&G/sustainability matters based on SSC’s quarterly
proceedings
- The Head of Sustainability apprises the Chair on various material issues and proposals related to policies and programmes
on a quarterly basis
- The functional heads apprise the Head of Sustainability on their respective areas of sustainability performance, issues
and proposed solutions
- The SSC agenda is part of management team meetings. Any and all key decisions on sustainability are initiated by Head
of Sustainability clearly outlining pros & cons as well as recommendations
Sustainability Steering Committee
[Chair - MD]
Local Head, Sustainability
61
Sustainability Statement
INDUSTRY LEADERSHIP
Leading the Circular Agenda for the Industry as the
Founding Member of the Country’s First Extended
Producer Responsibility (EPR) - Malaysian Recycling
Alliance (MAREA).
As one of the founding member of MAREA since 2021, DLMI
is dedicated to the circular economy and in supporting
Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR). DLMI actively
supports, guides, and participates in overseeing the
direction of MAREA through its participation in the Board
of Members, Steering Committee and Working Committee
groups.
In July 2022, MAREA published its position paper on
“Recommendation for An Effective Extended Producer
Responsibility Implementation and Policy in Malaysia”. In
August 2022, MAREA signed an MOU with The Ministry of
Development And Local Government of Malaysia (KPKT)
to pilot EPR implementation methods in Langkawi that will
ultimately form the basis of a sustainable national EPR
framework for Malaysia. The study will be structured in
three phases to be implemented over the next 15 months.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
ABOUT MAREA:
The Malaysian Recycling Alliance Berhad
(MAREA)isMalaysia’sfirstvoluntary,industry-
led Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR)
alliance established to enhance the country’s
recycling value chain and circular economy
by significantly increasing the collection
and recovery of post-consumer packaging.
MAREA is committed to collaborating
with the Malaysian Government and other
stakeholders including consumers, waste
collectors, recyclers and industry players to
drive the singular goal of a greener Malaysia
through circular economy solutions.
For more information, please visit the
website, https://www.marea.com.my.
62
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
63
Sustainability Statement
64
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
What were our focus areas?
At Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (DLMI), we are
continuously improving the nutritional value of our
products. To guide this, we apply the FrieslandCampina
Global Nutritional Standards (GNS). The GNS are
nutritional criteria aimed at retaining the natural nutrients
in milk and reducing the amounts of calories, fat, sugar
and salt in all our products. Additionally we make sure
that our product portfolio has a good balance between
the number of nourishing products intended for daily use
and indulgence products for occasional use. We actively
monitor and report our progression. DLMI is committed
to providing Halal products to its consumers by adhering
to Halal requirements which set standards for hygiene,
quality, safety and sanitary conditions in compliance with
the requirements of Jabatan Kemajuan Islam Malaysia
What did we achieve in 2022?
(JAKIM) and/or other authorised Islamic Certification
Bodies. The implementation of Healthier Choices Logo
(HCL) is an initiative by the Ministry of Health Malaysia
which DLMI supports. This initiative is in line with the
strategy of the National Plan of Action for Nutrition of
Malaysia (NPANM) III (2016-2025) to promote healthy
eating and active living for all. The HCL is intended to
provide point-of-sale information to the consumer in
order to make informed food choices. Food products may
carry the Healthier Choice Logo if they meet the nutrient
criteria specified by the Ministry of Health Malaysia. In
2022 HCL revised the certification requirements and
DLMI will continue to upgrade our formulation to meet the
enhanced criteria.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
96.4%
of consumer dairy
products compliant
with Global Nutritional
Standards (GNS)
100%*
products with Healthier
Choice Logo
100%
Halal certified
products
* Total HCL eligible
products (31)
65
Sustainability Statement
What is our position and/or management approach?
We remain committed to continuous improvement by
exploring new and innovative ideas, processes, and
products.
Harvard Business School defines innovation as a product,
service, business model, or strategy that’s both novel
and useful, and that while it is important for a company
to maintain its existing position in the market, pursuing
growth is essential to being competitive. This fundamental
notion constantly drives DLMI to sustain its business model
by committing towards deploying new dairy technologies
for continuous efficiency improvements as well as for
undertaking innovation to keep our products relevant to
consumers.
Why is this important?
Business cycles continue to increase in speed to meet
everchanging consumer demands, a notion supported
by McKinsey & Company who has reported that 84% of
CEOs believe that innovation is critical to future growth.
Synchronising innovative technologies with its product
development is therefore paramount in delivering quality
milk products to attract and retain more consumers
to drink our milk. DLMI’s sustainable innovation scope
continues to include timely business adaptations via
improving responsible manufacturing and packaging,
materials usage etc.
What were our focus areas?
DLMI continues to increase efficiency by investing in
value add initiatives and programmes. In 2022, DLMI
focused its efforts on World Class Operations Management
(WCOM) programme to increase focus, maximise impact
and sustainability in production. We also invested in
refurbishments to increase machine efficiency in our
existing factory.
Additionally, at our planned new Production Facility @
Bandar Enstek, we accelerated our plan to deploy IR4.0
solutions, with focus on the following:
1) Digitalisation to ensure on-time and first-time right
production
2) Production with no material loses
3) Minimal chemical, water and energy usage for
production
4) Most efficient management of production by providing
accurate information; and
5) Continuous improvement and technologies to
improvise performance of the factory.
The idea is to integrate the latest technologies to manage
production efficiently and become future ready. Some
of these new technologies include the Internet of Things
(IoT), big data analytics, cyber security, cloud computing,
and augmented reality.
Innovation & Technology
M2
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
What did we achieve in 2022?
Completed the
World Class
Operations
Management
Programme
deepdive to be deployed
from 2023 onwards
Deploying IR4.0
Solutions
in our new Production
Facility @ Bandar Enstek
66
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
67
Sustainability Statement
68
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
69
Sustainability Statement
70
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
71
Sustainability Statement
72
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
73
Sustainability Statement
74
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
What is our position and/or management approach?
Global case studies and evidence suggest that engaged
employees are more productive and innovative, leading
to higher profits, revenue growth, customer satisfaction,
employee retention and more.
We, at DLMI, believe that good employee experience relies
on our deep understanding of what employees need and
want, putting our people and their needs first. DLMI is
continuously working to improve its employee experience
through enhanced primary processes, hybrid working, and
competitive rewards and recognition for its employees.
Why is this important?
Dissatisfied employees or those with poor experience lack
motivation to give their best, or optimise their learning and
growth potential. This in turn affects the team dynamics
as well as the overall productivity and performance of
employees and the organisation.
The proactive prioritisation of employee experience for
any company is therefore necessary, to build a sense of
pride in association as well as belonging. DLMI aims to
create a positive employee experience focussed on strong
talent engagement, satisfaction, and retention.
Employee Exprience
M7
What were our focus areas?
As an inclusive workplace, DLMI aspires to cultivate
psychological safety to encourage employee engagement,
morale, and retention. We invested in mental well-being
initiatives to foster trust, connectedness, and belonging
amongst our diverse workforce. Partnering closely with
the facilitators, Malaysian Urgent Care (MUC) and Mental
Health Practitioners, these sessions enabled employees to
identify the Red Flags and 12 Emotional Needs, primarily
enabling our employees to be their honest, most authentic
selves, without fear of retribution.
In addition, DLMI partnered with MUC to conduct on-site
health screenings at our Corporate Office and Production
Facility @ Petaling Jaya. The idea has been to encourage
our employees to take that important first step towards
achieving their health goals. By knowing where they
stand on the health chart, they can take better care of
themselves and start the year 2023 by finding the right
work-life balance, ways to reduce stress, and prioritising
their well-being for a healthier lifestyle. DLMI will continue
to organise various engagement activities, which serve as
opportunities for collaboration and relationship-building
as well as to foster a sense of belonging among DLMI
employees across all business units.
What did we achieve in 2022?
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
29
employee engagement
activities
81%
score on
engagement
index
vs 77 in 2021 and 76
external benchmark
113
employees went
through on-site
medical health
screening
vs 2 employees through
medical scheme in 2021
75
Sustainability Statement
What is our position and/or management approach?
Professional development unlocks value and growth potential
at every level. For employees, this could mean opportunities
to improve their skills, learn new tools, and mature as a
professional. By gaining new capabilities, employees are
better positioned to demonstrate leadership that contribute
to both personal and organisational growth.
According to a McKinsey Global Survey, skills building is more
prevalent now than it was prior to the pandemic. At DLMI
too, we accelerated our efforts in equipping our employees
with better knowledge and skills, nourishing our talents to be
future-ready for their next leap to personal and professional
success.
Why is this important?
Global business and employment-focused networking
platform LinkedIn, in one of its Workplace Learning Reports
asserted that employees largely would stay at a company
longer if their employer invested in their careers. Similarly,
Gallup, the global research and analytics firm, also found
that strength-based learning can result in up to 23% higher
employee engagement, 18% higher performance, and 73%
lower attrition.
Given how employee growth can strengthen people and
organisational performance, DLMI continued to bolster
employee learning and development where possible while
also supplementing our efforts with competitive employee
benefits and programmes that further contribute towards
holistic growth of DLMI employees.
Growth
M8
What were our focus areas?
2022 has been a pivotal year for preparing our people as we
plan our growth journey and transition to an IR4.0 Production
Facility @ Bandar Enstek. Our focus has been on change
management and capability building within the organisation
and across our business leadership teams, while ensuring
zero disruptions without compromising on compliance, and
mission-critical aspects of people and business.
We focussed on enhancing the commercial team capabilities
through our global Agile Commercial Execution (ACE)
programme of FrieslandCampina, which included enhanced
focus on digital tools and analytics to drive business
growth. ACE plays a pivotal role in our way of working to
deliver our purpose, strengthen the power of our brands by
accelerating our capabilities, and build our teams with the
right mindset and skills to catalyse sustainable growth. The
initiatives were planned and delivered in phases throughout
the year to ensure that our business processes were running
optimally to deliver performance. On the compliance side, we
initiated mandatory trainings on Compass (our guide to key
organisational policies), human rights and cyber security to
set the right foundation.
Meanwhile, we remained sensitive to the career and growth
aspirations of our employees. Through Personal Development
Plans, DLMI employees were empowered to self-assess and
identify focus areas, skills, or capabilities that would help
them achieve their career aspirations. Employees also outline
specific actions that will accelerate their growth journey. This
process was supported by line managers through regular
dialogue and reviews at least once every quarter. The objective
has been to strengthen trust and collaboration as well as instil
a win-win culture that achieves growth for all. During the year,
we also launched a programme to equip our line managers
with coaching and career discussion capabilities, to further
support employees in achieving their career goals.
SUSTAINABILITY STATEMENT
What did we achieve in 2022?
20.8
average
training
hours per
employee
vs 12.3 hours per
employee in 2021
>90%
line managers
trained
on career
coaching
81%
fulfilled quality
development
plans
(middle
management)
11.2%
attrition
vs industry
average 13%
76
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
77
Sustainability Statement
78
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
79
Sustainability Statement
80
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
81
Financial Statements
82
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
for the financial year ended 31 December 2022
The Directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Company for the financial year
ended 31 December 2022.
DIRECTORS
The Directors in office during the financial year and during the period from the end of the financial year to the date of
the report are:
Saw Chooi Lee
Dato’ Dr Rosini Alias
Tengku Nurul Azian Tengku Shahriman
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar
Jean Serge Krol
Darren Kong Kam Seong
Ramjeet Kaur Virik A/P Bhagwan Singh
Corine Danielle Tap (Appointed on 1 January 2023)
Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden (Resigned on 1 January 2023)
In accordance with Article 105 of the Company’s Constitution, Jean Serge Krol and Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias shall
retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company and being eligible, offer themselves for
re-election.
In accordance with Article 86.3 of the Company’s Constitution, Corine Danielle Tap who was appointed since the date of
the last report, shall retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company and being eligible, offers herself
for re-election.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company manufactures and distributes a wide range of dairy products, such as specialised powders for infant and
growing up children, liquid milk in different packaging formats and yoghurts. The Company markets these products
under various brand names such as Dutch Lady, Dutch Baby, Frisolac, Friso Gold and Dutch Lady PureFarm. There has
been no significant change in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
RM’000
Net profit for the year 46,271
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year except as disclosed in the
financial statements.
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
There were no changes in the authorised, issued and paid-up capital of the Company during the financial year.
There were no debentures issued during the financial year.
83
Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
for the financial year ended 31 December 2022
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director has received or become entitled to receive a benefit (other than
the benefits for certain Directors shown under Directors’ Remuneration) by reason of a contract made by the Company
or by a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in which
the Director has a substantial financial interest.
Neither during nor at the end of the financial year was the Company a party to any arrangements whose object was to
enable the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any
other body corporate.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES AND DEBENTURES
According to the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings required to be kept under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016,
none of the Directors who held office at the end of the financial year held any shares or debentures in the Company or
its holding company or subsidiaries of the holding company during the financial year. Under the Company’s Constitution,
the Directors are not required to hold any shares in the Company.
DIVIDENDS
Since the end of the previous financial year, the Company paid:
i) a first interim ordinary dividend of 25.00 sen per ordinary share, tax exempt under the single-tier tax system,
totalling RM16,000,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2022 on 22 June 2022; and
ii) a second interim ordinary dividend of 25.00 sen per ordinary share, tax exempt under the single-tier tax system,
totalling RM16,000,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2022 on 13 December 2022.
The Directors do not recommend any final dividend to be paid for the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Directors’ remuneration for the financial year as set out in Note 16 to the financial statements are as follows:
2022
RM’000
Fees 503
Remuneration 1,143
1,646
INSURANCE EFFECTED FOR DIRECTORS
During the financial year, the total cost of insurance effected for Directors of the Company is RM18,553 (2021: RM19,380).
HOLDING COMPANIES
The immediate and ultimate holding companies are FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holding BV and Royal
FrieslandCampina NV respectively. Both companies are incorporated in the Netherlands.
84
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
(a) Before the financial statements of the Company were prepared, the Directors took reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
provision for doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that
adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets, which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business
including the values of current assets as shown in the accounting records of the Company had been written
down to an amount which the current assets might be expected so to realise.
(b) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would render the amounts written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts
inadequate to any substantial extent; or
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Company
misleading; or
(iii) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of
the Company misleading or inappropriate.
(c) At the date of this report:
(i) there are no charges on the assets of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year
which secures the liabilities of any other person; and
(ii) there are no contingent liabilities in the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year.
(d) No contingent or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable within the period of
twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the Directors, will or may affect the ability
of the Company to meet its obligations when they fall due.
(e) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report
or the financial statements of the Company which would render any amount stated in the respective financial
statements misleading.
(f) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) the results of the operations of the Company during the financial year were not substantially affected by any
item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature; and
(ii) there has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report any
item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the results of the
operations of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
for the financial year ended 31 December 2022
85
Financial Statements
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
for the financial year ended 31 December 2022
AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The auditors’ remuneration for the financial year amounted to RM101,604.
AUDITORS
The auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT (LLP0014401-LCA & AF 1146), have expressed their willingness to accept
re-appointment as auditors.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2023.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors:
……………………………………………………………………… ………………………………………………………………………
Ramjeet Kaur Virik A/P Bhagwan Singh Jean Serge Krol
		 24 February 2023
86
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
STATEMENT OF
FINANCIAL POSITION
as at 31 December 2022
Note 2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 3 344,202 206,028
Right-of-use assets 4 3,046 4,584
Intangible assets 5 13,181 8,469
Total non-current assets 360,429 219,081
Inventories 6 228,882 161,055
Trade and other receivables 7 97,708 76,381
Prepayments 8 45,887 126,157
Tax recoverable 6,327 -
Cash and bank balances 9 104,941 118,300
Derivative financial assets 10 - 258
Total current assets 483,745 482,151
Total assets 844,174 701,232
Equity
Share capital 11 64,000 64,000
Retained earnings 332,851 318,580
Total equity 396,851 382,580
Liabilities
Lease liabilities 4 2,093 6,652
Deferred tax liabilities 12 2,322 5,968
Provision 14 9,201 -
Total non-current liabilities 13,616 12,620
Trade and other payables 13 413,688 282,795
Provision 14 8,710 106
Current tax liabilities - 14,486
Lease liabilities 4 6,498 8,487
Derivative financial liabilities 10 4,811 158
Total current liabilities 433,707 306,032
Total liabilities 447,323 318,652
Total equity and liabilities 844,174 701,232
87
Financial Statements
STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the financial year ended 31 December 2022
Note 2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Revenue from contracts with customers -
sales of goods recognised point in time 1,339,410 1,133,733
Cost of sales (983,893) (734,030)
Gross profit 355,517 399,703
Other income 4,562 162,612
Distribution expenses (164,363) (159,273)
Administrative expenses (50,068) (28,030)
Other expenses (89,223) (88,530)
Results from operating activities 56,425 286,482
Interest income 1,794 1,417
Finance costs (3,660) (3,374)
Profit before tax 15 54,559 284,525
Tax expense 17 (8,288) (36,525)
Net profit for the financial year/Total comprehensive income for the
financial year 46,271 248,000
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share (sen) 18 72.30 387.50
88
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
STATEMENT OF
CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the financial year ended 31 December 2022
Note
Distributable
Share
capital
RM’000
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
Equity
RM’000
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 64,000 318,580 382,580
Net profit/Total comprehensive income for the financial
year - 46,271 46,271
Dividends to owners of the Company 19 - (32,000) (32,000)
At 31 December 2022 64,000 332,851 396,851
Note 11
At 31 December 2020/1 January 2021 64,000 102,580 166,580
Net profit/Total comprehensive income for the financial
year - 248,000 248,000
Dividends to owners of the Company 19 - (32,000) (32,000)
At 31 December 2021 64,000 318,580 382,580
Note 11
89
Financial Statements
STATEMENT OF
CASH FLOWS
for the financial year ended 31 December 2022
Note 2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash receipts from customers and other receivables 1,318,342 1,138,597
Cash paid to suppliers and employees* (1,082,756) (1,126,132)
Cash generated from operations 235,586 12,465
Income tax paid (32,747) (27,288)
Net cash from/(used in) operating activities 202,839 (14,823)
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 3 (168,789) (53,922)
Purchase of intangible assets 5 (5,020) (7,770)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 - 194,001
Interest received 1,794 1,417
Net cash (used in)/from investing activities (172,015) 133,726
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (3,405) (2,853)
Dividends paid 19 (32,000) (32,000)
Payment for lease liabilities 4 (8,778) (4,650)
Net cash used in financing activities (44,183) (39,503)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (13,359) 79,400
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 118,300 38,900
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 9 104,941 118,300
* Included in cash paid to suppliers and employees is prepayment to related company amounted to RM44.8 million
(2021: RM125.7 million) (Note 8).
NOTE TO THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
The reconciliation of movement of lease liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities is disclosed in Note 4.
Interest paid shown in cash flows from financing activities arose from interest paid to a licensed financial institution
to enable certain trade customers to pay goods invoiced through a corporate purchasing card issued by the financial
institution.
90
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and
is listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The address of the principal place of business and
registered office of the Company is as follows:
Principal place of business/Registered office
Level 5, Quill 9
No 112, Jalan Prof Khoo Kay Kim
46300 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
The Company manufactures and distributes a wide range of dairy products, such as specialised powders for infant and
growing up children, liquid milk in different packaging formats and yoghurts. The Company markets these products
under various brand names such as Dutch Lady, Dutch Baby, Frisolac, Friso Gold and Dutch Lady PureFarm.
These financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 24 February 2023.
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION
(a) Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
(i) Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations that are effective
The Company has applied the following standards and amendments for the first time for the financial
year beginning on 1 January 2022:
• Amendment to MFRS 16 ‘Covid-19-Related Rent Concessions beyond 30 June 2021
• Amendments to MFRS 116 ‘Proceeds before Intended Use’
• Amendments to MFRS 137 ‘Onerous Contracts – Cost of Fulfilling a Contract’
• Annual Improvements to MFRS 9 ‘Fees in the ‘10 per cent’ test for Derecognition of Financial
Liabilities’
• Annual Improvements to Illustrative Example accompanying MFRS 16 Leases: Lease Incentives
• Amendments to MFRS 3 ‘Reference to the Conceptual Framework’
The adoption of the amendments listed above did not have any impact on the current period or any prior
period and is not likely to affect future periods.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
91
Financial Statements
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(a) Statement of compliance (continued)
(ii) Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations that have been issued but not yet
effective:
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for the
financial year beginning after 1 January 2023. None of these is expected to have a significant effect on
the financial statements of the Company, except the following:
• Amendments to MFRS 101 and MFRS Practice Statement 2 ‘Disclosure of accounting policies’
(effective 1 January 2023) require entities to disclose material accounting policies rather than
significant accounting policies. Entities are expected to make disclosure of accounting policies
specific to the entity and not generic disclosures on MFRS applications. The amendment explains
an accounting policy is material if, when considered together with other information included in an
entity’s financial statements, it can reasonably be expected to influence decisions that the primary
users of general purpose financial statements make on the basis of those financial statements.
Also, accounting policy information is expected to be material if, without it, the users of the financial
statements would be unable to understand other material information in the financial statements.
Accordingly, immaterial accounting policy information need not be disclosed. However, if it is
disclosed, it should not obscure material accounting policy information.
MFRS Practice Statement 2 was amended to provide guidance on how to apply the concept of
materiality to accounting policy disclosures.
• Amendments to MFRS 108 ‘Definition of accounting estimates’ (effective 1 January 2023)
redefine accounting estimates as “monetary amounts in financial statements that are subject to
measurement uncertainty”. To distinguish from changes in accounting policies, the amendments
clarify that effects of a change in an input or measurement technique used to develop an accounting
estimate is a change in accounting estimate, if they do not arise from prior period.
• Amendments to MFRS 112 ‘Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single
Transaction’ (effective 1 January 2023) clarify that the initial exemption rule does not apply to
transactions where both an asset and a liability are recognised at the same time such as leases
and decommissioning obligations. Accordingly, entities are required to recognise both deferred
tax assets and liabilities for all deductible and taxable temporary differences arising from such
transactions.
• There are two amendments to MFRS 101 ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’. The first
amendments, ‘Classification of liabilities as current or non-current’ clarify that liabilities are
classified as either current or non-current, depending on the rights that exist at the end of the
reporting period. Classification is unaffected by the entity’s expectations or events after the
reporting date (e.g. the receipt of a waiver or a breach of covenant).
The second amendments, ‘Non-current Liabilities with Covenants’ specify that covenants of
loan arrangements which an entity must comply with only after the reporting date would not
affect classification of a liability as current or non-current at the reporting date. However, those
covenants that an entity is required to comply with on or before the reporting date would affect
classification of a liability as current or non-current, even if the covenant is only assessed after
the reporting date.
Both amendments are effective for the annual reporting periods beginning on or after 1 January
2024.
The amendments shall be applied retrospectively.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
92
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(a) Statement of compliance (continued)
(ii) Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations that have been issued but not yet
effective: (continued)
• Amendments to MFRS 16 ‘Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback’ (effective 1 January 2024)
specify the measurement of the lease liability arises in a sale and leaseback transaction that
satisfies the requirements in MFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ to be accounted
for as a sale. In accordance with the amendments, the seller-lessee shall determine the “lease
payments” or “revised lease payments” in a way that it does not result in the seller-lessee
recognising any amount of the gain or loss that relates to the right of use it retains.
The amendments shall be applied retrospectively to sale and leaseback transactions entered into
after the date when the seller-lessee initially applied MFRS 16.
None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the financial statements of the Company.
(b) Basis of measurement
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by financial
assets and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or loss.
(c) Functional and presentation currency
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s functional
currency. All financial information is presented in RM and has been rounded to the nearest thousand, unless
otherwise stated.
(d) Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with MFRSs requires management to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported
amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates
are recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
There are no significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting
policies that have significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements, other than as
disclosed below.
(i) Trade spend accruals
Trade spend accruals of RM78.6 million (2021: RM51.4 million), which consists primarily of conditional
rebates and promotional discounts, are based on agreed trading terms and promotional activities
with trade customers and distributors. Trade spend accruals are recognised under the terms of these
agreements, to reflect the expected rebates, promotional activities and historical experience based on
estimated sales volume. These accruals are reported within Trade and Other Payables (Note 13). The
estimates for these accruals are regularly reviewed by senior management of the Company.
A 5% (2021: 5%) increase in sales volume would have increase the trade spend accrual and decrease
post-tax profit by RM3.9 million (2021: RM2.6 million) and RM3.0 million (2021: RM2.0 million)
respectively.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
93
Financial Statements
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these financial
statements, unless otherwise stated.
(a) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency of the Company at exchange
rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period are
retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated at the end of the
reporting period except for those that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency
at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss.
(b) Financial assets
Classification
The Company classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories:
• those to be measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss,
• and those to be measured at amortised cost.
Recognition and derecognition
Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on trade-date, the date on which the
Company commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive
cash flows from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred and the Company has transferred
substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Initial Measurement
At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial
asset not at fair value through profit or loss (“FVPL”), transaction costs that are directly attributable to the
acquisition of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL are expensed in profit
or loss.
Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their
cash flows are solely payment of principal and interest (“SPPI”).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
94
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial assets (continued)
Subsequent measurement
(i) Debt instruments
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Company’s business model for managing
the asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There are two measurement categories into
which the Company classifies its debt instruments:
• Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash
flows represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. Interest
income from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest
rate method. Any gain or loss arising on derecognition is recognised directly in profit or loss
and presented in other income/(expenses), together with foreign exchange gains and losses.
Impairment losses are presented as separate line item in the statement of profit or loss.
• FVPL: Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVOCI are measured at FVPL. A
gain or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently measured at FVPL is recognised in profit or
loss and presented net within other income/(expenses) in the period in which it arises
Impairment
The Company assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit losses (“ECL”) associated with its debt
instruments carried at amortised cost. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has
been a significant increase in credit risk.
The Company has the following debt instrument that is subject to the ECL model:
• Trade receivables
• Other receivables and deposits
• Intercompany receivables
While cash and cash equivalents are also subject to the impairment requirements of MFRS 9, the identified
impairment loss was immaterial.
ECL represent a probability-weighted estimate of the difference between present value of cash flows
according to contract and present value of cash flows the Company expects to receive, over the remaining
life of the financial instrument.
The measurement of ECL reflects:
• an unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible
outcomes;
• the time value of money; and
• reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort at the reporting
date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.
For trade receivables, the Company applies the simplified approach permitted by MFRS 9, which requires
expected lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
For other receivables, deposits and non-trade intercompany receivables, the Company applies the general
three-stage approach to determine the ECL.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
95
Financial Statements
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial assets (continued)
Significant increase in credit risk
The Company considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset and whether there has
been a significant increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period. To assess
whether there is a significant increase in credit risk, the Company compares the risk of a default occurring
on the asset as at the reporting date with the risk of default as at the date of initial recognition. It considers
available reasonable and supportable forward-looking information.
The following indicators are incorporated:
• internal credit rating
• external credit rating (as far as available)
• actual or expected significant adverse changes in business, financial or economic conditions that are
expected to cause a significant change to the debtor’s ability to meet its obligations
• actual or expected significant changes in the operating results of the debtor
• significant increases in credit risk on other financial instruments of the same debtor
• significant changes in the value of the collateral supporting the obligation or in the quality of third-party
guarantees or credit enhancements
• significant changes in the expected performance and behaviour of the debtor, including changes in the
payment status of debtor in the group and changes in the operating results of the debtor.
Macroeconomic information (such as market interest rates or growth rates) is incorporated as part of the
internal rating model.
Regardless of the analysis above, a significant increase in credit risk is presumed if a debtor is more than 60
days past due in making a contractual payment.
Definition of default and credit-impaired financial assets
The Company defines a financial instrument as default, which is fully aligned with the definition of credit-
impaired, when it meets one or more of the following criteria:
Quantitative criteria:
The Company defines a financial instrument as default, when the counterparty fails to make contractual
payment, as per the credit terms ranging from 1 to 60 days, when they fall due.
Qualitative criteria:
The debtor meets unlikeliness to pay criteria, which indicates the debtor is in significant financial difficulty.
The Company considers the following instances:
• the debtor is in breach of financial covenants
• concessions have been made by the lender relating to the debtor’s financial difficulty
• it is becoming probable that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation
• the debtor is insolvent
Financial instruments that are credit-impaired are assessed on individual basis.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
96
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial assets (continued)
Groupings of instruments for ECL measured on collective basis
(i) Collective assessment
To measure ECL, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and
the days past due.
(ii) Individual assessment
Trade receivables which are in default or credit-impaired are assessed individually.
Write-off
(i) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators that
there is no reasonable expectation of recovery include, amongst others, the failure of a debtor to engage
in a repayment plan with the Company, and a failure to make contractual payments. Assessment on
debtor’s recoverability will be performed by management on a case by case basis.
Impairment losses on trade receivables and contract assets are presented as net impairment losses
within operating profit. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against
the same line item.
(ii) Other receivables, deposits and non-trade intercompany receivables
The Company writes off financial assets, in whole or in part, when it has exhausted all practical recovery
efforts and has concluded there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. The assessment of no
reasonable expectation of recovery is based on unavailability of debtor’s sources of income or assets
to generate sufficient future cash flows to repay the amount.
(c) Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of financial position
when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle
on a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must
not be contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event
of default, insolvency or bankruptcy.
(d) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Recognition and measurement
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation and
any accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset, import duties
and any non-refundable purchase taxes and any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset
to working condition for its intended use, and the costs of dismantling and removing the items and
restoring the site on which they are located. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes the cost
of materials and direct labour.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
97
Financial Statements
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(d) Property, plant and equipment (continued)
(i) Recognition and measurement (continued)
Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part
of that equipment.
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are
accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
The gain and loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined by comparing
the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and is recognised
net within “other income” and “other expenses” respectively in profit or loss.
(ii) Subsequent costs
The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the
carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the
component will flow to the Company, and its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the
replaced component is derecognised to profit or loss. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property,
plant and equipment are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Gain or losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount and are included
in profit or loss.
(iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of individual
assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the remainder of that
asset, then that component is depreciated separately.
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of
each component of an item of property, plant and equipment from the date that they are available for
use. Property, plant and equipment under construction are not depreciated until the assets are ready
for their intended use.
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows:
• buildings 10 - 25 years*
• plant and machinery 5 - 33 years*
• motor vehicles 5 years
• furniture and equipment 5 - 10 years
* In the prior year, as part of the Company’s plan to move their operations to the new facilities in
Bandar Baru Enstek, the Company has revised the useful lives of the plant and machinery and
furniture and equipments in the existing facilities to reflect the economic useful lives of these
assets which are non-transferrable to the new facilities.
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period
and adjusted as appropriate.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
98
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(d) Property, plant and equipment (continued)
(iv) Impairment
At the end of the reporting period, the Company assesses whether there is any indication of impairment.
If such indications exist, an analysis is performed to assess whether the carrying amount of the asset
is fully recoverable. A write down is made if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. See
accounting policy Note 2(g) on impairment of non-current assets.
(v) Change in useful life
The useful life and residual value of an item of property, plant and equipment is reviewed regularly
and, if expectations are significantly different from previous estimates, the depreciation charge for
the current and future periods should be adjusted. A change in the useful life or depreciation method is
accounted for prospectively as a change in accounting estimate.
(e) Leases – Accounting by lessee
Leases are recognised as right-of-use (“ROU”) asset and a corresponding liability at the date on which the
leased asset is available for use by the Company (i.e. the commencement date).
Contracts may contain both lease and non-lease components. The Company allocates the consideration in
the contract to the lease and non-lease components based on their relative stand-alone prices.
(i) Lease term
In determining the lease term, the Company considers all facts and circumstances that create an
economic incentive to exercise an extension option, or not to exercise a termination option. Extension
options (or periods after termination options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably
certain to be extended (or not to be terminated).
The Company reassess the lease term upon the occurrence of a significant event or change in
circumstances that is within the control of the Company and affects whether the Company is reasonably
certain to exercise an option not previously included in the determination of lease term, or not to
exercise an option previously included in the determination of lease term. A revision in lease term
results in remeasurement of the lease liabilities (refer to 2 (e)(iv) below).
(ii) ROU assets
ROU assets are initially measured at cost comprising the following:
• The amount of the initial measurement of lease liability;
• Any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentive received;
• Any initial direct costs; and
• Decommissioning or restoration costs.
ROU assets that are not investment properties are subsequently measured at cost, less accumulated
depreciation and impairment loss (if any). The ROU assets are generally amortised over the shorter of
the asset’s useful life and the lease term on a straight-line basis. If the Company is reasonably certain
to exercise a purchase option, the ROU asset is depreciated over the underlying asset’s useful life.
In addition, the ROU assets are adjusted for certain remeasurement of the lease liabilities.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
99
Financial Statements
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(e) Leases – Accounting by lessee (continued)
(iii) Lease liabilities
Lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at
that date. The lease payments include the following:
• Fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentive receivable;
• Variable lease payments that are based on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or
rate as at the commencement date;
• Amounts expected to be payable by the Company under residual value guarantees;
• The exercise price of a purchase and extension options if the Company is reasonably certain to
exercise that option; and
• Payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Company exercising
that option.
Lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be
readily determined, which is generally the case for leases in the Company, the lessee’s incremental
borrowing is used. This is the rate that the individual lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds
necessary to obtain an asset of similar value to the ROU in a similar economic environment with similar
term, security and conditions.
Lease payments are allocated between principal and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit
or loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining
balance of the liability for each period.
Variable lease payments that depend on sales are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the
condition that triggers those payments occurs.
The Company presents the lease liabilities as a separate line item in the statement of financial position.
Interest expense on the lease liability is presented within the finance cost in profit or loss in the
statement of comprehensive income.
(iv) Reassessment of lease liabilities
The Company is also exposed to potential future increases in variable lease payments that depend on
an index or rate, which are not included in the lease liability until they take effect. When adjustments
to lease payments based on an index or rate take effect, the lease liability is remeasured and adjusted
against the ROU assets.
(v) Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
The Company has elected not to recognised a lease liability for short term leases (leases expected term
of 12 months or less) or for lease of low value assets. Payment made under such leases are expensed on
a straight-line basis in profit or loss.
In addition, certain variable lease payments are not permitted to be recognised as lease liabilities and
are expensed as incurred.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
100
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(e) Leases – Accounting by lessee (continued)
(vi) Sale and leaseback transactions (seller-lessee)
In a sale and leaseback transaction, the requirements of MFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with
Customers’ are applied to ascertain whether the transfer of an asset to the buyer-lessor qualifies as a
sale.
If the transfer of an asset does not satisfy the requirements of MFRS 15 to be accounted for as a sale of
the asset, the Company continues to recognise the asset. The consideration received for the transfer of
the asset is recognised as a financial liability in accordance with MFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’.
If the transfer of an asset is accounted for as a sale, the Company derecognises the underlying asset
and applies lessee accounting requirements to the sold asset if the Company leases it back from the
buyer. A right- of- use asset measured at the proportion of the previous carrying amount that relates to
the right of use retained is recognised and any gain or loss that relates to the rights transferred to the
buyer-lessor is recognised.
If the fair value of the consideration for the sale of an asset does not equal the fair value of the asset,
or if the payments for the lease are not at market rates, the Company makes the following adjustments
to measure the sale proceeds at fair value:
(a) any below-market terms shall be accounted for as a prepayment of lease payments; and
(b) any above-market terms shall be accounted for as additional financing provided by the buyer-
lessor to the seller-lessee.
(f) Intangible assets
(i) Computer software
Computer software that is acquired by the Company, which has finite useful life, is measured at cost
less any accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs that are directly associated with identifiable computer software and that will probably generate
economic benefits exceeding cost beyond one year or cost savings to the Company and are not integral
to other equipment are recognised as intangible assets. These costs include the employee costs of
software development and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
(ii) Subsequent expenditure
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in
the specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
(iii) Amortisation
Amortisation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value.
Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of
intangible assets from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful life of computer software for the current and comparative period is 5 years.
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period
and adjusted, if appropriate.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
101
Financial Statements
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(g) Impairment of non-current assets
The carrying amounts of non-current assets are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine
whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable
amount is estimated.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that
generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets
or cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair
value less costs of disposal. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their
present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of
money and the risks specific to the asset or cash-generating unit.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its related cash-generating unit
exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating
units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit
(or a group of cash-generating units) and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the cash-
generating unit (or a group of cash-generating units) on a pro rata basis.
Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at the end of each reporting period for any
indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been
a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was
recognised.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the
carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss
had been recognised. Reversals of impairment losses are credited to profit or loss in the financial year in
which the reversals are recognised.
(h) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is measured based on the first-in first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred
in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing them to
their existing location and condition. In the case of finished goods, cost includes an appropriate share of
production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs
of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
(i) Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting short-
term cash commitments rather than for investment or other purposes. Cash and cash equivalents comprise
cash on hand, deposits held at call with financial institutions, other short term, highly liquid investments with
original maturities of 3 months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are
subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
102
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(j) Share capital
Classification
Ordinary shares with discretionary dividends are classified as equity.
Dividend distribution
Liability is recognised for the amount of any dividend declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer
at the discretion of the Company, on or before the end of the reporting period but not distributed at the end
of the reporting period. Distributions to holders of an equity instrument is recognised directly in equity.
(k) Current and deferred income tax
Tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred income tax. The income tax expense or credit
for the period is the tax payable on the current period’s taxable income based on the applicable income tax
rate for each jurisdiction adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary
differences and to unused tax losses. Tax is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to
items recognised in other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised
in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at
the end of the reporting period in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and
associates operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which
applicable tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis
of amounts expected to be paid to the tax authorities. This liability is measured using the single best estimate
of the most likely outcome.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the
amounts attributed to assets and liabilities for tax purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial
statements. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of
goodwill. Deferred tax is also not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a
transaction other than a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting
nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or
substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred
tax asset is realised or the deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available
against which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilised.
Deferred and income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset
current tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate
to taxes levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where
there is an intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
(l) Trade payables
Trade payables represent liabilities for goods or services provided to the Company prior to the end of financial
year which are unpaid. Trade payables are classified as current liabilities unless payment is not due within 12
months after the reporting period. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
103
Financial Statements
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(l) Trade payables (continued)
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value net of transaction costs incurred, which include transfer
taxes and duties.
Trade payables are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
(m) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of
past events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable
estimate of the amount can be made.
Where the Company expects a provision to be reimbursed by another party, the reimbursement is recognised
as a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. Provisions are not recognised for
future operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is
determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood
of an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Provisions are measured at the present value of management’s best estimate of the expenditures expected
to be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the
time value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of
time is recognised as finance cost expense.
(n) Revenue from contracts with customers and other income
Revenue from contracts with customers
(i) Goods sold
The Company manufactures and distributes a wide range of dairy products, such as specialised powders
for infant and growing up children, liquid milk in different packaging formats and yoghurts. Sales are
recognised when control of the products has transferred, being when the products are delivered to the
customer. Delivery occurs when the products have been shipped to the specific location, the risks of
obsolescence and loss have been transferred to the customer, and either the wholesaler has accepted
the products in accordance with the sales contract, the acceptance provisions have lapsed, or the
Company has objective evidence that all criteria for acceptance have been satisfied.
The dairy products are often sold with trade discounts and volume rebates based on aggregate sales.
Revenue from these sales is recognised based on the price specified in the contract, net of the estimated
trade discounts and volume rebates. Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the
discounts, using the expected value method, and revenue is only recognised to the extent that it is
highly probable that a significant reversal will not occur. No element of financing is deemed present
as the sales are made with a credit term ranging from 1 to 60 days, which is consistent with market
practice.
A receivable is recognised when the goods are delivered as this is the point in time that the consideration
is unconditional because only the passage of time is required before the payment is due.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
104
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(n) Revenue from contracts with customers and other income (continued)
Revenue from contracts with customers (continued)
(ii) Accounting for refunds
The Company is obliged to refund the purchase price of the product sold in situations where the
customer has a contractual right to return the product within a given period. The Company recognised
refund liability for returns which was measured based on the sales consideration and the corresponding
entry to revenue.
Under MFRS 15, a refund liability for the expected refunds to customers is recognised as an adjustment
to revenue and classified as part of the ‘trade and other payable’ balances.
Other income
(i) Interest income
Interest income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest method in profit or loss.
(o) Employee benefits
(i) Short-term employee benefits
Short-term employee benefit obligations in respect of salaries, annual bonuses, paid annual leave and
sick leave are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus if the Company
has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by
the employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
(ii) State plans
The Company’s contributions to statutory pension funds are charged to profit or loss in the financial
year to which they relate. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash
refund or a reduction in future payments is available.
(p) Earnings per ordinary share
The Company presents basic and diluted earnings per share data for its ordinary shares (“EPS”).
Basic and diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the
Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
(q) Operating segments
An operating segment is a component of the Company that engages in business activities from which it
may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with
any of the Company’s other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly
by the chief operating decision maker, which in this case is the Board of Directors of the Company, to make
decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for which
discrete financial information is available.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
105
Financial Statements
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(r) Fair value measurements
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is determined
as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction to
sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a principal
market, in the most advantageous market.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Company uses observable market data as far as
possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the input used in
the valuation technique.
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Freehold
land
RM’000
Buildings
RM’000
Plant and
machinery
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Furniture
and
equipment
RM’000
Capital
work-in
progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2021 - 66,462 154,096 496 42,392 104,007 367,453
Additions - - - - - 53,922 53,922
Written off - - (528) (326) (1,607) - (2,461)
Disposal - (62,689) - - - - (62,689)
Transfers 60,311 - 33,277 - 9,252 (102,840) -
At 31 December 2021/
1 January 2022 60,311 3,773 186,845 170 50,037 55,089 356,225
Additions - - - - - 168,789 168,789
Transfers - - 2,220 - 537 (2,757) -
Transfers to intangible
assets - - - - - (19) (19)
At 31 December 2022 60,311 3,773 189,065 170 50,574 221,102 524,995
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
106
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Freehold
land
RM’000
Buildings
RM’000
Plant and
machinery
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Furniture
and
equipment
RM’000
Capital
work-in
progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Depreciation and
impairment loss
At 1 January 2021
Accumulated
depreciation - 46,694 84,571 496 26,651 - 158,412
Accumulated
impairment loss - - 2,427 - - 6,893 9,320
- 46,694 86,998 496 26,651 6,893 167,732
Depreciation for the
year - 5,621 20,274 - 7,598 - 33,493
Written off - - (528) (326) (1,607) - (2,461)
Disposal - (48,567) - - - - (48,567)
At 31 December 2021/1
January 2022
Accumulated
depreciation - 3,748 104,317 170 32,642 - 140,877
Accumulated
impairment loss - - 2,427 - - 6,893 9,320
- 3,748 106,744 170 32,642 6,893 150,197
Depreciation for the
year - 2 22,639 - 7,955 - 30,596
At 31 December 2022
Accumulated
depreciation - 3,750 126,956 170 40,597 - 171,473
Accumulated
impairment loss - - 2,427 - - 6,893 9,320
- 3,750 129,383 170 40,597 6,893 180,793
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2021 60,311 25 80,101 - 17,395 48,196 206,028
At 31 December 2022 60,311 23 59,682 - 9,977 214,209 344,202
(a) Included in property, plant and equipment of the Company are fully depreciated assets, which are still in use,
with an aggregate cost of approximately RM87,969,024 (2021: RM86,660,269).
Contractual commitments
Contractual commitments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment not yet recognised in the financial
statements amounted to RM195.6 million (2021: RM87.9 million).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
107
Financial Statements
4. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
The Company as a lessee
(i) Information about ROU assets, lease liabilities, expenses and cash flows related to leases:
ROU assets
Leasehold
and Buildings
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Plant and
equipment
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2021 9,765 - 5,546 15,311
Additions
- Sales and leaseback 1,393 - - 1,393
- Others 35 347 - 382
1,428 347 - 1,775
Derecognition (89) - (444) (533)
Modification - - (805) (805)
Disposal arising from sales and
leaseback (5,639) - - (5,639)
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 5,465 347 4,297 10,109
Additions 124 - - 124
Derecognition (122) - (1,240) (1,362)
Modification 1,845 - - 1,845
At 31 December 2022 7,312 347 3,057 10,716
Accumulated depreciation charge
At 1 January 2021 3,986 - 1,593 5,579
Depreciation for the year 1,544 82 1,669 3,295
Derecognition (89) - (444) (533)
Disposal arising from sales and
leaseback (2,816) - - (2,816)
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 2,625 82 2,818 5,525
Depreciation for the year 2,189 115 1,203 3,507
Derecognition (122) - (1,240) (1,362)
At 31 December 2022 4,692 197 2,781 7,670
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2021 2,840 265 1,479 4,584
At 31 December 2022 2,620 150 276 3,046
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
108
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
4. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
The Company as a lessee (continued)
(i) Information about ROU assets, lease liabilities, expenses and cash flows related to leases: (continued)
Lease liabilities
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Balance at 1 January 15,139 6,483
Additions
- sales and leaseback - 13,302
- others 120 282
Interest charged during the year 255 521
Repayment of lease liabilities (included in cash flows from financing
activities) (8,778) (4,650)
Unrealised exchange rate loss 10 6
Modification 1,845 (805)
8,591 15,139
Lease liabilities are presented in the statement of financial position as follows:
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Current liabilities 6,498 8,487
Non-current liabilities 2,093 6,652
8,591 15,139
Charged to statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income
Expenses/(Income) related to leases are disclosed in Note 15.
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Lease payments not recognised as liabilities:
Expense related to low value leases 3,060 1,596
Expense related to short-term leases 134 133
Expense related to variable leases 10 490
Non-lease components 488 536
Gain arising from sale and leaseback transaction - (129,725)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
109
Financial Statements
4. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
The Company as a lessee (continued)
(ii) The Company’s leasing activities and how these are accounted for
In the prior year, the Company completed the disposal of its existing manufacturing land and buildings and
subsequently the land and buildings were leaseback and recorded as right-of-use assets expiring in September
2023 with option to renew for two further terms of 6 months with 2 months’ notice of termination. The
Company recognised right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for 27 months representing 24 months initial
term plus anticipated extension of 3 months. In the current year, the lease term was modified from the initial
expiry date of 31 December 2023 to 30 April 2024.
The Company leases other offices, motor vehicles, plant and equipment, and office equipment. Rental
contracts are typically made for fixed periods of 1 to 7 years but may have extension options. Lease terms
are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms and conditions. The lease
agreements do not impose any covenants, but leased assets may not be used as security for borrowing
purposes.
(iii) Variable lease payment
Variable lease payments relate to payments made for the lease of pallets which are based on the actual
usage of the pallets.
(iv) Extension and termination options
Extension and termination options are included in a number of equipment and property leases across the
Company. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms
and conditions. Extension and termination options are included, when possible, to provide the Company with
greater flexibility to align its need for access to equipment with the fulfilment of customer contracts.
In cases in which the Company is not reasonably certain to exercise an optional extended lease term,
payments associated with the optional period are not included within lease liabilities. The financial effect of
revising lease terms to reflect the effect of exercising extension and termination options was an increase in
recognised lease liabilities of RM2.4 million (2021: RM3.8 million).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
110
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
5. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Computer
software
RM’000
Capital
work-in
progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2021 16,879 290 17,169
Additions - 7,770 7,770
Transfers 590 (590) -
Written off (127) - (127)
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 17,342 7,470 24,812
Additions - 5,020 5,020
Transfers 32 (32) -
Transfers from Property, plant and equipment 19 - 19
At 31 December 2022 17,393 12,458 29,851
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2021 16,212 - 16,212
Amortisation for the year 258 - 258
Written off (127) - (127)
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 16,343 - 16,343
Amortisation for the year 327 - 327
At 31 December 2022 16,670 - 16,670
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2021 999 7,470 8,469
At 31 December 2022 723 12,458 13,181
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
111
Financial Statements
6. INVENTORIES
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Finished goods 128,398 87,758
Raw materials 85,421 60,950
Packaging materials 14,697 13,568
Spare parts 1,543 1,185
230,059 163,461
Provision for obsolescence of inventories (1,177) (2,406)
228,882 161,055
7. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Note 2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Trade
Trade receivables 88,832 67,836
Less: Loss allowance 7.1 (116) (109)
Net trade receivables 88,716 67,727
Amounts owing by related companies 7.2 3,459 285
92,175 68,012
Non-trade
Other receivables 2,345 5,337
Amount owing by related company 7.2 - 479
Deposits 3,188 2,553
5,533 8,369
97,708 76,381
7.1 The movements in the loss allowance of trade receivables during the financial year are disclosed in Note
22.4.
7.2 The credit terms of amounts owing by related companies ranged from 0 to 30 days (2021: 0 to 30 days).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
112
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
8. PREPAYMENT
Note 2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Prepayment to related company 8.1 44,771 125,670
Others 1,116 487
45,887 126,157
8.1 Prepayment to related company represents advance payments made for future raw materials purchases.
9. CASH AND BANK BALANCES
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Cash and bank balances 34,941 118,300
Deposits placed with a licensed bank 70,000 -
104,941 118,300
The deposits placed with a licensed bank have a maturity period of 6 days (2021: Nil) with interest rate of 2.20%
per annum (2021: Nil).
Bank balances are held at call with licensed banks.
10. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSET/(LIABILITIES)
2022 2021
Nominal
value
RM’000
Assets
RM’000
Liabilities
RM’000
Nominal
value
RM’000
Assets
RM’000
Liabilities
RM’000
Derivatives held for trading at
fair value through profit or
loss
- Forward exchange contracts 109,765 - (4,811) (100) 258 (158)
Forward exchange contracts are used to manage the foreign currency exposures arising from the Company’s
payables denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company. All the forward exchange
contracts have maturities of less than one year after the end of the reporting period.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
113
Financial Statements
11. SHARE CAPITAL
Amount
2022
RM’000
Number
of shares
2022
’000
Amount
2021
RM’000
Number
of shares
2021
’000
Issued and fully paid:
Ordinary shares with no par value 64,000 64,000 64,000 64,000
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are entitled to
one vote per share at meetings of the Company and rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets.
12. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
Deferred tax liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Property, plant and equipment - - (11,764) (14,330) (11,764) (14,330)
Right-of-use assets - - (731) (1,100) (731) (1,100)
Inventories 282 577 - - 282 577
Receivables 28 26 - - 28 26
Payables 6,646 5,188 - - 6,646 5,188
Lease liabilities 2,062 3,633 - - 2,062 3,633
Derivatives 1,155 38 - - 1,155 38
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 10,173 9,462 (12,495) (15,430) (2,322) (5,968)
Movement in temporary differences during the year
At
1.1.2021
RM’000
Recognised
in profit
or loss
RM’000
At
31.12.2021/
1.1.2022
RM’000
Recognised
in profit
or loss
RM’000
At
31.12.2022
RM’000
Property, plant and
equipment (9,364) (4,966) (14,330) 2,566 (11,764)
Right-of-use assets (1,644) 544 (1,100) 369 (731)
Inventories 299 278 577 (295) 282
Receivables 64 (38) 26 2 28
Payables 4,082 1,106 5,188 1,458 6,646
Lease liabilities 1,556 2,077 3,633 (1,571) 2,062
Derivatives 513 (475) 38 1,117 1,155
(4,494) (1,474) (5,968) 3,646 (2,322)
Note 17 Note 17
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
114
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
13. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Note 2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Trade
Amounts owing to related companies 13.1 69,083 36,836
Trade payables 13.2, 13.3 198,253 144,565
Trade spend accrual 78,630 51,419
345,966 232,820
Non-trade
Amounts owing to related companies 13.1 10,391 2,025
Accrued expenses 34,208 26,684
Payroll liabilities 13,351 11,107
Other payables 9,772 10,159
67,722 49,975
413,688 282,795
13.1 The credit terms of amounts owing to related companies ranged from 0 to 30 days (2021: 0 to 30 days).
13.2 Included in trade payables is refund liability in respect of market returns of RM2.6 million (2021: RM3.4
million).
13.3 Included in this amount is RM47.3 million (2021: RM7.9 million) of trade payables under a supply chain finance
programme. The credit terms for payment to the supply chain finance programme service provider is similar
as that of the trade payables.
14. PROVISION
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Employees’ pension contribution
At 1 January 106 228
Addition during the year 58 45
Reversal during the year - (167)
At 31 December 164 106
Restructuring provision
At 1 January - -
Addition during the year 17,747 -
At 31 December 17,747 -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
115
Financial Statements
14. PROVISION (CONTINUED)
Provision is presented in the statement of financial position as follows:
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Current liabilities 8,710 106
Non-current liabilities 9,201 -
17,911 106
Employees’ pension contribution
Provision for employees’ pension contribution reflects provisions made for additional contributions to be made
to the statutory Employees Provident Fund that would vest upon unionised staff having completed five years of
service. The provision has been made on the assumption that all relevant staff will complete their five year term
and that therefore their benefits will vest in its entirety.
Restructuring provision
Restructuring cost recognised in the year amounting to RM17.7 million in relation to the discontinuation of milk
powder operations in Petaling Jaya factory and the Company’s focuses on production of Ready to Drink in the
new manufacturing facilities in Bandar Enstek. As a result of this restructuring, about 118 jobs will be lost upon
the completion of new manufacturing facilities, with 72 jobs lost after the discontinuation of the milk powder
operations on 31 May 2023 and 46 jobs lost by 30 April 2024 due to discontinuation of other production lines. The
company has also offered Early Retirement Opportunity to eligible personnel, which 14 staffs have accepted the
offer and will retire by 30 April 2024. Hence, a total of 132 jobs will be impacted.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
116
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
15. PROFIT BEFORE TAX
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Profit before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Amortisation of intangible assets 327 258
Auditors’ remuneration:
- Statutory audit - current year 102 92
- Other services 22 100
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment* 30,596 33,493
Depreciation of ROU assets 3,507 3,295
Finance costs
- Interest expense 3,405 2,853
- Finance charge arising from lease liabilities 255 521
Interest income (1,794) (1,417)
Inventories recognised as cost of sales 824,759 637,580
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment - (24,159)
Gain arising from sale and leaseback transaction - (129,725)
Marketing expenses 120,588 114,748
Net loss/(gain) on derivatives 4,911 (1,814)
Net gain on foreign exchange:
- Realised (3,672) (760)
- Unrealised (887) (514)
Personnel expenses (including key management personnel):
- Wages, salaries and others 65,619 64,332
- Contributions to state plans 10,357 9,393
(Reversal of)/Provision for obsolescence of inventories (1,229) 1,163
Rental in respect of (Note 4):
- Premises 526 571
- Equipment 3,059 2,093
- Vehicles 107 91
Provision for/(Reversal of) loss allowance of trade receivables 7 (157)
Impact from Bilateral Advance Pricing Arrangement (“BAPA”)** 39,040
Restructuring provision 17,747 -
* Included in the depreciation of property, plant and equipment is the accelerated depreciation of RM13.9
million (2021: RM15.0 million).
** DLMI initiated an application for BAPA with the tax authorities of Malaysia and Netherlands to ascertain the
prospective arm’s length transfer prices on certain related party transactions for the period from 1 January
2019 to 31 December 2022, and includes a rollback period from 1 January 2018 to 31 December 2018.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
117
Financial Statements
16. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COMPENSATION
The key management personnel compensations are as follows:
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Directors:
- Fees 503 524
- Remuneration 1,143 1,639
- Benefits-in-kind - 145
1,646 2,308
Other key management personnel:
- Wages, salaries and others 3,739 4,549
- Contributions to state plans 416 504
4,155 5,053
5,801 7,361
Directors’ remuneration includes salaries, allowance and all other Directors related expenses.
Other key management personnel comprise persons other than Directors of the Company, having authority and
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company either directly or indirectly.
17. TAX EXPENSE
Recognised in profit or loss
Note 2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Current tax expense
- current year 23,332 41,526
- over provision in prior year (11,398) (6,475)
11,934 35,051
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 12 (3,646) 1,474
Total income tax expense 8,288 36,525
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
118
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
17. TAX EXPENSE (CONTINUED)
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Reconciliation of tax expense
Profit before tax 54,559 284,525
Income tax calculated using Malaysian tax rate of 24% (2021: 24%) 13,094 68,286
Non-deductible expenses 7,449 613
Income not subject to tax (35) -
Income subject to different tax rate - (29,595)
Under/(Over) provision in prior year (4,728) (2,779)
Prior year tax impact from BAPA (7,492) -
8,288 36,525
18. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share was based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders
and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, calculated as follows:
2022 2021
Net profit for the year (RM’000) 46,271 248,000
Average number of ordinary shares in issue (’000) 64,000 64,000
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share (sen) 72.3 387.5
There are no potential dilutive ordinary shares in issue as at 31 December 2022 and 2021, and therefore, diluted
earnings per share equal basic earnings per share.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
119
Financial Statements
19. DIVIDENDS
Dividends paid by the Company:
Sen
per share
Total
amount
RM’000
Date of
payment
2022
Single tier first interim 2022 ordinary 25.00 16,000 22.06.2022
Single tier second interim 2022 ordinary 25.00 16,000 13.12.2022
Total amount 32,000
2021
Single tier first interim 2021 ordinary 25.00 16,000 11.06.2021
Single tier second interim 2021 ordinary 25.00 16,000 10.12.2021
Total amount 32,000
20. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Company operates principally in Malaysia and in one major business segment being manufacturing and
distribution of a wide range of dairy products. The Company’s Board of Directors (the chief operating decision
maker) reviews internal management reports in respect of this segment at least on a quarterly basis.
Accordingly, no segment information is provided as the financial position and performance are as already shown
in the Statement of Financial Position and Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income.
At the end of the financial year, there were no significant concentrations of revenue other than three major
customers with net revenues of approximately RM514.2 million (2021: two major customers with net revenues
of approximately RM322.6 million). These customers contribute to approximately 38% (2021: 28%) of the net
revenues in the financial statements or 16%, 12% and 11% respectively (2021: 17% and 11% respectively).
21. RELATED PARTIES
Identity of related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Company if the Company
has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control or jointly control the party or exercise significant influence over the
party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Company and the party are subject
to common control. Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
Related parties also include key management personnel defined as those persons having authority and responsibility
for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company either directly or indirectly. Key management
personnel include all the Directors of the Company, and certain members of senior management of the Company.
The key management personnel compensation are shown in Note 16.
The immediate and ultimate holding companies are FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holding BV and Royal
FrieslandCampina NV respectively. Both companies are incorporated in the Netherlands.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
120
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
21. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)
Related party transactions and balances
The significant related party transactions of the Company are shown below. The balances related to the below
transactions are shown in Note 7 and Note 13.
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Management fee paid to immediate holding company
- FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holding B.V. - (68)
Management fee paid to fellow subsidiary
- Koninklijke FrieslandCampina NV (Comp) (145) (75)
Purchases of fully packed dairy products and raw materials from fellow
subsidiaries
- FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V. (568,044) (318,641)
- P.T. Frisian Flag Indonesia (174,238) (116,161)
- FrieslandCampina Domo B.V. (42,163) -
Sales of fully packed dairy products to fellow subsidiaries
- FrieslandCampina Domo B.V. 2,809 1,387
- FrieslandCampina (Singapore) Pte Ltd 10,309 18,483
- FrieslandCampina Amea Pte. Ltd 11,281 -
Know-how, trademark license and management support fees paid to fellow
subsidiary
- FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V. (71,328) (26,963)
Information, communication and technology services paid to fellow subsidiary
- FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V. (16,007) (15,781)
Advance payment to fellow subsidiary
- FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V. (44,771) (125,670)
Finance shared services paid to fellow subsidiary
- FrieslandCampina Service Centre Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd (2,325) (3,334)
Shared services fee received from fellow subsidiary
- FrieslandCampina Service Centre Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd 220 220
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
121
Financial Statements
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
22.1 Categories of financial instruments
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows:
(a) Amortised costs (“AC”); and
(b) Fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”):
Carrying
amount
2022
RM’000
AC
2022
RM’000
FVTPL
2022
RM’000
Carrying
amount
2021
RM’000
AC
2021
RM’000
FVTPL
2021
RM’000
Financial assets
Trade and other
receivables 97,708 97,708 - 76,381 76,381 -
Derivative financial
assets - - - 258 - 258
Cash and bank balances 104,941 104,941 - 118,300 118,300 -
202,649 202,649 - 194,939 194,681 258
Financial liabilities
Trade and other
payables (411,118) (411,118) - (279,355) (279,355) -
Derivative financial
liabilities (4,811) - (4,811) (158) - (158)
(415,929) (411,118) (4,811) (279,513) (279,355) (158)
22.2 Net gains and losses arising from financial instruments
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
Net gains/(losses) from:
Fair value through profit or loss (4,911) 1,814
Financial assets measured at amortised costs 3,163 (708)
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (477) 182
(2,225) 1,288
22.3 Financial risk management
The Company has exposure to the following risks relating to financial instruments:
• Credit risk
• Liquidity risk
• Market risk
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
122
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.4 Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial
instrument fails to meet its contractual obligations. The Company has adopted a policy of only dealing with
creditworthy customers, based on evaluation of the customers’ financial condition and credit history, as a
means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises
principally from its receivables from customers and related companies and deposits placed with licensed
banks.
Trade receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis.
The Company performs credit evaluations on customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
The Company has entered into an arrangement with a licensed financial institution to enable certain trade
customers to pay goods invoiced through a corporate purchasing card issued by the financial institution.
This has resulted in the financial institution assuming the debts to the Company and credit risk is effectively
transferred to the financial institution.
A significant portion of these trade receivables are regular customers that have been transacting with the
Company. The Company uses ageing analysis to monitor the credit quality of the trade receivables. Any
trade receivables having significant balances past due more than 60 days which are deemed to have higher
credit risk, are monitored individually.
The Company’s approach to the expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of sales over a
period of 60 months before reporting date and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced
within this period. The historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect current and forward-looking information
on macroeconomic factors affecting the ability of the customers to settle the receivables. The Company
has identified the GDP and retail volume growth to be the most relevant factors.
The expected loss rate is depicted in the table below:
Age
profile
Not past
due
Past due
1 - 7 days
Past due
7 - 14 days
Past due
14 - 30 days
Past due
31 - 90 days
Past due
more than
90 days
% 0.01 0.10 1.00 1.50 2.5 10.00
No significant changes to estimation techniques or assumptions were made during the reporting period.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
123
Financial Statements
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Changes to loss allowance
The movements in the loss allowance of trade receivables during the financial year were:
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
At 1 January 109 266
Increase/(Decrease) in loss allowance recognised in profit and loss
during the year 7 (157)
At 31 December 116 109
There were no significant changes to the gross carrying amount that contributed to changes in loss
allowances. The allowance account in respect of trade receivables is used to record expected credit losses
and individual impairment losses. Unless the Company is satisfied that recovery of the amount is possible,
the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the trade receivable directly.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from trade receivables
is represented by the gross carrying amounts in the statement of financial position. The following table
contains an analysis of the credit risks exposure for which expected credit loss is recognised:
Gross
RM’000
Individual
impairment
RM’000
Expected
credit loss
RM’000
Net
RM’000
2022
Not past due 71,562 - (5) 71,557
Past due 1 – 7 days 14,817 - - 14,817
Past due 7 – 14 days 1,191 - (10) 1,181
Past due 14 – 30 days 669 - (28) 641
Past due 31 – 90 days 498 - (35) 463
Past due over 90 days 95 (32) (6) 57
88,832 (32) (84) 88,716
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
124
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral (continued)
Gross
RM’000
Individual
impairment
RM’000
Expected
credit loss
RM’000
Net
RM’000
2021
Not past due 59,207 - (7) 59,200
Past due 1 – 7 days 6,878 - (11) 6,867
Past due 7 – 14 days 951 - (7) 944
Past due 14 – 30 days 525 - (18) 507
Past due 31 – 90 days 114 - (3) 111
Past due over 90 days 161 (47) (16) 98
67,836 (47) (62) 67,727
The individually impaired receivables relate to customers who are under ongoing litigation.
Other receivables and deposits
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
Other receivables and deposits are neither past due nor impaired. The Company believes that generally
no loss allowance is necessary in respect of other receivables and deposits that are neither past due nor
impaired as these receivables and deposits are mainly arising from debtors that have good records of
payment in the past.
Related company balances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company undertakes trade and non-trade transactions with a number of related companies. The
Company monitors the repayment from its related companies on a regular basis.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the statement of financial position. The Company regularly follows up on timely settlement of
the amount owing by related companies. The related companies are not required to place any collateral
with the Company.
As at the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the amounts owing by related companies
are not recoverable as substantially all of these amounts are aged less than a year.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
125
Financial Statements
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.4 Credit risk (continued)
Deposits placed with licensed banks
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Credit risk arises from deposits with licensed banks and financial institutions. The deposits are placed with
credit-worthy financial institutions with high credit rating. The Company considers the risk of material loss
in the event of non-performance by a financial counterparty to be unlikely.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the Company has only placed deposits with domestic licensed banks.
The maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts in the statement of financial
position.
As deposits are only placed with licensed banks, management does not expect the banks to fail to meet
their obligations.
The deposits placed with licensed banks are unsecured.
22.5 Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises principally from its various payables.
The Company maintains a level of cash and cash equivalents and bank facilities deemed adequate by the
management to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when
they fall due.
The Company has available undrawn overdraft facilities of RM19.2 million (2021: RM18.3 million) that can
be used to finance short term obligations, capital expenditure and general working capital requirements.
It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis below could occur significantly
earlier, or at significantly different amounts.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
126
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.5 Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end of the
reporting period based on the undiscounted contractual payments:
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Contractual
interest
rate/
coupon
RM’000
Contractual
cash flows
RM’000
Under
1 year
RM’000
Over 1 year
but not
later than
5 years
RM’000
2022
Non-derivative financial
liabilities
Trade and other payables 411,118 - 411,118 411,118 -
Lease liabilities 8,591 929 9,520 6,902 2,618
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts 4,811 - 4,811 4,811 -
424,520 929 425,449 422,831 2,618
2021
Non-derivative financial
liabilities
Trade and other payables 279,355 - 279,355 279,355 -
Lease liabilities 15,139 286 15,425 8,524 6,901
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts 158 - 158 158 -
294,652 286 294,938 288,037 6,901
22.6 Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and
other prices that will affect the Company’s financial position or cash flows.
22.6.1 Currency risk
The Company is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in
a currency other than the functional currency of the Company. The main currencies giving rise to
this risk are United States Dollar (USD), Euro (EUR) and Thai Baht (THB).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
127
Financial Statements
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.6 Market risk (continued)
22.6.1 Currency risk (continued)
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its foreign currency risk. The forward
exchange contracts have maturities of less than one year after the end of the reporting period.
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Company’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the functional
currency of the Company) risk, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period
was:
Denominated in
USD
RM’000
EUR
RM’000
THB
RM’000
2022
Amounts owing by related companies 531 - -
Cash at bank 1,210 - -
Trade payables (8,680) (18,730) (12,417)
Amounts owing to related companies (84,299) (9,681) -
(91,238) (28,411) (12,417)
2021
Amounts owing by related companies 158 109 -
Cash at bank 11,465 - -
Trade payables (8,556) (1,075) (12,026)
Amounts owing to related companies (32,436) (1,786) -
(29,369) (2,752) (12,026)
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
A 10% (2021: 10%) strengthening of RM against the following currencies at the end of the
reporting period would have increased equity and post-tax profit by the amounts shown below.
This analysis is based on foreign currency exchange rate variances that the Company considered
to be reasonably possible at the end of the reporting period. This analysis assumes that all other
variables, in particular interest rates, remained constant and ignores any impact of forecasted
sales and purchases.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
128
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.6 Market risk (continued)
22.6.1 Currency risk (continued)
Currency risk sensitivity analysis (continued)
Increase/(Decrease)
Equity Profit
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2022
RM’000
2021
RM’000
USD 6,934 2,232 6,934 2,232
EUR 2,159 209 2,159 209
THB 944 914 944 914
A 10% (2021: 10%) weakening of RM against the above currencies at the end of the reporting
period would have had equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown
above, on the basis that all other variables remained constant. The movements in other currency
exchange rates are not expected to have any significant effect on the profit or loss.
22.6.2 Interest rate risk
The Company does not have fixed rate borrowings. The Company’s variable rate borrowings which
is primarily its overdraft facility is exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to fluctuation in
market interest rate. The Company places short term deposits with licensed banks which are not
significantly exposed to risk of changes in interest rates. Short term receivables and payables are
not significantly exposed to interest rate risk.
22.6.3 Other price risk
Other price risk is the risk that fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
because of changes in market prices (other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency
risk). Other price risk comprises equity price risk and commodity price risk. The Company is not
exposed to any other price risk.
22.7 Fair value information
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents and short term receivables and payables reasonably
approximate their fair values due to the relatively short term nature of these financial instruments.
The carrying amounts of non-current lease liabilities reasonably approximate their fair value.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
129
Financial Statements
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.7 Fair value information (continued)
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value together with their carrying amounts
shown in the statement of financial position.
Fair value of financial instruments
carried at fair value
Carrying
amount
Level 1
RM’000
Level 2
RM’000
Level 3
RM’000
Total
RM’000 RM’000
2022
Financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts - (4,811) - (4,811) (4,811)
2021
Financial assets
Forward exchange contracts - 258 - 258 258
Financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts - (158) - (158) (158)
Level 1 fair value
Level 1 fair value is derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or
liabilities that the Company can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 fair value
Level 2 fair value is estimated using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are
observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3 fair value
Level 3 fair value is estimated using unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
Derivatives
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is based on the quoted price provided by the licensed banks
with which the foreign exchange contracts are entered into.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
130
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
23. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Company defines capital as share capital (Note 11) and this is unchanged from the prior year.
The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the
Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence
and to sustain future development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital, which
the Company defines as results from operating activities divided by total equity attributable to owners of the
Company. The Board of Directors also monitors the level of dividends to shareholders.
The return on capital at 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021 were as follows:
2022 2021
Results from operating activities (RM’000) 56,425 286,482
Total equity attributable to owners of the Company (RM’000) 396,851 382,580
Return on capital (%) 14.2 74.9
The Company monitors and maintains a prudent level of total equity attributable to the owners of the Company to
ensure it is adequate to balance the support for future development of the business and the payment of dividends
to owners of the Company.
131
Financial Statements
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act, 2016
STATUTORY DECLARATION
pursuant to Section 251(1)(b) of the Companies Act, 2016
We, Ramjeet Kaur Virik A/P Bhagwan Singh and Jean Serge Krol, two of the Directors of Dutch Lady Milk Industries
Berhad, do hereby state that in the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 86 to 130 are
drawn up so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position and financial performance of the Company for the
financial year ended 31 December 2022 in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
……………………………………………………………………… ………………………………………………………………………
Ramjeet Kaur Virik A/P Bhagwan Singh Jean Serge Krol
24 February 2023
I, Kai Roelof Maria Henricus De Klerk, the Officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Dutch Lady Milk
Industries Berhad, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 86 to 130 are, to
the best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to
be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above named in Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan on 24 February 2023.
………………………………………………………………………
Kai Roelof Maria Henricus De Klerk
Before me:
COMISSIONER FOR OATH
132
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
to the members of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (“the Company”) give a true and fair view
of the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2022, and of its financial performance and its cash flows
for the financial year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
What we have audited
We have audited the financial statements of the Company, which comprise the statement of financial position as at
31 December 2022, and the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement of changes in
equity and statement of cash flows for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a
summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 86 to 130.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit
of the financial statements” section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and other ethical responsibilities
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice)
of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’
International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA
Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Our audit approach
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial
statements of the Company. In particular, we considered where the Directors made subjective judgements; for example,
in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are
inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls,
including among other matters, consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material
misstatement due to fraud.
We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the financial
statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and
the industry in which the Company operates.
133
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
to the members of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the context of our
audit of the financial statements of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide
a separate opinion on these matters.
Key audit matter How our audit addressed the key audit matter
Use of estimates in revenue recognition arising from
rebates and discounts given to customers
Revenue is recognised net of rebates and discounts.
Rebates and discounts recognised are based on the
expected entitlement earned up to reporting date under
each customer trading agreement and promotions run.
The Company has two categories of rebates and
discounts where estimates are used:
- Conditional rebates
- Promotional discounts
Conditional rebates and promotional discounts are
triggered when certain conditions are met. The amount
payable is based on conditions achieved, multiplied by
rates contracted with each customer in their trading
agreements.
During the financial year, the Company incurred rebates
and promotional discounts totalling RM284 million. A
total of RM78.6 million of these rebates and discounts
were included in accruals as at 31 December 2022.
We focused on this area because of the the high volume
of transactions incurred during the financial year and
estimation involved in determining the appropriate
amount of accruals as at financial year end and especially
in relation to those promotions and campaigns that were
still ongoing at the financial year end and those in which
the actual data with regards the conditions to be met
have not been confirmed.
Refer to Note 1(d)(i) (Use of estimates and judgements)
and Note 2(n).
We evaluated and tested the operating effectiveness of
controls in relation to the authorisation of rebates and
promotional activities and the determination of year end
accruals;
We traced samples of rebates and discounts incurred
during the year to customers’ claims; and
We evaluated the reasonableness of management’s
estimates on meeting volume or sales targets in relation
to conditional rebates and promotional discounts. For
selected samples we have performed the following:
(a) a comparison of actual sales volume and values
achieved by the customer against the sales volume
and values recorded, or
(b) traced sample of accruals made to customers’
contracts and relevant supporting documents.
There were no material exceptions noted from our
procedures.
Information other than the financial statements and auditors’ report thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Directors’
Report and the complete 2022 Annual Report, but does not include the financial statements of the Company and our
auditors’ report thereon.
134
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
to the members of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other information
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of the
Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information,
we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements of the Company that
give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such
internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the
Company that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s ability
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern
basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no
realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Company as a whole
are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our
opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance
with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material
misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or
in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of
these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Company, whether due
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that
is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement
resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional
omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are
appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control.
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and
related disclosures made by the Directors.
135
Financial Statements
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
to the members of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued)
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on
the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast
significant doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty
exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements
of the Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the
audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the
Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Company, including
the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Company represent the underlying transactions and
events in a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and
significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to
bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in
the audit of the financial statements of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the key audit
matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about
the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our
report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest
benefits of such communication.
OTHER MATTERS
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of
this report.
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS PLT GAN WEE FONG
LLP0014401-LCA & AF 1146 03253/01/2025 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
24 February 2023
136
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
137
Corporate Governance
138
138
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
• Petronas Chemicals Group Berhad
Non-listed public company:
• HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad
• MCIS Insurance Berhad
• Zurich General Insurance Malaysia Berhad
• Climate Governance Malaysia Berhad
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• LLB (Honours), Bristol University
• Qualified as Member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of
England & Wales in 1994
Working Experience:
Datin Seri Sunita’s career began at the Audit and Insolvency Divisions of
Ernst & Young in London. Thereafter she was attached to the Corporate
Finance Department of RHB Investment Bank Berhad in Kuala Lumpur
before becoming a consultant at MIMOS Berhad, where she was invited
to manage a foreign technology venture capital fund. She is appointed to
the board of trustees of several charities and is involved in a spectrum of
community-based activities. She has a cumulative 20 years of experience
sitting on boards ranging from technology start-up companies to listed
companies in which she was first appointed on the board of a start-up
company in April 2002 and of a listed company in January 2009. She
is a strong advocate of climate governance, having founded the country
chapter of the World Economic Forum’s climate governance initiative.
Recently, Datin Seri Sunita has been appointed as an Adjunct Professor in
Climate Governance and Sustainability at UNITAR International University.
Nationality Malaysian
Gender Female
Age 54
Date of
Appointment 27 February 2019
Tenure of
Directorship 4 years 1 month
Board Meeting Attendance in 2022 4/4
Membership of Board Committee Nil
Datin Seri Sunita was a member of Dutch
Lady Milk Industries Berhad’s board
committees up to 27 September 2021
when she relinquished her positions in all
board committees.
DATIN SERI
SUNITA MEI-LIN RAJAKUMAR
Chairperson and Independent
Non-Executive Director
COMMITTEE MEMBER KEY
BOARD COMPOSITION BOARD TENURE
GENDER
Nominating & Remuneration Committee
N
A Audit & Risk Committee
6 Female
Male
2
Solid background signifies Committee Chair
Executive
Directors
1 >4 years
3
2-3 years
2
<2 years
3
Non-Independent
Non-Executive
Directors
3
Independent
Non-Executive Directors
4
139
139
BoD, Company Secretary & MT Profiles
PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Bachelor of Science Degree in Economics, Banking and Finance, London
School of Economics, United Kingdom.
Working Experience:
Ms. Ramjeet has been with FrieslandCampina for over 11 years. Prior to
her current appointment, Ramjeet was the Marketing Director for the
Consumer Dairy Business of the Company since 2018. Before that, she was
the International Marketing Manager at FrieslandCampina Asia based in
Singapore, and Marketing Manager at PT Frisian Flag Indonesia.
She has more than 20 years of experience in various commercial roles,
namely in marketing, sales and shopper functions. Her career started in
other leading fast-moving consumer goods organisations such as British
American Tobacco (M) Sdn Bhd and Heineken Malaysia Berhad (previously
known as Guinness Anchor Berhad).
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and MBA from the
University of Nebraska-Lincoln, USA
Working Experience:
Ms. Saw was the Managing Director of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad,
Malaysia and Dutch Lady Singapore from 2015 to 2017. She was then re-
designated as a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director in January 2018.
Ms. Saw started her marketing career by joining the Unilever management
training programme and since then, she has held various senior managerial
positions within the fast-moving consumer goods industry. She first joined
the Company in March 2003 as its Commercial Director. From March 2008
to 2010, she was appointed as the General Manager for FrieslandCampina
Hong Kong. She was then promoted to become the Managing Director for
FrieslandCampina Mainland China from 2011 to 2014.
She was appointed as the Adjunct Professor for Graduate Business School
– MBA Program, University Kebangsaan Malaysia (UKM) in 2018. Currently,
she actively involves in various mentoring program for young leaders with
Lead-Women Malaysia and USAid Women Directors Organisations.
Nationality Malaysian
Gender Female
Age 46
Date of
Appointment 2 July 2021
Tenure of
Directorship 1 year 8 months
Board Meeting Attendance in 2022 4/4
Membership of Board Committee Nil
RAMJEET KAUR VIRIK
Executive Director
Nationality Malaysian
Gender Female
Age 59
Date of
Appointment 1 January 2014
Re-designation to
Independent Director 15 January 2020
Tenure of Directorship as
Independent Director 3 years 2 months
Board Meeting Attendance in 2022 4/4
Membership of Board
Committee
SAW CHOOI LEE
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
N
A
140
140
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Post-master Degree Certified Controller (RC), Vrije Universiteit,
Amsterdam
• Post-master Degree Certified Public Accountant (RA), Rijksuniversiteit
Groningen (RUG), Groningen
• Master of Economics (Drs.), Auditing variant, Rijksuniversiteit
Groningen (RUG), Groningen
Working Experience:
Mr. Krol joined FrieslandCampina in 2002 as Commercial Controller
Friesland Foods Cheese, Wolvega. He then held the position as Finance
Director at FrieslandCampina Thailand, Bangkok from 2006 to 2010 and
Finance Director at FrieslandCampina DOMO, Amersfoort from 2010 to
2015 before assuming the Finance Director position at FrieslandCampina
China, Shanghai in May 2015. In July 2019, he was appointed as the Director
of Finance for FrieslandCampina’s Specialised Nutrition Business Group.
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
• MYMBN Berhad
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Doctor of Veterinary Medicine, DVM, Universiti Pertanian Malaysia
Working Experience:
Dato’ Dr. Rosini was formerly the Deputy Director-General of the Department
of Veterinary Services (DVS), Malaysia. Her career in the veterinary and
agricultural sector spans over 30 years, and her contribution and service
to the veterinary sector has been recognised through state honours and by
industry patrons in 2015 and 2017.
Nationality Dutch
Gender Male
Age 52
Date of
Appointment 19 July 2019
Tenure of
Directorship 3 years 8 months
Board Meeting Attendance in 2022 4/4
Membership of Board
Committee
JEAN SERGE KROL
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Nationality Malaysian
Gender Female
Age 65
Date of
Appointment 16 March 2018
Tenure of
Directorship 5 years
Board Meeting Attendance in 2022 4/4
Membership of Board
Committee
DATO’ DR. ROSINI BINTI ALIAS
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
A
A
141
141
BoD, Company Secretary & MT Profiles
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
• PPB Group Berhad
• FM Global Logistics Holdings Berhad (formerly known as Freight Management
Holdings Berhad)
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Advocate and Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya
• Barrister-at-Law - The Honourable Society of Inner Temple
• School of Oriental & African Studies, London University, LLB (Hons)
Working Experience:
Tengku Nurul Azian was formerly the Executive Vice President & Partner of
PEMANDU Associates Sdn Bhd, a management consulting firm focused on public
sector transformation and business turnaround with global experience.
She started her career in 1988 an Advocate and Solicitor with Messrs. Shook Lin &
Bok before pursuing a career in investment banking in 1992. She has over 18 years of
broad experience in investment banking and corporate finance, the last position held
as Head of Corporate Finance in RHB Investment Bank Berhad, a member of RHB
Banking Group, an integrated financial services group in Malaysia.
In 2010, she was appointed as the Director of Education and Human Capital
Development in the Performance Management and Delivery Unit (PEMANDU) and
held this position until 2017. She was the Executive Vice President and Partner of
PEMANDU Associates Sdn Bhd, a management consultancy firm until June 2020.
She is also a Board member of Pemimpin GSL, Malaysia, a member of the Global
School Leaders network, an organisation involved in providing school leadership
programs for 200 government schools and sits on the Board of Governors of her
alma mater, Convent Bukit Nanas.
Nationality Malaysian
Gender Female
Age 60
Date of
Appointment 25 June 2018
Tenure of
Directorship 4 years 9 months
Board Meeting Attendance in 2022 4/4
Membership of Board
Committee
TENGKU NURUL AZIAN BINTI
TENGKU SHAHRIMAN
Independent Non-Executive Director
PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Fellow Member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA)
• Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA)
• Associate member of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE)
• Member of the Certified Practising Accountants, Australia (CPA)
• Member of the Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia (ICDM)
• Member of the Singapore Institute of Directors (SID)
• Member of the Institute of Advisors (IOA)
• BSc (Hons) in Applied Accounting, Oxford Brookes University, United Kingdom
Working Experience:
Mr. Kong is currently Managing Director, Corporate Strategy & Alliance of Fusionex
Group, an established multi-award winning data technology provider that specialises
in Analytics, Big Data, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence. Prior to venturing
into the ICT sector, he has held senior management and finance positions in industries
covering property development, property management and the automotive industry.
His area of work involves various organisations from enterprises to small businesses,
establishing partnership with trade and industrial associations and government
agencies. Currently, he is an Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company and
member of its Audit & Risk Committee and Nominating & Remuneration Committee.
Prior to this, he had held directorships of several private and public companies.
Mr. Kong is a fellow member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants
(ACCA), a member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA), a member of
Certified Practising Accountant (CPA) Australia, a member of Institute of Corporate
Directors Malaysia (ICDM), a global associate member of Singapore Institute of
Directors (SID), a member of the Institute of Advisors (IOA) Australia and an associate
member of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE). He graduated from
Oxford Brookes University, United Kingdom with a BSc (Hons) in Applied Accounting
and a professional qualification from the Association of Chartered Certified
Accountants. He also holds a Certificate in Data Analytics (CertDA) from ACCA, a
Certificate in Digital Marketing Specialist from Malaysian Institute of Management, a
Certified Digital Transformation Professional (International Program) from CASUGOL
and a Certificate in Google Cloud Big Data & Machine Learning.
Nationality Malaysian
Gender Male
Age 45
Date of
Appointment 14 April 2021
Tenure of
Directorship 1 year 11 months
Board Meeting Attendance in 2022 4/4
Membership of Board
Committee
DARREN KONG KAM SEONG
Independent Non-Executive Director
A
A
N
N
142
142
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
PROFILES OF BOARD OF DIRECTORS
AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and Listed Issuers:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Master of Econometrics/Operations Research, University of Amsterdam
• Postgraduate Controllers degree (CMA equivalent), University of
Amsterdam-University of Maastricht
Working Experience:
Ms. Tap assumed the position of Senior Vice President in Royal
FrieslandCampina in November 2022.
Ms. Tap first started her career in 1996 at Unilever in Indonesia. After
having held roles in Finance, Category Management, Marketing and Sales,
she move to China in 2002 to build the Lipton business. In 2005, she came
back to Indonesia where her last role was Managing Director at Unilever
Food Solutions.
Ms. Tap then joined Danone in 2010 as Sales Director PT Sari Husada,
Indonesia (Early Life Nutrition). Between 2012 and 2013 she served as
Regional Sales Manager for Early Life Nutrition SAPAC. In 2013, she was
appointed as the General Manager Early Life Nutrition Australia & New
Zealand. In 2017, she moved to Aqua Indonesia as General Manager.
In July 2019, Ms. Tap became Senior Vice-President, Waters Indonesia and
South East Asia. Under her leadership, Aqua Indonesia obtained the B Corp
certification, becoming the largest B Corp in Asia.
Ms. Tap was subsequently appointed as the President of Asia, Middle East
and Africa from January 2021 until April 2022. Ms. Tap was also a member
of the executive of Danone.
Nationality Dutch
Gender Female
Age 50
Date of
Appointment 1 January 2023
Tenure of
Directorship 3 months
Board Meeting Attendance in 2022 Nil
Membership of Board
Committee
CORINE DANIELLE TAP
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Directorship in Public Listed Companies:
Nil
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• LLB (Honours), University of Nottingham, United Kingdom
• Bar Vocational Course, University of Wales, Cardiff, United Kingdom
• Barrister-at-Law of England & Wales (Lincoln’s Inn)
• Advocate & Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya
• Licensed Company Secretary
Working Experience:
Ms. Katina was admitted as an Advocate & Solicitor of the High Court of
Malaya in 1999 after which she practiced in several law firms in Kuala
Lumpur before joining the Usaha Tegas Group as Legal Counsel in 2005.
Subsequently, she was attached to Lafarge Malaysia Berhad from March
2011 to March 2018 where she was the Head Counsel for Cement and Drymix
businesses and the Company Secretary. She then joined the Company on
15 March 2018 as the Legal & Company Secretarial head. She is a licensed
company secretary under Section 20(G) of the Companies Commission of
Malaysia Act 2001.
Nationality Malaysian
Gender Female
Age 48
Date of
Appointment 6 April 2018
Board Meeting Attendance in 2022 4/4
KATINA NURANI BINTI ABD RAHIM
Company Secretary
Save as disclosed, the Directors and the Company Secretary do not have any family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of the
Company other than as nominee director of Royal FrieslandCampina N.V., do not have any conflict of interest with the Company, has not been convicted
of any offence within the past five years, has not been imposed any penalty by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year 2022.
N
143
143
BoD, Company Secretary & MT Profiles
MANAGEMENT TEAM
PROFILES
Nationality Malaysian
Gender Female
Age 46
Appointed July 2021
RAMJEET KAUR VIRIK
Managing Director
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Bachelor of Science Degree in Economics, Banking
and Finance, London School of Economics, United
Kingdom.
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Ramjeet has been with FrieslandCampina for over 11
years. Prior to her current appointment, Ramjeet was
the Marketing Director for the Consumer Dairy Business
of the Company since 2018. Before that, she was the
International Marketing Manager at FrieslandCampina
Asia based in Singapore, and Marketing Manager at PT
Frisian Flag Indonesia.
She has more than 20 years of experience in various
commercial roles, namely in marketing, sales and shopper
functions. Her career started in other leading fast-moving
consumer goods organisations such as British American
Tobacco (M) Sdn Bhd and Heineken Malaysia Berhad
(previously known as Guinness Anchor Berhad).
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Bachelor’s Degree in Business Studies, Tilburg
University
• Master’s Degree in Marketing Management, Tilburg
University
• Master’s Degree in Finance & Control, Maastricht
University
• Dare to Lead Program, Vlerick Business School, Ghent,
Belgium
• Certified Environmental, Social and Governance
Analyst (CESGA), European Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies (EFFAS)
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Prior to his current role as Finance Director at DLMI, Kai
was Finance Director for FrieslandCampina Hong Kong
since September 2020. Before that, he has held various
positions in FrieslandCampina since 2015, starting in
FC Netherlands as Manager, Controlling and Reporting
followed by Head of Finance, Growth Markets for the
Specialised Nutrition Business Group.
Prior to joining FrieslandCampina, Kai worked in
multiple finance, business and product roles in SABIC, a
petrochemical manufacturer in Netherlands, USA and
Saudi Arabia for over 7 years.
Nationality Dutch
Gender Male
Age 39
Appointed January 2023
KAI DE KLERK
Finance Director
144
144
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
MANAGEMENT TEAM
PROFILES
Nationality Malaysian
Gender Female
Age 47
Appointed July 2022
Nationality Malaysian
Gender Male
Age 55
Appointed September 2018
IMUN LIM
Marketing Director
MUHAMMAD ABDUL HADI BIN
ABDULLAH
Corporate Affairs Director
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• BA (Hons) Economics & International Studies,
University of Warwick, U.K.
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Imun has more than 20 years of experience mainly in
the food and beverage industry, focused on both, brand
and product marketing with commercial experience
in recent years, having worked with companies such
as Proctor & Gamble, Coca-Cola, Fonterra, Samsung,
Munchworld Marketing and Campbell’s. Imun is also no
stranger to the DLMI family, having previously worked for
FrieslandCampina Business Development Unit Sdn Bhd as
an International Marketing Manager.
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Bachelor of Communications (Honours), University
Science of Malaysia
• Leaders of the Future Programme, Ashridge Business
School, Hertfordshire, United Kingdom
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
In addition to his role as Corporate Affairs Director for the
Company, Hadi is also FrieslandCampina’s Public Affairs
Coordinator for AMEA Region.
Hadi has over 30 years of experience in various roles in
the areas of government and external relations, regulatory
affairs, corporate communications, public relations, CSR
and corporate branding. He previously held positions at
Communication Resource Group Public Relations Sdn Bhd,
Kuala Lumpur Sentral Sdn Bhd (a member of the Malaysian
Resources Corporation Berhad Group of Companies),
Malaysian Resources Corporation Berhad, Dialog Group
Berhad and Japan Tobacco International Berhad.
As FrieslandCampina’s Public Affairs Coordinator for the
AMEA Region, Hadi will take a seat in the most important
regional bodies and partner the local teams within Asia,
Middle East and Africa region, acting as a sparring business
partner for regional public affairs.
145
145
BoD, Company Secretary & MT Profiles
Nationality Indian
Gender Female
Age 41
Appointed January 2022
ANJALI VELAYUDHAN MENON
Human Resources Director
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Leadership Program, Executive Education, London
Business School, United Kingdom
• Certified Master Performance Coach, JMC Academy,
Malaysia
• Hallos Relationship Practitioner, Hallos Relationship
Community, Spain
• The Change Cycle Practitioner, The Change Cycle
Series, USA
• 360 Degree Profiler Practitioner, Korn Ferry, India
• Thomas Emotional Intelligence Certified Practitioner,
Thomas International, United Kingdom
• Post Graduate Diploma in Management, Human
Resources (Major) & Marketing (Minor), Symbiosis
Center for Management and Human Resource
Development, India
• Bachelor of Engineering, Computer Engineering,
North Maharashtra University, India
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Prior to her current role as Human Resources Director,
Anjali was the Regional Head of Talent, for Nestlé in Asia
Pacific and Sub-Saharan Africa Region, based in Kuala
Lumpur since 2018. Prior to that, Anjali has held various
positions in Nestlé since 2006, including Corporate
People Development and Employee Communications Lead
for South Asia (based in India), and Change, Organisation
Design and Communications Lead for Indochina (based in
Thailand) between 2013 – 2018.
Nationality Dutch
Gender Male
Age 47
Appointed October 2018
SANDER JANMAAT
Program Director
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Management Development Program, Ashridge
Business School, UK
• Food Economics (MSc), Wageningen University, The
Netherlands
• Dairy Process Technology, HAS University, The
Netherlands
• Business Administration, Fulton Montgomery
Community College, USA
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Before assuming his current role, Sander was the
Operations Director at DLMI. He also held different roles
within Asia, amongst others, Performance Excellence
Manager with Frisian Flag Indonesia and prior to that,
Plant Manager and later Site Manager at Alaska Milk
Corporation in the Philippines.
He started his career in 2000 with Calvé Delft, a part of
Unilever N.V. and joined FrieslandCampina in 2001. He
has over 22 years of experience in operations, continuous
improvement, project management and supply chain and
has held various management positions in the Netherlands,
France, USA, Philippines and Indonesia.
MANAGEMENT TEAM
PROFILES
146
146
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Nationality Malaysian
Gender Male
Age 38
Appointed January 2022
WILSON CHUA
Sales Director
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Dare to lead program, Vlerick Business School, Ghent,
Belgium
• Bachelor of Business in Information Technology
University of Coventry, England
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Prior to his current role as Sales Director, Wilson was
the National Customer Development Manager - Modern
Trade & GT Chilled at DLMI. Wilson has 14 years of sales
experience and joined the company in April 2016. Prior
to joining DLMI, he worked in Reckitt Benckiser, Unilever
and local company Nibong Tebal Enterprise, all in various
sales capacity. At DLMI, he has been involved in multiple
sales transformation projects and was a part of the Future
Leader Cohort 2018.
Nationality Malaysian
Gender Female
Age 47
Appointed April 2021
TAN POH LIAN
Customer Supply Chain Associate Director
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Advanced Diploma in Business Administration
(Association of Business Executive, ABE UK)
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Poh Lian started her career with FrieslandCampina in
2013 when she joined as Supply Planning Manager.
Since then, she progressively expanded her role to
encompass Shipping, Logistics and then Warehousing
as Plan & Deliver Manager prior to her current role as
Customer Supply Chain Associate Director.
She started her Supply Chain career with Unilever.
During her tenure, Poh Lian had also been part of
Finance, GL reporting and was tasked to lead outsourcing
transformation of the Accounts Payable function before
moving back to Supply Chain as Demand and Supply
Manager.
She has more than 13 years of experience in various
managerial positions, managing different parts of supply
chain.
MANAGEMENT TEAM
PROFILES
147
147
BoD, Company Secretary & MT Profiles
Nationality Dutch
Gender Male
Age 38
Appointed July 2022
PAUL CEELEN
MAKE Associate Director
Academic/Professional Qualification(s):
• Master Strategic Management, Tilburg University
• Master exchange program, Prague University of
Economics & Business
• Bachelor Business Economics, Tilburg University
• Green Belt Six Sigma certified
Present Directorship in Other Public Companies and
Listed Issuers:
Nil
Working Experience:
Paul started his career as Supply Chain Coordinator
at Philips in 2010, where he introduced a new factory
production capacity model which was implemented
worldwide. After only 2.5 years, he was tasked with the
role of Supply Chain Manager, managing the end to end
process of an outdoor lighting factory at Philips in Spain.
In 2016 he joined FrieslandCampina as Production
Manager in Maasdam. He was then promoted to Plant
Manager of Den Bosch, after which he was appointed as
Make Associate Director at DLMI in July 2022.
Paul has 13 years of experience in several Supply Chain
and Operations leadership roles in different factories and
countries and has a track record of achieving results by
building a high engagement culture with his people.
MANAGEMENT TEAM
PROFILES
Save as disclosed, the members of the Management Team do not have
any family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of
the Company other than as nominee director of Royal FrieslandCampina
N.V., do not have any conflict of interest with the Company, has not been
convicted of any offence within the past five years, has not been imposed
any penalty by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year
2022, and do not hold any shares in the Company.
148
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW
STATEMENT
INTRODUCTION
The Board of Directors (“Board”) of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (“DLMI” or “Company”) is fully committed to
maintaining a high standard of Corporate Governance within the Company through its support and application of the
principles and practices as set out in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“Code”). DLMI’s Corporate
Governance framework lays down the structure, processes and lines of authority that governs how its businesses
are directed, managed and controlled while ensuring compliance with the applicable laws, rules and regulations, the
Company’s Constitution and adherence to good Corporate Governance practices. The Board believes that a sound
Corporate Governance structure is essential for the mitigation of risks, the cultivation of good business ethics, and
is vital to ensure sustainability and progressive business growth. The Board shall continue to evaluate its governance
practices in response to evolvinwg best practices and changing requirements.
The Board is pleased to report on governance compliance activities adopted in line with the Principles as set out in
the Code that were applied throughout the financial year ended 31 December 2022 (“FY2022”) in this Corporate
Governance Overview Statement (“CG Overview Statement”). The Principles have, in all material respects, been applied
to achieve their intended outcomes, to the extent that they were found to be suitable and appropriate to the Company’s
circumstances. Where appropriate, this CG Overview Statement also seeks to disclose all information that is required
pursuant to the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Listing Requirements”) and
any other requirements.
The application of the Practices set out in the Code throughout FY2022 will also be disclosed to Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad in a prescribed format (“CG Report”) which will be published together with the Company’s Integrated
Annual Report. The CG Report may be downloaded from the Company’s corporate website (www.dutchlady.com.my).
Board Leadership and
Effectiveness
Effective Audit and Risk
Management
Integrity in Corporate
Reporting and
Meaningful
Relationship with
Stakeholders
PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE PRINCIPLE
A B C
Refer to pages 149-165 of this report. Refer to pages 166-167 of this report. Refer to pages 168-169 of this report.
149
Corporate Governance
PRICIPLE
A BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITIES
(Practice 1 to 4)
The Board is collectively responsible to the Company’s shareholders for the direction and oversight of the Company and
plays an active role in the development of Company’s strategy. The Board met regularly throughout the year to approve
the strategic objectives of the Company, to lead the Company within a framework of effective controls which enable risk
to be assessed and managed, and to ensure that sufficient resources are available to meet the objectives set.
The Board reserves full decision-making powers, after taking into consideration the policies, procedures and guidelines
of the Royal FrieslandCampina N.V. (“RFC”) Group, on the following matters:
A
Conflict of interest relating to a substantial
shareholder or a Director or person connected to
such substantial shareholder or Director;
E Treasury policies;
B
Material acquisitions and disposition of assets
not in the ordinary course of business;
F Risk management policies;
C Investment in capital expenditure projects; G Key human resource issues; and
D Authority levels; H Related party transactions.
4
3
1
Male
2
50-59
4
40-49
2
60-69
2
Female
6
Independent Non-Executive Director
<2 years
GENDER
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
2-3 years
Executive Director
>4 years
TYPE OF DIRECTORSHIP
AGE TENURE
3
2
3
150
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
The roles of the Chairperson and the Managing
Director (“MD”) are separately held and the division
of their responsibilities is clearly defined. The MD is
an appointee of the major shareholder and heads the
Company’s management team. She is responsible for
leading and managing the Company’s business within
a set of authorities delegated by the Board. She is
also responsible for the implementation of Board
strategy and policy.
The Chairperson is an independent director who has
never assumed an executive position in the Company.
The Chairperson is responsible for the operation and
leadership of the Board. She ensures that the Board
is effective and that the Company is guided by good
corporate governance practices. She facilitates
robust dialogue during Board meetings and draws out
diverse perspectives from the Board members. She
also ensures that there is a good balance between the
time allocated to governance matters and discussions
on business performance and strategies at board
meetings. The Chairperson is not a member of any
of the Board committees and the Chairperson does
not attend or otherwise participate in any of these
committee meetings.
In FY2022, to further enhance discussions between
the Board members, the Chairperson has routinely
held meetings with the Non-Executive Directors
without the presence of Management, as well
as meetings only with the Directors who do not
represent RFC. This allows for a frank exchange of
views amongst the non-executive directors where
all non-executive directors can share their views on
the issues discussed at the Board meetings and align
on any direction they wish to share with the other
Directors and Management.
The primary responsibility of Independent Non-
Executive Directors is to protect and safeguard
the interest of minority shareholders and other
stakeholders. The effective participation of
Independent Non-Executive Directors serves to
promote greater transparency, accountability and
balance in the Board’s decision-making process. Ms.
Saw Chooi Lee is the Board’s Senior Independent
Director.
The Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors each
occupy, or have occupied, senior positions in industry,
bringing valuable external perspectives to the Board’s
deliberations through their working experience and
business insight from other sectors enabling them
to contribute significantly to Board decision-making
process.
The Company Secretary is a licensed secretary
qualified to act as Company Secretary under
Section 235 of the Companies Act 2016 and has a
secretarial practicing certificate from the Companies
Commission of Malaysia under Section 241(4) of the
Companies Act 2016. She is a qualified lawyer and
provides legal and company secretarial advice to the
Company’s management team and the Board as a
whole. All Board members have access to the advice
and services of the Company Secretary in carrying
out their duties. The Company Secretary facilitates
overall compliance and adherence with the Listing
Requirements, the Companies Act 2016 and the
recommendations in the Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance (as amended from time to time).
Chairperson and Managing Director Independent Directors
Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors
Company Secretary
Board Roles and Their Responsibilities
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
151
Corporate Governance
Board Members
Former Members
Board Meeting Materials
Board meeting papers for all meetings are generally provided to Directors seven days in advance of the date of the
proposed meetings. All proceedings of Board meetings are minuted and circulated to the Board members well in advance
of the next Board meeting including with follow up action items duly updated.
Board Meeting Attendance
The Board convenes at least four (4) scheduled Board meetings during each financial year. More meetings will be
scheduled depending on business requirements, where appropriate. In FY2022, four (4) Board meetings were held
in total. In addition to the scheduled Board meetings, all of the Board members also attended the Company’s Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”).
The Directors’ attendance at Board meetings and the Annual General Meeting for the year ended 31 December 2022
are as follows:-
75%
Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden2
(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
Board Meetings AGM
3/4 1/1
Company Secretary
Ms. Katina Nurani binti Abd Rahim
(Company Secretary)
Board Meetings AGM
4/4 1/1
Ms. Corine Danielle Tap1
(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
Board Meetings AGM
N/A N/A
N/A
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lee Rajakumar
(Chairperson, Independent Non-Executive Director)
Board Meetings AGM
4/4 1/1 100%
100%
Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik
(Executive Director)
Board Meetings AGM
4/4 1/1
100%
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee
(Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)
Board Meetings AGM
4/4 1/1
100%
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias
(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
Board Meetings AGM
4/4 1/1
100%
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Board Meetings AGM
4/4 1/1
100%
Mr. Jean Serge Krol
(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
Board Meetings AGM
4/4 1/1
100%
Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Board Meetings AGM
4/4 1/1
100%
Notes:
1. Appointed as member on 1 January 2023
2. Resigned as member on 1 January 2023
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
152
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Key activities
During the year, key activities of the Board include:
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Reviewing and approving the 4th quarter and full
year financial results for the financial year ended 31
December 2021.
Reviewing and approving the Director’s Report and
Audited Accounts for the financial year ended 31
December 2021.
Reviewing and approving the quarterly financial results
up to the 3rd quarter for the financial year ended 31
December 2022.
Reviewing the financial report on the Company’s
quarterly performance and outlook for the year.
Approving dividend payments and reviewing the
solvency position of the Company.
Reviewing and approving the Company’s strategy and
business plans.
Receiving updates on risk management status.
Receiving updates on sustainability initiatives and
RFC’s climate plan.
Receiving and approving the Company’s Annual Budget
and Capex Budget for FY2023.
Reviewing and approving the Company’s Recurrent
Related Party Transactions, subject to the approval of
the shareholders.
Receiving updates on the Recurrent Related Party
Transactions by the Company.
Reviewing and approving the updated Board Charter,
and the Terms of Reference of the Audit & Risk
Committee to include enhanced sections on the
oversight of Economic, Environmental, Social and
Governance (“EES&G”) risks and opportunities.
Board Charter
The Board Charter sets out the Board’s strategic intent and outlines the Board’s roles and responsibilities, the vision,
mission, shared values, and principles, as well as the policies and strategic development of the Company. The Board
Charter clearly specifies the roles and responsibilities of the Board, the Board Committees, individual directors
and management. The Board reviews and updates the Charter periodically. The latest update to the Board Charter
was approved by the Board in November 2022 and seeks to explicitly describe what long-term value creation
means in respect of EES&G risk monitoring and management. The Charter is available on the Company’s website at
www.dutchlady.com.my.
Reviewing and approving the formation of a
Sustainability Steering Committee which will report
to the Board of DLMI on critical and material EES&G/
Sustainability matters.
Reviewing and approving the Director’s Fit & Proper
Policy.
Reviewing the audit report findings of the Internal
Audit, its recommendations and Management
responses.
Reviewing the audit reports of the External Auditor.
Reviewing the term of office and assess the retirement
of Directors by rotation, the retention of Directors and
eligibility for re-election or retention.
Reaffirming and ratifying the Circular Resolutions
passed by the Board.
Reviewing, approving and noting the Company’s
announcements which had been released to Bursa.
Assessing and recommending the re-appointment of
the Company’s External Auditor for the financial year
ending 31 December 2022 and for the Directors to fix
their remuneration.
Reviewing and approving the draft Circular to
Shareholders in relation to the Proposed Renewal of
Shareholders’ Mandates for Recurrent Related Party
Transaction of revenue or trading nature.
Reviewing and approving the Statement on Internal
Control and Risk Management for the Annual Report
2021.
Preparing for and attending the 2022 AGM.
153
Corporate Governance
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The Company’s Code of Conduct
The Board is guided by the RFC code for good business
conduct which is known as Compass. Compass is designed
to set a certain standard for all employees and officers of
the Company. It promotes integrity in the workplace with
focus on safety, rights of employees and human rights,
sustainability and avoidance of conflicts of interest.
Compass also promotes integrity in business practices
with focus on anti-bribery and anti-corruption, gifts and
hospitality, fair competition, and fair communication.
Finally, Compass focusses on the protection of the
Company’s interests with focus on protection of
confidential information, data protection, integrity of
financial reporting and the prevention of fraud. Compass
plays an important role in the management of compliance
risks and sets out the values, principles and guidelines
as to how the Company conducts its business to ensure
integrity, transparency and accountability.
Compass has, under its purview, underlying policies which
includes topics such as Avoiding Conflicts of Interest,
Protection of Confidential Information, Privacy, Doing
Honest Business (Anti-Bribery and Corruption) and Fair
Competition. Compass is embedded in the Company’s
working culture and encapsulated in the Company’s
Employee handbook. A copy of Compass is available on
the Company’s website at www.dutchlady.com.my.
Doing Honest Business – the Company’s Anti-Bribery &
Corruption Policy
The Company has adopted RFC’s anti-bribery and
corruption policy which is known as the “Doing Honest
Business” policy. This policy, which must be observed
by all of the Company’s directors and employees at all
times, is a policy to conduct business in an honest and
ethical manner. The policy has been localised to set out
values in Malaysian Ringgit for easier application by the
Company’s employees and stakeholders. The Company
takes a zero-tolerance approach to bribery and corruption
and is committed to acting professionally, fairly and with
integrity in all its business dealings and relationships.
A Gift and Internal Events and Corporate Sponsorship
Policy is also contained within this topic which clearly and
prohibits any form of bribery, gratification or facilitation
payments. Employees will be guided by these policies
in their day-to-day dealings. To ensure that adequate
monitoring of all anti-corruption compliance matters
is carried out, the Company’s Legal Counsel has been
charged with the responsibility to review and monitor all
procedures, advise, and report to Management and the
Board of Directors on these matters.
To further enforce the Company’s zero-tolerance approach
to bribery and corruption, the Company also requires its
business partners to conduct business dealings fairly and
honestly by requiring them to carry out business in the
manner set out in the Business Practices for Business
Partners Policy.
A copy of the Doing Honest Business - Gifts Policy and
Business Practices for Business Partners are available on
the Company’s website at www.dutchlady.com.my.
MACC Corporate Liability
The Company has taken steps to ensure that it is in
compliance with Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-
Corruption Commission Act 2009 (Section 17A) which
introduces, amongst others, new corporate liability
for companies, arising from corrupt acts committed
by employees or person associated with the company.
The Company continuously takes steps to ensure that
its existing anti-bribery and corruption policies and
procedures are adequate and meets the Guidelines for
Adequate Procedures as prescribed by Section 17A.
Trainings, briefings, and communication on the topic
were provided to employees and stakeholders throughout
FY2022 to ensure that the importance and significance of
the provision were not overlooked. A copy of the briefing
materials is available on the Company’s website at
www.dutchlady.com.my.
Whistleblowing – the Speak Up Procedure
All the Company’s employees and other stakeholders
are strongly encouraged to and have access to its
whistle-blowing procedure known as the “Speak Up”. The
Speak Up procedure serves as an avenue for employees
and other stakeholders to voice out their concerns on
matters relating to Compass and to raise any suspicions
of wrongdoing, malpractice or impropriety in the
management of the Company’s business and affairs. The
Speak Up procedure clearly sets out a well-defined process
upon which Compass-related matters can be raised in
confidence and anonymity (if requested) in good faith,
and without fear of reprisal. The Speak Up phone and web
service which is managed by an independent third party is
available on any day of the year and at any time. Details
of the methods to raise Speak Up Reports are available on
the Company’s website along with a copy of the Speak Up
Procedure at www.dutchlady.com.my.
154
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Personal Data Protection
The Company handles and uses personal data in
accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act 2010
(“PDPA”). The Company has adopted the Friesland
Campina Privacy Policy which outlines the requirements
for the Company and its employees in handling personal
data.
Sustainability
Management is conscious and serious about the
Company’s responsibility towards sustainability issues
and its role in the Company’s long-term strategic plans.
The governance, management and reporting on DLMI’s
sustainability agenda is led by the Managing Director and
is overseen by the Board. The Board and Management
are committed towards ensuring responsible corporate
conduct is demonstrated and practised in the Company’s
daily activities across all aspects of the Company’s
operations. In this connection, in FY2022, the Company
has undertaken the following:
from those re-elected due to retirement by rotation or
retirement of those who were appointed during the year.
Currently the Board consists of 4 independent and 4
non-independent directors. Of the 4 non-independent
directors, 3 are nominees of Royal FrieslandCampina
N.V, and 1 is a nominee of Permodalan Nasional Berhad.
As such, a majority (5 out of 8) of the Board members
represents the Company’s minority shareholders.
The Company’s major shareholder is a foreign co-
operative of farmers. The Board considers that the current
composition fairly reflects the foreign direct investment
and the investment of the minority shareholders. The
proportion of independent directors ensures effective
checks and balances on the Board and the independent
directors effectively safeguard the interest of the minority
shareholders.
The Company’s Board consists of qualified individuals with
a good mix of operational and commercial experience.
Members of the Board have both local and international
experience and together, they bring a wide range of
competencies, capabilities, technical skills and relevant
business experience.
Details of all Directors and their biographies are provided
in the Integrated Annual Report.
The Appointment Process
In respect of the appointment of all directors, appropriate
candidates for independent directors are sourced through
recruitment firms based on the needs of the Board. The
NRC considers shortlisted candidates based on their
profiles, professional achievements and personality
assessments, with the needs of the Board in mind. The
NRC then ensures that the candidates are suitable and
of sufficient caliber for recommendation for the approval
of the Board by reviewing the profiles of candidates and
where deemed appropriate, conducting interviews with
the shortlisted candidates.
Election and Re-Election of Directors
In compliance with the Company’s Constitution, one
third of the Directors shall retire by rotation at each
AGM. Directors who are appointed during the year shall
also retire at the next AGM. The Company’s Constitution
further provides that all Directors shall retire from office
at least once in every three years. In the forthcoming
AGM, Mr. Jean Serge Krol and Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias
will retire by rotation in accordance with Rule 105 of the
Company’s Constitution and Ms. Corine Daniele Tap will
retire in accordance with Rule 86.3 of the Company’s
Constitution as she was appointed during the year
(collectively, the “Retiring Directors”).
Further information about the Company’s approach to
sustainability are disclosed in the Sustainability Statement
in this Integrated Annual Report.
BOARD COMPOSITION
(Practice 5 to 6)
The Nominating & Remuneration Committee (“NRC”)
ensures that the composition of the Board is refreshed
periodically. To ensure that this is achieved, the Board
has adopted a policy to limit the tenure of an independent
director to 9 years without further extension. The policy
is available on www.dutchlady.com.my. Accordingly, there
shall be no further annual re-election of directors apart
A Sustainability Steering Committee (“SSC”),
which consists of various functional teams and is
chaired by the Managing Director, was established
to lead sustainability strategy formulation as well
as EES&G integration approaches.
01
A Head of Sustainability and a Sustainability
Manager have been appointed to manage
sustainability strategically and integrate
sustainability considerations in the operations of
the Company.
02
The Board Charter was amended to be more
explicit on what long-term value creation
means in respect of EES&G risks monitoring
and management, which will drive value for
both shareholders and multiple stakeholders to
business.
03
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
155
Corporate Governance
The Board had, through its NRC, assessed each of the
Retiring Directors, and considered the following: (i) If there
is any evidence of any interest, position or relationship that
might influence, or reasonably be perceived to influence,
in a material respect, the Directors’ capacity to bring an
independent judgement to bear on issues before the Board
and to act in the best interests of the Company as a whole;
and (ii) the Director’s performance and contribution based
on the Directors’ Peer Assessment results for FY2022.
For item (i) the NRC have considered and have found
that the retiring Directors each meet the criteria for
appointment and re-appointment of directors as set out in
the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy.
The NRC also reviewed and assessed the performance of
the Retiring Directors on the following criteria:-
The NRC found that the Retiring Directors have performed
well based on the above performance criteria. Ms. Corine
Danielle Tap was appointed on the Board on 1 January
2023 and as such the performance evaluation carried out
for FY2022 is not applicable to her.
Inlightoftheabove,theNRCsubmitteditsrecommendation
to the Board and the Board has approved and recommends
the re-election of Mr. Jean Serge Krol, Dato’ Dr. Rosini
binti Alias and Ms. Corine Daniele Tap to the shareholders
for approval.
Board Diversity
The Board acknowledges the importance of gender
diversity and recognises the benefits that it can bring.
The Board’s prime focus on is the strength of the Board
and therefore the overriding aim in any new appointments
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Integrity & Ethics
they behave with honesty and honourably at all times
Strategic Perspective
they understand the implications of issues, trends
and events on the organisation and its capabilities
Judgement and Decision Making
they are able to understand principal issues and use
experience to offer sound advice
Teamwork
they work constructively with fellow board members
and contributes to board activities and discussions
Communication
they are able to express himself clearly and effectively
must always be to select the best candidate available.
With this in mind, the Board shall at all times make best
endeavors to have at least 30% women Directors on the
Board. Currently, out of the 8 members on the Board, 6
are women. As such the Board comprises of 75% women
directors.
The Company also seeks to maintain strong women
representation in its Management Team. Currently, out of
the 9 members on the Management Team, 4 are women.
As such the Management Team comprises of 44% women.
The Nominating & Remuneration Committee
The NRC establishes for itself the procedure and
frequency of its meetings but shall meet at least once
annually. The quorum for the meeting shall consist of any
two independent non-executive Directors appointed to the
NRC. The Managing Director, other Board members and
any other persons may be invited to attend the meetings
as necessary.
The activities of the NRC during the financial year were
as follows:
a) Leading the process for Board appointments and
making recommendations of new members to the
Board;
b) Reviewing and recommending to the Board the
Director’s Fit and Proper Policy;
c) Reviewing and recommending to the Board the
changes to the Board Charter;
d) Review the composition of the Board and Board
Committees;
e) Make recommendations to the Board on the
remuneration of the Non-Executive Directors;
f) Nominate the directors who are due for retirement and
eligible to stand for re-election at the AGM;
g) Assess the effectiveness of the Board as a whole, the
Committees of the Board and the individual directors
on an on-going basis; and
h) Review the required skills and core competencies of
the Managing Director.
The terms of reference of the NRC are available on the
Company’s website, www.dutchlady.com.my.
156
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
The Committee met two (2) times in FY2022 and the attendance of each individual is set out below:
Current Members
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee
(Chairperson, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)
Ms. Katina Nurani binti Abd Rahim
(Company Secretary)
Attendance
Attendance
2/2
2/2
100%
100%
Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden2
(Non-Independent Non-Executive)
Attendance
2/2 100%
Tengku Nurul Azian
(Member, Independent Non-Executive Director)
Attendance
2/2 100%
Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong
(Member, Independent Non-Executive Director)
Attendance
2/2 100%
Ms. Corine Danielle Tap1
(Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive)
Attendance
N/A N/A
Notes:
1. Appointed as member on 1 January 2023
2. Resigned as member on 1 January 2023
Training and Development
Induction programs are conducted for newly appointed Directors, which include briefings by members of Management and
the Company Secretary. The Directors will be provided with the necessary information to assist them in understanding
the operations of the Company, current issues and corporate strategies as well as the management structure of the
Company and the RFC Group. All Directors have attended and successfully completed the Mandatory Accreditation
Program as required under the Listing Requirements.
In addition, the Directors are encouraged to attend continuous education programs, talks, seminars, workshops and
conferences to enhance their skills and knowledge and to ensure that they are kept abreast with new developments
in the business environment, corporate governance and enhance their skills and knowledge. In view of the diverse
skills held by each of the Board members, at the meetings, a session was also held for each of the Directors to provide
sharings on their area of expertise for the benefit of the other Board members and members of Management. Topics
including sustainability, digital, leadership and the Malaysian dairy industry were shared in FY2022.
Former Members embers
Secretary
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
157
Corporate Governance
The Directors attended the following training programs in FY2022 to further enhance their knowledge and to enable
them to discharge their duties and responsibilities more effectively:
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar
*Datin Seri Sunita attended 70 courses in FY2022, some of which are as follows:
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
20 January Climate Change: Impact on Insurance
Companies & Role of the Board
Iclif Executive Education Center, Asia
School of Business
20 January COP26 and Beyond: Climate Ambition in
Malaysia and the Global South Confirmation
ISIS – Asia Foundation
23 February Role of Governments, Monetary Authorities
and Private Sector in Directing SDG-sensitive
Investments
United Nations Development Programme
23 February Licensing Frameworks for Digital Insurers and
Takaful Operators
BNM-FIDE Forum Dialogue
2 March Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) Conversation
#1: Elevating Investability
30% Club
2 March TCFD Climate Disclosure Training Program Bursa Malaysia
15 March Launch Event of ‘Exploring Nature-related
Financial Risks in Malaysia’s Report’
Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM)
18 March Board Oversight of ESG Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA)
19 May Climate Change 2022 SEADPRI – Academy Science Malaysia
24 May Digital Transformation Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
25 May Fighting Climate Change with Market
Mechanisms
EU-France Seminar
31 May Future Ready Board Hedrick & Struggles
8 June MIA Conference 2022 – Plenary 1: Charting the
Sustainability Journey
MIA
20 July Focused Learning in Sustainability Practices Board Executive Education Program
26 July SSM National Conference Plenary 1 – Coming
Together for the Sustainability Agenda
Suruhanjaya Syarikat Malaysia (SSM)
27 July SSM National Conference Plenary 5 – Leading
Climate Action From The Boardroom From Talk
to Action
SSM
8 August Training for PNB Board and Management “ESG
and Board’s Role in Delivering Sustainable
Performance and Value”
Securities Industry Development
Corporation (SIDC)
23 August Leadership - Team Management Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
29 August 5th International Sustainable Energy Summit
2022 Launch
Sustainable Energy Development
Authority Malaysia
13 September Malaysian Banking Conference 2022 Plenary
Session 1: Malaysia’s Net Zero Carbon Future
Asian Institute of Chartered Bankers
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
158
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
9 - 10 October Credible Sustainability Program for Board of
Directors
University of Cambridge – Earth on
Board
12 October Climate Governance Initiative Global Summit
“Zero Ambitions: What Is The Role Of Boards
On Climate?”
Climate Governance Malaysia
12 October Climate Governance Initiative Global Summit
“What Gets Measured: How Investors Approach
Climate and Metrics?”
Climate Governance Malaysia
12 October Climate Governance Initiative Global Summit
“Voices of Youth for a Cleaner, Greener
Future”
Climate Governance Malaysia
15 November Dairy Industry in Malaysia, History &
Challenges
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
24 November Training for KWAP Board and Management SIDC
29 November Global Green Finance Leadership Program World Bank
Ramjeet Kaur Virik
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
2 January GA-Compass Talk e-Learning FrieslandCampina Learning
2 January GA-Life Saving Rules: Road Safety e-Learning FrieslandCampina Learning
2 January GA-Golden Quality Rules e-Learning FrieslandCampina Learning
2 January GA-Life Saving Rules: General + Safety at Work
e-Learning
FrieslandCampina Learning
2 January GA-Purchasing Policy e-Learning FrieslandCampina Learning
2 January GA-Privacy within FrieslandCampina
e-Learning
FrieslandCampina Learning
2 January GA-Fair Competition Year 2 e-Learning FrieslandCampina Learning
3 January GA-Human Rights e-Learning FrieslandCampina Learning
10 February Behaviour Based Safety for Commercial FrieslandCampina Netherlands
23 February Climate Change Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
7 March ACE Fighting Unit Acceleration: Commercial
workshop 1
FrieslandCampina Netherlands
8 - 11 March Lead to Win Cohort 5 Module 3: Leading
Change & Collaboration
London Business School, UK
31 March ACE Change Management Training & Workshop FrieslandCampina Netherlands
4 April Psychological Safety Training Malaysian Urgent Care (MUC)
6 April How to Start Your Sustainability Journey CEO Action Network
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
159
Corporate Governance
Saw Chooi Lee
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
23 February Climate Change Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
2 March TCFD 101: Getting Started with Climate-Related
Financial Reporting
Bursa Malaysia
9 March International Women’s Day: Power Hour: Queen
Bee Effect
Lead Women Sdn Bhd
12 April Executive Insight: Purposeful Leadership Lead Women Sdn Bhd
25 April Promoting Merit Through Quota on Boards Lead Women Sdn Bhd
24 May Digital Transformation Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
8 April Cybersecurity Awareness FrieslandCampina Netherlands
9 April GA-Doing Honest Business e-Learning FrieslandCampina Learning
9 April GA-Fair Competition Introduction e-Learning FrieslandCampina Learning
15 April Lead to Win, ELG2: Experimentation London Business School, UK
21 - 22 April Creating Asia Strategy & Way Forward FrieslandCampina Asia (Singapore)
28 April ACE Fighting Unit Acceleration: Commercial
workshop 2
FrieslandCampina Netherlands
11 May Lead to Win Cohort 5 Capstone: Inspirational
Communication
London Business School, UK
19 May Career & Development Coaching Dutch Lady Milk Industries Bhd,
facilitated by HC Consultants Group
24 May Digital Transformation Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
12 June GA-Cyber Security Awareness for Office, Be
Cyber Savvy e-Learning
FrieslandCampina Learning
6 July Community of Practice (Agile Exchange
Programme)
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Bhd,
facilitated by Ekipa
15 August Digital NOW - Commerce FrieslandCampina Netherlands
23 August Leadership - Team Management Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
25 August #Fresheyes – Rethink What’s Possible People Matters TechHR Singapore 2022
20 September Pricing & Revenue Growth Management Ehrenberg Bass Institute
21 September GA-Crisis Management e-Learning FrieslandCampina Learning
15 November Dairy Industry in Malaysia, History &
Challenges
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
3 December GA-Cyber Security: Protect Your Identity & Be
Aware When You Share e-Learning
FrieslandCampina Learning
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
160
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
13 July Network with Leaders Empowering
Transformational Leadership (as Panelist)
Lead Women Sdn Bhd
6 August Breaking the Glass Ceiling: Conscious &
Confident Leadership with Sri Preethaji
Lead Women Sdn Bhd
24 August Tokenisation: The Promise of an Equitable
Future by Farah Jaafar MD (CCO Fusang)
Lead Women Sdn Bhd
26 August Market Visit for DLMI BOD Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
26 - 28
September
International Directors Summit 2022 Institute Corporate Directors Malaysia
(ICDM)
1 November USAID Women Directors Program C2-Self
Aware Leadership (as Panelist)
USAID Responsible Investment & Trade
Activity
15 November Dairy Industry in Malaysia, History &
Challenges
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Dato’ Dr. Rosini Alias
Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
23 February Climate Change Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
21 April Sustainable Investing: ESG At the Forefront PNB
24 May Digital Transformation Dutch Lady Milk Industries
10 August Tall Buildings and Living In the Space Age: The
Enigma and Convergence of Science and Art
PNB
23 August Leadership - Team Management Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
26 August Market Visit for DLMI BOD Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
9 November Decarbonised Economy, Accelerating the Net
Zero Transition
PNB
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
23 February Climate Change Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
24 May Digital Transformation Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
15 November Dairy Industry in Malaysia, History &
Challenges
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
161
Corporate Governance
Jean Serge Krol
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
23 February Climate Change Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
24 May Digital Transformation Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
8 June Human Rights FrieslandCampina Learning
23 August Leadership - Team Management Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
15 November Dairy Industry in Malaysia, History &
Challenges
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Tengku Nurul Azian Tengku Shahriman
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
23 February Climate Change Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
2 March TCFD Climate Disclosure Training Programme
101
United Nations Sustainable Stock
Exhange Initiative, International Finance
Corporation, Carbon Disclosure Project
Worldwide and Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad
12 April Progress Update Meeting for Sustainable
Development Solutions Network Project
Jeffrey Cheah Foundation
24 May Digital Transformation Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
8 June Human Rights FrieslandCampina
27 June PowerTalk ESG Series #1 – Plan Your ESG
Journey: Lessons for the Boardroom
Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia
23 August Leadership - Team Management Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
26 August Market Visit for DLMI BOD Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
26 September Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption (ABAC)
Annual Refresher Course
PBB Group
26 – 28
September
International Directors Summit Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia
30 September Sustainable Supply Chain Financing Malaysian Sustainable Finance Initiative
3 November PBB Group Directors’ Training 2022 PBB Corporate Services Sdn Bhd
15 November Dairy Industry in Malaysia, History &
Challenges
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
1 December Becoming a Future-Focused Risk Management
Committee
Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia
6 December SC’s AOB Conversation with Audit Committee Securities Commission Malaysia
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
162
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Darren Kong Kam Seong
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
5 – 6 January Tax Planning for Online Sales, Youtubers and
E-trading
Choong Research & Training PLT
19 January 10th ACCA Asia Pacific Thought Leadership
Forum - 2022 Economic Outlook: A roaring
Tiger or a Lazy Cat?
ACCA
20 January Executive Workshop: Digital Trends 2022:
Enterprise Digital Transformation Blueprint
Redtone
23 February Climate Change Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
25 February How To Scale & Leverage Your Advisory
Practice in 2022
Institute of Advisors
2 March TCFD 101: Getting started with climate-related
financial reporting
Bursa Malaysia
4 March Directors Talk: Information Disclosure Quality
and the Board’s role
Vietnam Institute of Directors
9 March TCFD 102: Building experience in climate-
related financial reporting
Bursa Malaysia
10 March Age of opportunity in private markets The Economist Group
8 – 11 March Technology for Change Week Asia 2022 The Economist Group
23 March 11th ACCA Asia Pacific Thought Leadership
Forum - Accelerating Transformational
Journeys – Five years in five months
ACCA
23 March Institute Of Directors, India's 20th Annual
Global Convention on Corporate Governance
and Sustainability
Institute Of Directors, India
30 March The new OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines
2022
CPA Australia
20 April ACP 2 - Valuation in Southeast Asia’s
Technology Industry
Singapore Institute of Directors
25 May APAC Thought Leadership Virtual Forum -
Sustainability reporting: get ready for new
ISSB standards
ACCA
16 June ISSB Briefing Workshop and Q&As for
Emerging Markets Confirmation
International Sustainability Standards
Board (ISSB)
17 June ICDM - NRC Dialogue & Networking Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia
29 June ICDM Emerging Trends Talk: The Accelerated
Race for SMEs to Digitalise
Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia
20 – 21 July MIA Virtual Conference Series : Data
Intelligence & Analytics Conference for SMEs
2022
Malaysian Institute of Accountants (MIA)
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
163
Corporate Governance
Date of Training Course Details Organiser
27 July APAC Thought Leadership Virtual
Forum - Fintech: Don’t Miss the Wave
ACCA
27 July Bloomberg Sustainable Business Summit Bloomberg Asia
11 August ICDM PowerTalk ESGSeries #6 on
"Characteristics of ESG & Sustainability
Leadership"
Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia
23 August Leadership - Team Management Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
26 August Market Visit for DLMI BOD Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
26 – 28
September
ICDM International Directors Summit 2022
(IDS2022)
Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia
15 November Dairy Industry in Malaysia, History &
Challenges
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
5 December Business Advisory Certification (CPBA) Course Institute of Advisors
Board Evaluation
In FY2022, the Board undertook an internal annual evaluation of the Board’s effectiveness as a review on Board
effectiveness using External Consultants was carried out for FY2020. The internal evaluation was led by the NRC
Chairperson and facilitated by the Company Secretary. The evaluation was conducted on the Board, the Nominating &
Remuneration Committee, the Audit & Risk Committee, the Managing Director and on each individual Board member
through a peer evaluation.
Key findings in relation to the effectiveness of the Board are that the Board and the Board Committees have foundational
good practices in place. More particularly, the Board scored especially well on items relating to Board Composition &
Dynamics. This feedback positively assures that Board members have open and robust discussions, that NEDs can
act effectively as check and balance to Management, and that the Board members are open in their communication
with Management. As such there is generally, low priority for concern on the effectiveness of the Board and the Board
Committees. Nevertheless, it was agreed that focus shall be spent on improving the following areas in FY2023:
Enhancing discussions
on strategic initiatives
and for Board Agenda
periodically include
reviews on the strategic
initiatives of the
Company which results
in robust discussions.
For the Board to
deliberate on both near-
term and long-term
risks affecting financial
and non-financial
performance.
For the Board to
have conversations
on Economic,
Environmental, Social
and Governance
(EES&G) to be held at
every meeting and to
enhance the monitoring
of sustainability
initiatives.
For the NRC to provide
more insights into
Board performance
and provide
recommendations for
improvements.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
1 2 3 4
164
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
REMUNERATION
(Practice 7 and 8)
The DLMI Board’s remuneration policy was last reviewed in November 2021. The policy provides that the NRC will take
into account all factors which it deems necessary in order to attract, retain and motivate Non-Executive Directors of
high caliber who are able to provide the necessary skills and experience as required. The level of remuneration shall
be commensurate with the responsibilities of the Non-Executive Directors and should also be in alignment with the
business strategy and long-term objectives of the Company.
Remuneration for the Managing Director of the Company is approved by the Board in consultation with the RFC Group.
The remuneration for the Managing Director follows the performance appraisal system and compensation and benefits
scheme of the RFC Group which is based on the human resource policies and procedures of the RFC Group. Corporate
and individual performance, market competitiveness, business results and individual performance are considered by the
RFC Group in evaluating the Managing Director’s remuneration. The Managing Director is not paid meeting attendance
allowance or Directors’ fees by the Company.
The Non-Executive Directors are paid fixed annual Directors’ fees as members of the Board and these are approved
by shareholders at the Annual General Meeting. The Chairperson of the Board Committees receives additional Board
Committee Chairperson fees and the members of the Audit & Risk Committee also receives an additional fee. All Non-
Executive Directors receive benefits by way of a meeting allowance for each meeting that they attend.
The NRC reviews the fees periodically by taking into account the performance of the Company and benchmarking with
other companies in the same industry and of similar size. The responsibilities and duties of the directors are also taken
into account when reviewing the fees.
The Terms of Reference for the NRC and the Board’s Remuneration Policy are available on the Company’s website
www.dutchlady.com.my.
Remuneration of Directors and Top Senior Management
The aggregate remuneration of Directors of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2022 is as follows:
Executive Directors Non-Executive Directors
RM RM
Directors’ Fees and Committee Member Allowances - 442,693
Benefits - 61,100
Salaries and other emoluments 1,142,581 -
Benefits in kind - -
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
165
Corporate Governance
The details of the total remuneration of the directors on a named basis for the financial year ended 31 December 2022
are as follows:-
Name
Directors’
Fees
Directors’
Benefits
Salaries
and other
emoluments
Benefits
in kind Total
RM RM RM RM RM
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar 126,083 6,500 - - 132,683
Ramjeet Kaur Virik - - 1,142,581 - 1,142,581
Saw Chooi Lee 80,870 14,300 - - 95,170
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias 77,771 11,700 - - 89,471
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku
Shahriman 80,198 14,300 - - 94,498
Darren Kong Kam Seong 77,771 14,300 - - 92,071
Total 442,693 61,100 1,142,581 - 1,646,374
For the top remaining senior management personnel, the aggregate remuneration wages, salaries, benefits and
contributions to state plans) paid for FY2022 is approximately RM5.36 million. The most senior member of management
is an Executive Director of the Company and her remuneration is disclosed above. As such, details of the remaining
members of senior management are shared on general terms and on an aggregated basis only as the Board is of the view
that it would not be in the best interest of the Company to disclose these details given the competitiveness in the market
for good senior managers in the consumer goods industry. The Board is of the view that the disclosure of remuneration
details may be detrimental to its business interests, given the competitive landscape for key personnel with the requisite
knowledge, technical expertise and working experience in the Company’s business activities, where intense headhunting
is a common industry challenge. Accordingly, such disclosure of specific remuneration information may give rise to
recruitment and talent retention issues. The Board feels that the details provided are sufficiently transparent and allows
stakeholders to assess the reasonableness of remuneration paid to members of senior management.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
166
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Financial Control and Reporting
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Company
maintains adequate and accurate records for timely
reporting of the financial position of the Company and the
results of its activities to enable stakeholders to make
informed assessments of the Company’s performance and
prospects. To assist the Board in effectively discharging
this duty, the Company has in place financial reporting
procedures and processes. As at the date of this
statement, the Board is not aware of any circumstances
which have not been dealt with in the financial reports or
financial statements, which would render any amount in
the financial statements misleading.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement in Respect of the
Preparation of the Audited Financial Statement
As required by the Companies Act 2016, the Board
hereby provides its opinion that the Company’s financial
statements for FY2022 were drawn up in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International
Financial Reporting Standards, Main Market Listing
Requirements (MMLR) of Bursa Securities and the
Companies Act 2016 so as to provide a true and fair view
of the Company’s financial position and the performance
and cash flow for the financial year. Towards this, the
Board has ensured that relevant accounting policies have
been used and applied consistently and that reasonable
and prudent judgments and estimates have been made, in
the preparation of financial statements. The Board also
ensured that applicable approved accounting standards
have been followed and that proper accounting records
were kept so as to enable disclosure of the Company’s
financial position in compliance with laws and regulations.
THE AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE
(Practice 9)
Chairperson of the Audit & Risk Committee
The Audit & Risk Committee consists of a majority of
independent directors. The Committee is chaired by
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman who is an
Independent Non-Executive Director. She is not the
Chairperson of the Board. Currently, the Committee
comprised 5 members consisting of 3 independent
directors and 2 non-independent directors. However,
one of the non-independent directors, Dato’ Dr. Rosini
binti Alias, is a nominee director of Permodalan
Nasional Berhad. As such, 4 out of 5 of the Audit & Risk
Committee members represents the Company’s minority
shareholders. The members of the Audit & Risk Committee
are all financially literate and have a full understanding of
the financial reporting process and the financial matters
discussed. The members also attend training on new rules
or standards relating to the accounting standards, tax
rulings or corporate governance changes. Details on the
members of the Audit & Risk Committee are contained in
the Report of the Audit & Risk Committee.
The Board has not appointed any of the Company’s
former key audit partners as a member of the Audit &
Risk Committee. The Audit & Risk Committee will observe
a minimum three (3) year cooling-off period before any
former key audit partner can be appointed as a member of
the Audit & Risk Committee. This requirement is set out in
the Audit & Risk Committee’s Terms of Reference.
In August 2022 the Audit & Risk Committee had a
meeting with the Company’s External Auditor, Messrs.
PricewaterHouse Coopers (PwC), where PwC presented
the annual audit plan for FY2022. In that meeting, PwC
highlighted the key focus areas, methodology and new
accounting standards. The External Auditor also briefed
the Audit & Risk Committee on their team members and
the resources allocated to the Company. After discussion
and deliberation, the Audit & Risk Committee approved
the audit plan. The Company also sought the confirmation
of independence from PwC.
The written terms of reference for the Audit & Risk
Committee are available on the Company’s website
www.dutchlady.com.my.
RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
FRAMEWORK
(Practice 10 and 11)
The Company adopts the Enterprise Risk Management
program based on the framework that was developed
and issued by RFC, which in turn is based on COSO
framework (developed by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission for evaluating
internal controls), of which the International Institute
of Internal Auditors is a sponsoring organisation. The
program establishes an enterprise risk assessment
(“ERA”) for identifying, evaluating, monitoring, reporting
and managing significant business risks. The Internal
Audit function also carries out activities under the ERA.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRICIPLE
B EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
167
Corporate Governance
The Company’s Management team and Internal Audit
team meets periodically to assess whether any conditions
associated with a particular risk have changed, and to
ensure that action and risk mitigation plans have been
implemented. Progress and status of the mitigation
action plans are presented to the Audit & Risk Committee
quarterly or new critical risks are escalated immediately
for deliberation.
The ERA categorises the risk in the following way:
The risk profile of the Company is established during
the annual risk assessment session facilitated by Royal
FrieslandCampina N.V. (RFC). Risks identified are
categorised and rated based on the impact on the relevant
business objectives, likelihood of the risks occurring, and
the potential for improvement of the way the risk is being
managed, taking into account the existing internal control
framework and risk management measures implemented.
Internal Audit
The Internal Audit function is performed in-house and
reports directly to the Audit & Risk Committee. It assists
the Audit & Risk Committee and the Management in
the effective discharge of their responsibilities and its
principal role is to undertake independent and systematic
reviews of the Company’s internal control system so as
to provide objective assurance on the adequacy, integrity
and effectiveness of the Company’s risk management,
internal controls and the overall governance processes.
The Internal Audit function carried out its activities
based on the Internal Audit Plan approved by the Audit
& Risk Committee. The Internal Audit Plan is developed
based on the risk profiles identified in accordance with
the Company’s risk register as well as consultation from
relevant Management team and historical and inherent risk
to the business. The Audit & Risk Committee reviews the
extent of the audit scope and coverage of the Company’s
activities; and the adequacy, competency and the internal
audit resources to support the completion of the plan.
At the quarterly Audit & Risk Committee meetings, the
Committee reviews the progress of activities and the
resource requirements, including interim changes and the
impact of resource limitations. The Audit & Risk Committee
also reviews significant risk and control issues, including
investigation reports and special reviews conducted by
the Internal Audit team at the request of Management.
Findings from the audits were highlighted to Management
who are responsible for ensuring that the agreed
action plans to address the reported weaknesses are
implemented within the required timeframe. On a regular
basis, the Internal Audit function reviewed the status
of implementation of the recommended actions and
preventive measures. The audit findings, audit opinion or
conclusion and the status of implementation of the action
plan were presented to the Audit & Risk Committee for
review at their respective quarterly meetings.
The Audit & Risk Committee had evaluated the
performance of the Internal Audit function for FY2022
and was satisfied with the overall performance of the
function as it had been effective in performing its duties.
The Internal Audit function also provided value added
recommendations to the organisation, strengthening its
internal controls, and was able to function independently.
The Company has an in-house Internal Audit and Internal
Control Department which reports directly to the Audit &
Risk Committee and assists the Audit & Risk Committee in
the discharge of its duties and responsibilities. Its role is
to provide independent assurance of the adequacy and the
effectiveness of the risk management, internal control and
governance process as well as to carry out investigations
on any complaints received. The investigation findings and
audit recommendations and measures are reported by the
Internal Audit Manager to the Audit & Risk Committee at
each meeting.
The Company’s Internal Audit is headed by Mr. Inderjit
Singh who has over 10 years of experience in various
finance functions including internal audit. Mr. Inderjit
holds a Bachelor’s Degree of Accounting (Honours) from
Multimedia University (MMU) and is a member of the
InstituteofInternalAuditorsMalaysia(IIA).Heissupported
by a Senior Internal Auditor. Further information on the
Internal Audit function is set out in the Statement of
Internal Control and Risk Management and the Report of
the Audit & Risk Committee.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Strategic
which are risks that affect the overall direction
of the business.
Operational
which are risks that impact the delivery of the
Company’s products.
Financial
which are risks associated with financial
processes and reporting.
Compliance
which are risks associated in relation to legal,
statutory and corporate governance.
168
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
PRICIPLE
C INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP
WITH STAKEHOLDERS
ENGAGEMENT WITH STAKEHOLDERS
(Practice 12 and 13)
TheBoardtakesstepstoensure,asfarasispracticable,that
there is effective, transparent and regular communication
between the Company and its stakeholders. The Company
disseminates information to its stakeholders utilising the
following methods:
Website:
The Company’s corporate website provides quick access
to information about the Company. The information on
the corporate websites includes the corporate overview,
information on the Board of Directors and the Management
team, Compass and other Company policies, the Board
Charter and Board Committee Terms of References,
financial results, announcements to Bursa, minutes of
general meetings, the Company’s Annual Reports and
Circulars to shareholders, the Company’s products, media
releases, and other corporate news.
Annual Report:
The Annual Report provides a comprehensive report on
the Company’s operations and financial performance.
An online version of the full Annual Report is available
and downloadable from the Company’s website
www.dutchlady.com.my.
General Meetings:
The Board shares information to its shareholders during
general meetings and encourages shareholders to ask
questions which are addressed during the meeting.
Minutes of the general meetings, together with a summary
of the questions discussed during the meeting are shared
on the Company’s website within one month of the date of
the meeting.
Analyst briefings:
The Company also meets up with investment analysts and
fund managers periodically. The Company also actively
responds to requests for discussions with institutional
shareholders and analysts, locally and abroad, to provide
them better insights into the Company. In FY2022,
the Company held two investor relations meetings, in
February and November. The presentations shared during
those meetings are available on the Company’s website at
www.dutchlady.com.my.
Annual General Meetings
The Company’s Notice of AGM is published in a local
newspaper and is issued to shareholders at least 28 days
prior to the date of the AGM. The Company’s AGM in May
2022wasfullyvirtual.AllDirectorswerephysicallypresent
at the Broadcast Venue of the meeting. Since FY2020,
the Company’s general meetings have been held virtually
through live streaming and online remote voting. For
virtual meetings, only shareholders who have registered
and who have been verified by the poll administrator
were allowed to participate in the meetings. The meeting
and online voting was conducted using a system which
contains data privacy and security features. Information
on how the shareholders can register, participate and
vote during the virtual meeting was provided in the notice
of meetings which were delivered to each shareholder in
accordance with the terms of the Company’s Constitution.
Shareholders are always encouraged to provide questions
on the resolutions being proposed or on the Company’s
operations and performance in general via email before
the meeting and via the Q&A portal during the meeting.
Answers to questions received beforehand will be dealt
with during the Managing Director’s presentation or
answered verbally during the meeting. Questions received
from MSWG are also presented and answered during the
meetings. The broadcast of the virtual general meeting
held in FY2022 ran smoothly and shareholders were
able to see and hear the meeting proceedings clearly.
Shareholders were also able to participate in the meetings
by asking questions via the Q&A portal. These questions
were either answered via the portal which was visible to the
shareholders or were answered verbally by the Managing
Director and the Finance Director during the meeting. The
Board finds that virtual meetings are not only convenient
for the shareholders as they allow all shareholders to
participate in the meeting from the comfort of their home
or office, but that they are also more environmentally
friendly as virtual meetings help to reduce the carbon
footprint from such meetings by amongst others, using a
smaller meeting venue, reducing the number of attendees
travelling to the meeting venue, and reducing the amount
of physical materials to be generated for the meeting. The
Company will continue endeavour to reduce the carbon
footprint generated from its general meetings by utilising
such environmentally friendly methods.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
169
Corporate Governance
The full minutes of the meetings which includes the
answers to the shareholders’ questions were available
on the Company website within 30 days after the general
meetings.
A virtual meeting will be held for the 60th AGM on 26
May 2023. The Broadcast Venue will be held at 12th Floor,
Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia.
Compliance Statement by the Board of Directors on
Corporate Governance Statement
(a) Utilisation of Proceeds
The Company did not carry out any corporate exercise
to raise funds during the financial year.
(b) Audit Fees
(i) Audit Fees for the Company
The Company’s internal audit function is performed
in-house by a team of internal auditors led by the
Head of Internal Audit and Internal Control. The
total cost incurred by the Internal Audit and Internal
Control Department in relation to the conduct of
its functions for FY2022 was RM544,776. The
amount of audit fees paid to External Auditors by
the Company for FY2022 was RM101,604.
(ii) Non-Audit Fees
The amount of non-audit fees paid to External
Auditors by the Company for the FY2022 was
RM22,000 is in respect of the review of Statement
of Risk Management & Internal Control.
(c) Material Contracts Involving Substantial Shareholders
Save and except for the recurrent related party
transactions entered into pursuant to the shareholders’
mandate, there were no material contracts either still
subsisting at or entered into since the end of FY2022
by the Company and/or its subsidiaries which involved
Directors’ and/or substantial shareholders’ interest.
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement is made
in accordance with the resolution of the Board of Directors
dated 24 February 2023.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
170
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
AUDIT & RISK
COMMITTEE REPORT
A COMPOSITION
The Committee is chaired by Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman who is an Advocate and Solicitor of the High
Court in Malaya, a Barrister of Law of the Honourable Society of Inner Temple and has an LLB (Hons) from the School
of Oriental & African Studies, University of London. She has over 19 years of broad experience in investment banking
and corporate finance and was previously the Executive Vice President & Partner of PEMANDU Associates Sdn Bhd,
a management consulting firm which is focused on public sector transformation and business turnaround with global
experience. She sits on the Boards and Audit and Risk Committees of other companies in Malaysia.
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee has a Bachelor of Science in Business Administration and an MBA from the University of Nebraska-
Lincoln, USA. She first joined the Company in March 2003 as its Commercial Director after which she held various
leadership positions in the FrieslandCampina Group including the role of the Company’s Managing Director from 2015
to 2017. She was appointed as the Adjunct Professor for Graduate Business School – MBA Program for Universiti
Kebangsaan Malaysia in 2018 and mentors in the Women in Leadership (WIL) programme by Lead-Women Malaysia
Organisation.
Mr. Darren Kong has a BSc (Hons) in Applied Accounting, Oxford Brookes University, United Kingdom. He is a Fellow
Member of the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (ACCA), a Member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants (MIA) Associate, and a member of the Association of Certified Fraud Examiners (ACFE). He is currently
Managing Director, Corporate Strategy & Alliance of Fusionex International, an established multi-award winning data
technology provider that specialises in Analytics, Big Data, Machine Learning and Artificial Intelligence.
Dato’ Dr. Rosini Binti Alias is Doctor of Veterinary Medicine, DVM, from Universiti Pertanian Malaysia. She was formerly
the Deputy Director-General of the Department of Veterinary Services (“DVS”), Malaysia and has vast experience in the
veterinary and agricultural sector with a career spanning over 30 years.
The Audit & Risk Committee (“Committee”) provides critical oversight of the
Company’s financial reporting process, monitoring the external and internal
auditing process, compliance with relevant legal and statutory matters and other
matters delegated by the Board.
The primary purpose of the Committee is to assist the Board of Directors to:
(i) discharge its statutory and fiduciary responsibilities of overseeing the financial risk processes and accounting and
financial reporting practices within the Company;
(ii) review the quality of the Company’s accounting function, financial reporting and internal controls;
(iii) enhance the independence of the External and Internal Audit functions by providing direction to and oversight of
these functions.
Chairperson
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman Independent Non-Executive Director
Members
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Mr. Jean Serge Krol Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
171
Corporate Governance
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
B TERMS OF REFERENCE
Mr. Jean Serge Krol has a Master’s of Economics as well as a Post-Master’s Degree for Certified Public Accountants
from the Rijksuniversiteit in Groningen. He also has as a Post-Master’s Degree for Certified Controllers from the Vrije
Universiteit in Amsterdam. He has held various senior finance managerial positions within Royal FrieslandCampina N.V.
from 2002 to 2019. In July 2019, he was appointed as the Director of Finance for the Specialized Nutrition Business
Group for Royal FrieslandCampina, Netherlands.
Structure of the Audit & Risk Committee
The Committee is appointed by the Board and shall
comprise of at least 3 directors. All members should be
Non-Executive Directors with Independent Non-Executive
Directors making up the majority. At least one (1) member
of the Committee must be a member of the Malaysian
Institute of Accountants or have at least 3 years’ working
experience and be a member of one of the Associations of
Accountants specified in Part II of the First Schedule of the
Accountants Act 1967. The Chairperson of the Committee
shall be an Independent Non-Executive Director and be
elected from amongst the members of the Committee. All
members of the Committee, including the Chairperson,
will hold office until otherwise determined by the Board.
Authority
The Committee has authority to carry out the following:
(i) investigate any matter within its terms of reference;
(ii) has full and unrestricted access to any information,
records and documents pertaining to the Company;
(iii) has the resources which are required to perform its
duties;
(iv) has direct communication channels with both the
External and Internal Auditors;
(v) be able to obtain independent professional or other
advice; and
(vi) be able to convene meetings with External Auditors,
the Internal Auditors or both, excluding the attendance
of other Directors and employees of the Company,
whenever deemed necessary.
Functions
1. The functions of the Committee are as follows:-
In relation to External Auditors
(i) To consider and recommend to the Board the
appointment or re-appointment of the External
Auditors and fix their audit fee, and to consider
any issues regarding their resignation or dismissal
and the reasons thereof; In considering the
appointment or re-appointment of the external
auditors, to consider among others:-
(a) the adequacy of the experience and resources
of the accounting firm;
(b) the persons assigned to the audit;
(c) the accounting firm’s audit engagements;
(d) the size and complexity of the Group being
audited;
(e) the number and experience of supervisory and
professional staff assigned to the particular
audit; and
(f) the performance of the external auditors and
its independence inter-alia:-
i. communication with the management;
ii. the external auditors’ ability to meet
deadlines in providing services and
responding to issues in a timely manner
as contemplated in the external audit
plan;
iii. the competence, audit quality and
resource capacity of the external auditors
in relation to the audit;
iv. the nature of the non-audit services
provided by the external auditors and
fees paid for such services relative to the
audit fee; and
v. whether there are safeguards in place
to ensure that there is no threat to the
objectivity and independence of the
audit arising from the provision of non-
audit services or tenure of the external
auditors.
172
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
In making the assessment on the External
Auditor’s performance and independence, the
Committee should consider the information
presented in the Annual Transparency Report
of the audit firm, to the extent that it is
applicable.
(ii) To take note and be informed of the audit tender
process that is run by FrieslandCampina globally
including ensuring that an objective criterion is
established when assessing the appointment of
External Auditors.
(iii) To review and discuss with the External Auditors
their audit plan, the nature and scope of audit,
evaluation of the Company’s systems of internal
controls and their audit report on the annual
financial statements, including Key Audit Matters,
and report the same to the Board;
(iv) Ensure External Auditors have sufficient
understanding of business, operations and risk
areas, that senior audit team members are
sufficiently involved throughout the audit process,
and that the team has the capacity and ability to
work in different geographical regions;
(v) To assess the External Audit firm’s measures to
uphold audit quality and manage risks including
adopting indicators of audit quality;
(vi) To discuss issues and reservations arising from
the interim and final audits with the External
Auditors, and any other matters the External
Auditors or other consultants may wish to
discuss, in the absence of Executive Directors and
Management, where necessary and in any case at
least twice a year;
(vii) To review the External Auditors’ Management
letter and Management’s response thereon and
ensure Management provides information and
records in a timely manner;
(viii) Obtain assurance from the External Auditors
that they are and have been independent
throughout the conduct of the audit engagement
in accordance with the terms of all relevant
professional and regulatory requirements, and
that following such annual assessment review and
the assurance obtained, the Committee to remain
confident of the External Auditor’s independence
and suitability.
(ix) Ensure that advance approval by the Board
of Directors is required for non-audit
services provided by the External Auditor, on
recommendation of the Committee;
(x) Review all non-audit services performed by the
External Auditors to reinforce the independence
and objectivity of the External Auditors. In the
event the non-audit fees paid to External Auditors
or a firm or corporation affiliated to the External
Auditors are significant i.e. constitutes 50% of
the total audit fees paid to the External Auditors,
the Committee is required to state the details on
the nature of the non-audit services rendered in
the Committee’s report.
In relation to the financial statements
(i) To review the quarterly and annual financial
statements of the Company before submission to
the Board of Directors, focusing particularly on:-
(a) Public announcement of the results and
dividend payment;
(b) Any changes in accounting policies and
practices;
(c) The going concern assumption;
(d) Compliance with approved accounting
standards;
(e) Compliance with Bursa Securities and legal
requirements;
(f) Significant adjustments arising from the
audit;
(g) Significant matters highlighted including
financial reporting issues; and
(h) Significant judgements made by management,
significant and unusual events or transactions
and how these matters are addressed.
(ii) Review the Company’s dividend proposals
includingconsideringthequantum,timingandcash
flow of dividend payments, and recommending the
same to the Board for approval;
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
173
Corporate Governance
(iii) To consider and review the appropriateness of any
related party transaction and conflict of interest
situations that may arise within the Company
including ensuring compliance with applicable
laws and regulations to ensure:
(a) internal control procedures with regards to
such transactions are sufficient and have
been complied with;
(b) transactions are fair, reasonable and
undertaken on the Company’s normal
commercial terms; and
(c) transactions are not detrimental to the
interest of minority shareholders;
(iv) Review the Company’s annual report prior to
submission to the Board for their perusal and
approval, to ensure compliance in accordance
with the provisions of the Companies Act
2016 and Bursa Securities Main Market Listing
Requirements,theapplicableapprovedaccounting
standards as per MASB Standards and any other
laws or regulations which might apply;
(v) Review major audit findings and Management’s
response during the year with Management,
External Auditors and Internal Auditors, including
the status of previous audit recommendations;
(vi) Review the assistance given by the Company’s
officers to the External Auditors and any issues
encountered in the course of the audit work,
including restrictions on the scope of activities or
access to required information.
In relation to Internal Audit
(i) To do the following, in relation to the Internal
Audit Department:
(a) Review the adequacy of the scope, functions,
competency and resources of the Internal
Audit Department, and that it has the
necessary authority and resources to carry
out its work, including training programs for
the staff;
(b) Consider whether internal audit personnel
are free from any relationships or conflicts of
interest, which could impair their objectivity
and independence;
(c) Review the internal audit plan for the year and
findings of the internal audit assessment and,
where necessary, ensure that appropriate
actions are taken on the recommendations
of the Internal Audit Department by
Management;
(d) Ensure the Head of Internal Audit reports
functionally to the Committee directly and
that the Committee reviews the performance
of the Internal Audit function annually.
The Head of Internal Audit should have the
relevant qualifications and be responsible for
providing assurance to the Committee that
the internal controls are operating effectively.
The Head of internal Audit will be responsible
for the regular review and/or appraisal of
the effectiveness of the risk management,
internal controls and governance processes
of the Company.
(ii) Ensure that the Company has an Internal
Control Framework, and periodically reviews the
controls, organises self-assessments and ensures
effectiveness of the system;
(iii) Ensure the Company adopts the Standards
and Principles outlined in the International
Professional Practices Framework (IPPF) of The
Institute of Internal Auditors;
(iv) Review and appraise the performance of the
Internal Audit Department on an annual basis;
(v) Approve any appointment and termination
of senior staff members of the Internal Audit
Department; and
(vi) Takes cognisance of resignations of internal audit
staff members.
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
174
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
In relation to Enterprise Risk Management
(i) To review and assess the adequacy of the
Enterprise Risk Management framework and
controls on a quarterly basis to mitigate identified
business risks which enables the Company to
update key risks direction, identify material
economic, environmental, social or governance
(EES&G) risks and other emerging risks and to
define an adequate and practical mitigation action
plan where necessary;
(ii) To review and assess the effectiveness and
adequacy of the business continuity plan and
monitoring its implementation;
(iii) To ensure that the Enterprise Risk Management
Framework focuses on the Company’s core
business operations and it allows the Company to:
• Establish clear functional responsibilities
and accountabilities within the Company’s
structures for management of risks;
• Enhance and improve corporate governance
with a clear, concise and comprehensive
structure for the Company;
• Put in place policies and procedures on
business ethics and good business conduct
which includes focus on anti-bribery and
corruption;
• Promote an effective risk awareness where
risk management is an integral aspect of
the Company’s business plan and project
portfolio;
• Ensure appropriate skills and resources are
applied to risk management;
• Review periodic reports from the management
on risk exposure, risk portfolio composition
and risk management activities;
• Review and recommend new policies or
changes to policies and to consider risk
implications including the procedures put in
place by management to prevent and detect
fraud including cyber fraud.
Other Scope of Work
(i) To consider major findings of any internal
investigations and Management’s response
thereon;
(ii) To review the draft circulars with respect to
obtaining shareholders’ mandate on any Recurrent
Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or
Trading Nature, before submission to the Board
of Directors; and
(iii) To consider any other topics, as defined by the
Board.
The Committee’s Terms of Reference can be found on the
Company’s website www.dutchlady.com.my.
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
175
Corporate Governance
The Committee shall meet at least 4 times a year and the quorum for any meeting shall be 2 members, consisting of
Independent Directors. The Managing Director, Finance Director and the Internal Auditor will be invited to attend all
meetings of the Committee. There shall be at least 2 meetings a year with External Auditors including 2 meetings
without the members of Management. External Auditors will be invited to attend additional meetings when appropriate
and they may request a meeting with the Committee if they consider it necessary. Other Board members may attend
meetings upon the invitation of the Committee.
The Company Secretary shall be the Secretary of the Committee and as a reporting procedure, the minutes of each
Committee meeting shall be circulated to all members of the Board.
A total of 4 meetings were held during the financial year 2022. The membership status and attendance record of each
of the members are as follows:-
C MEETINGS AND MINUTES
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
Members
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman
(Chairperson, Independent Non-Executive Director)
Mr. Darren Kong Kam Seong
(Member, Independent Non-Executive Director)
Attendance
Attendance
4/4
4/4
100%
100%
Ms. Saw Chooi Lee
(Member, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)
Attendance
4/4 100%
Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias
(Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
Attendance
4/4 100%
Mr. Jean Serge Krol
(Member, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
Attendance
4/4 100%
176
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
A summary of the key activities carried out by the
Committee during the financial year is listed below:-
(a) Financial Reporting and compliance
The Company’s quarterly and annual financial
statements as well as announcements made to Bursa
Securities were reviewed by the Committee before
submission to the Board for its subsequent approval.
In doing so, the Committee deliberated and focused
on changes in major accounting policies and practices
as well as any adjustments and/or issues affecting
audit related matters to ensure compliance with Main
Market Listing Requirements, the approved Malaysian
Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards, the requirements of the
Companies Act and other relevant legal and regulatory
requirements with regards to the quarterly and year-
end financial statements.
As part of their accounting oversight duties, the
Committee also reviewed the External Auditors’
(“PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT”, or “PwC”) annual
and interim audit reports, together with accompanying
Management responses.
(b) Assessing Independence, Suitability, Objectivity
and Cost Effectiveness of the External Auditors
The Committee carried out an annual review of
the independence, suitability, objectivity and
cost effectiveness of PwC before approving their
remunerationandrecommendingtheirre-appointment
to the shareholders. The factors considered include
the competency, and the adequacy of experience and
resources of the firm and professional staff assigned
to perform the audit.
InFebruary2022,PwCshareditsTransparencyReport
for2021withtheCommittee.TheTransparencyReport
is provided as part of an initiative by the Securities
Commission’s Audit Oversight Board to enhance
transparency and audit quality. The Transparency
Report spells out PwC’s audit methodology, describes
what they do to maintain the right culture, equip
their employees with the right training and invest in
cutting edge audit tools. There is also focus on how
they redefined their strategy given the pressures
and challenges clients are facing due to the COVID-19
pandemic.
D SUMMARY OF ACTIVITIES DURING THE FINANCIAL YEAR
As part of the annual audit exercise, the Committee
obtained assurance from PwC confirming that they are
and have been independent throughout the conduct of
the audit engagement in accordance with the terms of
all relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
Following the annual assessment review and the
assurance obtained, the Committee remains confident
of PwC’s independence and suitability.
(c) Risk management and internal controls
The Committee took note of the Company’s risk
management and the control environment guidelines
as implemented using the RFC Internal Control
Framework and the Enterprise Risk Management
programme.
The Committee also received Risk Management
progress reports from Management quarterly whereby
the Committee took note of the mitigating controls
and action plans taken to mitigate the identified
business risks.
(d) Going Concern assessment
The Committee reviewed the going concern basis
for preparing the Company’s financial statements,
including the assumptions underlying the going
concern statement and the period of assessment.
(e) External audit
Throughout the financial year, the Committee
had three meetings with External Auditors and
two meetings with them without the presence of
Management. The Committee is pleased to report that
there was no significant matter of disagreement that
arose between the External Auditors and Management.
To reinforce the independence and objectivity of the
External Auditors, the Committee reviewed all non-
audit services performed by the External Auditors.
During the financial year, the fees incurred in respect
of non-audit related matters amounted to RM22,000
is in respect of the review of Statement of Risk
Management & Internal Control.
177
Corporate Governance
(f) Internal Audit
During FY2022, the Committee had four meetings
with the Internal Auditor. During the engagements,
the Committee discussed the results arising from
the Internal Audit findings and recommendations
by the Internal Auditor on the controls environment
and operational weaknesses and verified that timely
corrective actions were taken by Management.
(g) Governance
The Committee reviewed the Audit & Committee
Report and the Statement of Internal Control and
Risk Management and recommended to the Board for
inclusion in the 2021 Annual Report.
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
The Committee is supported by the Internal Audit
function in discharging its duties and responsibilities.
The Internal Audit function is an integral part of the
assurance framework, and its principal role is to undertake
independent and systematic reviews of the Company’s
internal control system so as to provide objective
assurance on the adequacy, integrity and effectiveness of
the Company’s overall governance, risk management and
internal control processes.
The Internal Audit function is performed in-house and is
led by the Head of Internal Audit who reports functionally
to the Committee and administratively to the Finance
Director. It assists the Committee and Management in
the effective discharge of their responsibilities and its
principal role is to undertake independent and systematic
reviews of the Company’s internal control system so as
to provide objective assurance on the adequacy, integrity
and effectiveness of the Company’s risk management,
internal controls and the overall governance processes.
The Internal Auditors are empowered with strict
accountability for confidentiality and safeguarding
E INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
(h) Other Matters
During the financial year, the Committee also carried
out the following activities:-
• reviewed the Company’s dividend proposals
• considered the quantum, timing and cash flow of
dividend payments, and recommended the same
to the Board for approval
• reviewed the recurrent related party transactions,
and any conflict-of-interest situations during the
year
• reviewed the Circular on the Renewal of
Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related
Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading
Nature and recommended the same to the Board
for shareholders’ approval
• discussed with the External Auditors on Key Audit
Matters and any issues arising from the audit (in
the absence of the Management)
records and information, is authorised full, free, and
unrestricted access to any and all of the Company’s
records, physical properties, to carrying out any internal
audit or investigation engagement.
The Internal Audit function is independent from
the activities of other operating departments and
undertakes to review key processes of the Company and
its relationships with third parties. It also carries out
risk management activities under the Enterprise Risk
Management programme developed by the RFC Group.
The programme incorporates a process to facilitate risk
identification, assessment, reporting as well as review
and mitigation risks that affect the achievement of the
Company’s objectives and policies.
The Head of Internal Audit, Mr Inderjit Singh, is a holder
of a Bachelor’s Degree of Accounting (Honours) from
Multimedia University (MMU). He is a member of the
Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia (IIA). The Head of
Internal Audit has over 10 years of experience in various
finance functions including internal audit. The Head
of Internal Audit is currently supported by an Internal
Control Specialist.
178
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
The activities of the Internal Audit function are carried
out based on the Internal Audit Plan approved by the
Committee. The Committee reviews the extent of the audit
scope and coverage of the IA activities; and the adequacy
and competency and the internal audit resources to
support the completion of the plan. At the quarterly
Committee meetings, the Head of Internal Audit reports to
the Committee on the progress of Internal Audit activities
and the resource requirements, including interim changes
and the impact of resource limitations. The report to the
Committee also covers significant risk and control issues,
including fraud risks, governance issues and other matters
that require the Committee’s attention.
During the financial year, the Internal Auditors undertook
the following activities:
(a) Prepared the internal audit plan for the year, which
is reviewed and approved annually by the Committee,
and updated where necessary by the Committee;
(b) Carried out all internal audit activities in accordance
with the audit plan and adopts the Standards and
Principles outlined in the International Professional
Practices Framework (IPPF) of The Institute of Internal
Auditors and best practices in COSO Framework;
(c) Prepared the internal audit programme based on the
internal audit plan, for each activity or process to be
audited;
(d) Maintained the Company’s Internal Control Framework,
including periodically reviewing controls, organising
self-assessments and ensured effectiveness of the
system;
(e) Discussed with auditees, process owners and
Management on the results of the audit for each
activity or process, root cause analysis will be assessed
prior any recommendations in order to mitigate the
identified risk or control work flow improvements;
(f) On a quarterly basis, reviewed the Enterprise Risk
Assessment updates, which enables the Company to
update key risks direction, identify emerging risks and
to define an adequate and practical mitigation action
plan where necessary;
(g) Reported to the Committee on a quarterly basis,
the results from the internal audit and governance
issues identified together with Management Team’s
response and action plans; and
(h) Followed up on all the action plans agreed from
the previous internal audit reports to ensure that
all matters arising are adequate addressed by the
Management.
Costs amounting to RM544,776 were incurred in relation
to the internal audit function for the financial year ended
31 December 2022.
Further details of the activities of the Internal Audit and
Internal Control Department are set out in the Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control of this Integrated
Annual Report.
An annual performance evaluation was carried out on
the Committee in an effort to enhance and improve its
processes of the control environment.
The Committee’s responsibility is to monitor and review
the practices and processes performed by Management
and the External Auditors. It is not the Committee’s
duty or responsibility to conduct auditing or accounting
reviews. The Committee members are not employees
of the Company. Therefore, the Committee has relied,
F ANNUAL REVIEW AND PERFORMANCE EVALUATION
without independent verification, on Management’s
representation that the financial statements have been
prepared with integrity and objectivity, in conformity with
approved accounting principles and standards generally
accepted in Malaysia and on the representations of the
External Auditors included in its reports on the Company’s
financial statements and internal control over financial
reporting.
AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
179
Corporate Governance
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT
AND INTERNAL CONTROL
The Board of Directors affirms its responsibility for maintaining a sound and
effective system of risk management and internal control and outlines the nature
of risk management procedures and internal control system within Dutch Lady
Milk Industries Berhad for the year under review.
RESPONSIBILITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY
The Board is responsible and accountable for the Company’s systems of risk management and internal control and for
reviewing the effectiveness, adequacy and integrity of the system. In this regard, the Board is assisted by the Audit &
Risk Committee (ARC) who is responsible to ensure that appropriate methods and procedures are adopted in the risk
management and internal control activities and to obtain the level of assurance required by the Board.
The Board maintains full control over strategic, financial, organisational and compliance matters and has put in place an
organisational structure with formal lines of responsibility and delegation of authority. The board has received assurance
from the Managing Director and the Finance Director that the Company’s risk management and internal control system is
adequate and operating effectively, in all material respect. The Board and the Audit & Risk Committee have delegated to
Management the implementation of system of risk management and internal controls within an established governance
framework throughout the Company.
RISK MANAGEMENT FRAMEWORK
The Company aims for transparency in identifying, evaluating and mitigating risks by adopting the Enterprise Risk
Management (“ERM”) programme that was developed and issued by RFC based on internationally recognised COSO
framework. This framework describes the management’s risk appetite, structure, responsibilities, processes and
governance reporting procedures. It has been developed to provide a reasonable degree of certainty that strategic
objectives are achieved by creating focus, integrating control measures into the Company’s activities, ensuring
compliance with applicable laws and regulations, and by safeguarding the reliability of financial and non-financial
reporting.
Integration of the Enterprise Risk Management (“ERA”) practices throughout the organisation enables the Company
to accelerate its growth and enhance its performance. This success is built upon by timely identifying, evaluating and
effectively mitigating risks that could prevent the organisation from realising its strategic objectives.
180
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
In order to facilitate an effective risk management process, a governance process has also been established. The Three
Lines Models is developed to ensure a structured approach is used and clear roles and responsibility is defined between
the different roles.
The above is supported by assurance activities carried out by the external auditors whose responsible to evaluate and
provide independent and reasonable assurance on the organisations financial reports.
The Company’s risk management programme is led by the Managing Director and supported by the Management Team
and Business Leaders from all functional units of the Company.
The ERM framework focuses on the Company’s core business operations and it allows the Company to:
Internal Audit
Corporate Department,
including Legal Affairs
Individual Managers and
Management Team
Management carries primary
responsibility for establishing
and managing risks on a daily
basis. In addition, management
maintains a system of
effective internal management
measures designed to limit
these risks.
Supports management in
developing, maintaining and
monitoring the effectiveness
of risk management processes
and systems. Furthermore,
the second line defines the
risk management framework,
policies and procedures.
Ensures that the structure
and the operational
effectiveness of the internal
management measures,
including risk management
activities carried out by first
and second line functions, are
objectively evaluated.
THIRD LINE
SECOND LINE
FIRST LINE
01
02
03
Establish clear functional
responsibilities and accountabilities
within the Company’s structures for
management of risks;
Promote an effective risk awareness
where risk management is an integral
aspect of the Company’s business
plan and project portfolio; and
Enhance and improve corporate
governance with a clear, concise
and comprehensive structure for
the Company;
Ensure appropriate skills and
resources are applied to risk
management.
01
03
02
04
Board and ARC
181
Corporate Governance
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
In providing assurance to the Board of Directors on the Company’s adequacy and effectiveness of risk management, the
Internal Audit team coordinates a continuous risk dialogue session with all the risk owners and functional heads, these
helps the Company in:-
THE ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT “ERM”) PROCESS
The ERM process involves a systematic application of the risk management methodology to facilitate risk identification,
assessment, reporting as well as monitoring and review as described below:
Risk Identification & Assessment
The ERM process begins with the business strategies and objectives setting which is aligned to the Company’s vision and
mission. Subsequently, risks arising from the business strategies and objectives to be pursued are identified.
The risks identified are assessed as part of the Risk Assessment Criteria and categorised based on the level of probability
and likelihood to reflect the risk appetite approved by the Board.
The outcome of the risk assessment process at respective functional levels will then be consolidated at the Company
level. Deliberations and discussions are held with the Management Team and Business Leaders. This exercise is
facilitated by Internal Audit (IA) and is part of the continuous risk dialogue session.
Embedding risk
management in
the mindset and
behaviour of
employees
Strengthen risk
management
capabilities and
methods
Continuously
improve risk
mitigation
Unlock expertise/
synergies to
support business
Keep things
simple
(speed, focus,
pragmatism)
01 02 03 04 05
Strategy
Development
Mission,
Vision &
Core Values
Business
Objective
Formulation
Implementation &
Performance
Enhanced
Value
Governance &
Culture
Strategy &
Objective-Setting
Performance Review & Revision
Information,
Communication &
Reporting
ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT
182
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Risk Reporting & Review
Risk appetite sets out the nature and extent of risks that the Company is willing to accept or retain in pursuit of its goals
and objectives.
The Company’s general risk appetite depends on the risk categories, is set out in the table below.
Risk Category General Risk Appetite
Strategic The Company is prepared to take a certain degree of calculated risks relating to the
realisation of its performance objectives and long-term goals.
Operational The Company attempts to minimise the impact of unforeseen disruption on its operating
activities.
Financial The Company has a conservative and sound framework of financial policies and procedures
to prevent risks that could have a significant impact on the financial results and material
misstatements in its financial statements reporting.
Compliance The Company applies a zero tolerance policy.
Balanced Low to none None
The Company is prepared to
accept a moderate risk level,
as long as the strategic long-
term goals are not jeopardised
as a result.		
The Company accepts minor
risks of reputation provided
this does not adversely affect
consumers, customers and
member farmers.
The Company maintains the
highest food quality and
food safety standards with
zero tolerance to the risk.
Consumers’ health must not
be endangered under any
circumstances.
On a quarterly basis, the risk profiles are updated by the Management Team and Business Leaders. The updated risk
profiles are then tabulated into a heat map, which set out the priority and focus for risk mitigation strategies based on
risk ratings at net levels. The net risk level is determined after taken into consideration the effectiveness of existing
controls and risk mitigation plans.
The finalised risk profiles and heat maps are identified and promptly brought to the attention of the ARC.
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
183
Corporate Governance
INTERNAL CONTROL STRUCTURE AND PROCESSES
The system of internal controls is designed to safeguard
the assets of the Company, to ensure the maintenance of
proper accounting records and to provide reliable financial
and non-financial information for use within the business
and for publication. However, these controls provide only
reasonable and not absolute assurance against material
error, misstatement, loss or breach of set regulations.
The principal features of the Company’s internal control
structure are summarised as follows:
• Board Committees
The functions and responsibilities of the various
committees of the Board of Directors are defined in
the terms of reference. These include the Audit &
Risk Committee, the Nomination Committee and the
Remuneration Committee.
As part of the Risk Management Framework, and in
line with the MCCG, the Board has an organisational
structure with clearly defined lines of accountability
and responsibilities and delegated authority to the
Board Committees and the Management to ensure
they discharge their duties. Matters concerning risk
management and internal controls are under the
purview of the ARC that is chaired by the Senior
Independent Director.
• Organisational Structure and Responsibility Levels
The Company has an organisational structure with
formal lines of responsibility and authorisation
procedures within which senior management operates
with clear defined accountability.
• Authority Levels, Acquisitions and Disposals
There are authorisation procedures and delegated
authority levels for major tenders, major capital
expenditure projects, acquisitions and disposal of
businesses and other significant transactions.
Investment decisions are delegated to Management
in accordance with authority limits. Appraisal and
monitoring procedures are applied to all major
investment decisions, and at times using external
consultants for advisory services.
Board of Directors’ approval is required for key
treasury matters including equity and loan financing,
material acquisitions and disposals of assets not in
the ordinary course of business, investment in capital
projects, cheque signatories and the opening of bank
accounts.
On top of this, the FrieslandCampina Corporate Manual
includes the procedures and guidelines in which
responsibilities and authorisations are stipulated and
are applicable for the day to day management of the
Company.
• Procedure and Control Environment
In addition to internal controls, the Directors
have ensured that health and safety regulations,
environmental controls and economic risks have
been considered, and relevant laws and regulations
complied with. The quality of the Company’s products
is of paramount. Quality Assurance, Quality Control
and meeting customers’ requirements are prime
considerations, and these are achieved by the
Company being FSSC 22000 certified. Ultimately,
the aim of the Company is to deliver safe food to
consumers, whilst demonstrating compliance with the
prevailing laws and regulations.
In addition, strong emphasis is also given to food
safety with Good Manufacturing Practices and Hazard
Analysis and Critical Control Point (“HACCP”) System
that cover all plants.
The Company has in place the ISO 14001 Environment
Management System (EMS), a systematic
management approach to the environmental concerns
of the Company, and ISO 45001, the Occupational
Health and Safety Management System (OSHMS) for
the protection of employees from hazards and the
mitigation of work-related injuries and health-related
issues.
In 2022, an internal maturity assessment (One Audit)
was conducted on the quality system for Food Safety
and Quality Management System and Safety Health
and Environment Management System. In addition,
a review is also conducted to ensure a proper
maintenance system and organisational structure is in
place. ONE audit is carried out by the global team every
two years once to ensure that products produced by
the Company and the way in which they are being
produced meet the necessary high standards on food
safety, quality, labour safety and environment.
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
184
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
The Company has formal guidelines on safety, health
and environment which apply to all employees and
third-party contractors.
The integrity and competence of personnel are
continuously assessed through the Performance
Management System, talent assessment programme,
management organisation development and Hay
Reward Management System.
• Standards of Business Ethics
Employees are contractually bound to observe
prescribed standards of business ethics when
conducting themselves at work and in their
relationship with external parties, such as customers
and suppliers.
In this regard, the RFC Company’s code for good
business conduct, Compass, plays an important
role in the management of compliance risk. This
code of conduct and its underlying guidelines which
include the Speak Up Procedure, Fair Competition
guidelines and Doing Honest Business, amongst
others forms the basis of the honest, respectful and
transparent business conduct of the Company’s
employees and third parties with whom the Company
transacts with. Compliance with this code of conduct
and the guidelines is cascaded to all employees
by means of a comprehensive communication and
training programmes, with designated local trusted
representatives, set in place.
The Compass is supported globally by RFC Corporate
Headquarters with an established Integrity Committee
and a reporting platform (SpeakUp) that is available to
employees 24 hours a day, seven days a week so they
can, in confidence, express their concerns regarding a
suspected infringement of the code or a guideline.
In line with this, the Company has an Employee
Handbook that guides the Company’s employees in
their day-to-day conduct. Employees are expected to
conduct themselves with integrity and objectivity and
not be placed in a position of conflict of interest.
Suppliers are also bound by the “RFC Business
Practices for Suppliers” to ensure honest conduct
of business is being practiced within the Company’s
business operations. In line with that, the Legal
team of DLMI has conducted briefings with selected
CAPEX suppliers on Compass Guidelines including the
principal do’s and don’t and key emphasis placed on
anti-bribery and corruption, safety and human rights.
• Formalised Strategic Planning and Operating Plan
Processes
The Strategic Planning process is led by RFC Company
and is focusing on long term strategic direction of
the Company, prioritising future investments and
resources.
The Company performs business planning and
budgeting process each year, to establish plans and
targets against which performance is monitored on a
monthly basis by Management.
The annual planning process involves respective
functions preparing and reviewing their strategies and
activity plans including budgets before a new financial
year commences. The annual plan which embeds
the budget is reviewed by the Management Team
and approved by the Board and the Business Group.
Monthly review of performance and expenditure
versus the plan is carried out by the Management
Team to ensure effectiveness of execution and spends
are managed in line with the strategic and financial
objectives of the organisation. Performance gaps or
key variances, if any, are followed up and addressed
by respective functions.
The Company formulated a Sales & Operations
Planning process to align product demand and
supply together with financial resources in order to
provide the Company with defined business strategies
and priorities. In addition, the process also aims
to continuously improve business performance,
especially on the improvement in customer service
levels, forecasting accuracy and inventory turnover
management.
• Reporting and Review
The Company’s Management Team meets on a monthly
basis to review business performance, identify,
discuss and resolve operational, financial and key
management issues. This is then followed by monthly
Business Leadership Team (BPT) process where key
KPI’s of the organisation is tracked and reviewed with
the Leadership Team of the Company. Last but not
least on a quarterly basis results are communicated
to employees at the Company’s town hall sessions.
The Managing Director reports on a quarterly basis
to the Audit & Risk Committee and the Board of
Directors on significant changes in the business and
external environment in which the Company operates
including its key business performance.
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
185
Corporate Governance
On behalf of the Management Team, the Managing
Director and the Finance Director sign’s-off on a
bi-annual Management Statement to the Business
Group. By signing off on the Management Statement,
it demonstrates the management’s accountability
over financial and non-financial reporting disclosures,
adequacy of the Internal Control Framework (ICF),
responsibility for proper Segregation of Duty (“SOD”)
and ensuring full and transparent disclosure is made
on any fraud and non-compliance with laws and
regulations.
• Financial Performance
The preparation of quarterly and full-year financial
results and the state of affairs, as published to
shareholders, are reviewed by the Audit & Risk
Committee and later approved by the Board.
• Assurance Compliance
The Board, Audit & Risk Committee and Management
review the Internal Audit reports on a quarterly
basis and monitor the status of implementation of
corrective actions that are prepared by the Internal
Audit team to address internal control weaknesses
noted.
• Employee Competency and Awareness
On an annual basis, all employees are required to
complete the following online courses as part of the
Company’s efforts to drive awareness and assess
their understanding of the respective codes and the
underlying principles, the results from the online
courses assessment are closely monitored by the HR
team.
Training and development programmes such as health
and safety, psychological safety at work, technical
knowledge training, coaching and leadership capability
building are organised for employees to ensure that
they are equipped with necessary knowledge/skills
and kept up to date with the necessary competencies
to carry out their responsibilities towards achieving
the Company’s objectives. The Company leverages on
RFC’s integrated learning platform for employees to
access a vast selection of courses ranging from cross
functional business skills and digital trends to self-
development.
The Company relies on the IT systems to support its
operations via data, analysis and reports essential for
business decision making. As part of the measures
to raise awareness on cyber security, mandatory
trainings were conducted for all employees through
an online learning platform. A simulated phishing
email exercise was also carried out during the year
to enhance awareness on phishing and its methods of
attack.
• Internal Control Framework (ICF)
The Company has adopted RFC’s Internal Control
Framework (ICF) compliance programme that
emphasises on key controls surrounding the financial
reporting process, the Company’s compliance
with applicable laws and internal policies, and the
effectiveness of the internal processes.
In an effort to drive the importance and awareness of
internal controls, the IA team also conducted trainings
on the principals of Internal Control Framework
(ICF) with the relevant control owners and control
performers.
Compass
Human Rights
Anti-Bribery
Responsible Marketing Code
(selected employees)
Cyber-Security Awareness
Fraud Awareness
Data Privacy
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
186
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
On an annual basis, a Control Design Assessment
(CDA) exercise is performed to evaluate and review
the control design of key internal controls within
the Company. This is the followed by a Control Self
Assessment (CSA) exercise as well as Independent
Testing (IT) mechanism to evaluate the effectiveness
of the control execution activity. The IA team
coordinates both the CDA & the CSA exercise which
is performed at different frequencies throughout the
year.
The IA Team discusses non-compliance areas, if any,
and control deficiencies with relevant process owners
and reports it in a monitoring tool whilst ensuring
the necessary remediation action plan is in place.
Completed action plans are then retested to ensure
adequate remediation is in place. Assessment results,
deficiencies and controls requiring improvement are
regularly reported and updated to the Audit & Risk
Committee during their quarterly meetings.
• Update on Developments
Quarterly reporting is made to the Board on legal,
accounting, and sustainability developments where
applicable. Briefings are also conducted to keep
employees informed of changes to legislation or local
by-laws that are expected to affect the Company’s
operations or the way the Company conducts its
business, where relevant.
In 2022, the Company has also taken the opportunity
to update key policies and procedures relating to
functions of the business: HR, Finance, Sales &
Legal. The policies and procedures are reviewed and
updated by the business owners in consultation with
the IA team to gather inputs in areas concerning
internal controls and risk. The relevant policy would
then be approved by the respective management
team members. Furthermore, the Company has also
developed a SharePoint site where all approved
policies and procedures would be published, and
all employees have been given access to the site.
Data privacy trainings are also conducted for all
employees, the trainings conducted are supplemented
by communication and appointment of Local Privacy
Officers (LPO’s). These communication is done on a
yearly basis via the Townhall process.
The Global Business Conduct team assisted the local
IA team in conducting an assessment on business
conduct risk with emphasis placed on Fraud, Bribery
and Compliance to relevant laws & regulation. The
outcome of the assessment is then reviewed and
action plans are developed to mitigate any potential
risks.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The Internal Audit function is performed in-house with
its primary function to provide an independent and
objective assessment on the adequacy and effectiveness
of the governance, risk management and internal control
processes established by the Management and the Board.
The Internal Audit function has an independent reporting
line to the ARC and its performance is reviewed by the
ARC annually. It focuses on key areas of the business and
operations risk based on the audit plan approved annually
by the Audit & Risk Committee. The audit plan is developed
based on the risk profiles identified in accordance with
the Company’s Risk Management Framework and in
consultation with the Management Team. Internal audit
reports are presented on a quarterly basis to the Audit &
Risk Committee.
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
187
Corporate Governance
• Summary of Work Performed by Internal Audit
During FY2022, the Internal Audit function completed
the audit assignments as approved by the Audit & Risk
Committee. The audit assignments were inclusive of
special reviews and investigative audits as requested
by the Management.
The Internal Audit team highlights, to the Audit & Risk
Committee and Management, areas for improvement
and follows-up on the progress of implementation
of the agreed actions arising from the internal audit
report. The Management is responsible in ensuring all
agreed action plans are address within the required
timeframe.
The Audit & Risk Committee in turn reviews the
effectiveness of the system of internal controls in
operation and reports the results thereon to the
Board.
ADEQUACY AND EFFECTIVENESS OF RISK
MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEM
The Directors have reviewed the effectiveness, adequacy
and integrity of the system of risk management and
internal controls in operation during the financial year
through the monitoring process set out above.
There were no material losses incurred during the current
financial year as a result of weaknesses in internal control.
Management continues to take measures to strengthen
the control environment.
Taking into account the limitations that are inevitably
inherent in any risk management and internal control
system, and the possibilities for improving the system, the
Company’s risk management and internal control systems
provide a reasonable degree of assurance that:
• The Board will be informed quarterly of the degree to
which the Company’s strategic, operational, financial
and compliance objectives are being achieved;
• The internal and external financial reporting do not
contain any material misstatement and that the risk
management and internal control systems functioned
effectively during 2022; and
• The Company has complied with the relevant
legislation and regulations.
This Statement is prepared in accordance with the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control –
Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers (Guidelines)
with an effective date of 31 December 2012, in line with
the Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Bursa Malaysia Listing
Requirements and Principle B of the Malaysian Code of
Corporate Governance 2017 as issued by the Securities
Commission Malaysia.
THE REVIEW OF THE STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL
AUDITORS
As required by Paragraph 15.23 of the Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements,
the external auditors have reviewed this Statement on
Risk Management and Internal Control. Their limited
assurance review was performed in accordance with Audit
and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3, issued by the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”).
AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to form
an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the risk
management and internal control systems of the Company.
The statement was approved by the Board on the 24th of
February 2023.
STATEMENT OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
188
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
AGENDA
AS ORDINARY BUSINESS
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2022,
together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon (Please refer to Explanatory
Note to the Agenda (i)).
2. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of up to RM500,000 for the financial year ending
31 December 2023, to be made payable quarterly (Please refer to Explanatory Note to the
Agenda (ii)).
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits of up to RM100,000 to Non-Executive Directors
for the financial year ending 31 December 2023 (Please refer to Explanatory Note to the
Agenda (ii)).
4. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation pursuant to Rule 105 of the
Constitution of the Company:
(a) Mr. Jean Serge Krol; and
(b) Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias
5. To re-appoint Ms. Corine Danielle Tap who was appointed during the year and retires pursuant
to Rule 86.3 of the Constitution of the Company.
6. To re-appoint PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT (LLP0014401-LCA & AF: 1146) as the Company’s
auditors and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
AS SPECIAL BUSINESS
To consider and if thought fit, pass the following resolutions:
7. PROPOSED RENEWAL OF SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE FOR RECURRENT RELATED
PARTY TRANSACTIONS OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE (“PROPOSED
SHAREHOLDERS’ MANDATE”)
“THAT approval be and is hereby given to the Company to enter into and to give effect to
the Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature with the specified
classes of Related Parties as stated in Sections 2.4 and 2.3 of the Circular to Shareholders
dated 25 April 2023 which are necessary for the Company’s day-to-day operations subject to
the following:-
(i) the transactions are in the ordinary course of business and are on terms not more
favourable to the Related Parties than those generally available to the public and are not
to the detriment of the minority shareholders; and
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Sixtieth Annual General Meeting (“60th AGM”) of the Company will be
carried out fully virtual through live streaming and online remote voting from the Broadcast Venue at 12th
Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor,
Malaysia on Friday, 26 May 2023 at 10.00 a.m. for the purpose of transacting the following purposes:
Resolution 1
Resolution 2
Resolutions 3 and 4
Resolution 5
Resolution 6
Resolution 7
NOTICE OF
ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
189
Additional Information
(ii) the aggregate value of such transactions conducted pursuant to the Shareholders’ Mandate
during the financial year will be disclosed in the Integrated Annual Report for the said
financial year;
AND THAT such approval shall continue to be in force until:
(a) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company at which time
it will lapse, unless by a resolution passed at the Meeting the authority is renewed; or
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company subsequent to
the date it is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Companies Act, 2016
(“the Act”) (but shall not extend to such extension as may be allowed pursuant to Section
340(4) of the Act); or
(c) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders in a general meeting;
whichever is the earlier.
AND THAT the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to complete and do all
such acts and things as they may consider expedient or necessary in the best interest of the
Company (including executing all such documents as may be required) to give effect to the
transactions contemplated and/or authorised by the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate.”
8. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given in accordance with
the Constitution of the Company and the Companies Act, 2016.
By Order of the Board
KATINA NURANI BINTI ABD RAHIM
(L.S. No. 9652)
SSM Practising Certificate No. 201908001190
Company Secretary
Petaling Jaya
25 April 2023
NOTES
1. The Sixtieth Annual General Meeting (“60th AGM”) will be conducted fully virtual through live streaming and online remote
voting via Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities which are available on the meeting platform at
https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my. With RPEV facilities, members may exercise their rights to participate and vote at
the 60th AGM through the following modes of communication: i) Typed text in the Meeting Platform ii) E-mail questions to
bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com prior to the Virtual Meeting iii) You may submit questions in advance on the AGM resolutions
and Integrated Annual Report 2022 not later than 10.00 a.m. on Thursday, 25 May 2023 via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com, and select “SUBMIT QUESTION” to pose questions (“Pre-AGM Meeting Questions”). The
Company has appointed Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) as the Poll Administrator for the 60th AGM to
facilitate the Virtual Meeting. Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Guide for the 60th AGM below to register,
participate and vote remotely via RPEV facilities.
2. The Broadcast Venue of the 60th AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016
which stipulates that the Chairman shall be at the main venue of the 60th AGM. Members will not be allowed to attend the 60th AGM
in person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the 60th AGM.
3. A Member entitled to attend and vote at the 60th AGM of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy/proxies to attend and vote
instead of him/her. A proxy need not be a member of the Company. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting shall have
the same rights as a Member to speak at the Meeting.
4. Save for an Exempt Authorised Nominee as defined under the Central Depositories Act which may appoint multiple proxies in
respect of each Omnibus Account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities
account, a Member (including an authorised nominee) shall be entitled to appoint not more than two (2) proxies to attend and
vote at the same meeting. In any case, where more than one (1) proxy is appointed, such appointment shall not be valid unless the
proportion of the holdings represented by each proxy is specified.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
190
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
5. The instrument appointing the proxy must be signed by the Member or his attorney duly authorised in writing, or if the appointer is
a corporation, the instrument must be executed under its common seal or under the hand of its officer or attorney duly authorised.
6. For the purpose of determining members who shall be entitled to attend the 60th AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa
Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to issue a Record of Depositors as at 19 May 2023 (“General Meeting Record of Depositors”). Only
depositors whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 19 May 2023 shall be entitled to attend the said meeting or
appoint proxies to attend and vote on their behalf.
7. To be valid, the original instrument appointing a proxy, duly completed (and if applicable, the power of attorney or other authority
under which it is originally signed or notarially certified copy of that power of authority) must be deposited at the office of
Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling
Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia, not less than 48 hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment
thereof (or in the case of poll, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll); or by electronic means
using the Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not later than 48 hours before the time set
for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. Please refer to Administrative Guide below.
8. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set
out in the Notice of the 60th AGM will be put to vote by way of poll.
Explanatory Notes to the Agenda
(i) First item of the Agenda
This item of the Agenda is meant for discussion only in accordance with the provision of Section 340(1)(a) of the Companies Act,
2016. As such this item on the Agenda is not put forward for voting.
(ii) Resolutions 1 and 2:
The Company is seeking for shareholders’ approval for the proposed payment of the Directors’ fees and the payment of benefits
for the financial year ending 31 December 2023, as follows:
DIRECTORS’ FEES AND BENEFITS 2022 (per annum) 2023 (per annum)
Chairperson’s Fees RM126,083 RM129,865
Non-Executive Directors’ fees (other than FC DLMI’s Nominee Directors) RM71,870 RM74,026
Chairperson of Audit & Risk Committee fees RM8,851 RM9,117
Member of Audit & Risk Committee fees (other than FC DLMI’s Nominee
Directors)
RM5,901 RM6,078
Chairperson of Nominating & Remuneration Committee fees RM1,771 RM1,824
Meeting Attendance allowance RM1,300 per meeting RM1,300 per meeting
The calculation is based on the estimated number of scheduled and/or special Board and Board Committees’ Meetings and on the
assumption that all the Directors will remain in office until the financial year ending 31 December 2023.
(iii) Resolutions 3, 4 and 5
The Board through its Nominating & Remuneration Committee (“NRC”) had assessed each of the retiring Directors and considered
the following: (i) If the retiring Directors meets the criteria for appointment and re-appointment of directors as set out in the
Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy; and (ii) The retiring Director’s performance and contribution based on the Directors’ Peer
Assessment results.
For item (i), the NRC considered and found that the retiring Directors each met the criteria for appointment and re-appointment
of directors set out in the policy.
For item (ii), the NRC found that Mr. Jean Serge Krol and Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias had performed well based on the performance
criteria evaluated. Ms. Corine Danielle Tap was appointed on the Board on 1 January 2023 and as such the performance evaluation
carried out for FY2022 is not applicable to her.
Based on the above, the Board approved the NRC’s recommendation and supports the re-election of Mr. Jean Serge Krol and Dato’
Dr. Rosini binti Alias who retire in accordance with Rule 105 of the Company’s Constitution, and the re-appointment of Ms. Corine
Danielle Tap who retires in accordance with Rule 86.3 of the Company’s Constitution.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
191
Additional Information
(iv) Resolution 7: Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading
Nature
Please refer to the Circular to Shareholders dated 25 April 2023.
STATEMENT ACCOMPANYING NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
1. Details of individuals who are standing for election as Directors
(Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of the Bursa Securities Listing Requirements)
No individual is seeking election as a Director at the forthcoming 60th AGM of the Company.
2. Statement relating to general mandate for issue of securities in accordance with Paragraph 6.03(3) of the Main Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
No general mandate to issue securities in the Company is being sought at the forthcoming 60th AGM of the Company.
Personal Data Privacy:
By registering for the remote participation and electronic voting meeting and/or submitting an instrument appointing a proxy(ies)
and/or representative(s) to participate, speak and vote at the Meeting and/or any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company (i)
consents to the processing of the member’s personal data by the Company (or its agents) for the Meeting and matters related thereto,
including but not limited to: (a) for the purpose of the processing and administration by the Company (or its agents) of proxies and
representatives appointed for the Meeting (including any adjournment thereof); (b) for preparation and compilation of the attendance
lists, minutes and other documents relating to the Meeting (including any adjournment thereof); and (c) for the Company (or its
agents) to comply with any applicable laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively, the “Purposes”); (ii) undertakes
and warrants that where the member discloses the personal data of the member’s proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) to the Company
(or its agents), the member has obtained the prior consent of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Company (or its agents)
processing of the personal data of such proxy(ies) and/or representative(s) for the Purposes; and (iii) agrees that the member will
fully indemnify the Company in respect of any penalties, liabilities, legal suits, claims, demands, losses and damages as a result of
the member’s failure to provide accurate and correct information of the personal date or breach of the member’s undertaking and/or
warranty as set out herein.
ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDE FOR
THE SIXTIETH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING (“60TH AGM”)
Meeting Platform : https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my
Day and Date : Friday, 26 May 2023
Time : 10.00 a.m.
Broadcast Venue : 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
		 Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia
Mode of Communication : 1) Typed text in the Meeting Platform.
		 2) E-mail questions to finance.dept@frieslandcampina.com prior to the Meeting.
		 3) Submit question via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com prior
			 to the meeting.
Broadcast Venue
1. Shareholders/proxies are not allowed to present and participate at Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad’s 60th AGM via the Broadcast
Venue as the venue is only meant to facilitate the conduct of the Virtual Meeting.
Integrated Annual Report 2022
1. Members are encouraged to download a digital copy of the Integrated Annual Report 2022 from the Company’s website in the
interest of preserving the environment. The Integrated Annual Report 2022 can be downloaded from the Company’s website
www.dutchlady.com.my.
2. If you need a copy of the printed Integrated Annual Report 2022, kindly complete the enclosed Request Slip and send the same to
the Company’s Share Registrar, Board Share Registrars Sdn Bhd.
3. Any request for the Integrated Annual Report 2022 would be forwarded to the requestor within four (4) market days from the date
of receipt of the written request.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
192
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
Proxy
1. Shareholders who are unable to remote participate in Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad’s 60th AGM are encouraged to appoint the
Chairperson of the Meeting to vote on their behalf.
2. You may deposit the Proxy Form electronically with the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd using
Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not later than 48 hours before the time set for holding
the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. Kindly follow the link at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com to login and select
“E-PROXY LODGEMENT” to deposit your Proxy Form electronically.
3. If you wish to remote participate the Virtual Meeting yourself, please do not submit any Proxy Form. You will not be allowed to
participate the Virtual Meeting together with a proxy appointed by you.
4. If you have submitted Proxy Form prior to the Virtual Meeting and subsequently decide to appoint another person or wish to
participate in the Virtual Meeting by yourself, please write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com to revoke the earlier
appointed proxy forty-eight (48) hours before the Meeting.
Poll Voting (For Virtual Meeting)
1. The voting will be conducted by poll in accordance with Paragraph 8.29A of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing
Requirements. The Company has appointed Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd as Poll Administrator to conduct the poll by way
of electronic voting (e-Voting).
2. For the purposes of this AGM, the remote participation and e-voting will be carried out via the following voting devices:-
a. Personal smart mobile phones ,
b. tablets or
c. Laptops
3. There are 2 methods for members and proxies who wish to use their personal voting device to vote as follows:-
a. Using QR Scanner Code given in the email to you OR
b. Using website URL https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my
4. The polling will only commence after the announcement of poll voting session open by the Chairperson and until such time when
the Chairperson announces the closure of poll.
5. The Scrutineers will verify the poll result reports upon closing of the poll session by the Chairperson. Scrutineers will announce the
results thereafter and the Chairperson will declare whether the resolutions put to vote were successfully carried or not.
Remote Participation and Electronic Voting
6. Please note that this option is available to (i) individual members; (ii) corporate shareholder; (iii) Authorised Nominee; and
(iv) Exempt Authorised Nominee.
7. If you choose to participate in the meeting online, you will be able to view a live webcast of the Meeting, post questions to the
Board and submit your votes in real time whilst the meeting is in progress.
8. Kindy follow the steps below on how to request for login ID and password.
Step 1 – Register Online with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal (for first time registration only)
[Note: If you have already signed up with Boardroom Smart Investor Portal, you are not required to register again. You may
proceed to Step 2. Submit request for Remote Participation user ID and password.]
a. Access website https://investor.boardroomlimited.com
b. Click <<Login>> and click <<Register>> to sign up as a user.
c. Please select the correct account type i.e. sign up as “Shareholder” or “Corporate Shareholder”.
d. Complete the registration with all required information. Upload a softcopy of your or representative’s MyKAD/Identification
Card (front and back) or Passport.
e. For Corporate Holder, kindly upload the authorisation letter as well. Click “Sign Up”.
a. You will receive an email from Boardroom for email address verification. Click “Verify Email Address” from the email
received to continue with the registration.
b. Once your email address is verified, you will be re-directed to Boardroom Smart Investor Portal for verification of mobile
number. Click “Request OTP Code” and an OTP code will be sent to the registered mobile number. You will need to enter
the OTP code and click “Enter” to complete the process.
c. Your registration will be verified and approved within one (1) business day and an email notification will be provided to
you.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
193
Additional Information
Step 2 – Submit Request for Remote Participation User ID and Password
[Note: The registration for remote access will be opened on 25 April 2023]
Individual Members
- Login to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password above.
- Select “Virtual Meeting” from main menu and select the correct Corporate Event “Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad 60th
Annual General Meeting“.
- Read and agree the to the terms and conditions.
- Enter your CDS account and thereafter submit your request.
Corporate Shareholders, Authorised Nominee and Exempt Authorised Nominee
1) Via Email
- Write in to bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com by providing the name of Member, CDS Account Number accompanied
with the Certificate of Appointment of Corporate Representative or Form of Proxy to submit the request.
- Please also provide a copy of Corporate Representative’s MyKad (Front and Back) in JPEG, PNG or PDF format or
Passport as well as his/her email address.
2) Via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal
- Login to https://investor.boardroomlimited.com using your user ID and password from Step 1 above.
- Select “Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad 60th Annual General Meeting” from the list of Meeting Event and click “Enter”.
- Click on “Submit eProxy Form”.
- Select the company you would like to represent.
- Proceed to download the file format for “Submission of Proxy Form” from the investor portal.
- Prepare the file for the appointment of proxies by inserting the required data.
- Proceed to upload the duly completed proxy appointment file.
- Review and confirm your proxy appointment and click “Submit”.
- Download or print the eProxy form as acknowledgement.
Step 3 – Login to Virtual Meeting Portal
[Please note that the quality of the connectivity to Virtual Meeting Portal for live web cast as well as for remote online voting is
highly dependent on the bandwidth and the stability of the internet connectivity available at the location of the remote users.]
a. The Virtual Meeting portal will be opened for login starting one (1) hour before the commencement of Virtual Meeting at
10:00 a.m. on 26 May 2023.
b. Follow the steps given to you in the email along with your remote access user ID and password to login to the Virtual Meeting
portal. (Refer to Step 2 above)
c. The steps will also guide you how to view live web cast, ask questions and vote.
d. The live web cast will end and the Messaging window will be disabled the moment The Chairperson announces the closure of
the Virtual Meeting.
e. You can now logout from Virtual Meeting Portal.
Live Webcast, Question and Voting at the Virtual Meeting
The Login User Guide for participation, posing questions and voting at the 60th AGM, will be emailed to the shareholders together with
the remote access user ID and password once their registration have been approved.
Shareholders who participate the Virtual Meeting are able to view the Company’s presentation or slides via the live web-streaming.
The Chairperson and the Board of Directors will endeavour their best to respond to the questions submitted by shareholders which are
related to the resolutions to be tabled at the 60th AGM, as well as financial performance/prospect of the Company.
Shareholders may proceed to cast votes on each of the proposed resolutions, to be tabled at the 60th AGM, after the Chairperson has
opened the poll voting session on the resolutions. Shareholders are reminded to cast their votes before the poll is closed.
No recording or photography of the virtual AGM proceedings is allowed without the prior written permission of the Company.
Shareholders/Proxies must ensure that you are connected to the internet at all times in order to participate and vote when the virtual
AGM has commenced. Therefore, it is your responsibility to ensure that connectivity for the duration of the meeting is maintained.
Kindly note that the quality of the live streaming is dependent on the bandwidth and stability of the internet connection at the location
of the remote participants.
Enquiry
Please email to the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at bsr.helpdesk@boardroomlimited.com if you
have queries pertaining to the remote participation and electronic voting, prior to the virtual Meeting.
NOTICE OF ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING
194
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE
Related Party Nature of Transaction
Value of Transactions
from 25 May 2022 to
31 December 2022
RM’000
FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V., and/or
FrieslandCampina Domo B.V., the Netherlands
Purchase by DLMI of fully packed
dairy products and raw materials
424,349
P.T. Frisian Flag Indonesia, Indonesia Purchase by DLMI of fully packed
dairy products including products
and raw materials
129,608
FrieslandCampina Foremost (Thailand) Pte Ltd,
Thailand
Purchase by DLMI of fully packed
dairy products and raw materials
-
FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V., the Netherlands
and/or FrieslandCampina Domo B.V., the Netherlands
Sale by DLMI of fully packed dairy
products
1,830
FrieslandCampina (Singapore) Pte Ltd, and/or
FrieslandCampina AMEA Pte Ltd, Singapore
Sale by DLMI of fully packed dairy
products
14,047
FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V., the Netherlands Payment of fees by DLMI for
know-how, Trademark licence and
Management support
58,663
FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holding B.V.,
the Netherlands
Payment of fees by DLMI for
corporate management fees
110
FrieslandCampina B.V., the Netherlands Payment of fees by DLMI for
shared ICT and communication
services
10,821
FrieslandCampina Service Centre Asia Pacific
Sdn Bhd, Malaysia
Payment of fees by DLMI for
shared finance and procurement
services
1,365
FrieslandCampina Service Centre Asia Pacific
Sdn Bhd, Malaysia
Receipt of fees by DLMI for the
provision of shared corporate
services
128
Royal FrieslandCampina N.V., the Netherlands Interest on inter-company credit
facility
-
195
Additional Information
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS AS AT 14 MARCH 2023
Class of Shares Ordinary shares
Voting Rights On show of hands : 1 vote
		 On a poll : 1 vote for each share held
DISTRIBUTION SCHEDULE OF SHAREHOLDERS
Size of Holdings
No. of
Shareholders
% of
Shareholders
No. of
Shares
% of
Shareholding
Less than 100 shares 302 4.88 2,267 0.0
100 to 1,000 shares 4,173 67.44 1,931,382 3.0
1,001 to 10,000 shares 1,526 24.66 4,911,607 7.7
10,001 to 100,000 shares 171 2.76 4,738,744 7.4
100,001 to 3,199,999(*) 13 0.21 8,062,700 12.6
3,200,000 & above (**) 3 0.05 44,353,300 69.3
6,188 100.00 64,000,000 100.0
Note: * - Less than 5% of Issued Holdings
** - 5% and above of Issued Holdings
Name of 30 Largest Shareholders No. of Shares % of Holdings
1. FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holding B.V. ** 32,614,800 50.96
2. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd **
Employees Provident Fund Board
7,071,900 11.05
3. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad **
Amanah Saham Bumiputera
4,666,600 7.29
4. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Amanah Saham Malaysia
2,024,300 3.16
5. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Maybank Trustees Berhad for Public Regular Savings Fund (N14011940100)
1,995,400 3.12
6. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Aun Huat & Brothers Sdn Bhd (E-IMO/BCM)
753,400 1.18
7. Yong Siew Lee 577,000 0.90
8. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
ASN Umbrella for ASN Equity 3
567,200 0.89
9. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Islamic Treasures Growth Fund
496,800 0.78
10. Yeo Khee Bee 442,900 0.69
11. Kumpulan Wang Persaraan (Diperbadankan) 384,200 0.60
12. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Amanah Saham Bumiputera 3 - Didik
200,000 0.31
13. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Dividend Select Fund
173,000 0.27
196
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD | INTEGRATED ANNUAL REPORT 2022
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
Name of 30 Largest Shareholders No. of Shares % of Holdings
14. Chow Kok Meng 160,000 0.25
15. Yayasan Guru Tun Hussein Onn 156,300 0.24
16. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Islamic Emerging Opportunities Fund
132,200 0.21
17. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Chan See Min Realty Sdn Bhd (E-KUG)
95,200 0.15
18. Tan Kim Onm 89,900 0.14
19. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Exempt an for OCBC Securities Private Limited (Client A/C-R ES)
86,300 0.13
20. Tan Lee Hwa 84,000 0.13
21. Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
CBNY for Emerging Market Core Equity Portfolio DFA Investment
Dimensions Group INC
83,400 0.13
22. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt An for UOB Kay Hian PTE LTD (A/C Clients)
81,800 0.13
23. Yee Anne 81,200 0.13
24. Wong So-Ch’i 80,700 0.13
25. Wong So Haur 80,500 0.13
26. Tay Teck Ho 80,000 0.13
27. Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
CBNY for DFA Emerging Markets Small Cap Series
79,100 0.12
28. Chua Sim Hong 78,200 0.12
29. Tan Pak Nang 76,000 0.12
30. Lian Lee Choo 73,000 0.11
Total 53,565,300 83.70
197
Additional Information
ANALYSIS OF SHAREHOLDINGS
SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS AS PER THE REGISTER OF SUBSTANTIAL SHAREHOLDERS
Name Direct % Indirect %
1. FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holdings
B.V.
32,614,800 50.96 0 0
2. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Employees Provident Fund Board
7,071,900 11.05 0 0
3. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Amanah Saham Bumiputera
4,666,600 7.29 0 0
DIRECTORS SHAREHOLDINGS
Name Direct % Indirect %
1. Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar 1,000 0.00 - 0.00
2. Ramjeet Kaur Virik - - - -
3. Saw Chooi Lee - - - -
4. Corine Danielle Tap - - - -
5. Dato‘ Dr. Rosini binti Alias - - - -
6. Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman - - - -
7. Jean Serge Krol - - - -
8. Darren Kong Kam Seong - - - -
PARTICULARS OF PROPERTIES AS AT 31 DECEMBER 2022
Location of Property Lot 61320, Lot 61321 and Lot 61322, Mukim Bandar Baru Enstek,
Daerah Seremban, Negeri Negeri Sembilan
Brief description Industrial Land
Approximate land area 1,419,759 sq ft.
Tenure leasehold land Freehold land
Date of acquisition 17.12.2020
Age of property N/A
Net Book Value (RM) 60.311 million
This page has been intentionally left blank.
CDS Account No.
No. of shares held
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD (Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V)
(incorporated in Malaysia under the then Companies Ordinances, 1940 – 1946)
I/We
(full name in block letters, NRIC No./Company No.)
of
being a member/members of DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD hereby appoint:-
Full name (in block letters) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Email Address
And/or (delete as appropriate)
Full name (in block letters) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No. of Shares %
Email Address
or failing him/her, the Chairperson of the Meeting as my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the Sixtieth Annual
General Meeting of the Company which will be held fully virtual through live streaming and online remote voting from the Broadcast
Venue, 12th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia on Friday,
26 May 2023 at 10.00 a.m. and any adjournment thereof, in respect of my/our shareholding in the manner indicated below:-
RESOLUTION NO. RESOLUTION FOR AGAINST
Resolution 1 Proposed payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year ending 31
December 2023, to be paid quarterly
Resolution 2 Proposed payment of Directors’ benefits (other than Directors’ fees) for the
financial year ending 31 December 2023
Resolution 3 Re-election of Mr. Jean Serge Krol
Resolution 4 Re-election of Dato’ Dr. Rosini binti Alias
Resolution 5 Re-appointment of Ms. Corine Danielle Tap
Resolution 6 Re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT as the Company’s Auditors
Resolution 7 Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions. In the absence
of specific instruction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he/she thinks fit.
Signed this day of 2023
Signatures(s) of Shareholder/Attorney
(if Shareholder is a corporation, this part
should be executed under seal or under the
hand of its officer or attorney duly authorised)
By submitting the proxy form, the member and its proxy(ies) consents to the Company (and/or its agents/service providers) to the collection, usage and disclosure of their personal
data (which may include sensitive data) therein in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act 2010 for the purpose of the AGM, including any adjournment thereof.
Notes:-
1. The Sixtieth Annual General Meeting (“60th AGM”) will be conducted fully virtual through live streaming and online remote voting via Remote Participation and
Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities which are available on the meeting platform at https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my. With RPEV facilities, members may
exercise their rights to participate and vote at the 60th AGM through the following modes of communication: i) Typed text in the Meeting Platform ii) E-mail questions to
finance.dept@frieslandcampina.com prior to the Virtual Meeting iii) You may submit questions in advance on the AGM resolutions and Integrated Annual Report 2022 not later
than 10.00 a.m. on Thursday, 25 May 2023 via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com, and select “SUBMIT QUESTION” to pose questions
(“Pre-AGM Meeting Questions”). The Company has appointed Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) as the Poll Administrator for the 60th AGM to facilitate the
Virtual Meeting. Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Guide for the 60th AGM below to register, participate and vote remotely via RPEV facilities.
2. The Broadcast Venue of the 60th AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which stipulates that the Chairman shall be at the
main venue of the 60th AGM. Members will not be allowed to attend the 60th AGM in person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the 60th AGM.
3. A Member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy/proxies to attend and vote instead of him. A proxy need not
be a member of the Company. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting shall have the same rights as a Member to speak at the Meeting.
4. Save for an Exempt Authorised Nominee as defined under the Central Depositories Act which may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account it holds with
ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account, a Member (including an authorised nominee) shall be entitled to appoint not more than two
(2) proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting. In any case, where more than one (1) proxy is appointed, such appointment shall not be valid unless the proportion of the
holdings represented by each proxy is specified.
5. The instrument appointing the proxy must be signed by the Member or his/her attorney duly authorised in writing, or if the appointer is a corporation, the instrument must be
executed under its common seal or under the hand of its officer or attorney duly authorised.
6. For the purpose of determining members who shall be entitled to attend the 60th AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to issue a Record of
Depositors as at 19 May 2023 (“General Meeting Record of Depositors”). Only depositors whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 19 May 2023 shall be entitled
to attend the said meeting or appoint proxies to attend and vote on their behalf.
7. To be valid, the original instrument appointing a proxy, duly completed (and if applicable, the power of attorney or other authority under which it is originally signed or notarially
certified copy of that power of authority) must be deposited at the office of Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay
Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia, not less than 48 hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof (or in the
case of poll, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll); or by electronic means using the Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at https://investor.
boardroomlimited.com not later than 48 hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. Please refer to Administrative Guide.
8. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set out in the Notice of the 60th AGM will be put
to vote by way of poll.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD
(Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V))
c/o Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd
11th Floor, Menara Symphony,
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13,
46200 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan,
Malaysia
Please fold here to seal
Please fold here to seal
STAMP
