83
Annual Report 2021
We are cognisant that maintaining
the trust and confidence of our
stakeholders is crucial. One of the ways
by which we intend to merit and sustain
this trust is by conducting ourselves
according to the principles and
standards set forth in our Halal Policy
and Procedures. The clear statement
of Halal assurance and integrity in
our DLMI Halal Policy introduced in
2010 serves to guide all our employees
in ensuring our commitment to the
manufacture and supply of Halal
products is in compliance with JAKIM
requirements.
DLMI has 3 manuals and procedures in
relation to our Halal Toyyiban and Good
Practices commitment. We have the
HalalCertificationPolicyandProcedure
for Dutch Lady Products developed
in 2013. This contains comprehensive
standard guidelines related to Halal
certification processes for new
applications or renewal applications
for Malaysian Halal certification.
We also have the Halal Assurance
Management System Manual (HAS)
developed to ensure and maintain the
Halal integrity of our products from
grass to glass. It serves as an internal
mechanism in monitoring, controlling
and preventing Halal non-compliance
in the implementation of HAS based on
MS1500, Malaysian Halal Certification
Manual Procedures (Domestic) 2020
and Malaysian Halal Management
System (MHMS) 2020. Finally, we have
our Halal Compliance Manual which
complements HAS and other internal
procedures. This manual serves as a
guide for DLMI employees in adhering
to the basics of Halal compliance and
applying it in their daily work.
Our three manuals and procedures
reflect DLMI’s commitment to Halal
system and practices; helping to
preserve Halal integrity throughout
our supply chain to serve and cater to
the needs of Malaysian consumers.
Despite the COVID-19 pandemic,
DLMI continued to engage with Halal
authorities (JAKIM, JAIS and others) to
establish DLMI on the Voice of Choice
for the authority on dairy halal. DLMI
will continue partnering various Halal
authorities and agencies to facilitate
the development of our Halal system
and standards in preparation for our
new facility in Bandar Enstek, Negeri
Sembilan.
In 2021 we remained committed to
reinforcing our role as a Halal dairy
producer upholding Halal standards
and preserving our customer’s
confidence in our products.
We maintained our position on the Fast-
Track List by continuing to practise the
Halal Assurance System effectively
over the years.
DLMI acknowledged the importance
of Halal professionalism with three
DLMI’s IHC members being certified
as Halal executives by JAKIM’s Halal
Professional Board (HPB). As IHC
members, they will continue to ensure
Halal compliance through continuous
training and audit programmes with
internal stakeholders and business
partners. This certification marks an
important milestone for the Internal
Halal Committee in establishing a Halal
Roadmap for DLMI.
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
Commitment to Food Quality and
Safety
We firmly believe all who purchase and
consume our products have the right
to expect our products to be safe and
of high quality. We also uphold that the
ultimate responsibility for investing
in physical and managerial resources
that are necessary for implementing
appropriate controls lies with us.
Consumers should always have the
confidence that we produce food that
is safe, trusted and of high-quality.
We thus take food quality and safety
very seriously by making a solid
commitment to uphold the quality and
integrity of our products and services
throughout our value chain.
We are aligned with our parent
company RFC’s Quality Mission and
Golden Quality Rules in delivering
products and services that meet
regulatory requirements. Our Golden
Quality Rules are the foundation of all
our quality assurance efforts and are
used as a framework that governs all of
our programmes and systems.
84 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
Leveraging on our internal expertise
and our external network and
partnerships enables us to anticipate
trends and emerging risks. With
our robust standards and efficient
processes, we consistently promote
employee awareness of quality and
ownership and visible commitment
from our leadership to attain
sustainable operational excellence.
To ensure we continuously improve
our practices, ways of working and
performance and reinvest to create
better value for our consumers, we
listen closely to our consumers and
customers.
DLMI products adhere strictly to
the FoQus standard which is RFC’s
global internal quality and food safety
management system. This system
necessitates periodic assessment
verification at all RFC production
locations, ensuring its products and
manufacturing processes meet the
highest standard of quality and food
safety. The strict requirements are in
place to ensure that all our products
meet our own high standards on food
safety, quality, labour safety and
environment.
The DLMI manufacturing plant is
FSSC22000 certified by Lloyd’s
Register, a leading independent
provider of accredited certification
services. FSSC 22000 is an
internationally-recognised food safety
standard developed for farming, food
manufacturing, packaging, catering,
retail and transportation. We are also
certified with Good Manufacturing
Practice (GMP) and Hazard Analysis
Critical Control Point (HACCP) by
Malaysia’s Ministry of Health (MOH).
A testament to the trust and
recognition we have earned from our
customers pertaining to our safe and
quality products and services is our
“A” score in the assessment by our key
customers.
Spreading the Goodness of Dairy
Milk remains an important source of nutrition for daily consumption with its
numerous benefits. A nutrient-packed food, milk provides nine essential nutrients
in every glass, including calcium, potassium and vitamin D. There aren’t many
other single foods that come close to the nutrients you get from one cup of milk.
Even the World Health Organisation regards that natural milk sugar (lactose) is
important for a healthy diet and is completely different from added sugar. Apart
from that, milk consumption is also associated with providing protection against
non-communicable diseases, cancer and other health risks that are in the scope
of concern for Malaysia’s population.
In 2021, we continued with our internal outreach programme that we initiated in
2020 to communities by driving a culture of care among our employees. Along
with our aim of spreading the goodness of milk, we maintained an active role in
supporting organisations through the sponsorship of our dairy products in the
context of the well-being, health and nutrition of families and children.
DLMI Prihatin: Nourishing the Malaysian Family
More than
300,000
packs
Over
60
organisations
Across
7
states
2021
85
Annual Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
DLMI believes in the value and importance of the nutrition provided by dairy
and as such, the DLMI Prihatin (DLMI Cares) initiative was continued throughout
2021 and employees had the opportunity to give back to fellow Malaysians. This
initiative was amplified nationwide, reaching more than 7 states as compared to
only the Klang Valley in 2020.
In 2021, DLMI contributed to more than 60 various organisations, including
Malaysia’s dedicated and tireless frontline personnel who were busy containing
the COVID-19 threat to the country.
During the Full Movement Control Order (FMCO) in June 2021, DLMI ensured
the Fire and Rescue Department of Malaysia, law enforcement and Government
agencies received nutritious dairy products to boost morale and provide necessary
nourishment to all the frontline heroes who were relentlessly fighting against the
third wave of the pandemic.
Our DLMI Prihatin efforts culminated at the end of 2021 through caring, supporting
and nourishing the underprivileged and all those impacted by the COVID-19
pandemic and the floods in December. DLMI’s contribution of more than 180,000
packs of nutritious Dutch Lady products ensured recipients had access to dairy
nutrition during challenging times.
Milk giveaway to those
impacted by the floods in
December 2021
Ramadan Charity Programme
We continued with our Ramadan
Charity Programme in 2021 in our
efforts to ensure the underprivileged
community’s access to dairy nutrition
was not disrupted. The enforcement of
FMCO impacted the different layers of
the community in Malaysia. In view of
this, DLMI partnered with Government
agencies, non-governmental and
charitable organisations to keep the
underprivileged community in Malaysia
healthy and strong.
In carrying out the Ramadan Charity
Programme, we partnered with the
Ministry of Education, Ministry of
Finance, Ministry of Health, Ministry
of Agriculture and Food Industries,
Department of Veterinary Services,
Selangor Islamic Religion Department,
Masjid Tun Abdul Aziz and other
agencies.
These partnerships helped to drive our
purpose of nourishing the recipients
and enhanced our relationship with
key partners. They also supported our
commercial campaign of educating
and driving awareness of the benefits
of Kurma Milk in providing sufficient
nutrition and energy throughout a hard
day of fasting.
Ministry of Education -
Ramadan Charity Programme
86 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Continuous Medical Education (CME)
DLMI is honoured to have partnered with the Food Safety
and Quality Division (FSQD) of the Malaysian Ministry of
Health (MOH) for the 5th time in the CME programme hosted
by the International Food Safety Training Centre (IFSTC),
on 23 August 2021. We had overwhelming participation
at this virtual event which saw over 100 participants from
MOH’s FSQD Head Office as well as State and District Health
Departments.
Themed Why Milk Matters, the programme provided technical
and scientific information on nourishment with quality dairy
nutrition, resonating with RFC’s purpose of Nourishing by
Nature. The main feature of the programme included experts
from RFC and DLMI educating participants on the goodness
of milk fat, milk sugar and protein quality.
With this partnership, we hope to continue working with
policymakers in shaping future regulations and food safety
policies in line with the recent launch of the National
Nutrition Policy 2.0 2021 (NNP 2.0).
Dairy Halal Nutrition: CME Programme with the Selangor
Islamic Religious Department/Jabatan Agama Islam
Selangor (JAIS)
In 2021, DLMI partnered JAIS to organise DLMI’s first-ever
online Halal Nutrition Talk in October 2021. Topics covered
during the talk included DLMI’s Halal Compliance System,
Quality & Safety and providing more milk-related information.
50 participants from JAIS’ Halal Division including their
Chief Assistant Director attended the virtual session.
This programme enabled DLMI to be ahead of other
competitors in sharing nutrition and Halal best practices
whilst also apprising the Halal authority on our company’s
purpose of Nourishing Our Nation. DLMI will continue
strengthening collaborations with external parties to
enhance DLMI’s leadership status as a dairy and nutrition
expert.
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
Continuous Medical Education with
the Ministry of Health
Dairy Halal Nutrition Talk with JAIS
Participants at the Halal Nutrition Talk
Welcome speech by Chief Assistant
Director of Halal Division of JAIS
87
Annual Report 2021
Advocating the Goodness of Milk Through Milkypedia
DLMI is committed to our purpose of Nourishing Malaysians
with trusted and sustainable dairy nutrition, for now and
generations to come. One of the ways we aim to strengthen
our purpose is by focusing on increasing dairy consumption
and what better way to create awareness on the importance
of daily dairy intake than by educating the Malaysian
community on the goodness of milk through Milkypedia.
Milkypedia is an infotainment with each episode carrying
components of promoting dairy nutrition awareness. This
programme also has conversations addressing frequently
asked questions, sharing tips on how we could include
milk consumption habits in our daily lives while taking into
account the practices of the diverse and different cultures
in Malaysia. With a healthy dairy cooking demonstration at
the end of every episode, we publish this programme on our
DLMI website, Facebook and Youtube for greater reach and
touch points.
PILLAR 3: CARBON FOOTPRINT
Driven by our firm commitment to reduce any negative environmental impact
of our business, we have remained steadfast towards our responsibility to
environmental issues in the conduct of our business. Our commitment combines
our responsibility with our business objectives for long-term sustainable
development. Our Safety, Health and Environmental (“SHE”) Policy outlines our
commitment and position concerning this.
We are proud to have received ISO 14001:2015 certification, having met the
requirements for an environmental management system. This is a clear indication
that we have successfully improved our environmental performance through
more efficient use of resources and reduction of waste, gaining a competitive
advantage and the trust of stakeholders.
Waste Management
Reflective of our commitment to reducing our waste, we successfully achieved an
88.5% reduction of landfill waste in December 2021 through the continuation of a
number of our 3R (Reduce, Reuse & Recycle) programmes & initiatives.
We generated the following industrial waste:
DLMI began recycling office waste
(such as printed paper, shredded paper
and non-food waste from the office
pantry) and reduced usage of single use
plastics (such as mineral water bottles,
lunch boxes and disposable utensils).
We encourage employees and visitors
to drink water from the water filter
machine and we provide individual
mugs with lids to all employees. We do
not purchase plastic mineral bottles
for our office usage.
In 2021, we continued our Food Waste
Programme by which all food waste
generated from our canteen was
collected and recycled to be converted
into fertiliser. This has contributed
to at least a 5% reduction to waste
landfill.
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
Drum and Barrel
Plastic and
Plastic Wrap
Carton and Box
Sludge
Chemical
Metal
Powder Bag
Recycle
Powder
1 3
2 4
5 6 7 8
88 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
3.30
1.25
2015
3.92
1.17
2016
4.14
1.12
2017
3.77
1.03
2018
3.46
1.03
2019
3.41
1.13
2020
3.29
1.20
2021
Energy & Water Ratio
Water
Energy
Year
Gj/ton
Our initiatives and programmes
pertaining to energy and water
management comprised of:
In addition to the mechanical
measurements, we continued with the
One Day One Leak (ODOL) programme
whereby all observations captured
were attended to by the Engineering
Department within 24 hours, ensuring
minimum energy wastage and water
leakage.
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
Waste-Water Management
The bio-organism technology used
in our Waste-Water Treatment Plant
(WWTP) produced 691 tons of bio-
sludge for fertiliser as at December
2021.
The treatment plant is monitored
closely with frequent critical
parameter checks. As part of our
continuous improvement and
compliance efforts, we have engaged
a consultant to conduct the Industrial
Effluent Characteristic Study (IECS)
and are actively taking steps to ensure
that our waste water treatment
system is adequately supporting our
manufacturing plant.
Energy and Water Management
In 2021, we succeeded in reducing our water ratio to below our target. This was
despite our YTD energy ratio rising slightly above the target due to the high
volume of production of liquid products which consumed higher energy.
Sludge Belt Press
Steam
condensate
recovery
Water
recycling
Conversion to
LED lightings
from conventional
lightings
Sludge Fertiliser
89
Annual Report 2021
Tree 4.02t
48%
Cleaning Efforts at Sungai
Penchala
Sustainable Sourcing
We are aware of the positive
consequences of an efficient and
sustainable supply chain. A supply
chain built on a sustainable platform
is a crucial focal point in today’s
industry because of the emphasis on
environmental responsibility. It helps
improve productivity while increasing
efficiency at significant cost-saving.
Among the raw materials we source are
palm oil, cocoa, sugar and packaging
materials in the form of paper and
cardboard. Our dairy raw materials
are sourced from our parent company,
RFC. In addition, we source these raw
materials from local dairy farmers
who are supported by our Dairy
Development Programme, details of
which are contained in this report.
Besides sourcing for Roundtable
on Sustainable Palm Oil-certified
palm oil, we also embarked on our
journey to increase the visibility of
our supply chains in 2019. In 2021,
98% of our palm oil sourced can be
traced to a group of mills. This opens
the opportunity for DLMI to identify
possible vulnerable areas and work
with our suppliers to introduce
improvements in the supply chain
process.
As for cocoa, one of our most important
ingredients, we only use sustainable
cocoa that meets the Rainforest
Alliance certification criteria; evidence
that our products are sustainably
sourced from grass to glass.
Our suppliers of starch raw materials
are audited and comply with the Sedex
Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA),
one of the most widely used ethical
audit formats globally.
DLMI supports the production of
sustainable sugar by purchasing
100% of our annual requirements
through sustainable standards and
programmes. We are members of
Bonsucro, the global sugar cane
sustainability platform and Vive, an
end-to-end voluntary, continuous
improvement sustainability programme.
All this affirms our commitment
towards improving and supporting
sustainable production of sugar cane,
consistent with our Sustainability
Strategy of Nourishing by Nature.
In addition to our sourcing sustainable
agricultural raw materials, we uphold
our commitment to responsible
forestry. We utilise Forest Stewardship
Council (FSC) certified materials as the
primary packaging for our Dutch Lady
UHT milk.
Beginning mid-2013, we became
the first manufacturer in the nation
to use FSC-certified packaging as
demonstrated by the FSC logo printed
on our products.
Importantly, our efforts do not end with
our primary packaging. They continue
to secondary packaging, with most
of our materials being sustainably
sourced.
Tributary Cleaning: Revitalising
Sungai Penchala Ecosystem
DLMI via our partnership with Selangor
Maritime Gateway (SMG), has been
actively involved in the cleaning of
Sungai Penchala, adjacent to our
manufacturing facility from August to
December 2021. During this period, 11.1
metric ton of waste was extracted from
the river.
Types of Waste Collected during
Tributary Cleaning
(15 September - 31 December 2021)
Plants 2.45t
30%
We are pleased to share that our efforts
were recognised by the Selangor state
government to be amongst the 5 key
public-private collaborations involved
in the cleaning, rehabilitation and
sustainable development of Klang
river. This was highlighted during a
media session with the Chief Minister
of Selangor, YAB Dato’ Seri Amirudin
Shari in November 2021.
Public-private partnerships are vital in
mapping and addressing environmental
and societal needs. DLMI is happy
to lead the path for effective and
sustainable measures to ensure the
long-term health of Sungai Penchala
ecosystem.
DLMI Managing Director, Ramjeet
Kaur Virik with the Chief Minister of
Selangor, YAB Dato’ Seri Amirudin
Shari
Plastic 1.81t
22%
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
90 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
PILLAR 4: POST CONSUMPTION
We have continued and will continue to drive
sustainability agendas at the industry level
through our membership and involvement
in the Malaysian Recycling Alliance Berhad
(MAREA) and the CEO Action Network (CAN).
In 2021, DLMI, through MAREA, was active
in building awareness of extended producer
responsibility, improvement of post-consumer
packaging product collection and recycling as
well as the circular economy approach for more
efficient packaging waste management.
DLMI and other MAREA members have been
advocating and engaging with Government and
Non-Government organisations to strengthen
public-private collaborations and provide
relevant input and feedback to policymakers.
For instance, DLMI and MAREA were involved in
multiple public consultations in developing the
Circular Economy Roadmap by the Ministry of
Environment and Water.
DLMI joins other organisations as members
of CAN. We have also chosen to be an active
contributor to the Policy Advocacy workstream.
As a member, we are committed to engage with
various stakeholders including our supply chain,
regulators and policy makers, the government
as well as our peers across various sectors
to forge partnerships that are committed to
responsible business practises and sustainable
development. In the process, we will not only
exchange industry best practices, but also
share proven strategies and future-proof ideas
with CAN participants.
Most recently, in September 2021, we joined
CAN members to pledge and publicly announce
14 Collective Commitments to be achieved
under three categories, namely environment,
people and governance by 2023 or within 3
years of signing up with CAN. In our next report,
we will outline our progress as well as the
specific initiatives rolled out to drive tangible
outcomes from our collaborative efforts.
Further, DLMI is a part of the Malaysian
Dutch Business Council that champions and
shares best practises to help set the tone on
sustainability amongst its members and other
business chambers in the country.
54
CEO’s, Board
Members & Senior
Management
representing
Member
organisations
>20
Critical Sectors
Represented
1
Working Group
Member’ Action &
Performance
Policy Advocacy &
Awareness and
Capacity Building
2
Workstreams
Recyclable Packaging
Our packaging and our plastics are 74% and
73% recyclable respectively. We are determined
that our packaging be 100% designed for
recycling by 2025, in tandem with our global
commitment. Our parent company, RFC, signed
the New Plastics Economy Global Commitment,
led by The Ellen MacArthur Foundation and the
Plastic Pact NL in 2019 to demonstrate our
commitment towards making our packaging
100% reusable and recyclable by 2025 and
fully circular by 2050.
We will look towards reinforcing our
sustainability commitment for the future for the
benefit of our people, DLMI, our environment,
our nation and ultimately, the world.
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
91
Annual Report 2021
PEOPLE
Corporate and Personal Conduct
To us, sustainability means conducting our business in a socially
responsible and holistic manner to ensure continuous growth and
success for the benefit of present and future generations. In pursuing
this, we are guided by RFC’s COMPASS, which is our code for good
business conduct. COMPASS and its corresponding policies provide
the basic principles of integrity, respect and transparent business
behaviour of DLMI and our employees in all our business undertakings.
Employees are bound by the terms of their employment to abide by
the COMPASS code for good business conduct in all their business
activities and with external stakeholders such as our customers and
suppliers.
Bribery and corruption are not tolerated. The Company has taken
steps to ensure that its existing anti-bribery and corruption policies
and procedures are adequate and meets the Guidelines for Adequate
Procedures as prescribed by Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-
Corruption Commission Act 2009. Employees are encouraged to
report any malpractices without fear or favour. We have ensured this
by our establishment of the Speak-Up procedure allowing an employee
to address any concerns regarding non-compliance with COMPASS to
the Company’s local trusted representatives or an external contact at
the RFC Group’s head office.
COMPASS has 14 corresponding policies which include the whistle-
blowing policy (or Speak-Up), the anti-bribery and corruption policy
(known as Doing Honest Business), the fair competition policy and
the privacy policy, among others. Introduction to these policies to all
employees is through a comprehensive communication and training
programme, e-learning and during employee townhalls. With regard to
our Doing Honest Business Policy and training on the Corporate Liability
Provision Section 17A of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission
Act 2009 (MACC Act), we ensure that we follow the recommendations
of the Guidelines on Adequate Procedures
pursuant to the MACC Act.
In line with the above, we also require
our suppliers and vendors to accept
and abide by RFC’s Suppliers’
Business Practices.
Responsibility to Shareholders and
Investors
We recognise the significance of
maintaining transparency and
accountability to our shareholders and
investors. In line with good governance
practices, we place utmost importance
on compliance, accountability and
transparency in the disclosure of
information to our stakeholders.
In view of this, we frequently engage
research analysts and the media regarding
DLMI’s performance, new product launches
and corporate social activities. Our
website www.dutchlady.com.my provides
corporate and financial information as
well as news, highlights, events, product
information and nutritional advice.
Further details on the various channels
utilised for timely engagement with our
shareholders and investors can be found
in our Corporate Governance Overview
Statement and Statement of Risk
Management & Internal Control in this
Annual Report.
Being the No. 1 Employer in Dairy
Our work environment exemplifies
fairness, respect and integrity for all
our employees. We acknowledge the
individual strengths of each employee and
the potential they bring to DLMI. We are
proud of our Diversity and Inclusion (D&I)
accomplishment across all levels at DLMI.
Highly committed to providing equal and
competitive opportunities at all levels of
our business, we also understand well that
our workforce diversity is our strength.
Valuing the differences of others is what
ultimately brings us all together and is the
recipe to a successful, thriving workplace
and a fair work culture. We firmly
believe embracing diversity increases
productivity.
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
92 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
We are guided by the value of workforce diversity and our employee portfolio reflects a broad variety of cultures, ethnicity,
gender and age, as the overview of our workforce statistics over the last 3 years shows.
Category
49% 40% 43%
51% 60% 57%
Non-Executives
Executives
2019 2020 2021
Gender
30% 34% 33%
70% 66% 67%
Female
Male
2019 2020 2021
Age Group
25%
30% 33%
15% 16% 15%
22%
12% 13%
39%
42%
38%
<30 30-40 41-50 >50
2019 2020 2021
Diversity
39% 44% 41%
14%
4% 3%
47%
52% 56%
Bumiputera Non-Bumiputera Others
2019 2020 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
93
Annual Report 2021
At DLMI, we aim to achieve balanced participation by both
gendersinourworkforce.Assuch,wepractisegenderequality
and do not support any form of gender discrimination. For
us, increasing gender diversity at all employee levels is both,
an ethical and a business imperative.
We have found that it is critical to have a gender-diverse
team to provide competitive solutions and creative ideas.
Having a gender-diverse team also fosters deeper dialogue
internally and results in more innovative thinking. We
thus provide equal opportunities for career advancement
regardless of gender.
In 2021, our staff gender ratio was 67% men and 33%
women. We have continued to maintain a 50:50 ratio of men
and women in our Management Team since 2019. In 2021,
DLMI’s Board of Directors stood at a 37:63 ratio of men
and women, demonstrating our sustained commitment to
ensuring equal opportunities for both genders.
30% 34% 33%
70% 66% 67%
Female
Male
2019 2020 2021
Overview of new hires by gender:
We respect our employees and inspire them to fulfil their
potential. We do this by having a comprehensive performance
management system which provides opportunities for
employees to discuss performance, opportunities for
development and the opportunity to raise any issues or
concerns. This resonates with our commitment to treat
everyone fairly and consistently by responding to their needs
and supporting their career development and progression,
enabling us to be a high performing organisation responsive
to changing economic conditions and business needs.
In 2021, we further stressed on the WIN-WIN corporate
culture in our initiative to encourage employees to win in
the market and to accelerate the realisation of our goals and
our purpose. This enables the organisation and employees
to build and embed a winning performance culture following
the WIN-WIN culture and values. Our WIN-WIN mindset
and behaviours consist of 3 core building blocks: Purpose-
Driven, Commercially Obsessed and Owners’ mindset. Each
aims for the same goal of Winning in the market.
Employee Engagement
DLMI continued to ensure open and two-way communication
for all employees during the Movement Control Order (MCO)
through various initiatives in 2021.
One such initiative was listening to our employees through
Retros and Pulse Surveys. These were key in helping us
identify needs and in enabling us to prioritise, pivot and
channel our programme investments to what matters for our
people – adopting a ‘Fit For Purpose’ approach (focused and
action-oriented). Our employees are our key stakeholders.
Especially during volatile, unprecedented times, employee
needs often change. As our demographics also comprise of
factory, field and employees working from home, the level of
care differed for each group.
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
94 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
The introduction of Focus Fridays
and General Guidelines for Meetings
addressed employee sentiments raised
in the above-mentioned surveys. Focus
Fridays serves as a tool/platform for
employees to, amongst others, focus
on their tasks at hand and plan their
work and family time for the next week
as they ease into the weekend. The aim
of this initiative is to empower each
individual to manage their own time.
In addition, it also encouraged leaders
to be mindful and to allow their team
members to regain their mental and
physical energies by refraining from
organising any official meetings after
12 noon on Fridays.
This initiative is aligned with Our Way
of Working (OWOW), a new and hybrid
way of working at RFC that combines
remote work and office time. It is a
great start in cultivating a healthier
work culture, with the aim of leading
to more energetic and resilient
employees, moving into 2022 and
beyond.
In 2021, we had 10 Award Recipients, including an employee from Operations,
whose twin daughters scored 11 As in their Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia (SPM)
examination.
The COVID-19 pandemic did not deter DLMI from marking the occasion with a
celebratory acknowledgement to the recipients during our Townhall, as well as
sending thoughtfully curated goodie bags and vouchers to the recipients. This was
indeed a lovely opportunity for both parents and children to bond and recognise
their hard work and achievements.
The satisfaction and pride demonstrated in the pictures are priceless and above
all, reflect the immense pride of being an employee of DLMI.
Education Excellence
DLMI has always believed in investing
in young talent (particularly the
children of our own employees). We
recognise that there is no better way
to start and continue investing in our
future generation, the children of
our employees, through the annual
Education Excellence Awards.
Education Excellence Awards 2021
Safety, Health and Environment
Safety, Health and Environment Remains our No. 1 Priority.
In 2021, DLMI achieved our main KPIs in Safety, Health and Environment by
31 December 2021 as our Total Recordable Frequency Rate (TRFR) record was 0.12
versus the 0.14 budgeted mainly due to 1 Medical Treatment Accident (MTA) case.
Year
No. of
incidences
No. of Lost Time
Accident (LTA)
No. of Fatal
Accidents
2021 1 case 0 0
2020 1 case 1 0
2019 2 Cases 0 0
2018 2 Cases 1 0
2017 3 cases 1 0
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
95
Annual Report 2021
DLMI was acknowledged and
recognised for some of our Safety,
Health and Environment efforts
in 2021 including scoring Amber
in our customer, McDonalds’ Safe
Workplace Assessment (SWA) with
only 1 minor finding for safety. DLMI
also successfully continued being
accredited with the Occupational
Safety and Health Management System
(OSHMS) ISO 45001:2018 and the
Environmental Management System
(EMS) ISO 14001:2015 through SIRIM
Surveillance Audit with 1 Minor Non-
Compliance (NC) and 4 Opportunity
For Improvement (OFI).
We reduced safety incidents through
various efforts in 2021. We initiated
Safety Leadership and Commitment.
Leaders provided weekly safety
dialogue through Process Confirmation
and Worksite Safety Inspection. Safety
sharing is mandatory and a standard
process in Day In Life Off (DILO)/Week
In Life Off (WILO).
An Online Reporting System (ORS),
a digitalised Safety Observation
Reporting System, was launched
to ease the reporting process. Our
employees now share and report
unsafe conditions, behaviour
observations and environment issues
through the application at any time
and from anywhere. We received a
total of 1,389 near-misses reports in
2021 from people in operations with
target reported 198.4% and 98.4%
closure rate.
DLMI also successfully conducted
Organisational Behaviour Management
(OBM) Training at respective plants,
departments and for the Supply Chain
Leadership Team (SCLT).
A Safety Culture Scan Workshop was
held with respective stakeholders.
Based on the assessment score, DLMI
was placed at the Developing Safety
Culture Level (0.7).
Developing Culture Level 0.71
Use of discipline
Use of safety
information
Safety priorty and
leadership
Consequance
Management
Hazard recognition
and control
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Incident Investigation
(RCA)
Employee
participation and
feedback
Training system
Resource allocation
Structured feeback
program
Leading Indicators
We effectively reduced 34% of high risks from the hazard list through
implementation of the action items and improvement plan.
In addition, we conducted training and communication on people skill matrix
management and fundamental Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) areas which
included First Aid Training, Fire Safety Squad, Forklift Training and Chemical and
Spill Kit Training.
Among our initiatives included implementation of the Rule Breaking System by
which we strengthened the Life Saving Rule (LSR) Consequences Management
System as well as Zero Tolerance policy for contractors.
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
First Aid Training
96 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Another of our efforts to reduce safety
incidents was the Implementation
of Work Permit and Last-Minute
Risk Assessment (LRMA). We
strengthened the Work Permit process
by implementing 5 Lines of Defence in
each non-routine work:
a) All non-routine jobs were discussed
daily for risk management and
manpower and resources planning.
b) All high-risk jobs were supervised
by a Safety Site Supervisor (SSS)
or Safety & Health Officer (SHO).
c) LMRA was executed by DLMI job
owners, DLMI area owners and
contractors starting and resuming
before jobs.
d) Work Permit and LMRA were
verified by DLMI SHE SMEs and
sign-off for the job approval.
e) Worksite Safety Inspection (WSI)
was carried out by SSS/SHO and
assigned Managers throughout
work in progress.
DLMI also focused on Technical Safety,
Social Performance, Health and
Environment Improvement with the
programmes and initiatives below:
Technical Safety:
• Completion of Explosion
Protection Document (EPD)
for Powder, MLR Plant and
Natural Gas.
• Improvement of Lightning
Arrester and upgrading
of Low Voltage Electrical
Room.
• Improvement of Machine
Guarding and Interlock
System at Robot Area
(Powder and UHT)
Social Performance/Health Programme/Environment:
• Noise monitoring programmes with noise risk assessment (NRA) and
Audiometrics.
• OSH & EMS related Performance Monitoring through annual Chemical
Exposure Monitoring (CEM), Local Exhaust Ventilation (LEV) & Stack
Monitoring Assessment.
LEV Testing
IAQ & CEM Monitoring
• On average, we achieved 86.4% of non-landfill waste for our total
waste disposed.
• Continuation of 3R (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) Programme. We
introduced a Food Waste Programme to enhance Zero landfill waste
disposal. This contributed a minimum of 5% to overall non-landfill
waste disposal.
• Collaboration with other stakeholders on Q.SHE.HR. Event 2021,
promoting Healthy Exercise, Environment Initiatives and Slip Trip and
Fall Awareness.
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
97
Annual Report 2021
We are resolute in our commitment to Zero accidents as we recognise the importance of Occupational Safety and Health,
Environmental protection and the conservation of natural resources. Our view is that all accidents or incidents can be
prevented and should be avoided at all cost.
We are therefore committed to the ‘I AM SAFE’ policy:
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
All employees, contractors, suppliers and visitors should intervene when
observing unsafe behaviour or situations.
Intervention
I
Ensure compliance with all relevant legal requirements, industry standards,
RFC standards and Life-Saving Rules.
Assuring
A
All Leaders should demonstrate visibility and commitment to Safety, Health,
Ill- Health, Environment, Sustainability and Security. This includes protection
of the environment and prevention of pollution.
Supervision
S
Train our employees, contractors, suppliers and visitors to ensure they fully
understand the rules and compliances and behave accordingly.
Academy
A
Eliminate hazards and reduce OH&S risks. Maintain all equipment and assets
to ensure the highest level of operational safety, health, environment and
improve energy and water efficiency. Commitment to fulfil our compliance
obligations to safety, health and environment requirements.
Focus
F
Engage effectively with employees, the public, neighbours and nearby
communities impacted by the nature and scale of our activities, products and
services to the environment.
Engagement
E
A systematic approach to the purpose and context of the organisation,
including nature, scale and environmental impacts of our activities, products
and services to enhance our framework of Occupational Safety, Fire Safety,
Occupational Health, Ill-Health, Environment, Sustainability and Security
objective performance through continuous improvements and external
benchmarking.
Management
System
M
98 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
Safety, Health and Environment thus remains the number
one priority for DLMI and we maintain that everyone in DLMI
shall react proactively to maintain a safe workplace and take
care of each other’s safety and health.
Learning & Development
People Growth equals Business Growth. This is our mantra
at DLMI. Firmly entrenched in our unwavering belief in
human capital growth, we continue to remain committed
and passionate about talent management and development
as we understand well our employees are the pillar of the
sustainability of our growth and success.
The primary purpose of our learning and development
programmes is to benefit the development and capabilities
of our employees while sustaining and increasing our
efficiency.
We aspire to grow our employees to be equipped with
knowledge and skills to maintain DLMI as the industry
and market leader. Our learning and development (L&D)
programmes encompass on-the-job training, mentorship
programmes, specific skill development programmes,
performance improvement plans and job realignment
programmes, all of which enable and empower our employees
to learn and grow in the organisation.
The table below is an overview of the training hours invested in developing our employees over the last 5 years:
Year
Total Training Hours for Executives
(JG10 and above)
Total Training Hours for Non-Executives
(Below JG10) Total Training Hours
2021 9,837 422* 10,259
2020 6,962 753* 7,715
2019 4,128 2,036 6,164
2018 3,536 2,944 6,480
2017 4,124 1,604 5,728
*Excluding on-the-job training
Nurturing Talents
Our conviction is that all our employees have talent and we
value their talent. It thus follows that we are committed to
the growth and potential of our workforce by ensuring that
the aspirations of our employees are met through having
rich and exciting careers.
This commitment is clearly reflected in our guiding principle
that is When you grow, we grow.
In keeping with our guiding principle, RFC refreshed the
Talent Review and Succession Planning process within the
Performance Management Cycle with the introduction of
the Potential Diamond model. Potential Diamond evaluation
helps the people manager to have the right dialogue and
develop interventions to effectively unlock staff talent.
With this model, the potential rating of each employee is
calibrated and categorised into one of the potentials i.e. Top
Leadership Potential, Growth Potential, Expert Potential,
Core Talent and Concern.
The outcome of this will form the starting point to discuss the
readiness of employees which will then lead to succession
planning, a structured process of identifying possible
successors for critical roles in the company.
99
Annual Report 2021
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT
Has the capacity & ambition to develop the qualities
required for significantly more challenging and senior
leadership roles (i.e. Senior Management/Director
roles at HGRL 20+ with the capacity & ambition to
reach ELT positions in max. 5 years, and HG <20 with
the capacity & ambition to reach HG 20+ roles in max.
3 years. ~3-5%*
A solid contributor with the capacity & ambition to
develop and progress over time. This may include a)
promotions to high Hay grades, b) taking on more
challenging responsibilities in lateral roles, c) taking
on more challenging responsibilities in current role,
and/or d) ongoing personal development to keep pace
with business change.~70-80%*
Has the capacity & ambition to develop the qualities
required for more challenging and senior leadership
and/or business roles (i.e. Senior Management/
Director roles at HGRL 20+) over time.~5-10%*
Shows no capacity and/or ambition to develop and progress over time even within their current position. Root-
cause-analysis essential in order to define required next steeps; different development approach required. < 5%*
Has the capacity & ambition to develop the qualities
required for a) more challenging and sernio expert
roles, b) more challenging and senior expert roles,
b) more challenging lateral expert roles within their
functional discipline over time. Has the ambition to
remain a content-matter expert. A ”star” in their
functional area.~5-10%*
TOP
LEADERSHIP
POTENTIAL
EXPERT
POTENTIAL
GROWTH
POTENTIAL
CORE TALENT
CONCERN
Top Leadership Potential (TLP) Core Talent
Growth Potential
Concern
Expert Potential
100 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
101
Annual Report 2021
102 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
for the financial year ended 31 December 2021
The Directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Company for the financial year ended
31 December 2021.
DIRECTORS
The Directors in office during the financial year and during the period from the end of the financial year to the date of the
report are:
Saw Chooi Lee
Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden
Dato’ Dr Rosini Alias
Tengku Nurul Azian Tengku Shahriman
Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar
Jean Serge Krol
Darren Kong Kam Seong (Appointed on 14th April 2021)
Ramjeet Kaur Virik (Appointed on 2nd Jul 2021)
Dato’ Zainal Abidin bin Putih (Retired on 25th May 2021)
Tarang Gupta (Resigned on 2nd July 2021)
In accordance with Article 105 of the Company’s Constitution, Saw Chooi Lee and Bernandus Hermannus Maria Kodden who
were appointed since the date of the last report, shall retire by rotation at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the
Company and being eligible, offer themselves for re-election.
In accordance with Article 86.3 of the Company’s Constitution, Ramjeet Kaur Virik who was appointed since the date of the
last report, shall retire at the forthcoming Annual General Meeting of the Company and being eligible, offer themselves for
re-election.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company manufactures and distributes a wide range of dairy products, such as specialised powders for infant and
growing up children, liquid milk in different packaging formats and yoghurts. The Company markets these products under
various brand names such as Dutch Lady, Dutch Baby, Frisolac, Friso Gold and Dutch Lady PureFarm. There has been no
significant change in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
FINANCIAL RESULTS
RM’000
Net profit for the year 248,000
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year except as disclosed in the
financial statements.
103
Annual Report 2021
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
for the financial year ended 31 December 2021
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
There were no changes in the authorised, issued and paid-up capital of the Company during the financial year.
There were no debentures issued during the financial year.
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director has received or become entitled to receive a benefit (other than the
benefits shown under Directors’ Remuneration) by reason of a contract made by the Company or by a related corporation
with the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial
financial interest.
Neither during nor at the end of the financial year was the Company a party to any arrangements whose object was to enable
the Directors to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body
corporate.
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS IN SHARES AND DEBENTURES
According to the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings required to be kept under Section 59 of the Companies Act 2016, none
of the Directors who held office at the end of the financial year held any shares or debentures in the Company or its holding
company or subsidiaries of the holding company during the financial year. Under the Company’s Constitution, the Directors
are not required to hold any shares in the Company.
DIVIDENDS
Since the end of the previous financial year, the Company paid:
i) a first interim ordinary dividend of 25.00 sen per ordinary share, tax exempt under the single-tier tax system, totalling
RM16,000,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2021 on 11 June 2021; and
ii) a second interim ordinary dividend of 25.00 sen per ordinary share, tax exempt under the single-tier tax system,
totalling RM16,000,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2021 on 10 December 2021.
The Directors do not recommend any final dividend to be paid for the financial year ended 31 December 2021.
DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION
Details of Directors’ remuneration are set out in Note 16 to the financial statements.
INSURANCE EFFECTED FOR DIRECTORS
During the financial year, the total cost of insurance effected for Directors of the Company is RM19,380 (2020: RM9,722).
104 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
HOLDING COMPANIES
The immediate and ultimate holding companies are FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holding BV and Royal FrieslandCampina
NV respectively. Both companies are incorporated in the Netherlands.
OPTIONS GRANTED OVER UNISSUED SHARES
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
(a) Before the financial statements of the Company were prepared, the Directors took reasonable steps:
(i) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of
provision for doubtful debts and satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that
adequate provision had been made for doubtful debts; and
(ii) to ensure that any current assets, which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including
the values of current assets as shown in the accounting records of the Company had been written down to an
amount which the current assets might be expected so to realise.
(b) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) which would render the amounts written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts
inadequate to any substantial extent; or
(ii) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Company misleading;
or
(iii) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the
Company misleading or inappropriate.
(c) At the date of this report:
(i) there are no charges on the assets of the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year which
secures the liabilities of any other person; and
(ii) there are no contingent liabilities in the Company which have arisen since the end of the financial year.
(d) No contingent or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable within the period of twelve
months after the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the Directors, will or may affect the ability of the
Company to meet its obligations when they fall due.
(e) At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances not otherwise dealt with in this report or
the financial statements of the Company which would render any amount stated in the respective financial statements
misleading.
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
for the financial year ended 31 December 2021
105
Annual Report 2021
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
(f) In the opinion of the Directors:
(i) the results of the operations of the Company during the financial year were not substantially affected by any
item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature; and
(ii) there has not arisen in the interval between the end of the financial year and the date of this report any item,
transaction or event of a material and unusual nature likely to affect substantially the results of the operations
of the Company for the financial year in which this report is made.
AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
Details of auditors’ remuneration are set out in Note 15 to the financial statements.
AUDITORS
The auditors, PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT (LLP0014401-LCA & AF 1146), have expressed their willingness to accept
re-appointment as auditors.
This report was approved by the Board of Directors on 23 February 2022.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors:
………………………………………………………… …………………………………………………………
Ramjeet Kaur Virik Jean Serge Krol
23 February 2022
DIRECTORS’ REPORT
for the financial year ended 31 December 2021
106 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION
as at 31 December 2021
Note 2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 3 206,028 199,721
Right-of-use assets 4 4,584 9,732
Intangible assets 5 8,469 957
Total non-current assets 219,081 210,410
Inventories 6 161,055 151,016
Trade and other receivables 7 76,381 81,501
Prepayments 8 126,157 311
Cash and bank balances 9 118,300 55,605
Derivative financial assets 10 258 2
Total current assets 482,151 288,435
Total assets 701,232 498,845
Equity
Share capital 11 64,000 64,000
Retained earnings 318,580 102,580
Total equity 382,580 166,580
Liabilities
Lease liabilities 4 6,652 3,590
Deferred tax liabilities 12 5,968 4,494
Total non-current liabilities 12,620 8,084
Trade and other payables 13 282,795 295,492
Provision 14 106 228
Current tax liabilities 14,486 6,723
Bank overdraft 9 - 16,705
Lease liabilities 4 8,487 2,893
Derivative financial liabilities 10 158 2,140
Total current liabilities 306,032 324,181
Total liabilities 318,652 332,265
Total equity and liabilities 701,232 498,845
107
Annual Report 2021
STATEMENT OF PROFIT OR LOSS
AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
for the financial year ended 31 December 2021
Note 2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Revenue from contracts with customers -
sales of goods recognised point in time 1,133,733 1,100,659
Cost of sales (734,030) (743,582)
Gross profit 399,703 357,077
Other income 162,612 6,518
Distribution expenses (159,273) (155,875)
Administrative expenses (28,030) (30,850)
Other expenses (88,530) (76,869)
Results from operating activities 286,482 100,001
Interest income 1,417 683
Finance costs (3,374) (3,173)
Profit before tax 15 284,525 97,511
Tax expense 17 (36,525) (24,148)
Net profit for the financial year/Total comprehensive income
for the financial year 248,000 73,363
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share (sen) 18 387.50 114.6
108 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY
for the financial year ended 31 December 2021
Note
Distributable
Share
capital
RM’000
Retained
earnings
RM’000
Total
equity
RM’000
At 31 December 2020/1 January 2021 64,000 102,580 166,580
Net profit/Total comprehensive income for the financial year - 248,000 248,000
Dividends to owners of the Company 19 - (32,000) (32,000)
At 31 December 2021 64,000 318,580 382,580
Note 10
At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 64,000 80,417 144,417
Net profit/Total comprehensive income for the financial year - 73,363 73,363
Dividends to owners of the Company 19 - (51,200) (51,200)
At 31 December 2020 64,000 102,580 166,580
Note 10
109
Annual Report 2021
STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
for the financial year ended 31 December 2021
Note 2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Cash receipts from customers and other receivables 1,138,597 1,143,739
Cash paid to suppliers and employees* (1,126,132) (972,074)
Cash generated from operations 12,465 171,665
Income tax paid (27,288) (27,388)
Net cash (used in)/from operating activities (14,823) 144,277
Cash flows from investing activities
Purchase of property, plant and equipment 3 (53,922) (92,635)
Purchase of intangible assets 5 (7,770) (593)
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 3 194,001 137
Interest received 1,417 683
Net cash from/(used in) investing activities 133,726 (92,408)
Cash flows from financing activities
Interest paid (2,853) (2,922)
Dividends paid 19 (32,000) (51,200)
Payment for lease liabilities 4 (4,650) (3,655)
Net cash used in financing activities (39,503) (57,777)
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 79,400 (5,908)
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 38,900 44,808
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 9 118,300 38,900
* Included in cash paid to suppliers and employees is prepayment to related company amounted to RM125.7 million
(Kindly refer to Note 8).
NOTE TO THE STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
The reconciliation of movement of lease liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities is disclosed in Note 4.
Interest paid shown in cash flows from financing activities arose from interest paid to a licensed financial institution to
enable certain trade customers to pay goods invoiced through a corporate purchasing card issued by the financial institution.
110 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed
on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The address of the principal place of business and registered office
of the Company is as follows:
Principal place of business/Registered office
Level 5, Quill 9
No 112, Jalan Prof Khoo Kay Kim
46300 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
The Company manufactures and distributes a wide range of dairy products, such as specialised powders for infant and
growing up children, liquid milk in different packaging formats and yoghurts. The Company markets these products under
various brand names such as Dutch Lady, Dutch Baby, Frisolac, Friso Gold and Dutch Lady PureFarm.
These financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 23 February 2022.
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION
(a) Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act
2016 in Malaysia.
(i) Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations that are effective
The Company has applied the following standards and amendments for the first time for the financial year
beginning on 1 January 2021:
• Amendments to MFRS 16 ‘COVID-19-Related Rent Concessions’
• Amendments to MFRS 9, MFRS 139, MFRS 7, MFRS 4 and MFRS 16 ‘Interest Rate Benchmark Reform—
Phase 2’
The adoption of the amendments listed above did not have any impact on the current period or any prior
period and is not likely to affect future periods.
(ii) Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations that have been issued but not yet
effective:
A number of new standards and amendments to standards and interpretations are effective for the
financial year beginning after 1 January 2022. None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the
consolidated financial statements of the Group, except the following set out below:
• Annual Improvements to MFRS 9 ‘Fees in the 10% test for derecognition of financial liabilities’
(effective 1 January 2022) clarifies that only fees paid or received between the borrower and the
lender, including the fees paid or received on each other’s behalf, are included in the cash flow of the
new loan when performing the 10% test.
An entity shall apply the amendment to financial liabilities that are modified or exchanged on or after
the beginning of the annual reporting period in which the entity first applies the amendment.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
111
Annual Report 2021
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(a) Statement of compliance (continued)
(ii) Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations that have been issued but not yet
effective: (continued)
• Amendments to MFRS 3 ‘Reference to Conceptual Framework’ (effective 1 January 2022) replace the
reference to Framework for Preparation and Presentation of Financial Statements with 2018 Conceptual
Framework. The amendments did not change the current accounting for business combinations on
acquisition date.
The amendments provide an exception for the recognition of liabilities and contingent liabilities should
be in accordance with the principles of MFRS 137 ‘Provisions, contingent liabilities and contingent
assets’ and IC Interpretation 21 ‘Levies’ when falls within their scope. It also clarifies that contingent
assets should not be recognised at the acquisition date.
The amendments shall be applied prospectively.
• Amendments to MFRS 116 ‘Proceeds before intended use’ (effective 1 January 2022) prohibit an entity
from deducting from the cost of a property, plant and equipment the proceeds received from selling
items produced by the property, plant and equipment before it is ready for its intended use. The sales
proceeds should instead be recognised in profit or loss.
The amendments also clarify that testing whether an asset is functioning properly refers to assessing
the technical and physical performance of the property, plant and equipment.
The amendments shall be applied retrospectively.
• Amendments to MFRS 137 ‘onerous contracts—cost of fulfilling a contract’ (effective 1 January 2022)
clarify that direct costs of fulfilling a contract include both the incremental cost of fulfilling the
contract as well as an allocation of other costs directly related to fulfilling contracts. The amendments
also clarify that before recognising a separate provision for an onerous contract, impairment loss that
has occurred on assets used in fulfilling the contract should be recognised.
• Amendments to MFRS 101 ‘Classification of liabilities as current or non-current’ (effective 1 January
2023) clarify that a liability is classified as non-current if an entity has a substantive right at the end
of the reporting period to defer settlement for at least 12 months after the reporting period. If the
right to defer settlement of a liability is subject to the entity complying with specified conditions (for
example, debt covenants), the right exists at the end of the reporting period only if the entity complies
with those conditions at that date. The amendments further clarify that the entity must comply with
the conditions at the end of the reporting period even if the lender does not test compliance until a
later date.
The assessment of whether an entity has the right to defer settlement of a liability at the reporting
date is not affected by expectations of the entity or events after the reporting date.
The amendments shall be applied retrospectively.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
112 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(a) Statement of compliance (continued)
(ii) Standards, amendments to published standards and interpretations that have been issued but not yet
effective: (continued)
• Amendments to MFRS 112 ‘Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single
Transaction’ (effective 1 January 2023) clarify that the initial exemption rule does not apply to
transactions where both an asset and a liability are recognised at the same time such as leases and
decommissioning obligations. Accordingly, entities are required to recognise both deferred tax assets
and liabilities for all deductible and taxable temporary differences arising from such transactions.
None of these is expected to have a significant effect on the consolidated financial statements of the
Company.
(b) Basis of measurement
The financial statements have been prepared under the historical cost convention, as modified by financial assets
and financial liabilities (including derivative instruments) at fair value through profit or loss.
(c) Functional and presentation currency
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s functional currency.
All financial information is presented in RM and has been rounded to the nearest thousand, unless otherwise
stated.
(d) Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with MFRSs requires management to make judgements,
estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets,
liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are
recognised in the period in which the estimates are revised and in any future periods affected.
There are no significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying accounting policies
that have significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements, other than as disclosed below.
(i) Trade spend accruals
Trade spend accruals of RM51.4 million (2020: RM41.0 million), which consists primarily of conditional
rebates and promotional discounts, are based on agreed trading terms and promotional activities with trade
customers and distributors. Trade spend accruals are recognised under the terms of these agreements, to
reflect the expected rebates, promotional activities and historical experience based on estimated sales
volume. These accruals are reported within Trade and Other Payables (Note 13). The estimates for these
accruals are regularly reviewed by senior management of the Company.
A 5% (2020: 5%) increase in sales volume would have increase the trade spend accrual and decrease post-
tax profit by RM2.6 million (2020:RM2.1 million) and RM2.0 million (2020: RM1.6 million) respectively.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
113
Annual Report 2021
1. BASIS OF PREPARATION (CONTINUED)
(d) Use of estimates and judgements (continued)
(ii) Sales and leaseback
During the financial year, the Company completed the disposal of its existing manufacturing land and
buildings in Petaling Jaya and the subsequent lease back of the same properties for its operations until the
completion of the new facilities in Bandar Baru Enstek.
The Company assessed that the transaction qualifies as a sale and leaseback transaction and accordingly,
recorded the right-of-use asset in proportion to the previous carrying amount of the asset that relates to
the right of use retained and the related lease liabilities in respect of the leaseback.
The leaseback period is estimated to be 27 months to coincide with the completion of the new facilities
in Bandar Baru Enstek which is estimated to be in quarter 4 of 2023. Details of the sale and leaseback
transactions are disclosed in Notes 3 and 4 of the financial statements.
(iii) Accelerated depreciation
Following the disposal of the Company’s existing manufacturing land and buildings in Petaling Jaya and the
subsequent lease back of the same properties for its operations until the completion of the new facilities in
Bandar Baru Enstek which is estimated to be in quarter 4 of 2023, the Company has revised the useful lives
of the plant and machinery and furniture and equipments in the existing facilities to reflect the economic
useful lives of these assets which are non-transferrable to the new facilities.
Management estimated the total additional accelerated depreciation for 3 years to be approximately
RM48.5 million. The additional depreciation charge for the financial year 2021 is RM15.0 million.
The estimates will be reviewed annually by the engineers in charge of the project and the senior management
of the Company.
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these financial
statements, unless otherwise stated.
(a) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency of the Company at exchange rates at
the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the end of the reporting period are
retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated at the end of the
reporting period except for those that are measured at fair value are retranslated to the functional currency at
the exchange rate at the date that the fair value was determined.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in profit or loss.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
114 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial assets
Classification
The Company classifies its financial assets in the following measurement categories:
• those to be measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss,
• and those to be measured at amortised cost.
Recognition and derecognition
Regular way purchases and sales of financial assets are recognised on trade-date, the date on which the Company
commits to purchase or sell the asset. Financial assets are derecognised when the rights to receive cash flows
from the financial assets have expired or have been transferred and the Company has transferred substantially
all the risks and rewards of ownership.
Initial Measurement
At initial recognition, the Company measures a financial asset at its fair value plus, in the case of a financial asset
not at fair value through profit or loss (“FVPL”), transaction costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition
of the financial asset. Transaction costs of financial assets carried at FVPL are expensed in profit or loss.
Financial assets with embedded derivatives are considered in their entirety when determining whether their cash
flows are solely payment of principal and interest (“SPPI”).
Subsequent measurement
(i) Debt instruments
Subsequent measurement of debt instruments depends on the Company’s business model for managing the
asset and the cash flow characteristics of the asset. There are two measurement categories into which the
Company classifies its debt instruments:
• Amortised cost: Assets that are held for collection of contractual cash flows where those cash flows
represent solely payments of principal and interest are measured at amortised cost. Interest income
from these financial assets is included in finance income using the effective interest rate method. Any
gain or loss arising on derecognition is recognised directly in profit or loss and presented in other
income/(expenses), together with foreign exchange gains and losses. Impairment losses are presented
as separate line item in the statement of profit or loss.
• FVPL: Assets that do not meet the criteria for amortised cost or FVOCI are measured at FVPL. A gain
or loss on a debt investment that is subsequently measured at FVPL is recognised in profit or loss and
presented net within other income/(expenses) in the period in which it arises.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
115
Annual Report 2021
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial assets (continued)
Impairment
The Company assesses on a forward looking basis the expected credit losses (“ECL”) associated with its debt
instruments carried at amortised cost. The impairment methodology applied depends on whether there has been
a significant increase in credit risk.
The Company has the following debt instrument that is subject to the ECL model:
• Trade receivables
• Other receivables and deposits
• Intercompany receivables
While cash and cash equivalents are also subject to the impairment requirements of MFRS 9, the identified
impairment loss was immaterial.
ECL represent a probability-weighted estimate of the difference between present value of cash flows according to
contract and present value of cash flows the Company expects to receive, over the remaining life of the financial
instrument.
The measurement of ECL reflects:
• an unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is determined by evaluating a range of possible outcomes;
• the time value of money; and
• reasonable and supportable information that is available without undue cost or effort at the reporting date
about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions.
For trade receivables, the Company applies the simplified approach permitted by MFRS 9, which requires expected
lifetime losses to be recognised from initial recognition of the receivables.
For other receivables, deposits and non-trade intercompany receivables, the Company applies the general three-
stage approach to determine the ECL.
Significant increase in credit risk
The Company considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset and whether there has been a
significant increase in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period. To assess whether there
is a significant increase in credit risk, the Company compares the risk of a default occurring on the asset as at
the reporting date with the risk of default as at the date of initial recognition. It considers available reasonable
and supportable forward-looking information.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
116 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial assets (continued)
Significant increase in credit risk (continued)
The following indicators are incorporated:
• internal credit rating
• external credit rating (as far as available)
• actual or expected significant adverse changes in business, financial or economic conditions that are
expected to cause a significant change to the debtor’s ability to meet its obligations
• actual or expected significant changes in the operating results of the debtor
• significant increases in credit risk on other financial instruments of the same debtor
• significant changes in the value of the collateral supporting the obligation or in the quality of third-party
guarantees or credit enhancements
• significant changes in the expected performance and behaviour of the debtor, including changes in the
payment status of debtor in the group and changes in the operating results of the debtor.
Macroeconomic information (such as market interest rates or growth rates) is incorporated as part of the internal
rating model.
Regardless of the analysis above, a significant increase in credit risk is presumed if a debtor is more than 60 days
past due in making a contractual payment.
Definition of default and credit-impaired financial assets
The Company defines a financial instrument as default, which is fully aligned with the definition of credit-impaired,
when it meets one or more of the following criteria:
Quantitative criteria:
The Company defines a financial instrument as default, when the counterparty fails to make contractual payment,
as per the credit terms ranging from 1 to 60 days, when they fall due.
Qualitative criteria:
The debtor meets unlikeliness to pay criteria, which indicates the debtor is in significant financial difficulty. The
Company considers the following instances:
• the debtor is in breach of financial covenants
• concessions have been made by the lender relating to the debtor’s financial difficulty
• it is becoming probable that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation
• the debtor is insolvent
Financial instruments that are credit-impaired are assessed on individual basis.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
117
Annual Report 2021
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(b) Financial assets (continued)
Groupings of instruments for ECL measured on collective basis
(i) Collective assessment
To measure ECL, trade receivables arising from manufacturing and distribution of dairy product business
have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.
(ii) Individual assessment
Trade receivables which are in default or credit-impaired are assessed individually.
Write-off
(i) Trade receivables
Trade receivables are written off when there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. Indicators that there
is no reasonable expectation of recovery include, amongst others, the failure of a debtor to engage in a
repayment plan with the Company, and a failure to make contractual payments. Assessment on debtor’s
recoverability will be performed by management on a case by case basis.
Impairment losses on trade receivables and contract assets are presented as net impairment losses within
operating profit. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously written off are credited against the same line
item.
(ii) Other receivables, deposits and non-trade intercompany receivables
The Company writes off financial assets, in whole or in part, when it has exhausted all practical recovery
efforts and has concluded there is no reasonable expectation of recovery. The assessment of no reasonable
expectation of recovery is based on unavailability of debtor’s sources of income or assets to generate
sufficient future cash flows to repay the amount.
(c) Offsetting financial instruments
Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the statement of financial position
when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an intention to settle on
a net basis, or realise the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The legally enforceable right must not be
contingent on future events and must be enforceable in the normal course of business and in the event of default,
insolvency or bankruptcy.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
118 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(d) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Recognition and measurement
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated depreciation and any
accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset, import duties
and any non-refundable purchase taxes and any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to
working condition for its intended use, and the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring
the site on which they are located. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes the cost of materials
and direct labour.
Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as part of
that equipment.
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, they are
accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and equipment.
The gain and loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined by comparing the
proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and equipment and is recognised net
within “other income” and “other expenses” respectively in profit or loss.
(ii) Subsequent costs
The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is recognised in the carrying
amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the component will
flow to the Company, and its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced component
is derecognised to profit or loss. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant and equipment are
recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Gain or losses on disposal are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amount and are included in
profit or loss.
(iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components of individual
assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from the remainder of that asset,
then that component is depreciated separately.
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each
component of an item of property, plant and equipment from the date that they are available for use.
Property, plant and equipment under construction are not depreciated until the assets are ready for their
intended use.
Freehold land is not depreciated as it has an infinite life.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
119
Annual Report 2021
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(d) Property, plant and equipment (continued)
(iii) Depreciation (continued)
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows:
• buildings 10 - 25 years
• plant and machinery 5 - 33 years
• motor vehicles 5 years
• furniture and equipment 5 - 10 years
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and
adjusted as appropriate.
Leasehold land is presented under right-of-use assets in statement of financial position. See accounting
policy Note 2(e) on right-of-use assets for these assets.
(iv) Impairment
At the end of the reporting period, the Company assesses whether there is any indication of impairment. If
such indications exist, an analysis is performed to assess whether the carrying amount of the asset is fully
recoverable. A write down is made if the carrying amount exceeds the recoverable amount. See accounting
policy Note 2(g) on impairment of non-current assets.
(v) Change in useful life
The useful life and residual value of an item of property, plant and equipment is reviewed regularly and, if
expectations are significantly different from previous estimates, the depreciation charge for the current
and future periods should be adjusted. A change in the useful life or depreciation method is accounted for
prospectively as a change in accounting estimate.
(e) Leases – Accounting by lessee
Leases are recognised as right-of-use (“ROU”) asset and a corresponding liability at the date on which the leased
asset is available for use by the Company (i.e. the commencement date).
Contracts may contain both lease and non-lease components. The Company allocates the consideration in the
contract to the lease and non-lease components based on their relative stand-alone prices.
(i) Lease term
In determining the lease term, the Company considers all facts and circumstances that create an economic
incentive to exercise an extension option, or not to exercise a termination option. Extension options (or
periods after termination options) are only included in the lease term if the lease is reasonably certain to be
extended (or not to be terminated).
The Company reassess the lease term upon the occurrence of a significant event or change in circumstances
that is within the control of the Company and affects whether the Company is reasonably certain to exercise
an option not previously included in the determination of lease term, or not to exercise an option previously
included in the determination of lease term. A revision in lease term results in remeasurement of the lease
liabilities (refer to 2 (e)(iv) below).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
120 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(e) Leases – Accounting by lessee (continued)
(ii) ROU assets
ROU assets are initially measured at cost comprising the following:
• The amount of the initial measurement of lease liability;
• Any lease payments made at or before the commencement date less any lease incentive received;
• Any initial direct costs; and
• Decommissioning or restoration costs.
ROU assets that are not investment properties are subsequently measured at cost, less accumulated
depreciation and impairment loss (if any). The ROU assets are generally amortised over the shorter of
the asset’s useful life and the lease term on a straight-line basis. If the Company is reasonably certain to
exercise a purchase option, the ROU asset is depreciated over the underlying asset’s useful life.
In addition, the ROU assets are adjusted for certain remeasurement of the lease liabilities.
(iii) Lease liabilities
Lease liabilities are initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at that
date. The lease payments include the following:
• Fixed payments (including in-substance fixed payments), less any lease incentive receivable;
• Variable lease payments that are based on an index or a rate, initially measured using the index or rate
as at the commencement date;
• Amounts expected to be payable by the Company under residual value guarantees;
• The exercise price of a purchase and extension options if the Company is reasonably certain to exercise
that option; and
• Payments of penalties for terminating the lease, if the lease term reflects the Company exercising that
option.
Lease payments are discounted using the interest rate implicit in the lease. If that rate cannot be readily
determined, which is generally the case for leases in the Company, the lessee’s incremental borrowing is
used. This is the rate that the individual lessee would have to pay to borrow the funds necessary to obtain
an asset of similar value to the ROU in a similar economic environment with similar term, security and
conditions.
Lease payments are allocated between principal and finance cost. The finance cost is charged to profit or
loss over the lease period so as to produce a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of
the liability for each period.
Variable lease payments that depend on sales are recognised in profit or loss in the period in which the
condition that triggers those payments occurs.
The Company presents the lease liabilities as a separate line item in the statement of financial position.
Interest expense on the lease liability is presented within the finance cost in profit or loss in the statement
of comprehensive income.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
121
Annual Report 2021
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(e) Leases – Accounting by lessee (continued)
(iv) Reassessment of lease liabilities
The Company is also exposed to potential future increases in variable lease payments that depend on an
index or rate, which are not included in the lease liability until they take effect. When adjustments to lease
payments based on an index or rate take effect, the lease liability is remeasured and adjusted against the
ROU assets.
(v) Short-term leases and leases of low-value assets
The Company has elected not to recognised a lease liability for short term leases (leases expected term
of 12 months or less) or for lease of low value assets. Payment made under such leases are expensed on a
straight-line basis in profit or loss.
In addition, certain variable lease payments are not permitted to be recognised as lease liabilities and are
expensed as incurred.
(vi) Sale and leaseback transactions (seller-lessee)
In a sale and leaseback transaction, the requirements of MFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’
are applied to ascertain whether the transfer of an asset to the buyer-lessor qualifies as a sale.
If the transfer of an asset does not satisfy the requirements of MFRS 15 to be accounted for as a sale of
the asset, the Company continues to recognise the asset. The consideration received for the transfer of the
asset is recognised as a financial liability in accordance with MFRS 9 ‘Financial Instruments’.
If the transfer of an asset is accounted for as a sale, the Company derecognises the underlying asset and
applies lessee accounting requirements to the sold asset if the Company leases it back from the buyer.
A right- of- use asset measured at the proportion of the previous carrying amount that relates to the right
of use retained is recognised and any gain or loss that relates to the rights transferred to the buyer-lessor
is recognised.
If the fair value of the consideration for the sale of an asset does not equal the fair value of the asset, or
if the payments for the lease are not at market rates, the Company makes the following adjustments to
measure the sale proceeds at fair value:
(a) any below-market terms shall be accounted for as a prepayment of lease payments; and
(b) any above-market terms shall be accounted for as additional financing provided by the buyer-lessor to
the seller-lessee.
(f) Intangible assets
(i) Computer software
Computer software that is acquired by the Company, which has finite useful life, is measured at cost less any
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Costs that are directly associated with identifiable computer software and that will probably generate
economic benefits exceeding cost beyond one year or cost savings to the Company and are not integral to
other equipment are recognised as intangible assets. These costs include the employee costs of software
development and an appropriate portion of relevant overheads.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
122 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(f) Intangible assets (continued)
(ii) Subsequent expenditure
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the
specific asset to which it relates. All other expenditure is recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
(iii) Amortisation
Amortisation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value.
Intangible assets are amortised from the date that they are available for use.
Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of
intangible assets from the date that they are available for use.
The estimated useful life of computer software for the current and comparative periods is 5 years.
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and
adjusted, if appropriate.
(g) Impairment of non-current assets
The carrying amounts of non-current assets are reviewed at the end of each reporting period to determine
whether there is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount
is estimated.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group of assets that
generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows of other assets or
cash-generating unit.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less
costs of disposal. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present value
using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks
specific to the asset or cash-generating unit.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its related cash-generating unit exceeds
its estimated recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss. Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating
units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit
(or a group of cash-generating units) and then to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the cash-
generating unit (or a group of cash-generating units) on a pro rata basis.
Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at the end of each reporting period for any indications
that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment loss is reversed if there has been a change in the
estimates used to determine the recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised.
An impairment loss is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment loss had been
recognised. Reversals of impairment losses are credited to profit or loss in the financial year in which the reversals
are recognised.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
123
Annual Report 2021
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(h) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is measured based on the first-in first-out principle and includes expenditure incurred
in acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing them to their
existing location and condition. In the case of finished goods, cost includes an appropriate share of production
overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated costs of
completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
(i) Cash and cash equivalents
For the purpose of the statement of cash flows, cash equivalents are held for the purpose of meeting short-term
cash commitments rather than for investment or other purposes. Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash on
hand, deposits held at call with financial institutions, other short term, highly liquid investments with original
maturities of 3 months or less that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and which are subject to an
insignificant risk of changes in value.
Bank overdrafts which are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Company’s cash management
are included as a component of cash and cash equivalents in the statement of cash flows. In the statement of
financial position, banks overdrafts are shown in current liabilities.
(j) Share capital
Classification
Ordinary shares with discretionary dividends are classified as equity.
Dividend distribution
Liability is recognised for the amount of any dividend declared, being appropriately authorised and no longer at
the discretion of the Company, on or before the end of the reporting period but not distributed at the end of the
reporting period. Distributions to holders of an equity instrument is recognised directly in equity.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
124 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(k) Current and deferred income tax
Tax expense for the period comprises current and deferred income tax. The income tax expense or credit for the
period is the tax payable on the current period’s taxable income based on the applicable income tax rate for each
jurisdiction adjusted by changes in deferred tax assets and liabilities attributable to temporary differences and
to unused tax losses. Tax is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items recognised in
other comprehensive income or directly in equity. In this case the tax is also recognised in other comprehensive
income or directly in equity, respectively.
The current income tax charge is calculated on the basis of the tax laws enacted or substantively enacted at
the end of the reporting period in the countries where the Company and its subsidiaries, joint ventures and
associates operate and generate taxable income.
Management periodically evaluates positions taken in tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable
tax regulation is subject to interpretation. It establishes provisions where appropriate on the basis of amounts
expected to be paid to the tax authorities. This liability is measured using the single best estimate of the most
likely outcome.
Deferred tax is provided in full, using the liability method, on temporary differences arising between the amounts
attributed to assets and liabilities for tax purposes and their carrying amounts in the financial statements.
However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognised if they arise from the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred
tax is also not accounted for if it arises from initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction other than
a business combination that at the time of the transaction affects neither accounting nor taxable profit or loss.
Deferred tax is determined using tax rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by
the end of the reporting period and are expected to apply when the related deferred tax asset is realised or the
deferred tax liability is settled.
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against
which the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses or unused tax credits can be utilised.
Deferred and income tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to offset current
tax assets against current tax liabilities and when the deferred income tax assets and liabilities relate to taxes
levied by the same taxation authority on either the taxable entity or different taxable entities where there is an
intention to settle the balances on a net basis.
(l) Trade payables
Trade payables represent liabilities for goods or services provided to the Company prior to the end of financial
year which are unpaid. Trade payables are classified as current liabilities unless payment is not due within
12 months after the reporting period. If not, they are presented as non-current liabilities.
Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value net of transaction costs incurred, which include transfer taxes
and duties.
Trade payables are subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
125
Annual Report 2021
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(m) Provisions
Provisions are recognised when the Company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past
events, it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate
of the amount can be made.
Where the Company expects a provision to be reimbursed by another party, the reimbursement is recognised as
a separate asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. Provisions are not recognised for future
operating losses.
Where there are a number of similar obligations, the likelihood that an outflow will be required in settlement is
determined by considering the class of obligations as a whole. A provision is recognised even if the likelihood of
an outflow with respect to any one item included in the same class of obligations may be small.
Provisions are measured at the present value of management’s best estimate of the expenditures expected to
be required to settle the obligation using a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time
value of money and the risks specific to the obligation. The increase in the provision due to passage of time is
recognised as finance cost expense.
(n) Revenue from contracts with customers and other income
Revenue from contracts with customers
(i) Goods sold
The Company manufactures and distributes a wide range of dairy products, such as specialised powders for
infant and growing up children, liquid milk in different packaging formats and yoghurts. Sales are recognised
when control of the products has transferred, being when the products are delivered to the customer.
Delivery occurs when the products have been shipped to the specific location, the risks of obsolescence
and loss have been transferred to the customer, and either the wholesaler has accepted the products in
accordance with the sales contract, the acceptance provisions have lapsed, or the Company has objective
evidence that all criteria for acceptance have been satisfied.
The dairy products are often sold with trade discounts and volume rebates based on aggregate sales.
Revenue from these sales is recognised based on the price specified in the contract, net of the estimated
trade discounts and volume rebates. Accumulated experience is used to estimate and provide for the
discounts, using the expected value method, and revenue is only recognised to the extent that it is highly
probable that a significant reversal will not occur. No element of financing is deemed present as the sales
are made with a credit term ranging from 1 to 60 days, which is consistent with market practice.
A receivable is recognised when the goods are delivered as this is the point in time that the consideration
is unconditional because only the passage of time is required before the payment is due.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
126 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(n) Revenue from contracts with customers and other income (continued)
Revenue from contracts with customers (continued)
(ii) Accounting for refunds
The Company is obliged to refund the purchase price of the product sold in situations where the customer
has a contractual right to return the product within a given period. The Company recognised refund liability
for returns which was measured based on the sales consideration and the corresponding entry to revenue.
Under MFRS 15, a refund liability for the expected refunds to customers is recognised as an adjustment to
revenue and classified as part of the ‘trade and other payable’ balances.
Other income
(i) Interest income
Interest income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest method in profit or loss.
(o) Employee benefits
(i) Short-term employee benefits
Short-term employee benefit obligations in respect of salaries, annual bonuses, paid annual leave and sick
leave are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus if the Company
has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay this amount as a result of past service provided by the
employee and the obligation can be estimated reliably.
(ii) State plans
The Company’s contributions to statutory pension funds are charged to profit or loss in the financial year
to which they relate. Prepaid contributions are recognised as an asset to the extent that a cash refund or a
reduction in future payments is available.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
127
Annual Report 2021
2. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
(p) Earnings per ordinary share
The Company presents basic and diluted earnings per share data for its ordinary shares (“EPS”).
Basic and diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the
Company by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
(q) Operating segments
An operating segment is a component of the Company that engages in business activities from which it may
earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of
the Company’s other components. An operating segment’s operating results are reviewed regularly by the
chief operating decision maker, which in this case is the Board of Directors of the Company, to make decisions
about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for which discrete financial
information is available.
(r) Fair value measurements
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is determined as
the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date. The measurement assumes that the transaction to sell the asset
or transfer the liability takes place either in the principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the
most advantageous market.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Company uses observable market data as far as
possible. Fair values are categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on the input used in the
valuation technique.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
128 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Note
Freehold
land
RM’000
Buildings
RM’000
Plant and
machinery
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Furniture
and
equipment
RM’000
Capital
work-in
progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2020 - 66,462 139,277 590 38,691 33,134 278,154
Additions - - - - - 92,635 92,635
Written off - - (2,530) - - - (2,530)
Disposal - - (712) (94) - - (806)
Transfers 5 - - 18,061 - 3,701 (21,762) -
At 31 December 2020/
1 January 2021 - 66,462 154,096 496 42,392 104,007 367,453
Additions - - - - - 53,922 53,922
Written off - - (528) (326) (1,607) - (2,461)
Disposal - (62,689) - - - - (62,689)
Transfers 60,311 - 33,277 - 9,252 (102,840) -
At 31 December 2021 60,311 3,773 186,845 170 50,037 55,089 356,225
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
129
Annual Report 2021
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Note
Freehold
land
RM’000
Buildings
RM’000
Plant and
machinery
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Furniture
and
equipment
RM’000
Capital
work-in
progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Depreciation and impairment loss
At 1 January 2020
Accumulated depreciation - 43,943 80,094 542 20,773 - 145,352
Accumulated impairment loss - - 2,427 - - 6,893 9,320
- 43,943 82,521 542 20,773 6,893 154,672
Depreciation for the year - 2,751 7,208 48 5,878 - 15,885
Written off - - (2,208) - - - (2,208)
Disposal - - (523) (94) - - (617)
At 31 December 2020/
1 January 2021
Accumulated depreciation - 46,694 84,571 496 26,651 - 158,412
Accumulated impairment loss - - 2,427 - - 6,893 9,320
- 46,694 86,998 496 26,651 6,893 167,732
Depreciation for the year - 5,621 20,274 - 7,598 - 33,493
Written off - - (528) (326) (1,607) - (2,461)
Disposal - (48,567) - - - - (48,567)
At 31 December 2021
Accumulated depreciation - 3,748 104,317 170 32,642 - 140,877
Accumulated impairment loss - - 2,427 - - 6,893 9,320
- 3,748 106,744 170 32,642 6,893 150,197
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2020 - 19,768 67,098 - 15,741 97,114 199,721
At 31 December 2021 60,311 25 80,101 - 17,395 48,196 206,028
(a) Included in property, plant and equipment of the Company are fully depreciated assets, which are still in use, with
an aggregate cost of approximately RM86,660,269 (2020: RM93,172,368).
(b) As at 31 December 2020, included in capital work-in-progress is the purchase of 3 parcels of freehold land for a
total consideration of RM56.8 million for the consideration of new manufacturing facilities in Bandar Baru Enstek.
The land was transferred to freehold land during the year 2021.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
130 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
3. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Disposal of manufacturing land and buildings at Petaling Jaya
During the financial year, the Company completed the disposal of its existing manufacturing land and buildings at
Petaling Jaya for a total cash consideration of RM200.0 million. The Company subsequently leased back the same
properties for a term of 27 months.
Accordingly, the Company derecognised the related land and buildings (classified as right-of use asset and property,
plant and equipment respectively) and recognised a right-of-use asset measured at the proportion of the previous
carrying amount that is retained for use by the Company. Significant terms of the lease are disclosed in Note 4.
The gain recognised in the profit or loss for the disposal of the property, plant and equipment and right-of-use assets
amounted to RM24.8 million and RM129.7 million respectively.
The Company has received the cash consideration in full of RM194 million. This amount is net of real property gains tax
withheld of RM6.0 million. A remaining real property gains tax payable of RM8.5 million has been accrued for under
current tax liabilities.
Contractual commitments
Contractual commitments for acquisition of property, plant and equipment not yet recognised in the financial
statements amounted to RM87.9 million (2020: RM9.7 million).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
131
Annual Report 2021
4. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
The Company as a lessee
(i) Information about ROU assets, lease liabilities, expenses and cash flows related to leases:
ROU assets
Lease hold
and Buildings
RM’000
Motor
vehicles
RM’000
Plant and
equipment
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2020 7,253 - 1,326 8,579
Additions 4,050 - 4,863 8,913
Derecognition (1,538) - (643) (2,181)
At 31 December 2020/1 January 2021 9,765 - 5,546 15,311
Additions
- Sales and leaseback 1,393 - - 1,393
- Others 35 347 - 382
1,428 347 - 1,775
Derecognition (89) - (444) (533)
Modification - - (805) (805)
Disposal arising from sales and leaseback (5,639) - - (5,639)
At 31 December 2021 5,465 347 4,297 10,109
Accumulated depreciation charge
At 1 January 2020 4,045 - 557 4,602
Depreciation for the year 1,479 - 1,679 3,158
Derecognition (1,538) - (643) (2,181)
At 31 December 2020/1 January 2021 3,986 - 1,593 5,579
Depreciation for the year 1,544 82 1,669 3,295
Derecognition (89) - (444) (533)
Disposal arising from sales and leaseback (2,816) - - (2,816)
At 31 December 2021 2,625 82 2,818 5,525
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2020 5,779 - 3,953 9,732
At 31 December 2021 2,840 265 1,479 4,584
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
132 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
4. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
The Company as a lessee (continued)
(i) Information about ROU assets, lease liabilities, expenses and cash flows related to leases (continued):
Lease liabilities
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Balance at 1 January 6,483 974
Additions
- sales and leaseback 13,302 -
- others 282 8,913
Interest charged during the year 521 251
Repayment of lease liability (included in cash flows from financing activities) (4,650) (3,699)
Unrealised exchange rate loss 6 44
Modification (805) -
15,139 6,483
Lease liabilities are presented in the statement of financial position as follows:
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Current liabilities 8,487 2,893
Non-current liabilities 6,652 3,590
15,139 6,483
Charged to statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income
Expenses/(Income) related to leases are disclosed in Note 15.
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Lease payments not recognised as liabilities:
Expense related to low value leases 1,596 215
Expense related to short-term leases 133 839
Expense related to variable leases 490 1,979
Non-lease components 536 553
Gain arising from sale and leaseback transaction (129,725) -
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
133
Annual Report 2021
4. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
The Company as a lessee (continued)
(ii) The Company’s leasing activities and how these are accounted for
In the prior year, leasehold land relates to the lease of land with unexpired lease period of less than 50 years for
the Company’s factory buildings, office complex and warehouse located in Petaling Jaya. The lease will expire in
2059 and the Company does not have an option to purchase the leased land at the expiry of the lease period.
As disclosed in Note 3, the Company completed the disposal of its existing manufacturing land and buildings
previously recorded as right-of-use-assets and property plant and equipment respectively. The subsequent
leaseback of the land and buildings were recorded as additions in right-of-use-assets in the current financial
year. The lease will expire in September 2023 with option to renew for two further terms of 6 months with
2 months’ notice of termination. The Company recognised right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for 27 months
representing 24 months initial term plus anticipated extension of 3 months.
The Company leases other offices, motor vehicles, plant and equipment, and office equipment. Rental contracts
are typically made for fixed periods of 1 to 7 years but may have extension options. Lease terms are negotiated
on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms and conditions. The lease agreements do not
impose any covenants, but leased assets may not be used as security for borrowing purposes.
(iii) Variable lease payment
Variable lease payments relate to payments made for the lease of pallets which are based on the actual usage of
the pallets.
(iv) Extension and termination options
Extension and termination options are included in a number of equipment and property leases across the
Company. Lease terms are negotiated on an individual basis and contain a wide range of different terms and
conditions. Extension and termination options are included, when possible, to provide the Company with greater
flexibility to align its need for access to equipment with the fulfilment of customer contracts.
In cases in which the Company is not reasonably certain to exercise an optional extended lease term, payments
associated with the optional period are not included within lease liabilities. The financial effect of revising lease
terms to reflect the effect of exercising extension and termination options was an increase in recognised lease
liabilities of RM3.8 million (2020: RMNil).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
134 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
5. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Note
Computer
software
RM’000
Capital
work-in
progress
RM’000
Total
RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2020 16,569 7 16,576
Additions 49 544 593
Transfers 261 (261) -
At 31 December 2020/1 January 2021 16,879 290 17,169
Additions - 7,770 7,770
Transfers 590 (590) -
Written off (127) - (127)
At 31 December 2021 17,342 7,470 24,812
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2020 14,901 - 14,901
Amortisation for the year 1,311 - 1,311
At 31 December 2020/1 January 2021 16,212 - 16,212
Amortisation for the year 258 - 258
Written off (127) - (127)
At 31 December 2021 16,343 - 16,343
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2020 667 290 957
At 31 December 2021 999 7,470 8,469
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
135
Annual Report 2021
6. INVENTORIES
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Finished goods 87,758 74,635
Raw materials 60,950 67,207
Packaging materials 13,568 9,552
Spare parts 1,185 865
163,461 152,259
Provision for obsolescence of inventories (2,406) (1,243)
161,055 151,016
7. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES
Note 2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Trade
Trade receivables 67,836 68,311
Less: Loss allowance 7.1 (109) (266)
Net trade receivables 67,727 68,045
Amounts owing by related companies 7.2 285 7,302
68,012 75,347
Non-trade
Other receivables 5,337 5,170
Amount owing by related company 7.2 479 -
Deposits 2,553 984
8,369 6,154
76,381 81,501
7.1 The movements in the loss allowance of trade receivables during the financial year is disclosed in Note 22.4.
7.2 The credit terms of amounts owing by related companies ranged from 0 to 30 days (2020: 0 to 30 days).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
136 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
8. PREPAYMENT
Note 2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Prepayment to related company 8.1 125,670 -
Others 487 311
126,157 311
8.1 Prepayment to related company represents advance payments made for future raw materials purchases.
9. CASH AND BANK BALANCES
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Cash and bank balances 118,300 55,605
Bank balances are held at call with licensed banks.
(a) Cash and cash equivalents comprise:
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Cash and bank balances 118,300 55,605
Bank overdraft - (16,705)
118,300 38,900
Bank overdraft is unsecured and bears interest rate at the average rate of 2.58% per annum in year 2020.
10. DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL ASSET/(LIABILITIES)
2021 2020
Nominal
value
RM’000
Assets
RM’000
Liabilities
RM’000
Nominal
value
RM’000
Assets
RM’000
Liabilities
RM’000
Derivatives held for trading at fair
value through profit or loss
- Forward exchange contracts (100) 258 (158) 123,550 2 (2,140)
Forward exchange contracts are used to manage the foreign currency exposures arising from the Company’s payables
denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the Company. All the forward exchange contracts
have maturities of less than one year after the end of the reporting period.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
137
Annual Report 2021
11. SHARE CAPITAL
Amount
2021
RM’000
Number
of shares
2021
’000
Amount
2020
RM’000
Number
of shares
2020
’000
Issued and fully paid:
Ordinary shares with no par value 64,000 64,000 64,000 64,000
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are entitled to one
vote per share at meetings of the Company and rank equally with regard to the Company’s residual assets.
12. DEFERRED TAX LIABILITIES
Deferred tax liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Property, plant and equipment - - (14,330) (9,364) (14,330) (9,364)
Right-of-use assets - - (1,100) (1,644) (1,100) (1,644)
Inventories 577 299 - - 577 299
Receivables 26 64 - - 26 64
Payables 5,188 4,082 - - 5,188 4,082
Lease liabilities 3,633 1,556 - - 3,633 1,556
Derivatives 38 513 - - 38 513
Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) 9,462 6,514 (15,430) (11,008) (5,968) (4,494)
Movement in temporary differences during the year
At
1.1.2020
RM’000
Recognised
in profit
or loss
RM’000
At
31.12.2020/
1.1.2021
RM’000
Recognised
in profit
or loss
RM’000
At
31.12.2021
RM’000
Property, plant and equipment (8,833) (531) (9,364) (4,966) (14,330)
Right-of-use assets (246) (1,398) (1,644) 544 (1,100)
Inventories 601 (302) 299 278 577
Receivables 113 (49) 64 (38) 26
Payables 855 3,227 4,082 1,106 5,188
Lease liabilities 263 1,293 1,556 2,077 3,633
Derivatives 453 60 513 (475) 38
(6,794) 2,300 (4,494) (1,474) (5,968)
Note 17 Note 17
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
138 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
13. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Note 2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Trade
Amounts owing to related companies 13.1 36,836 76,384
Trade payables 13.2, 13.3 144,565 142,147
Trade spend accrual 51,419 41,011
232,820 259,542
Non-trade
Amounts owing to related companies 13.1 2,025 4,464
Accrued expenses 26,684 21,085
Payroll liabilities 11,107 8,355
Other payables 10,159 2,046
49,975 35,950
282,795 295,492
13.1 The credit terms of amounts owing to related companies ranged from 0 to 30 days (2020: 0 to 30 days).
13.2 Included in trade payables is refund liability in respect of market returns of RM3.4 million (2020: RM3.4 million).
13.3 Included in this amount is RM7.9 million (2020: RM29.8 million) of trade payables under a supply chain finance
programme. The credit terms for payment to the supply chain finance programme service provider is similar as
that with the trade payables.
14. PROVISION
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Employees’ pension contribution
At 1 January 228 207
Addition during the year 45 21
Reversal during the year (167) -
At 31 December 106 228
Employees’ pension contribution
Provision for employees’ pension contribution reflects provisions made for additional contributions to be made to the
statutory Employees Provident Fund that would vest upon unionised staff having completed five years of service. The
provision has been made on the assumption that all relevant staff will complete their five year term and that therefore
their benefits will vest in its entirety.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
139
Annual Report 2021
15. PROFIT BEFORE TAX
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Profit before tax is arrived at after charging/(crediting):
Amortisation of intangible assets 258 1,311
Auditors’ remuneration:
- Statutory audit - current year 92 89
- Other services 100 20
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment* 33,493 15,885
Depreciation of ROU assets 3,295 3,161
Finance costs
- Interest expense 2,853 2,922
- Finance charge arising from lease liabilities 521 251
Interest income (1,417) (683)
Inventories recognised as cost of sales 637,580 643,134
(Gain)/Loss on disposal of property, plant and equipment (24,159) 52
Gain arising from sale and leaseback transaction (129,725) -
Marketing expenses 114,748 116,808
Net (gain)/loss on derivatives (1,814) 251
Net (gain)/loss on foreign exchange:
- Realised (760) 2,819
- Unrealised (514) (464)
Personnel expenses (including key management personnel):
- Wages, salaries and others 64,332 63,020
- Contributions to state plans 9,393 9,319
Provision for/(Reversal of) obsolescence of inventories 1,163 (1,261)
Rental in respect of (Note 4):
- Premises 571 623
- Equipment 2,093 2,838
- Vehicles 91 125
Reversal of loss allowance of trade receivables (157) (178)
Write off of property, plant and equipment - 322
* Included in the depreciation of property, plant and equipment is the accelerated depreciation of RM15.0 million
(2020: Nil).
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
140 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
16. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COMPENSATION
The key management personnel compensations are as follows:
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Directors:
- Fees 524 481
- Remuneration 1,639 1,524
- Benefits-in-kind 145 410
2,308 2,415
Other key management personnel:
- Wages, salaries and others 4,549 4,429
- Contributions to state plans 504 484
5,053 4,913
7,361 7,328
Directors’ remuneration includes salaries, allowance and all other Directors related expenses.
Other key management personnel comprise persons other than Directors of the Company, having authority and
responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company either directly or indirectly.
17. TAX EXPENSE
Recognised in profit or loss
Note 2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Current tax expense
- current year 41,526 26,020
- (over)/under provision in prior year (6,475) 428
35,051 26,448
Deferred tax expense
Origination and reversal of temporary differences 12 1,474 (2,300)
Total income tax expense 36,525 24,148
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
141
Annual Report 2021
17. TAX EXPENSE (CONTINUED)
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Reconciliation of tax expense
Profit before tax 284,524 97,511
Income tax calculated using Malaysian tax rate of 24% (2020: 24%) 68,286 23,403
Non-deductible expenses 613 317
Income subject to different tax rate (29,568) -
(Over)/Under provision in prior year (2,779) 428
36,525 24,148
18. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY SHARE
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share was based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and
a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, calculated as follows:
2021 2020
Net profit for the year (RM’000) 248,000 73,363
Average number of ordinary shares in issue (’000) 64,000 64,000
Basic and diluted earnings per ordinary share (sen) 387.5 114.6
There are no potential dilutive ordinary shares in issue as at 31 December 2021 and 2020, and therefore, diluted
earnings per share equal basic earnings per share.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
142 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
19. DIVIDENDS
Dividends paid by the Company:
Sen
per share
Total
amount
RM’000
Date of
payment
2021
Single tier first interim 2020 ordinary 25.00 16,000 11.06.2021
Single tier second interim 2020 ordinary 25.00 16,000 10.12.2021
Total amount 32,000
2020
Single tier first interim 2020 ordinary 40.00 25,600 24.07.2020
Single tier second interim 2020 ordinary 40.00 25,600 24.12.2020
Total amount 51,200
20. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Company operates principally in Malaysia and in one major business segment being manufacturing and distribution
of a wide range of dairy products. The Company’s Board of Directors (the chief operating decision maker) reviews
internal management reports in respect of this segment at least on a quarterly basis.
Accordingly, no segment information is provided as the financial position and performance are as already shown in the
Statement of Financial Position and Statement of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income.
At the end of the financial year, there were no significant concentrations of revenue other than two major customers
with net revenues of approximately RM322.6 million (2020: four major customers with net revenues of approximately
RM500.2 million). These customers contribute to approximately 28% (2020: 46%) of the net revenues in the financial
statements or 17% and 11% respectively (2020: 14% ,12%, 10% and 10% respectively).
At the end of the financial year, the unfulfilled performance obligation of the Company is approximately RM28.0 million
(2020: RM1.9 million) expected to recognised as revenue in next financial year.
21. RELATED PARTIES
Identity of related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Company if the Company has
the ability, directly or indirectly, to control or jointly control the party or exercise significant influence over the party
in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Company and the party are subject to common
control. Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
Related parties also include key management personnel defined as those persons having authority and responsibility
for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Company either directly or indirectly. Key management
personnel include all the Directors of the Company, and certain members of senior management of the Company.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
143
Annual Report 2021
21. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)
Identity of related parties (continued)
The key management personnel compensation are shown in Note 16.
The immediate and ultimate holding companies are FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holding BV and Royal
FrieslandCampina NV respectively. Both companies are incorporated in the Netherlands.
Related party transactions and balances
The significant related party transactions of the Company are shown below. The balances related to the below
transactions are shown in Note 7 and Note 13.
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Management fee paid to immediate holding company
- FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holding B.V. (68) (135)
Management fee paid to fellow subsidiaries
- Koninklijke FrieslandCampina NV (Comp) (75) -
Purchase of fully packed dairy products and raw materials from fellow subsidiaries
- FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V. (318,641) (353,527)
- P.T. Frisian Flag Indonesia (116,161) (102,352)
Sales of fully packed dairy products to fellow subsidiaries
- FrieslandCampina Domo B.V. 1,387 1,920
- FrieslandCampina (Singapore) Pte Ltd 18,483 17,701
Know-how, trademark license and management support fees paid to fellow
subsidiary
- FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V. (26,963) (26,296)
Information, communication and technology services paid to fellow subsidiary
- FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V. (15,781) (17,516)
Advance payment to fellow subsidiary
- FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V. (125,670) -
Finance shared services paid to fellow subsidiary
- FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V.
- FrieslandCampina Service Centre Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd (3,334) (3,307)
Shared services fee received from fellow subsidiary
- FrieslandCampina Service Centre Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd 220 161
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
144 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
22.1 Categories of financial instruments
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows:
(a) Amortised costs (“AC”); and
(b) Fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”):
Carrying
amount
2021
RM’000
AC
2021
RM’000
FVTPL
2021
RM’000
Carrying
amount
2020
RM’000
AC
2020
RM’000
FVTPL
2020
RM’000
Financial assets
Trade and other
receivables 76,381 76,381 - 81,501 81,501 -
Derivative financial assets 258 - 258 2 - 2
Cash and bank balances 118,300 118,300 - 55,605 55,605 -
194,939 194,681 258 137,108 137,106 2
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables (279,355) (279,355) - (295,492) (295,492) -
Lease liabilities (15,139) (15,139) - (6,483) (6,483) -
Bank overdraft - - - (16,705) (16,705) -
Derivative financial
liabilities (158) - (158) (2,140) - (2,140)
(294,652) (294,494) (158) (320,820) (318,680) (2,140)
22.2 Net gains and losses arising from financial instruments
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
Net gains/(losses) from:
Fair value through profit or loss 1,814 (2,741)
Financial assets measured at amortised costs (708) (206)
Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost 182 (1,971)
1,288 (4,918)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
145
Annual Report 2021
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.3 Financial risk management
The Company has exposure to the following risks relating to financial instruments:
• Credit risk
• Liquidity risk
• Market risk
22.4 Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Company if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument
fails to meet its contractual obligations. The Company has adopted a policy of only dealing with creditworthy
customers, based on evaluation of the customers’ financial condition and credit history, as a means of
mitigating the risk of financial loss from defaults. The Company’s exposure to credit risk arises principally
from its receivables from customers and related companies and deposits placed with licensed banks.
Trade receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. The
Company performs credit evaluations on customers requiring credit over a certain amount.
The Company has entered into an arrangement with a licensed financial institution to enable certain trade
customers to pay goods invoiced through a corporate purchasing card issued by the financial institution.
This has resulted in the financial institution assuming the debts to the Company and credit risk is effectively
transferred to the financial institution.
A significant portion of these trade receivables are regular customers that have been transacting with the
Company. The Company uses ageing analysis to monitor the credit quality of the trade receivables. Any trade
receivables having significant balances past due more than 60 days which are deemed to have higher credit
risk, are monitored individually.
The Company’s approach to the expected loss rates are based on the payment profiles of sales over a period of
60 months before reporting date and the corresponding historical credit losses experienced within this period.
The historical loss rates are adjusted to reflect current and forward-looking information on macroeconomic
factors affecting the ability of the customers to settle the receivables. The Company has identified the GDP
and retail volume growth to be the most relevant factors.
The expected loss rate is depicted in the table below:
Age profile
Not past
due
Past due
1 - 7 days
Past due
7 - 14 days
Past due
14 - 30
days
Past due
31 - 90
days
Past due
more than
90 days
% 0.01 0.10 1.00 1.50 2.5 10.00
No significant changes to estimation techniques or assumptions were made during the reporting period.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
146 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.4 Credit risk (continued)
Trade receivables (continued)
Changes to loss allowance
The movements in the loss allowance of trade receivables during the financial year were:
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
At 1 January 266 444
Decrease in loss allowance recognised in profit and loss during the year (157) (178)
At 31 December 109 266
There were no significant changes to the gross carrying amount that contributed to changes in loss allowances.
The allowance account in respect of trade receivables is used to record expected credit losses and individual
impairment losses. Unless the Company is satisfied that recovery of the amount is possible, the amount
considered irrecoverable is written off against the trade receivable directly.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from trade receivables is
represented by the gross carrying amounts in the statement of financial position. The following table contains
an analysis of the credit risks exposure for which expected credit loss is recognised:
Gross
RM’000
Individual
impairment
RM’000
Expected
credit loss
RM’000
Net
RM’000
2021
Not past due 59,207 - (7) 59,200
Past due 1 – 7 days 6,878 - (11) 6,867
Past due 7 – 14 days 951 - (7) 944
Past due 14 – 30 days 525 - (18) 507
Past due 31 – 90 days 114 - (3) 111
Past due over 90 days 161 (47) (16) 98
67,836 (47) (62) 67,727
2020
Not past due 53,499 - (5) 53,494
Past due 1 – 7 days 11,847 - (21) 11,826
Past due 7 – 14 days 1,446 - (15) 1,431
Past due 14 – 30 days 961 - (15) 946
Past due 31 – 90 days 440 - (105) 335
Past due over 90 days 118 (68) (37) 13
68,311 (68) (198) 68,045
The individually impaired receivables relate to customers who are under ongoing litigation.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
147
Annual Report 2021
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.4 Credit risk (continued)
Other receivables and deposits
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
Other receivables and deposits are neither past due nor impaired. The Company believes that generally no loss
allowance is necessary in respect of other receivables and deposits that are neither past due nor impaired as
these receivables and deposits are mainly arising from debtors that have good records of payment in the past.
Related company balances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company undertakes trade and non-trade transactions with a number of related companies. The Company
monitors the repayment from its related companies on a regular basis.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the statement of financial position. The Company regularly follows up on timely settlement of the
amount owing by related companies. The related companies are not required to place any collateral with the
Company.
As at the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the amounts owing by related companies
are not recoverable as substantially all of these amounts are aged less than a year.
Deposits placed with licensed banks
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Credit risk arises from deposits with licensed banks and financial institutions. The deposits are placed with
credit-worthy financial institutions with high credit rating. The Company considers the risk of material loss in
the event of non-performance by a financial counterparty to be unlikely.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the Company has only placed deposits with domestic licensed banks. The
maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts in the statement of financial position.
As deposits are only placed with licensed banks, management does not expect the banks to fail to meet their
obligations.
The deposits placed with licensed banks are unsecured.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
148 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.5 Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due.
The Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises principally from its various payables.
The Company maintains a level of cash and cash equivalents and bank facilities deemed adequate by the
management to ensure, as far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they
fall due.
The Company has available undrawn overdraft facilities of RM18.3 million (2020: RM32.5 million) that can be
used to finance short term obligations, capital expenditure and general working capital requirements.
It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly earlier, or at
significantly different amounts.
Maturity analysis
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end of the
reporting period based on the undiscounted contractual payments:
Carrying
amount
RM’000
Contractual
interest
rate/coupon
RM’000
Contractual
cash flows
RM’000
Under
1 year
RM’000
Over 1 year
but not
later than
5 years
RM’000
2021
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 279,355 - 279,355 279,355 -
Bank overdraft - - - - -
Lease liabilities 15,139 286 15,425 8,524 6,901
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts 158 - 158 158 -
294,652 286 294,938 288,037 6,901
2020
Non-derivative financial liabilities
Trade and other payables 295,492 - 295,492 295,492 -
Bank overdraft 16,705 - 16,705 16,705 -
Lease liabilities 6,483 203 6,686 2,938 3,748
Derivative financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts 2,140 - 2,140 2,140 -
320,820 203 321,023 317,275 3,748
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
149
Annual Report 2021
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.6 Market risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates, interest rates and other
prices that will affect the Company’s financial position or cash flows.
22.6.1 Currency risk
The Company is exposed to foreign currency risk on sales and purchases that are denominated in a
currency other than the functional currency of the Company. The main currencies giving rise to this
risk are United States Dollar (USD), Euro (EUR) and Thai Baht (THB).
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its foreign currency risk. The forward
exchange contracts have maturities of less than one year after the end of the reporting period.
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Company’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the functional currency
of the Company) risk, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:
Denominated in
USD
RM’000
EUR
RM’000
THB
RM’000
2021
Amounts owing by related companies 158 109 -
Cash at bank 11,465 - -
Trade payables (8,556) (1,075) (12,026)
Amounts owing to related companies (32,436) (1,786) -
(29,369) (2,752) (12,026)
2020
Amounts owing by related companies 698 544 -
Cash at bank 375 - -
Bank overdraft (16,705) - -
Trade payables (3,726) (1,054) (11,205)
Amounts owing to related companies (56,435) (3,506) -
(75,793) (4,016) (11,205)
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
150 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.6 Market risk (continued)
22.6.1 Currency risk (continued)
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
A 10% (2020: 10%) strengthening of RM against the following currencies at the end of the reporting
period would have increased equity and post-tax profit by the amounts shown below. This analysis is
based on foreign currency exchange rate variances that the Company considered to be reasonably
possible at the end of the reporting period. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular
interest rates, remained constant and ignores any impact of forecasted sales and purchases.
Increase/(Decrease)
Equity Profit
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
2021
RM’000
2020
RM’000
USD 2,232 5,760 2,232 5,760
EUR 209 305 209 305
THB 914 852 914 852
A 10% (2020: 10%) weakening of RM against the above currencies at the end of the reporting period
would have had equal but opposite effect on the above currencies to the amounts shown above, on the
basis that all other variables remained constant. The movements in other currency exchange rates are
not expected to have any significant effect on the profit or loss.
22.6.2 Interest rate risk
The Company does not have fixed rate borrowings. The Company’s variable rate borrowings which is
primarily its overdraft facility is exposed to a risk of change in cash flows due to fluctuation in market
interest rate. The Company places short term deposits with licensed banks which are not significantly
exposed to risk of changes in interest rates. Short term receivables and payables are not significantly
exposed to interest rate risk.
22.6.3 Other price risk
Other price risk is the risk that fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate
because of changes in market prices (other than those arising from interest rate risk or currency risk).
Other price risk comprises equity price risk and commodity price risk. The Company is not exposed to
any other price risk.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
151
Annual Report 2021
22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
22.7 Fair value information
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents and short term receivables and payables reasonably
approximate their fair values due to the relatively short term nature of these financial instruments.
The carrying amounts of non-current lease liabilities reasonably approximate their fair value.
The table below analyses financial instruments carried at fair value together with their carrying amounts
shown in the statement of financial position.
Fair value of financial instruments
carried at fair value
Carrying
amount
Level 1
RM’000
Level 2
RM’000
Level 3
RM’000
Total
RM’000 RM’000
2021
Financial assets
Forward exchange contracts - 258 - 258 258
Financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts - (158) - (158) (158)
2020
Financial assets
Forward exchange contracts - 2 - 2 2
Financial liabilities
Forward exchange contracts - (2,140) - (2,140) (2,140)
Level 1 fair value
Level 1 fair value is derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities
that the Company can access at the measurement date.
Level 2 fair value
Level 2 fair value is estimated using inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable
for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Derivatives
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is based on the quoted price provided by the licensed banks with
which the foreign exchange contracts are entered into.
Level 3 fair value
Level 3 fair value is estimated using unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
152 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
23. CAPITAL MANAGEMENT
The Company defines capital as share capital (Note 11) and this is unchanged from the prior year.
The Company’s objectives when managing capital are to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the Company’s
ability to continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future
development of the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital, which the Company defines as
results from operating activities divided by total equity attributable to owners of the Company. The Board of Directors
also monitors the level of dividends to shareholders.
The return on capital at 31 December 2021 and 31 December 2020 were as follows:
2021 2020
Results from operating activities (RM’000) 286,482 100,001
Total equity attributable to owners of the Company (RM’000) 382,580 166,580
Return on capital (%) 74.9 60.0
The Company monitors and maintains a prudent level of total equity attributable to the owners of the Company to
ensure it is adequate to balance the support for future development of the business and the payment of dividends to
owners of the Company.
153
Annual Report 2021
I, Arent Naber, the Officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 106 to 152 are, to the best of my knowledge
and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the
provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above named in Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan on 23 February 2022.
…………………………………………………………
Arent Naber
Before me:
COMISSIONER FOR OATH
We, Ramjeet Kaur Virik and Jean Serge Krol, two of the Directors of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad, do hereby state
that in the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 106 to 152 are drawn up so as to give a true
and fair view of the financial position and financial performance of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December
2021 in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
………………………………………………………… …………………………………………………………
Ramjeet Kaur Virik Jean Serge Krol
23 February 2022
STATEMENT BY DIRECTORS
pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act, 2016
STATUTORY DECLARATION
pursuant to Section 251(1)(b) of the Companies Act, 2016
154 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our opinion
In our opinion, the financial statements of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (“the Company”) give a true and fair view of
the financial position of the Company as at 31 December 2021, and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the
financial year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
What we have audited
We have audited the financial statements of the Company, which comprise the statement of financial position as at
31 December 2021, and the statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income, statement of changes in equity and
statement of cash flows for the financial year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of
significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 106 to 152.
Basis for opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on
Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the “Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of
the financial statements” section of our report.
We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and other ethical responsibilities
We are independent of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International
Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have
fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Our audit approach
As part of designing our audit, we determined materiality and assessed the risks of material misstatement in the financial
statements of the Company. In particular, we considered where the Directors made subjective judgements; for example,
in respect of significant accounting estimates that involved making assumptions and considering future events that are
inherently uncertain. As in all of our audits, we also addressed the risk of management override of internal controls, including
among other matters, consideration of whether there was evidence of bias that represented a risk of material misstatement
due to fraud.
We tailored the scope of our audit in order to perform sufficient work to enable us to provide an opinion on the financial
statements as a whole, taking into account the structure of the Company, the accounting processes and controls, and the
industry in which the Company operates.
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
to the members of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V)
155
Annual Report 2021
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
to the members of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Key audit matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the
financial statements of the Company for the current financial year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit
of the financial statements of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate
opinion on these matters.
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matters
Use of estimates in revenue recognition arising from
rebates and discounts given to customers
Our 2021 audit was planned and executed having regard to
the fact that the operations of the Company were largely
unchanged from the prior year. In light of this, our overall
audit approach in terms of scoping and key audit matters
were largely unchanged with continued focus over the
estimates in revenue recognition arising from rebates and
discounts given to customers.
Revenue is recognised net of rebates and discounts.
Rebates and discounts recognised are based on the
expected entitlement earned up to reporting date under
each customer trading agreement and promotions run.
The Company has two categories of rebates and discounts
where estimates are used:
- Conditional rebates
- Promotional discounts
Conditional rebates and promotional discounts are
triggered when certain conditions are met. The amount
payable is based on conditions achieved, multiplied by rates
contracted with each customer in their trading agreements.
During the financial year, the Company incurred rebates
and promotional discounts totalling RM274.9 million. A
total of RM51.4 million of these rebates and discounts were
included in accruals as at 31 December 2021.
We focused on this area because of the the high volume
of transactions incurred during the financial year and
estimation involved in determining the appropriate amount
of accruals as at financial year end and especially in
relation to those promotions and campaigns that were still
ongoing at the financial year end and those in which the
actual data with regards the conditions to be met have not
been confirmed.
Refer to Note 1(d)(i) (Use of estimates and judgements) and
Note 2(n).
- We evaluated and tested the operating effectiveness
of controls in relation to the authorisation of rebates
and promotional activities and the determination of
year end accruals.
- We traced samples of rebates and discounts incurred
during the year to customers’ claims; and
- We evaluated the reasonableness of management’s
estimates on meeting volume or sales targets in
relation to conditional rebates and promotional
discounts. For selected samples we have performed
the following:
(a) a comparison of actual sales volume and values
achieved by the customer against the sales volume
and values recorded, or
(b) traced sample of accruals made to customers’
contracts and relevant supporting documents,
There were no material exceptions noted from our
procedures.
156 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
to the members of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Key audit matters (continued)
Key audit matters How our audit addressed the key audit matters
Accounting for sale and leaseback transaction and the
use of estimates in determining useful lives of assets
In a sale and leaseback transaction, the requirements of
MFRS 15 ‘Revenue from Contracts with Customers’ are
applied to ascertain whether the transfer of an asset to the
buyer-lessor qualifies as a sale.
If the fair value of the consideration for the sale of an asset
does not equal the fair value of the asset, or if the payments
for the lease are not at market rates, the Company makes
the following adjustments to measure the sale proceeds at
fair value:
(a) any below-market terms shall be accounted for as a
prepayment of lease payments; and
(b) any above-market terms shall be accounted for as
additional financing provided by the buyer-lessor to
the seller-lessee
Following the disposal of the Company’s existing
manufacturing land and buildings in Petaling Jaya and
the subsequent lease back of the same properties for its
operations until the completion of the new facilities in
Bandar Baru Enstek (“Project Big Blue”) which is estimated
to be in quarter 4 of 2023, the Company has revised the
useful lives of the assets in the existing facilities to reflect
the economic useful lives of these assets.
We focused on this area given the complexity in determining
if the transaction qualifies as a sale and leaseback
transaction and the amounts to be recognised in the books,
and in estimating the estimated useful lives of the assets.
- We reviewed management’s accounting for sales
and leaseback transactions, and assessed the
reasonableness of estimates uses in recognition of
the right-of-use assets and related lease liabilities
- We have evaluated management’s assumptions
surrounding the useful lives of property plant and
equipment
- We have performed recalculation of depreciation
based on the revised rates
There were no material exceptions noted from our
procedures.
157
Annual Report 2021
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
to the members of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Information other than the financial statements and auditors’ report thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Directors’
Report and the complete 2021 Annual Report, which we obtained prior to the date of this auditors' report, and Analysis of
Shareholdings, which is expected to be made available to us after that date. Other information does not include the financial
statements of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not express any
form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other information
and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of the
Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditors' report,
we conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have
nothing to report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the financial statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of the financial statements of the Company that give a
true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards
and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are also responsible for such internal control as
the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Company that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Company, the Directors are responsible for assessing the Company’s ability
to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern
basis of accounting unless the Directors either intend to liquidate the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Company as a whole are
free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved
standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when
it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they
could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing,
we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
(a) Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Company, whether due
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is
sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting
from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions,
misrepresentations, or the override of internal control.
(b) Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate
in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal
control.
158 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Auditors’ responsibilities for the audit of the financial statements (continued)
(c) Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by the Directors.
(d) Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit
evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant
doubt on the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we
are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the
Company or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence
obtained up to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Company to cease
to continue as a going concern.
(e) Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Company, including the
disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Company represent the underlying transactions and events in
a manner that achieves fair presentation.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant
audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding
independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear
on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the
audit of the financial statements of the Company for the current financial year and are therefore the key audit matters. We
describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when,
in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse
consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
OTHER MATTERS
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this
report.
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS PLT GAN WEE FONG
LLP0014401-LCA & AF 1146 03253/01/2023 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
23 February 2022
INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT
to the members of Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V)
159
Annual Report 2021
RECURRENT RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
OF A REVENUE OR TRADING NATURE
Related Party Nature of Transaction
Value of Transactions
from 25 May 2021 to
31 December 2021
RM’000
FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V., the Netherlands Purchase by DLMI of fully packed
dairy products and raw materials
309,709
P.T. Frisian Flag Indonesia, Indonesia Purchase by DLMI of fully
packed dairy products including
products packed in PET bottle
and raw materials
81,387
FrieslandCampina Foremost (Thailand) Pte Ltd Purchase by DLMI of fully packed
dairy products and raw materials
-
FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V., the Netherlands Sale by DLMI of fully packed
dairy products
825
FrieslandCampina (Singapore) Pte Ltd, Singapore Sale by DLMI of fully packed
dairy products
10,973
FrieslandCampina Nederland B.V., the Netherlands Payment of fees by DLMI for
know-how, Trademark licence and
Management support
16,308
FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holding B.V.,
the Netherlands
Payment of fees by DLMI for
corporate management fees
34
FrieslandCampina B.V. Payment of fees by DLMI for
shared ICT and communication
services
9,492
FrieslandCampina Service Centre Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd Payment of fees by DLMI for
shared finance and procurement
services
1,979
FrieslandCampina Service Centre Asia Pacific Sdn Bhd Receipt of fees by DLMI for the
provision of shared corporate
services
128
Royal FrieslandCampina N.V. Interest on inter-company credit
facility
-
160 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
Analysis of Shareholdings as at 15 March 2022
Class of Shares Ordinary shares
Voting Rights On show of hands : 1 vote
On a poll : 1 vote for each share held
Distribution Schedule of Shareholders
Size of Holdings
No. of
Shareholders
% of
Shareholders
No. of
Shares
% of
Shareholding
Less than 100 shares 276 4.48 2,323 0.00
100 to 1,000 shares 4,200 68.21 1,952,346 3.05
1,001 to 10,000 shares 1,484 24.10 4,865,937 7.60
10,001 to 100,000 shares 179 2.91 4,887,394 7.64
100,001 to 3,199,999(*) 15 0.24 7,775,600 12.51
3,200,000 & above (**) 3 0.05 44,516,400 69.56
6,157 100.00 64,000,000 100.00
Note: * - Less than 5% of Issued Holdings
** - 5% and above of Issued Holdings
Name of 30 Largest Shareholders No. of Shares % of Holdings
1. FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holding B.V. ** 32,614,800 50.96
2. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd **
Employees Provident Fund Board
7,091,600 11.08
3. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad **
Amanah Saham Bumiputera
4,810,000 7.52
4. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Maybank Trustees Berhad for Public Regular Savings Fund
(N14011940100)
1,995,400 3.12
5. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Amanah Saham Malaysia
1,609,600 2.52
6. Yong Siew Lee 584,000 0.91
7. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
ASN Umbrella for ASN Equity 3
567,200 0.89
8. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Islamic Treasures Growth Fund
496,800 0.78
9. Yeo Khee Bee 442,900 0.69
10. Aun Huat & Brothers Sdn Berhad 416,500 0.65
11. Kumpulan Wang Persaraan (Diperbadankan) 384,200 0.60
12. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Aun Huat & Brothers Sdn Berhad
(E-IMO/BCM)
336,900 0.53
161
Annual Report 2021
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
Name of 30 Largest Shareholders No. of Shares % of Holdings
13. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Amanah Saham Bumiputera 3 - Didik
200,000 0.31
14. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Dividend Select Fund
175,900 0.27
15. Chow Kok Meng 160,000 0.25
16. Yayasan Guru Tun Hussein Onn 156,300 0.24
17. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Public Islamic Emerging Opportunities Fund
132,200 0.21
18. Amanahraya Berhad
Kumpulan Wang Bersama Syariah
117,700 0.18
19. Public Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Pledged Securities Account for Chan See Min Realty Sdn Bhd (E-KUG)
100,000 0.16
20. HSBC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
HSBC (M) Trustee Bhd for Pertubuhan Keselamatan Sosial
(UOB AMM6939-406)
92,700 0.14
21. Tan Kim Onm 89,900 0.14
22. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
Exempt An for UOB Kay Hian PTE LTD (A/C Clients)
87,200 0.14
23. Tan Lee Hwa 84,000 0.13
24. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Exempt an for OCBC Securities Private Limited (Client A/C-R ES)
83,300 0.13
25. Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
CBNY for Emerging Market Core Equity Portfolio DFA Investment
Dimensions Group INC
81,800 0.13
26. Yee Anne 81,200 0.13
27. Tay Teck Ho 80,000 0.13
28. Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
CBNY for DFA Emerging Markets Small Cap Series
79,100 0.12
29. Chua Sim Hong 78,200 0.12
30. Tan Pak Nang 76,000 0.12
Total 53,305,400 83.30
162 Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
ANALYSIS OF
SHAREHOLDINGS
Substantial Shareholders as per the Register of Substantial Shareholders
Name Direct % Indirect %
1. FrieslandCampina DLMI Malaysia Holdings
B.V.
32,614,800 50.96 0 0
2. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
Employees Provident Fund Board
7,091,600 11.08 0 0
3. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
Amanah Saham Bumiputera
4,810,000 7.52 0 0
Directors Shareholdings
Name Direct % Indirect %
1. Datin Seri Sunita Mei-Lin Rajakumar 1,000 0.00 - 0.00
2. Ramjeet Kaur Virik - - - -
3. Saw Chooi Lee - - - -
4. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden - - - -
5. Dato‘ Dr. Rosini binti Alias - - - -
6. Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman - - - -
7. Jean Serge Krol - - - -
8. Darren Kong Kam Seong - - - -
Particulars of Properties as at 31 December 2021
Location of Property Lot 61320, Lot 61321 and Lot 61322,Mukim Bandar Baru Enstek,
Daerah Seremban, Negeri Negeri Sembilan
Brief description Vacant Industrial Land
Approximate land area 1,419,759 sq ft.
Tenure leasehold land Freehold land
Date of acquisition 17.12.2020
Age of property N/A
Net Book Value (RM) 60.311 million
PROXY FORM CDS Account No
No. of shares held
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD (Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V))
(incorporated in Malaysia under the then Companies Ordinances, 1940 – 1946)
I/We
(full name in block letters, NRIC No/Company No)
of
being a member/members of DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD hereby appoint:-
Full name (in block letters) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No of Shares %
Address
Email Address
And/or (delete as appropriate)
Full name (in block letters) NRIC/Passport No. Proportion of Shareholdings
No of Shares %
Address
Email Address
or failing him/her, the Chairperson of the Meeting as my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the Fifty-Ninth Annual
General Meeting of the Company which will be held fully virtual through live streaming and online remote voting from the Broadcast
Venue, Gallery 3, Level 3, New World Petaling Jaya Hotel, Paradigm, 1 Jalan SS7/26A, Kelana Jaya, 47301 Petaling Jaya, Selangor,
Malaysia on Wednesday, 25 May 2022 at 10 a.m. and any adjournment thereof, in respect of my/our shareholding in the manner indicated
below:-
RESOLUTION NO. RESOLUTION FOR AGAINST
Resolution 1 Proposed increase and payment of Directors’ fees for the financial year
ending 31 December 2022, to be paid quarterly
Resolution 2 Proposed payment of Directors’ benefits (other than Directors’ fees) for the
financial year ending 31 December 2022
Resolution 3 Re-election of Mr. Bernardus Hermannus Maria Kodden
Resolution 4 Re-election of Ms. Saw Chooi Lee
Resolution 5 Re-appointment of Ms. Ramjeet Kaur Virik
Resolution 6 Re-appointment of PricewaterhouseCoopers PLT as the Company’s Auditors
Resolution 7 Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
Please indicate with an “X” in the space provided whether you wish your votes to be cast for or against the resolutions. In the absence
of specific instruction, your proxy will vote or abstain as he/she thinks fit.
Signed this day of 2022
Signatures(s) of Shareholder/Attorney
(if Shareholder is a corporation, this part
should be executed under seal or under the
hand of its officer or attorney duly authorised)
By submitting the proxy form, the member and its proxy(ies) consents to the Company (and/or its agents/service providers) to the collection, usage and disclosure of their
personal data (which may include sensitive data) therein in accordance with the Personal Data Protection Act 2010 for the purpose of the AGM, including any adjournment thereof.
Notes:
1. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic, in the interest of our stakeholders’ health and safety, the Fifty-Ninth Annual General Meeting (“59th AGM”) will be conducted fully virtual
through live streaming and online remote voting via Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities which are available on Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at
https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my. With RPEV facilities, members may exercise their rights to participate and vote at the 59th AGM through the following modes
of communication: i) Typed text in the Meeting Platform ii) E-mail questions to finance.dept@frieslandcampina.com prior to the Virtual Meeting iii) You may submit
questions in advance on the AGM resolutions and Annual Report 2021 not later than 10.00 a.m. on Monday, 23 May 2022 via Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com, and select “SUBMIT QUESTION” to pose questions (“Pre-AGM Meeting Questions”). The Company has appointed Boardroom Share
Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) as the Poll Administrator for the 59th AGM to facilitate the Virtual Meeting. Please follow the procedures set out in the Administrative Guide
for the 59th AGM to register, participate and vote remotely via RPEV facilities.
2. The Broadcast Venue of the 59th AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which stipulates that the Chairman shall be at the
main venue of the 59th AGM. Members will not be allowed to attend the 59th AGM in person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the 59th AGM.
3. A Member entitled to attend and vote at the Annual General Meeting of the Company is entitled to appoint a proxy/proxies to attend and vote instead of him. A proxy need not be
a member of the Company. A proxy appointed to attend and vote at the Meeting shall have the same rights as a Member to speak at the Meeting.
4. Save for an Exempt Authorised Nominee as defined under the Central Depositories Act which may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account it holds with
ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the said securities account, a Member (including an authorised nominee) shall be entitled to appoint not more than two
(2) proxies to attend and vote at the same meeting. In any case, where more than one (1) proxy is appointed, such appointment shall not be valid unless the proportion of the
holdings represented by each proxy is specified.
5. The instrument appointing the proxy must be signed by the Member or his attorney duly authorised in writing, or if the appointer is a corporation, the instrument must be
executed under its common seal or under the hand of its officer or attorney duly authorised.
6. For the purpose of determining members who shall be entitled to attend the 59th AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to issue a Record of
Depositors as at 18 May 2022 (“General Meeting Record of Depositors”). Only depositors whose names appear on the Record of Depositors as at 18 May 2022 shall be entitled
to attend the said meeting or appoint proxies to attend and vote on their behalf.
7. To be valid, the original instrument appointing a proxy, duly completed (and if applicable, the power of attorney or other authority under which it is originally signed or notarially
certified copy of that power of authority) must be deposited at the office of Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at Ground Floor or 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan
Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia, not less than 48 hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment
thereof (or in the case of poll, not less than 24 hours before the time appointed for the taking of the poll); or by electronic means using the Boardroom Smart Investor Portal at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not later than 48 hours before the time set for holding the Meeting or any adjournment thereof. Please refer to Administrative Guide.
8. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set out in the Notice of the Fifty-Ninth AGM will
be put to vote by way of poll.
DUTCH LADY MILK INDUSTRIES BERHAD
(Registration No. 196301000165 (5063-V))
c/o Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd
11th Floor, Menara Symphony,
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim,
Seksyen 13,
46200 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Malaysia
Please fold here to seal
Please fold here to seal
STAMP
This Annual Report is printed on
environmentally friendly paper from responsibly managed forests
www.dutchlady.com.my
Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad (196301000165 / 5063-V)
Level 5, Quill 9, 112, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, 46300 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
