150 years of
good times.
One way
or another.
Heineken Malaysia Berhad
Annual Report 2023
In This Year’s
Report
1 Who We Are
Our Purpose & Values 02
About Us 03
Our Chairman’s Message 04
Directors’ Profile 07
Management Team’s Profile 11
2 Our Business Model
Our Impact from Barley to Bar 14
3 Performance Review
Five-Year Financial Indicators 16
Analysis of Group Revenue 17
Performance Highlights 18
Management Discussion & Analysis 20
Brand Highlights 26
4 ESG Review
About This Statement 35
Sustainability Governance 39
Materiality Assessment 45
Governance 51
Environmental Sustainability 55
Social Sustainability 69
Responsible Consumption 81
Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Indicators 87
5 How We Are Governed
Corporate Governance Overview Statement 89
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report 100
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control 104
6 Our Numbers and Other Information
Financial Statements 112
Other Information 163
Analysis of Stockholdings 164
Statement of 2023 Volumetric Water Benefits 166
Statement of External Assurance 167
Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Reporting Index 173
GRI Standards 2021 Content Index 174
Group Directory 177
Corporate Information 179
60th
Virtual
Annual General Meeting
Please scan the QR code for further
information on our 60th AGM.
For more information, visit:
https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/
annual-general-meetings/
Date
Thursday, 16 May 2024
Time
9.30 a.m.
This Annual Report has been
developed in line with the relevant
rules, regulations, guidelines and best
practices, which include:
• Companies Act 2016
• Bursa Malaysia’s Corporate
Governance Guide 4th Edition
• Bursa Malaysia’s Main Market Listing
Requirements
• Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance 2021
• Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards
• International Financial Reporting
Standards and other regulatory
requirements, as applicable
As for sustainability, the scope and
reporting framework of our ESG Review
are detailed on page 35 of this Annual
Report.
heineken malaysia berhad
02
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
WE ARE
Our Purpose
We brew the
Joy of True Togetherness
to inspire a better world
Our Values
Passion
for consumers &
customer
Courage
to dream &
pioneer
Care
for people &
planet
Enjoyment
of life
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
Annual Report 2023 03
Our 23.72-acre Sungei Way Brewery is the first in Malaysia to
receive the MS 1480: 2007 Hazard Analysis Critical Control Point
(HACCP) Certification from the Ministry of Health in August
2002. The brewery also received the ISO 9002 Certification since
1995 and has upgraded to MS ISO 9001: 2008 in 2010 and,
subsequently, to ISO 9001:2015 in 2018.
HEINEKEN Malaysia employs more than 500 people at our
headquarters and brewery in Petaling Jaya, Selangor, as well as
our 13 sales offices throughout Peninsular and East Malaysia.
Our people are the heart of the Company, driving us forward with
their energy and dedication. Through their every action and day-
to-day interactions, they reflect HEINEKEN’s values of Passion for
customers & consumers, Courage to dream & pioneer, Care for
people & planet, and Enjoyment of life.
These values strengthen our stakeholder relationships from Barley
to Bar, and underline our HEINEKEN Global sustainability strategy
to Brew a Better World. We believe it is critical to be responsible in
order to be sustainable, and take our responsibility to our people,
planet and performance seriously.
While promoting the enjoyment of our beers and ciders, we
take the lead in advocating responsible consumption. Through
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s corporate social responsibility arm SPARK
Foundation, we extend our commitment to grow with local
communities for a better tomorrow.
About Us
Heineken Malaysia Berhad (HEINEKEN Malaysia) is a leading brewer, with a portfolio of
world-class brands that includes:
• The World’s No. 1 international premium beer – Heineken®
• The great taste of Heineken® with dealcoholised
Heineken® 0.0
• The World acclaimed Asian beer – Tiger Beer
• The crystal-cold filtered beer – Tiger Crystal
• The World’s No. 1 stout – Guinness
• The smooth and creamy Guinness Draught in a Can
• The premium wheat beer born in the Alps – Edelweiss
• The New Zealand inspired cider – Apple Fox Cider
• The all-time local favourite – Anchor Smooth
• The premium Irish ale – Kilkenny
• The real shandy – Anglia
• The wholesome, premium quality non-alcoholic Malta
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s history in the country dates back to 1964,
and the Company’s shares have been listed on the Main Market
of Bursa Malaysia since 1965.
HEINEKEN Malaysia is 51% owned by GAPL Pte Ltd (GAPL)
and 49% by the public. The Company’s name was changed to
Heineken Malaysia Berhad on 21 April 2016 following Heineken
N.V.’s acquisition of Diageo Plc’s stakes in GAPL in October 2015.
GAPL is a subsidiary 100% owned by Heineken N.V., the world’s
most international brewer.
heineken malaysia berhad
04
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
Dato’ Sri Idris Jala
Chairman
Dear Shareholders,
As we reflect on the past year,
I am pleased to present
the 2023 Annual Report for
HEINEKEN Malaysia. Despite
the challenges posed by the
various economic uncertainties,
rising inflation, as well as
increasing pressures on cost
of living, we have navigated
through the challenges with
great resilience and I am proud
to share that we have emerged
stronger together.
Our Chairman’s Message
Group Revenue
RM2.64billion (FY2022: RM2.86 billion)
Group Profit Before Tax (PBT)
RM511million (FY2022: RM595 million)
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
Annual Report 2023 05
Our Chairman’s Message
During the year, inflation was on the
increase around the world, with food and
energy prices hitting new highs.
The global landscape remained complex,
fuelled by geopolitical conflicts that
intensified supply chain challenges,
contributing to rising input costs for
various industries including ours. In
Malaysia, according to the Ministry
of Finance, 2023 growth normalised
to 3.7%, following the robust growth
registered in the previous year (2022:
8.7%). Similarly, consumer sentiments
measured by the Malaysian Institute
of Economic Research, which recovered
above the threshold level in 2022
declined for most of 2023 except for the
last quarter when an improvement was
recorded, indicating that inflation and
cost of living worries persisted and had a
detrimental effect on consumer spending
during the year. However, the sentiment
going into 2024 appears to show signs of
recovery.
Similarly for HEINEKEN Malaysia, we
had a strong 2022 having recorded a
strong rebound where we accelerated
our recovery to perform above pre-
pandemic 2019 levels of revenue and
profit. With the economy fully reopened,
the restrictions that had suppressed
consumer spending for an extended
period lifted and a tidal wave of pent-
up demand surged. People yearned
for experiences – travel, dining out,
entertainment, and retail therapy.
This demand ultimately proved to be
unsustainable and as we observed, the
market experienced an extended phase
of correction and normalisation in 2023.
Post COVID-19 pandemic, HEINEKEN
Malaysia’s revenue rose to an all-time
high in 2022. This unprecedented growth
is largely due to customers “making up
for lost time” during the intermittent
COVID-19 lockdowns in 2020 – 2021. In
addition, many distributors placed more
orders than their normal.
In 2023, HEINEKEN Malaysia’s revenue
decreased by 8% to RM2.64 billion
compared to the previous year (FY2022).
This was mainly due to market correction
and weak consumer sentiment attributed
to growing macroeconomic concerns
in 2023. In perspective, the group also
underwent a notable recovery in 2022
(Revenue +44% versus 2021) post
the COVID-19 pandemic restrictions.
Correspondingly, Group PBT decreased
by 14% principally due to lower revenue
while the Group’s net profit decreased
by 6% due to the absence of the one-off
Prosperity Tax in 2023.
The Board of Directors (Board) has
proposed a single tier final dividend of
88 sen per stock unit for FY2023, subject
to the approval of shareholders at the
forthcoming Annual General Meeting.
The total dividend for the year amounts
to 128 sen per stock unit comprising:
and capabilities, and do these with a
cost and value mindset that will fund this
growth journey. EverGreen leverages our
existing strengths and new opportunities
to chart the next chapter of our growth.
We are making great strides in our
end-to-end digital transformation to
benefit our route-to-consumer and drive
cost efficiencies as we aim to become
the best-connected brewer. And we
are stepping up our focus to deliver
continuous productivity improvements
and raising the bar on our environmental
and social sustainability ambitions.
In 2023, we made significant progress
towards our Brew a Better World
sustainability and responsibility
ambitions in three key areas –
Environmental Sustainability, Social
Sustainability and Responsible
Consumption. I am proud that we have
accelerated our progress in our Net Zero
Carbon roadmap, which sets out our
ambition to reach net zero in Scope 1 &
2 emissions by 2030 and the full value
chain by 2040. Compared with the base
year of 2018, we have reduced Scope 1 &
2 carbon emissions by 65% in 2023. We
continued to maintain procurement of
100% renewable electricity through the
Malaysian Renewable Energy Certificates
(mRECs) which are purchased through
utility provider Tenaga Nasional Berhad’s
Green Electricity Tariff (GET) programme.
Our project to install an on-site solar
power generation facility is still ongoing,
and we target to go live by June 2024.
As a responsible brewer, we renewed
our commitment to protect water
resources through our “Towards Healthy
Watersheds” programme, committing
to invest RM6 million in our water
stewardship project across the next eight
years until 2030. Our three-pronged
approach combines water efficiency,
water circularity and water balancing
to ensure we do our part to protect our
watersheds. We have a target to balance
1.5 litres of water for every 1 litre of
water in our products. In 2023, we are
proud to have exceeded this target
again just as we have done since 2020,
achieving over 200% of the targeted
volume. In terms of water efficiency,
I take the opportunity to recognise the
efforts of the Management Team and
all employees at HEINEKEN Malaysia
for the extraordinary commitment
towards transforming our organisation
for a stronger future. Despite the
many uncertainties and obstacles we
have had to deal with in the past few
years, the team’s immense effort in
collaboration with our business partners
and valued customers helped to deliver
commendable results on all fronts,
accelerating our recovery above pre-
pandemic levels in 2019.
As an operating company of Heineken
N.V, we adopted the HEINEKEN Global
strategy – EverGreen, which is a multi-
year strategy designed to enable our
next chapter of our growth. Through
EverGreen, we aim to deliver superior
and balanced growth with greater
focus on meeting the needs of our
consumers and customers. We will drive
premiumisation, invest behind our brands
A single tier interim dividend of
40 sen per stock unit paid on
10 November 2023
A proposed single tier final
dividend of 88 sen
per stock unit
heineken malaysia berhad
06
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
Our Chairman’s Message
we improved our water consumption
by 1% versus 2022 and 21% versus our
2014 baseline. As for water circularity,
we continued treating 100% of our
wastewater before release.
We continued our practice of recycling
or upcycling 100% of our bi-products
and waste from production. Indeed,
we are proud of achieving Zero Waste
to Landfill since 2017. As a result of
our achievements in environmental
sustainability, we are proud to have
received recognitions externally at the
ESG Positive Impact Awards organised
by the Star Media Group, winning Gold in
the Waste Management and Innovative
Partnership categories. At the UN Global
Compact Network Malaysia & Brunei’s
Forward Faster Awards, we are proud to
be the winner in the Water Resilience
category.
We continued to lead by example when
it comes to advocating for Diversity,
Equity and Inclusion (DEI), with women
comprising 43% of our Board, exceeding
the Government’s target of 30% women
on the Boards of public listed companies.
We are also proud to be recognised at the
2023 HR Excellence Awards winning Silver
in the Work Life Harmony category and
Bronze in the Workplace Culture category.
Our commitment to improving social
sustainability extends beyond our
business. Our long running Tiger Sin
Chew Chinese Education Charity Concert
broke several records, successfully raising
RM26 million for eight institutions in
2023 which is the highest ever raised in
a single year. Since 1994, this initiative
has raised RM407 million for schools
across Malaysia. Recognising community
resilience and food security as a growing
societal concern, our HEINEKEN Cares
community food aid programme,
collaborated with Sokong, a civil society
fundraising platform by online news
organisation Malaysiakini. Our partnership
resulted in RM250,000 channelled to
six NGOs and social enterprises that
focus on community farming and access
to water and renewable electricity for
underprivileged communities.
As a progressive and responsible
corporate citizen, HEINEKEN Malaysia
also contributed RM1.4 billion in taxes
to the Government in 2023. I take this
opportunity to thank the Government for
not increasing excise duties on beer and
stout. As it is, Malaysia’s excise rate for
beer and stout ranks among the highest
in the world and any increase in taxes on
legitimate beer and stout products will
only fuel the illicit trade. We commend
the Government for committing to further
clamp down on illicit trade and pledge
our support for a more holistic approach
in addressing this issue, which represents
a loss of revenue for both Industry and
Government.
Acknowledgements
On behalf of the Board, I put on record
sincere appreciation to Datin Linda Ngiam
Pick Ngoh who retired from the Board
after more than 10 years of service. Datin
Linda Ngiam played an instrumental
role in providing valuable guidance and
insights in the Group’s strategic matters
on stakeholder communications, ESG/
sustainability, people development and
corporate governance. We convey our
heartfelt gratitude to Datin Linda Ngiam
for her invaluable contributions as a long-
serving member of the Board. In her place,
we are pleased to welcome Carmen Chua
as Independent Director. Carmen is the
Chief Executive Officer of ONE IFC Sdn
Bhd, the developer of the St .Regis Hotel
and Residences Kuala Lumpur, and the
Managing Director of ONE KLCC Sdn Bhd,
the developer of ONE KL condominium.
She also sits on the Board of various
companies within the CMY Capital Group
and she is a Trustee of Amanah Warisan
Negara, a National Public Trust founded
by Khazanah Nasional Berhad.
During the year, we welcomed another
new Board member, Erin Sakinah Atan
who replaced Raquel B. Esguerra (Rocky)
who has left the HEINEKEN Group to
pursue other opportunities. Erin is the
Regional Corporate Affairs Director
of Heineken Asia Pacific Pte Ltd. Erin
is an experienced Corporate Affairs
professional with an extensive background
in brand strategy, reputation and crisis
management, public affairs, integrated
communications and sustainability across
different sectors, including aviation,
automotive, conglomerates and financial
services.
On behalf of the Board, we thank
Datin Linda Ngiam and Rocky for their
contributions and wish them the best.
We welcome Carmen and Erin and I look
forward to serving alongside both capable
leaders on the Board together.
On behalf of the Board, I also take this
opportunity to thank our shareholders and
our trade partners for your continued trust
and support during this challenging year.
I would also like to thank our Management
Team, led by Roland, as well as all
employees at HEINEKEN Malaysia for
their One Strong Winning Team spirit,
united by our common purpose to Brew
the Joy of True Togetherness to Inspire a
Better World.
Thank you.
Dato’ Sri Idris Jala
Chairman
20 March 2024
We are proud to have received
recognitions externally at the
ESG Positive Impact Awards
organised by the Star Media
Group, winning Gold in
the Waste Management and
Innovative
Partnership
categories
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
Annual Report 2023 07
Directors’ Profile
Chairman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Malaysian | Male | 65
Appointed on 1 January 2017
Qualifications:
• Bachelor’s Degree in Development Studies and Management,
University Sains Malaysia
• Master’s Degree in Industrial Relations, University of Warwick
Board Committee Membership:
• Nomination & Remuneration Committee (Chairman)
Working Experience:
• Presently, President and Chairman of PEMANDU Associates.
• Former Managing Director of BFR Institute and CEO of
PEMANDU, a unit in the Prime Minister’s Department, Malaysia,
the organisation tasked with spearheading Malaysia’s
transition towards high income status by 2020.
• Served as Minister in the Prime Minister’s Department for 6
years, and later as the Advisor to the Prime Minister on the
National Transformation Programme.
• A renowned transformation guru in turning around companies’
performance through his big fast results methodology and
transformational strategies that are innovative, rigorous and
relevant to today’s demands.
• Has continuously delivered sustainable social economic reforms
which, in 2014, saw Bloomberg place him among the top 10
most influential policy makers in the world.
• Founder and Executive Chairman of the Global Transformation
Forum (GTF), the world’s singular platform for influential, global
leaders to engage and share experiences and best practices on
how to drive transformation.
• An Expert Resource Speaker at the Harvard Health Leaders’
Ministerial Forum and a Visiting Fellow of Practice at the Oxford
Blavatnik School of Government.
• Served on the Advisory panel for the World Economic Forum
(WEF) on New Economic Growth and also on the Advisory Panel
of World Bank.
• Former Managing Director / CEO at Malaysia Airlines (MAS)
for 3 years. He was brought on board to turn around the airline
which was in crisis brought about by a prolonged bout of losses
from operational inefficiencies.
• Prior to MAS, he spent 23 years at Shell, rising up the ranks
to hold senior positions including Vice President, Shell Retail
International and Vice President Business Development
Consultancy, based in UK. This included successful business
turnarounds in Malaysia and Sri Lanka.
Directorship in other Public Companies / Organisations in
Malaysia:
• Sunway Berhad
• Jeffrey Cheah Foundation
• MyKasih Foundation
Dato’ Sri Idris Jala
heineken malaysia berhad
08
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
Directors’ Profile
Managing Director
Non-Independent Executive Director
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Malaysian | Male | 58 Malaysian | Male | 71
Appointed on 1 September 2018 Appointed on 22 May 2021
Qualifications:
• Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administrations, UiTM Malaysia
Board Committee Membership:
• Nil
Working Experience:
Within HEINEKEN Group
• From February 2012 to August 2018, Managing Director of
Cambodia Brewery Ltd (CBL), HEINEKEN’s operating company
in Cambodia. In this role, he has led CBL to increase its market
share by more than double, establishing CBL as the market
leader in Cambodia.
• From March 2009 to February 2012, General Manager for
Danang and Quang Nam Breweries in the central region of
Vietnam.
• February 2008 to February 2009, Special Assistant to the
Regional Director of Asia Pacific Breweries.
Previous experience
• Started his career with British Petroleum (BP) where he spent
16 years working in sales, logistics, operations and planning
roles in retail, gas and lubes businesses.
• He was then appointed as the General Manager for BP Vietnam
from 2003 to 2005 and subsequently as the Sales Director for
the lubes business for Malaysia and Singapore from 2005 to
2007.
Directorship in other Public Companies / Organisations in
Malaysia:
• Confederation of Malaysian Brewers Berhad
Qualifications:
• Member of the Malaysia Institute of Accountants
• Bachelor of Commerce Degree, Canterbury University, New
Zealand
Board Committee Membership:
• Audit & Risk Management Committee (Chairman)
• Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Working Experience:
• A finance professional with more than 35 years of working
experience in various locations including New Zealand, Brunei,
United Kingdom, Malaysia, China and the Netherlands.
• Retired from Shell Malaysia in August 2011 after serving
the Royal Dutch Shell Group for over 30 years. His major
assignments include Finance Director of Shell Malaysia, Finance
Director of Shell China, Global Controller of the Exploration
& Production Division of Royal Dutch Shell Group, and Vice-
President Finance of Shell International Exploration and
Production B.V., in the Netherlands.
• Upon his retirement from Shell, David served 12 years with
Axiata Group Berhad and Celcom Axiata Berhad as an
Independent non-executive Director and Chairman of their
Board Audit Committees, and 11 years with Employees
Provident Fund, Malaysia as an Independent Investment
Panel member and 12 years with Malaysia Airlines Group as
an Independent Non-Executive Director and Chairman of their
Board Audit Committee.
Directorship in other Public Companies / Organisations in
Malaysia:
• KKB Engineering Berhad
• Boost Bank Berhad
Roland Bala Lau Nai Pek
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
Annual Report 2023 09
Directors’ Profile
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Singaporean | Female | 51 Singaporean | Male | 56
Appointed on 1 September 2020 Appointed on 26 October 2020
Qualifications:
• Bachelor of Law, 2nd Class Upper (Honours), University of Nottingham,
U.K.
• Diploma in Singapore Law, National University of Singapore
Board Committee Membership:
• Nil
Working Experience:
• Presently, Regional Legal Director of Heineken Asia Pacific Pte Ltd
(APAC), responsible for the functional oversight of legal in Asia Pacific.
She is also a member of the APAC Management Team.
• Has more than 20 years of in-house legal experience, with close
to 15 years in the alcohol and beverage industry. Her experience
includes general corporate and commercial matters (both regional
and operational), mergers and acquisitions, joint ventures, set up of
greenfield breweries, compliance and managing disputes in the Asia
Pacific region.
• Joined the APAC team as Senior Legal Manager in 2006. During this
time, she successfully advised on and negotiated various mergers and
acquisition projects in various markets within APAC.
• In 2015, she moved to Asia Pacific Breweries (Singapore) Pte Ltd
(APB Singapore) as Legal Director and a member of the Management
Team, where she was a valued business partner and was instrumental
in successfully achieving a commitment with the Competition and
Consumer Commission of Singapore in respect of APB Singapore’s
draught exclusive arrangements with outlets as well as facilitating a
transformational change to the APB Singapore route to market.
• In 2018, she undertook a short-term assignment to HEINEKEN
Cambodia for three months to establish a robust legal framework and
processes.
• In 2019, she moved back to the APAC Legal Affairs team to take on
the position as Legal Manager for APAC where she was responsible to
oversee a broad range of legal issues for various HEINEKEN operating
companies across the region as well as manage a range of mergers and
acquisitions and joint venture matters.
• Prior to joining HEINEKEN, she was the Legal Counsel for Sembcorp
Utilities Pte Ltd for five years.
Directorship in other Public Companies / Organisations in Malaysia:
• Nil
Qualifications:
• Advanced Management Programme, Harvard Business School,
Cambridge, USA
• Bachelor of Accountancy (Honours Degree), Nanyang
Technological University Singapore
• Chartered Accountant, Institute of Singapore Chartered
Accountants
Board Committee Membership:
• Audit & Risk Management Committee
• Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Working Experience:
• Currently serves as Managing Director of Heineken Asia Pacific
Pte Ltd (APAC) responsible for overseeing HEINEKEN operating
companies in the Asia Pacific region (2014 – present).
• Since joining APAC in 2003, he has held a number of strategic
positions including Chief Financial Officer of APAC.
• Before joining HEINEKEN, he was the Regional Business
Development Director of Royal Ahold N.V., a global retailer.
• He was a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director of
HEINEKEN Malaysia from 15 August 2013 until 30 September
2019 prior to his re-appointment on 26 October 2020.
Directorship in other Public Companies / Organisations in
Malaysia:
• Nil
Seng Yi-Ying Choo Tay Sian, Kenneth
heineken malaysia berhad
10
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
Directors’ Profile
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Singaporean | Female | 50
Appointed on 14 July 2023
Qualifications:
• Bachelor of Arts, University of South Australia
• High Impact Leadership Programme, Institute of Sustainability –
Cambridge University
• MBA Essentials, London School of Economics
• Women’s Leadership Programme, INSEAD
Board Committee Membership:
• Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Working Experience:
• Erin Sakinah Atan is the Regional Corporate Affairs Director of
Heineken Asia Pacific Pte Ltd (APAC). She is also a member of
the APAC Regional Leadership Team and the HEINEKEN Global
Corporate Affairs Management Team.
• Erin is an experienced Corporate Affairs professional with an
extensive background in brand strategy, reputation and crisis
management, public affairs, integrated communications
and sustainability across different sectors, including aviation,
automotive, conglomerates and financial services. She has led
businesses and teams across multiple markets in Asia Pacific and
beyond.
• For the first part of her career, she worked for consultancies in the
region, culminating with a leadership role as Vice President at
LEWIS (previously Blacki McDonald) where she led a team of 85
across 7 offices in Asia Pacific.
• She transitioned into in-house roles as Corporate Affairs Director
for Asia at BMW Group. Then, in 2011, she joined Rolls-Royce plc as
Corporate Affairs Director for Asia Pacific, Middle East and Turkey.
• After Rolls-Royce plc, she became Group Corporate Affairs Director
for Jardine Matheson Limited, joining the Group Executive
Management Team based in Hong Kong. In 2020, she took up the
responsibility as Senior Director of Corporate Affairs of Prudential
plc, responsible for the Asia and African regions, before joining
HEINEKEN in 2021.
Directorship in other Public Companies / Organisations in
Malaysia:
• Nil
Erin Sakinah Atan
Independent Non-Executive Director
Malaysian | Female | 40
Appointed on 13 May 2023
Qualifications:
• Bachelor of Science in Economics with First Class Honours,
London School of Economics and Political Science, United
Kingdom
Board Committee Membership:
• Audit & Risk Management Committee
• Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Working Experience:
• Carmen Chua is the Chief Executive Officer of ONE IFC Sdn
Bhd, the developer of the St. Regis Hotel and Residences Kuala
Lumpur; and the Managing Director of ONE KLCC Sdn Bhd, the
developer of ONE KL condominium.
• She also sits on the Board of various companies within the
CMY Capital Group and she is a Trustee of Amanah Warisan
Negara, a National Public Trust founded by Khazanah Nasional
Berhad with the objectives of undertaking projects involving the
rejuvenation, rehabilitation and/or operations of selected public
spaces together with heritage assets of national significance.
• Carmen was a member of the Blue Ocean Corporate
Council (May 2017 – May 2018) whose initiatives include
the MyApprenticeship programme, offering students the
opportunity for hands-on training and employment post-
graduation. She also served as a Trustee of Yayasan Hijau
(November 2014 – August 2018) focusing on promoting,
developing and improving education on energy efficiency,
green technology applications and green lifestyle practices and
a Director of the Kuala Lumpur Business Club from 2009 to
2012.
Directorship in other Public Companies / Organisations in
Malaysia:
• Nil
CHUA CARMEN
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
Annual Report 2023 11
Management Team’s Profile
Managing Director Finance Director Sales Director
Malaysian | Male | 58 Dutch | Male | 42 Malaysian | Male | 49
Appointed on 1 September 2018 Appointed on 15 June 2021 Appointed on 1 July 2023
Qualifications:
• Bachelor’s Degree in Business
Administrations, UiTM Malaysia
Working Experience:
Within HEINEKEN Group
• From February 2012 to August 2018,
Managing Director of Cambodia
Brewery Ltd (CBL), HEINEKEN’s
operating company in Cambodia. In
this role, he has led CBL to increase
its market share by more than double,
establishing CBL as the market leader in
Cambodia.
• From March 2009 to February 2012,
General Manager for Danang and
Quang Nam Breweries in the central
region of Vietnam.
• February 2008 to February 2009, Special
Assistant to the Regional Director of
Asia Pacific Breweries.
Previous experience
• Started his career with British Petroleum
(BP) where he spent 16 years working in
sales, logistics, operations and planning
roles in retail, gas and lubes businesses.
• He was then appointed as the General
Manager for BP Vietnam from 2003
to 2005 and subsequently as the Sales
Director for the lubes business for
Malaysia and Singapore from 2005 to
2007.
Qualifications:
• Bachelor and Master of Science in
International Business (Financial
Management), Tilburg University,
Netherlands
Working Experience:
Within HEINEKEN Group
• Prior to his appointment to HEINEKEN
Malaysia, he was Chief Financial Officer/
Head of Finance, Procurement and
Digital & Technology for AB HEINEKEN
Philippines (ABHP) since January 2020,
where he navigated ABHP through
continuous COVID-19 lockdowns. Under
these difficult circumstances, he has
shaped a new future for HEINEKEN in
the Philippines. He successfully managed
the transition of the Philippines business
from a joint venture structure with Asia
Brewery to a new partnership.
• Before moving to Manila, he was Finance
Manager for Europe Export & Global
Duty-Free (EE&GDF) for three years.
Under his leadership, the Finance team
has significantly improved business
partnering capabilities, professionalised
the revenue management approach in
EE&GDF and strengthened the control
environment, considerably impacting the
business.
• Joined HEINEKEN in 2007 as Finance
Management Trainee, after which he
was in Business Control and Project
Management positions in VRUMONA,
HEINEKEN Netherlands, and HEINEKEN
Brazil.
Qualifications:
• Bachelor’s Degree in Business Administration
(Major in Marketing), Universiti Utara
Malaysia
Working Experience:
Within HEINEKEN Group
• Joined HEINEKEN Malaysia in March 2020
as National Sales Manager responsible for
Field Force Management, Route-to-Consumer
and Distributor Management covering both
Malaysian Duty Paid and Duty Not Paid
Markets, before being promoted to Sales
Director in July 2023.
• Notable achievements in role include reframing
of Sponsorship Contracts, transforming Route-
to-Consumer to improve market fundamentals
and effective resource allocation. He has also
led the Sales Team to deliver HEINEKEN’s
Premiumisation agenda, giving the business a
better mix for long term growth.
Previous experience
• 22 years in Sales and Marketing in MNCs
with last 14 years in Senior positions
across Insurance (AIA), Tobacco (BAT)
and Beverages (Red Bull) industries. He
is experienced in both Brand and Trade
Marketing particularly in delivering Field
Force transformation, winning Route
to Consumer solutions, Distributor
reorganisation, Shopper Marketing, Trade
Terms and Pricing.
• He has spent time managing the Sales
Charter of the merger between BAT
Indonesia operations with Bentoel
International Investama PT Tbk in Indonesia
between 2009 to 2013 before returning to
BAT Malaysia.
• Since 2019, he is a member of the Board
of Governors for British American Tobacco
Malaysia Foundation.
Roland Bala Christiaan Johannes
Folkerts
Jimmy Ding Su Hong
heineken malaysia berhad
12
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
Management Team’s Profile
Marketing Director Digital & Technology Director Supply Chain Director
Dutch | Female | 43 Polish | Male | 43 Belgian | Male | 48
Appointed on 1 November 2022 Appointed on 1 January 2024 Appointed on 1 August 2023
Qualifications:
• Master’s degree in Communication
Sciences, University of Amsterdam
• Minor Degree in Business Economics,
University of Amsterdam
Working Experience:
Within HEINEKEN Group
• Prior to joining HEINEKEN Malaysia,
she was Heineken® Country Manager
Australia since August 2020.
• Before moving to Australia, Willemijn
was Head of Marketing for the Gulf
Region at Sirocco FZCO, HEINEKEN’s
Joint Venture with Emirates Group in
Dubai, leading the Brand and Trade
Marketing team.
• A strong track record of working across
the Heineken® brand and other portfolio
brands, driving brand and commercial
performance and working through-the-
line.
Previous experience
• Prior to joining HEINEKEN, she was
responsible for Marketing & Brand
Activation at Danone Switzerland before
developing her Marketing career at
C1000 Retail in the Netherlands.
• She holds 5 years of agency experience
in Amsterdam.
Qualifications:
• Master’s in Business Administration,
University of Amsterdam, Netherlands
• Master’s in Management and Economic
Consulting, Jagiellonian University, Poland
• Master’s in Political Science, University of
Gdansk, Poland
Working Experience:
Within HEINEKEN Group
• Prior to joining HEINEKEN Malaysia from
March 2022 to December 2023, he was
the Digital & Technology Director and
Digital, Technology and Shared Services
Integration Lead at HEINEKEN South
Africa responsible for the successful
integration between HEINEKEN South
Africa, Distell and Namibia Breweries.
• Between 2021 and 2022, he was the
Markets & Technology Manager for
Africa and Middle East, responsible for
Technology overall in the region and full
Digital & Technology agenda in 6 markets
(Egypt, Algeria, Tunisia, Sierra Leone,
Mozambique and UAE).
• In the previous years (2012-2021) he was
the IT Manager for HEINEKEN Global
Shared Services, Global Cloud & Hosting
Manager and Global Product Owner
for Software Development Lifecycle
Management.
Previous experience
• IT Service Delivery Manager at UBS
Investment Bank, building and running
organisation of ~170 software developers
and support engineers.
• Software Developer at Motorola, building
software for public safety systems.
Qualifications:
• Master’s Degree in Biochemistry
(Specialising in Brewing), University of
Ghent
Working Experience:
Within HEINEKEN Group
• Prior to his appointment to HEINEKEN
Malaysia, he was Supply Chain
Director HEINEKEN Mozambique since
February 2019, where he built the new
supply chain organisation within the
newly founded Opco and greenfield
production facility. He successfully
guided HEINEKEN Mozambique
through its first years of local operation,
navigating the COVID-19 restrictions
and building a strong local team.
• Before moving to Mozambique he was
Supply Chain Director of HEINEKEN
Jamaica – Red Stripe, laying the
foundation for the HEINEKEN way
of working in the newly acquired
business and incorporating the formerly
outsourced production of Red Stripe
from the USA back to the Jamaican
brewery.
• Before moving to Jamaica, he was
Supply Chain Manager of HEINEKEN St
Lucia – Windward & Leeward Brewery
where he set the local operation up for
growth and successfully integrated the
acquired local soft drink plant.
• Joined HEINEKEN in 2008 as Brewing
Specialist working on investment
projects (green and brownfield) in
various parts of the world before taking
on the role of Team Leader for the
Brewing Specialists department.
Willemijn Sneep Lukasz Kakol Niko Van
Cauwenberge
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
Annual Report 2023 13
Corporate Affairs & Legal Director People Director
Malaysian | Female | 56 Malaysian | Female | 47
Appointed on 1 February 2002 Appointed on 26 April 2021
Qualifications:
• Formerly an Advocate and Solicitor of the
High Court of Malaya
• Solicitor of the High Court of Australia
• Solicitor of the Supreme Court of
Queensland
• Post Graduate Diploma in Legal Practice
(QUT)
• Bachelor of Laws, University of Queensland
Working Experience:
Within HEINEKEN Group
• Over 20 years of experience within
HEINEKEN Malaysia.
• Held various roles including Head of Legal
Affairs before being promoted to Corporate
Affairs & Legal Director.
• Trustee of SPARK Foundation since 2013.
Directorships
• Since June 2007, serving as a Governing
Council Member of the Confederation of
Malaysian Brewers Berhad.
• Vice President and General Committee
Member of the Malaysian International
Chamber of Commerce & Industry (MICCI).
• EXCO member of the National Chamber
of Commerce & Industry of Malaysia
(NCCIM).
Previous experience
• Over 25 years of working experience in
legal including 15 years of experience in
corporate affairs.
• Advocate & Solicitor specialising in
corporate law at Skrine.
• Regional Legal Counsel at Sema Group.
• Vice President of Legal at Schlumberger
Sema.
Qualifications:
• Executive Education in Strategic Human
Resources, National University Singapore
Working Experience:
Within HEINEKEN Group
• Joined HEINEKEN Malaysia in April 2021
and partnered with the Management
Team establishing leadership capabilities
leading to our One Strong Winning Team
culture. Led culture change initiatives to
drive trust and confidence of employees
with the OpCo, leading to improved
climate engagement survey score above
Global High Performance Norms. She
led Malaysia to be a front runner in Asia
Pacific digitalization efforts, for the People
Function, from its manual and fragmented
ways of working, creating a reliable
interconnected workplace.
Previous experience
• 12 years with BASF (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
with last position held as Vice Director,
Human Resources, Malaysia – Singapore.
• 12 years with Levi Strauss (Malaysia)
Sdn. Bhd. with last position held as HR
Manager and Acting Retail Manager.
• Experience includes mergers &
acquisition, systems implementation
and deployment, change management,
culture transformation, leadership
development, talent management for
workforce planning and development of
people capabilities for future workforce
requirements. Experience encompasses
working with local stakeholders as well as
in collaborative projects either regionally
or globally.
Renuka Indrarajah Victoria Ang Su Lim
Management Team’s Profile
14
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
heineken malaysia berhad
Our Business Model
Our Impact from Barley to Bar
We brew beer and make cider from natural ingredients. By supporting
sustainable farming, 100% of our main ingredients (barley and hops) will
come from sustainable sources by 2030. Our suppliers comply with the
HEINEKEN Supplier Code, which details our commitment and enforcement
of ethical business conduct, human rights, and care for the environment.
We employ over 500 full time employees and we are committed to
developing our people. At HEINEKEN Malaysia, we always aim to dream
big and uncage our courage. Our One Strong Winning Team is guided by
HEINEKEN’s purpose to brew the joy of true togetherness to inspire a better
world, as well as our values of Passion for customers & consumers, Courage
to dream & pioneer, Care for people & planet, and Enjoyment of life.
At our Sungei Way Brewery in Petaling Jaya, Selangor, we are on the path
to net zero carbon emissions in production by 2030. Our water strategy
focuses on working towards healthy watersheds by combining internal and
external efforts to support water security. Our brewery has achieved
zero waste to landfill since 2017.
Our beers and ciders are served in bottles, cans and kegs. We aim for our
packaging design to stand out from the crowd while we also strive to reduce
its environmental footprint by innovating the materials we use as well as
improve recycling and reusing. We work closely with our suppliers to create
and scale efficient and sustainable packaging, reduce packaging waste and
increase the returnability of our glass bottles.
Agriculture
Employees
Brewing
Packaging
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
15
Annual Report 2023
Our Business Model
We are committed to embedding sustainability at the core of our
business. Our Brew a Better World 2030 strategy directly contributes
to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs) and
is woven into the fabric of our balanced growth strategy.
Brew a Better
World 2030
supports the
following
UN SDGs:
Path towards
Net Zero Impact:
Path towards an
Inclusive, Fair and
Equitable Company
and World:
Path towards
Moderation and
No Harmful Use
We work to optimise efficiencies throughout our distribution
networks across Malaysia. Safety is a key priority and we
continually engage our employees, distributors and logistics
partners to stay safe on the road.
Millions of consumers enjoy the great tasting beers and
ciders brewed by HEINEKEN Malaysia. We strictly market
our products to those who are non-Muslims and aged 21
and above only. We are committed to advocate responsible
consumption and dedicate 10% of the Heineken® brand’s
media spend annually to promote responsible consumption.
Thousands of businesses rely on selling our products for a
source of revenue. We promote awareness of responsible
serving with the aim of ensuring our products are enjoyed
responsibly. Through HEINEKEN Malaysia’s Star Academy
quality programmes, we also improve product knowledge and
empower our customers to promote appreciation of brand
heritage, product taste, and service etiquette.
We believe in growing with our surrounding communities.
Through our corporate social responsibility arm,
SPARK Foundation, we are committed to creating positive
social impact and grow with our communities through our
projects that focus on environmental conservation as well
as providing aid to communities in need.
Distribution
Consumers
Customers
Communities
16
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
heineken malaysia berhad
Five-Year Financial Indicators
Financial year ended 31 December 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
KEY OPERATING RESULTS (RM’000)
Revenue 2,320,249 1,762,396 1,979,348 2,855,065 2,637,741
PBIT 414,399 203,652 323,925 596,224 518,311
Income Tax Expense 99,159 44,519 75,749 181,676 124,080
Profit After Tax 312,968 154,197 245,678 412,824 386,800
Net Cash from Operating Activities 411,333 226,300 339,871 469,066 584,101
OTHER KEY DATA (RM’000)
Total Assets 1,099,993 1,046,708 1,088,173 1,408,221 1,247,429
Total Liabilities 705,892 697,325 692,497 919,768 788,757
Reserves 243,052 198,334 244,627 337,404 307,623
Total Equity 394,101 349,383 395,676 488,453 458,672
Capital Expenditure incurred for the year 117,112 63,422 112,865 199,479 142,837
FINANCIAL RATIOS (%)
Operating Working Capital % of Revenue 6.1 7.3 4.5 3.5 -2.1
EBITDA Margin 20.3 15.5 19.9 23.6 22.5
Return on Equity 105.2 58.3 81.9 122.1 113.0
SHARE INFORMATION
Earnings per stock unit (sen) 103.6 51.0 81.3 136.7 128.0
Net Dividend per stock unit (sen) 108.0 51.0 81.0 138.0 128.0
Dividend Yield (%) 4.0 2.2 3.9 5.5 5.3
Net Assets per stock unit (sen) 130.0 116.0 131.0 162.0 152.0
Market Capitalisation (RM'billion) 8.2 7.0 6.3 7.6 7.3
EBITDA : Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and amortisation
PBIT : Profit before interest and tax
Group Revenue
RM
2.64billion
(FY2022: RM2.86 billion)
PBIT
RM
518million
(FY2022: RM596 million)
Return on Equity
113%
(FY2022: 122.1%)
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
17
Annual Report 2023
Analysis of Group Revenue
for the Financial Year Ended 31 December 2023
8%
Raw Materials &
Packaging Costs
5%
Corporate
Tax
4%
Personnel Expenses
15%
Profit After Taxation
48%
Excise, Custom Duties
& Sales Tax
17%
Distribution, Sales
& Administrative
Expenses
3%
Depreciation &
Amortisation
Analysis of
Group Revenue
2023
18
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
heineken malaysia berhad
Performance Highlights
for Financial Year 2023
Performance
Planet
People
Total Employees
527
57% 62%
43% 38%
Male
Female
65%
Absolute Carbon Emissions
in Production
(Scope 1 & 2) vs 2018
baseline
100%
Renewable Electricity
since March 2022
Group Profit Before Tax (PBT)
14%
RM511
million
(FY2022: RM595 million)
Group Revenue
8%
RM2.64
billion
(FY2022: RM2.86 billion)
Contributed
RM1.4
billion
in taxes to the Government
Board of
Directors
Management
Team
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
19
Annual Report 2023
Performance Highlights
for Financial Year 2023
Employee
Engagement Score
86
( 4% vs 2022)
Performance
Enablement Score
85
( 1% vs 2022)
Tiger Sin Chew
Chinese Education
Charity Concert
RM26 million
raised for
8 institutions,
RM407 million
since 1994
HEINEKEN Cares
>850,000
meals for
communities
since 2021
21%
improvement in water
consumption since 2014
Balanced
223%
of water used in our
products in 2023
Zero
Waste
to Landfill since 2017
Single Tier Interim
Dividend of
40 sen
per stock unit paid on
10 November 2023
Proposed Single Tier
Final Dividend of
88 sen
per stock unit payable on
25 July 2024
20
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
heineken malaysia berhad
Management Discussion & Analysis
Roland Bala
Managing Director
Creating
Good Times,
Celebrating
the Joy of True
Togetherness
In 2023, we celebrated
the 150th anniversary of
the Heineken® brand, the
world’s no. 1 international
premium beer. Forget
the candles, this was
about honouring how our
consumers celebrate Good
Times. Freddy Heineken
once said, “I don’t sell beer.
I sell ‘gezelligheid’ or ‘Good
Times’,” and that’s what
Heineken® is still all about.
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
21
Annual Report 2023
Management Discussion & Analysis
INTRODUCTION
Heineken Malaysia Berhad’s business
is all about transcending borders and
connecting people through good times,
one way or another. Indeed, we can
often find beer at the center of social
connections, and this is why our purpose,
Brew the Joy of True Togetherness to
Inspire a Better World, defines everything
we do.
After a strong rebound in 2022,
expectations for 2023 were high, however
it proved to be a more challenging year. I
am proud of the resilience of our business
and our people, as we pushed flat out
to deliver a commendable performance
despite the challenges. We have made
good progress on our EverGreen strategy
and will continue to accelerate initiatives
designed to help us meet our strategic
goals not only for the short term, but also
with the aim to future proof our business.
We had to adapt to the evolving
environment with challenges that included
global macroeconomic uncertainties,
geopolitical tensions, a weakening Ringgit,
rising costs of living, and softening
consumer sentiments. These factors
contributed to a market correction
in 2023, which saw market demand
gradually normalise as compared against
the strong rebound we saw in 2022 after
pandemic-related restrictions were lifted.
It is important to note that despite the
market correction, our strategy to enable
balanced growth is bearing fruits, with our
performance still above the pre-pandemic
levels of 2019.
We are taking bold moves under the
EverGreen strategy. Indeed, we have built
strong momentum across our five key
strategic pillars: emphasising consumer
and customer-centricity as we shape
the future of beer and beyond to drive
superior growth; growing productivity and
a cost conscious culture with an aim to
unlock efficiencies that can be reinvested
to power our growth engine; raising the
bar on sustainability and responsibility
to deliver our net zero ambition; boosting
digitalisation of our processes to
become the best-connected brewer; and
developing our talent and capabilities to
strengthen a culture of high performance.
With EverGreen, we are future-proofing
HEINEKEN Malaysia to be a continually
renewing, learning, and growing company
to deliver superior and balanced growth.
The following is a review of our business
and financial performance, the highlights
of our commercial campaigns, the
progress of our sustainability goals, as well
as the outlook for 2024.
OUR PERFORMANCE
Compared with our 2022 performance,
Group revenue decreased by 8%, mainly
due to weak consumer sentiment
attributed to growing macroeconomic
concerns. Comparatively, the Group had
a strong base in 2022 following the re-
opening of the economy at the end of
the Covid-19 pandemic. Post the strong
rebound in 2022, the Group views its
2023 performance as a form of market
correction.
Group Profit Before Tax declined by 14%
to RM511 million, primarily due to lower
revenue. Comparatively, the Group’s net
profit for the year decreased by 6% due to
the absence of the one-off Prosperity Tax in
the year under review. Corresponding with
the above, earnings per share decreased
from RM1.37 to RM1.28 per share.
Net cash from operating activities for
FY2023 increased by 25% to RM584
million attributed to overall favorable
working capital movement. The Group has
improved its capital efficiency through
entering into a factoring arrangement in
FY2023.
Net assets for FY2023 was recorded at
RM459 million, 6% lower versus FY2022
mainly due to decline in Group business
performance during the year.
Capital expenditure for FY2023 decreased
by 28% to RM143 million mainly due to
lower spend incurred. The Group recorded
a higher spend in FY2022 driven by
investment in the brewery upgrade which
has been completed in FY2023.
The Group paid a total of RM1.3 billion
in excise, custom duties, and sales tax
for the year. For income taxes, the Group
has incurred a total of RM124 million,
translated into an effective tax rate of
24.3%.
For FY2023, the Board has declared and
paid a single tier interim dividend of 40 sen
per stock unit on 10 November 2023 and
proposed a single tier final dividend of
88 sen per stock unit. Subject to approval
of the shareholders at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting, the single tier
final dividend will be paid on 25 July 2024
to shareholders registered at the close of
business on 28 June 2024. The dividend
payout ratio for the year is approximately
100%.
Revenue
RM2.64
billion
Profit Before Tax
RM511
million
Net Profit
RM387
million
GROUP FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FOR FY2023
22
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
heineken malaysia berhad
Management Discussion & Analysis
DRIVE PREMIUM GROWTH
In 2023, we continued investing in our
core brands and innovations to excite
our consumers. The Heineken® brand,
celebrating its 150th anniversary. As the
Heineken® brand turned 150 this year,
Heineken® invited consumers to showcase
their unique ways of celebrating good
times. Heineken® collaborated with
local pop culture icons to blend global
inspirations into local experiences to bring
consumers extraordinary activations
and limited-edition merchandise.
Collaborations with local icons included
content creator Jane Chuck with her
fashion label Motherchuckers for an ultra-
exclusive Heineken® 150 x Motherchuckers
limited-edition collection, and Darkroom8
with the limited-edition Heineken® 150
x Darkroom8 reusable film camera
accompanied by a special beer filter for
fans to capture the good times.
Through the Work Responsibly campaign,
Heineken® collaborated with global
K-Drama Star Park Hyung Sik to raise
awareness on the overworking culture in
Malaysia and to remind everyone to work
responsibly and to not let their social
life down by ‘ghosting their friends’. The
campaign’s ‘Ghosted Bar’ video received
1 Bronze lion at the 2023 Cannes Lions
festival in the Film category, a true
testament to a successful collaboration
between the global and local teams. We
extend our congratulations to all who
played a crucial role in bringing these
campaigns to life. A special thanks goes
out to our agency partners, as together,
we continue to unlock world-class, award-
winning creativity. Cannes Lions is a
global event that awards the best of the
best in the field of creativity, advertising,
communication and related fields.
Globally, Heineken® won 21 Lions in total.
Tiger Beer started the year with its 2023
Chinese New Year (CNY) festive campaign
titled ‘Cheers to Bold Beginnings’. The
brand invited consumers to re-energise
their inner Tiger for an even bolder
tomorrow. Through the campaign, Tiger
introduced ‘Gan Gan Chong’, meaning
the spirit to breakthrough, as a blessing
of boldness. Tiger partnered with three
local artists to create a CNY song and
music video, ‘The Boldest Chase’, inviting
consumers to interact with the content
and win exclusive prizes. Tiger has been
on a journey of overcoming the odds since
1932, and the brand believes that much
of its success is owed to its loyal fans.
The brand brought to life an activation
called ‘Tiger Den’ – dubbed as the home
of all things Tiger – for fans to join the
brand to celebrate its bold stride since the
beginning and to continue roaring into the
future. From learning more about Tiger’s
origins since the early 1900s to bask in
the nostalgia of its evolution at Heritage
Street, to going on a journey through a
series of interactive experiences via AI at
the AR-ffiti Street and Crystal Cold Room,
the brand set itself apart as a distinctly
Asian lager with the remarkable Tiger Den.
Guinness Malaysia’s 2023 St. Patrick’s
celebration, ‘Our Day to Remember’,
encouraged its fans to celebrate their
loved ones – their true lucky charms –
while commemorating the good times
with Guinness. Fans celebrated the good
times with Guinness with their lucky
charms at participating pubs and bars
where they could join dance parades,
enjoy and dance along to live music or
participate in games to win exclusive
Guinness merchandise. Guinness further
elevated the St. Patrick’s Day experience
with the first-ever, Guinness St. Patrick’s
anthem. Through the anthem, fans could
immortalise their memories in the form of
a reel or video and post it on their social
media platforms using the soundtrack.
The Guinness Flavour By Fire event
returned in 2023 with a bigger line-up of
renowned chefs serving Guinness-infused
flame-cooked foods. Visitors indulged in
delectable bites at the event which took
place in Sentul Depot, Kuala Lumpur and
Fort Cornwallis, Penang, accompanied
with live music and a variety of engaging
activities.
Edelweiss Weekend Unwind came back
to transform weekends with a series
of fun activities over four weekends in
Kuala Lumpur and Penang. Encouraging
consumers to take a break from their
busy schedules, guests were treated
to a slew of fun experiences with an
exciting programme packed with pop-
up markets, workshops, music and
experiential events headlined by local
artists and personalities. The programme
included activities like the Unwind Bar,
featuring creative cocktail offerings
by expert mixologists using Edelweiss
Wheat Beer; fun activities by various local
content creators and pop-up markets in
collaboration with Pingmin Market and
Hin Market.
Our brands continued to be recognised
amongst Malaysia’s most trusted and
preferred brands. HEINEKEN Malaysia won
four awards at the Putra Brand Awards
and the Putra Aria Brand Awards 2023.
Demonstrating continued excellence,
we extended our winning streak at the
prestigious Putra Brand Awards with
Heineken® and Tiger Beer winning Gold,
while Guinness took home a Bronze.
Edelweiss marked a significant milestone
by winning Bronze at the Putra Aria Brand
Awards, its first since the brand’s launch
in Malaysia in 2021. With these wins,
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s cumulative award
count is 43 since 2010.
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
23
Annual Report 2023
Management Discussion & Analysis
Our ESG Review section in this report provides a comprehensive overview of our Brew a Better World sustainability initiatives and
progress. As we continue to embed sustainability across our business, we disclose and discuss our management of business risks,
environmental risks, and climate risks. Our enhanced disclosures align with Bursa Malaysia’s sustainability reporting requirements,
the Global Reporting Initiative standards, Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures recommendations, and FTSE4Good
Bursa Malaysia Index. Governed by a Sustainability Policy and operationalised through our Sustainability Committee, we report our
progress quarterly to the Management Team and the Board of Directors. I am pleased to share that we have made significant strides in
strengthening our sustainability practices. For more details, refer to the ESG Review section.
Path towards net zero impact
Path towards inclusive, fair, and equitable company and world
Path towards moderation and no harmful use
-65%carbon emissions (scope 1 & 2)
in production vs 2018 baseline
100%renewable electricity
Zerowaste to landfill
3.41 hl/hl water consumption
Balanced
223%water used in our
products
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
43%women in Board of Directors
38%women in Management Team
0fatal accidents and serious injuries
100%of people managers trained in
inclusive leadership
RM26 million raised for 8 institutions
by Tiger Sin Chew Chinese Education
Charity Concert
RM250,000channeled to support
community resilience projects under
HEINEKEN Cares
SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
>10%of Heineken® brand media
spend on promoting responsible
consumption
When You Drive,
Never Drink
– Grab e-hailing promo codes for consumers
RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION
SUSTAINABILITY HIGHLIGHTS
We are committed to create sustainable value for our
stakeholders in a responsible way. In our EverGreen strategy, one
of our key strategic priorities is to raise the bar on sustainability
and responsibility. HEINEKEN’s Brew a Better World sustainability
strategy sets us on three important pathways:
24
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
heineken malaysia berhad
Management Discussion & Analysis
We are pleased to report that we are
making good progress against our Brew
a Better World goals. Nevertheless, we
continue exploring innovative solutions to
accelerate our journey towards ensuring
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s sustainable
growth for the future. HEINEKEN
Malaysia strongly believes that its
operations can only thrive if the planet
and its surrounding communities thrive.
Throughout the year, the Group was
widely recognised for the progress we
continue to make on our sustainability
ambitions. Some key awards include:
• UN Global Compact Network
Malaysia and Brunei (UNGCMYB)
Forward Faster Sustainability
Awards – HEINEKEN Malaysia won
in the Water Resilience category,
acknowledging the brewer’s
achievement in its Towards Healthy
Watersheds programme, which
enabled it to fully balance water used
in its products since 2020.
• Star Media Group Positive Impact
Awards – HEINEKEN Malaysia was
awarded the Most Outstanding ESG
Initiative at the ESG Positive Impact
Awards, besides winning Gold in the
categories of Waste Management
and Innovative Partnership in
recognition of its Zero Waste to
Landfill programme and Water
Stewardship partnership respectively.
• PwC Malaysia Building Trust Awards
– Heineken Malaysia Berhad was
among the Top 20 finalists for PwC
Malaysia’s Building Trust Awards
2023 and received a special mention
for the PwC Malaysia-Asia School
of Business’s Trust and Leadership
Survey (FBM Mid 70 Index) category.
On Governance, our approach to risk
management is detailed in our Statement
on Risk Management and Internal
Control on pages 104 to 110. Key risks
relating to climate and our business
are also further discussed in detail in
our ESG Review section. The Group has
established a strong risk management
and internal control system, drawing from
the Enterprise Risk Management and
Internal Control Reference model. This
system is an essential component of our
HEINEKEN Business Framework. Within
this framework, we have incorporated the
HEINEKEN Risk Management Framework,
which assists in identifying and addressing
risks during strategy development and the
pursuit of business objectives.
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
25
Annual Report 2023
Management Discussion & Analysis
OUR OUTLOOK
With a soft beer market in 2023, we maintain a cautious approach and expect the business environment in 2024 to remain challenging.
This alongside the rising cost of living, geopolitical uncertainties, and weakening Ringgit could have a negative impact on consumer
sentiment and spending. We will continue to adopt an agile approach in delivering our 2024 ambition. This year, we will remain
committed to our EverGreen strategy, focusing on delivering superior and balanced growth amidst these dynamic conditions. We
welcome the stance taken by the Government not to increase excise duties on beer in its latest Budget 2024, as any hike in excise rates
will drive greater demand for illicit alcohol. The Group will continue to monitor and support the authorities in addressing this issue
through comprehensive efforts and promoting greater awareness in the market.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
I am pleased to welcome Niko van Cauwenberge as our new Supply Chain Director, who replaced Salima Bekoeva who has taken on a
new role in the HEINEKEN APAC regional office. We also welcome Lukasz Kakol (Luke) as our new Digital & Technology Director, who
replaced Janina Vriesekoop who has moved to HEINEKEN Spain. On behalf of the Group, I extend our sincere appreciation to Salima
and Janina and wish them the best in their next assignments in the HEINEKEN Group. I am confident that we have two capable
successors in Niko and Luke, and I look forward to working with both as a part of HEINEKEN Malaysia’s Management Team.
I wish to put on record our gratitude to our shareholders, suppliers, distributors, customers, and consumers for their continued trust and
support for our Company and brands. A special mention must also go to our employees, the One Strong Winning Team of HEINEKEN
Malaysia. Without this team, we would not have been able to achieve such big wins. May we continue to Brew the Joy of True
Togetherness to Inspire a Better World.
Thank you.
Roland Bala
Managing Director
20 March 2024
DRIVE SUPERIOR
GROWTH
With consumer
centricity, shape
& lead premium
category. Continue
investing behind our
brands.
FUND THE
GROWTH
Cost & Value to
drive efficiency,
enabling
reinvestments into
our brands and
business.
RAISE THE BAR ON
SUSTAINABILITY
& RESPONSIBILITY
Deliver on our
ambition to become
net zero carbon in
production by 2030
and the full value
chain by 2040.
BECOME THE
BEST CONNECTED
BREWER
Accelerate digital &
technology to create
a Unified Customer
Ecosystem with
a customer &
consumer-first
approach.
UNLOCK THE FULL
POTENTIAL OF
OUR PEOPLE
Promote a
high-performance
culture that boosts
our strategic
capabilities.
26
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
heineken malaysia berhad
Heineken®
World’s No.1 International
premium beer
Brand Highlights
Heineken® The Ghosted Bar
Heineken® partnered with K-Drama star
Park Hyung Sik for its #workresponsibly
campaign to address the overworking
culture by encouraging fans to practice
work-life balance and to avoid ‘ghosting
their friends’.
As part of the campaign, Park Hyung
Sik went on Instagram live at a bar and
witnessed unusual happenings — beer
glasses moving on their own and chairs
sliding across the room, which was later
revealed to symbolise that the bar was
haunted by the ghost of the people who
chose to work late instead of having beers
with their friends at the bar.
Heineken® organised 40 ‘Ghosted Bar’
activations, from 9 May to 31 May 2023,
at selected bars in Penang, Ipoh, the
Klang Valley and Johor to bring to life the
#workresponsibly message. Consumers
could also create a personalised GIF with
Heineken®’s online Ghost GIF Generator to
share with their friends to remind friends
not to “ghost” them.
The Ghosted Bar went on to receive 1
Bronze lion in the Film category at the
prestigious Cannes Lion.
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
27
Annual Report 2023
Brand Highlights
150 Years of Good Times
In celebration of the Heineken® brand
turning 150 in 2023, Heineken® invited
consumers to showcase their unique
ways of celebrating good times.
Heineken® collaborated with local pop
culture and good time icons to blend
global inspirations into local experiences
to bring consumers extraordinary
activations and limited-edition
merchandise.
Collaborations with local icons included
content creator Jane Chuck with her
fashion label Motherchuckers for
an ultra-exclusive Heineken® 150
x Motherchuckers limited-edition
collection, and Darkroom8 with the
limited-edition Heineken® 150 x
Darkroom8 reusable film camera that
utilised a special Heineken® beer infused
beer film for fans to capture good times.
For a Fresher World
150 years of good times.
One way or another.
28
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
heineken malaysia berhad
Tiger Beer
World acclaimed
Asian beer
Cheers to Bold Beginnings
Starting the year with a roar, Tiger invited
fans to re-energise their inner Tiger for an
even bolder tomorrow through its ‘Cheers
to Bold Beginnings’ campaign. Tiger
introduced ‘Gan Gan Chong’, meaning
the spirit to breakthrough, as a blessing
of boldness. Partnering with local artists,
Tiger created a CNY song and music
video, ‘The Boldest Chase’, to engage
and encourage consumers to win limited-
edition CNY premiums.
To amp up the festivities, Tiger also
decorated the concourse areas of several
malls with vibrant décor depicting streets
of Chinatown where fans could participate
in activities to bring home exciting
premiums, including exclusive Pestle and
Mortar Clothing (PMC) merchandise,
among others.
Additionally, Tiger celebrated the
festive season with its fans through
numerous promotions and attractive
merchandise and prizes at held at selected
hypermarkets, supermarkets, coffee shops
and food courts.
Brand Highlights
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
29
Annual Report 2023
Tiger Den
In celebration of Tiger Beer’s history, the
brand brought to life the experiential Tiger
Den where consumers could participate in
immersive experiences paying tribute to
the brand’s journey throughout the years.
The experience comprised six unique
zones – Heritage Street, Tiger Brewery,
AR-ffiti Street, Hype Street, the Crystal
Cold Room, and the Tiger Bar. The event
also featured a collaboration with local
designers, where visitors could design
and purchase their own exclusive Tiger
x PMC T-shirt, or purchase a limited-
edition sneaker designed by Edmond Looi.
Consumers who collected stamps from
all six zones could redeem Tiger Beer and
Tiger Crystal, with the first 100 people per
day standing to receive a customised Tiger
bottle. Visitors who documented their
journey and posted an Instagram Reel of
their experience could also stand to win a
trip for two to Singapore worth RM30,000.
Brand Highlights
30
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
heineken malaysia berhad
Guinness
World’s No. 1 stout
Guinness St. Patrick’s Festival
2023
Guinness Malaysia’s 2023 St. Patrick’s
celebration, ‘Our Day to Remember’,
encouraged its fans to celebrate their
loved ones – their true lucky charms –
while commemorating the good times
with Guinness. Fans celebrated the good
times with Guinness with their lucky
charms at participating pubs and bars
where they could join dance parades,
enjoy and dance along to live music or
participate in games to win exclusive
Guinness merchandise. Guinness further
elevated the St. Patrick’s Day experience
with the first-ever, Guinness St. Patrick’s
anthem. Through the anthem, fans could
immortalise their memories in the form of
a reel or video and post it on their social
media platforms using the soundtrack.
To kick the festive celebration up a
notch, Guinness rewarded fans who used
the Guinness St. Patrick’s anthem with
exclusive merchandise. The more fans
used the anthem, the more prizes they
unlocked. Among the prizes up for grabs
were exclusive Guinness mugs, as well as
the Guinness festive St. Patrick’s hats.
Brand Highlights
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
31
Annual Report 2023
Guinness Flavour by Fire
Fueled by its success in 2019, the Guinness
Flavour By Fire event returned in 2023,
inviting fans and foodies to come together
for a food festival featuring a bigger line-
up of renowned chefs serving Guinness-
infused flame-cooked foods. The event
took place in Sentul Depot, Kuala Lumpur
and Fort Cornwallis, Penang, over two
weekends where visitors could indulge the
delectable offerings by the chefs while
enjoying live music performed by local
musicians. Attendees could participate
in fun activities at the festival to win
exclusive merchandise or vouchers, in
addition to getting their selfies printed on
their Guinness stout. The first 500 visitors
to attend the festival daily received a
complimentary Guinness Draught, and
attendees who purchased a Guinness
Draught in a Can via Drinkies at the
festival, could bring home a complimentary
Guinness infused meat rub.
There were a series of other promotional
activities where participants could
stand to win tantalising prizes, including
exclusive invites to the Finale Party,
Arthur’s Storehouse dining vouchers,
Guinness smoky marinade sauce and
other Guinness merchandise.
Brand Highlights
32
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
heineken malaysia berhad
Edelweiss
Premium wheat beer
born in the Alps
Edelweiss Weekend Unwind 2023
Edelweiss Weekend Unwind returned in
2023 to transform weekends with a series
of fun activities over four weekends in
Kuala Lumpur and Penang. Seeking to
engage the younger generation (non-
Muslims, aged 21 and above), the brand
organised an action-packed agenda of
weekend activities encouraging fans to
take a break from their busy schedules
discover the playful side to life. The
programme was packed with fun activities
such as pop-up markets, workshops, music
and experiential events headlined by local
artists and personalities.
The programme included activities like the
Unwind Bar, featuring creative cocktail
offerings by expert mixologists using
Edelweiss Wheat Beer; ‘Sip and Paint’ and
Jesmonite sessions for fans to express their
creativity while unwinding at the bar; fun
activities by seven local content curators;
and pop-up markets in collaboration with
Pingmin Market and Hin Market, featuring
a vibrant array of local artisans showcasing
a diverse blend of food and art. Visitors
could explore the local scene and meet
local artisans.
Brand Highlights
Esg Review How We Are Governed Our Numbers and Other Information
33
Annual Report 2023
PutraBrandAwards&
PutraAriaBrandAwards2023
Putra Brand Awards and Putra Aria
Brand Awards 2023
Demonstrating continued excellence, HEINEKEN
Malaysia brought home four awards from the Putra
Brand Awards and the Putra Aria Brand Awards
2023. At the Putra Brand Awards, Heineken® and
Tiger won Gold, while Guinness earned a Bronze.
Meanwhile, Edelweiss won a Bronze at the Putra
Aria Brand Awards, a significant achievement for
the brand, marking its first award since its launch in
2021. These victories bring HEINEKEN Malaysia’s
total awards won to 43 since 2010.
These wins were made possible with the immense
support and trust from consumers in our brands,
and the dedication and efforts of the One Strong
Winning Team at HEINEKEN Malaysia. While we
take pride in these achievements, we continue to be
fueled by our desire to put our consumers first and
strive to excite and inspire our fans with innovative
campaigns and experiences.
Brand Highlights
34
Who We Are Our Business Model Performance Review
heineken malaysia berhad
Brand Highlights
2023 National Star Academy Championship and Regional Quality Training
Following its successful run in 2022, HEINEKEN Malaysia’s Star Academy returned with a new and improved 2023 National Star
Academy Championship and Regional Quality Training. The training programme combined the best of both worlds, aiming to elevate
industry standards, while honing the skills and expertise of bartenders to serve quality pints of Heineken® and Guinness, alongside a
search for the best bartender.
The training sessions spanned across six states, training 1,250 bartenders. From each state, a regional champion was selected to
compete in the finale held in Kuala Lumpur for the title of National Champion. At the finale, J’Shua Chua from JJ Wine and Tapas, Johor,
emerged as the 2023 National Champion to win an all- expense paid trip to the Home of Heineken® – Amsterdam.
Star Academy
HEINEKEN Malaysia
