46 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ABOUT THIS STATEMENT
As a responsible and progressive company, HEINEKEN Malaysia is guided by our
purpose, To Brew the Joy of True Togetherness to Inspire a Better World, embedding
sustainability into our core operations to drive long-term value for all stakeholders.
As part of the HEINEKEN Group, HEINEKEN Malaysia has adopted the HEINEKEN
sustainability strategy, Brew a Better World (BaBW) 2030 which clearly outlines
measurable and ambitious goals across three pillars: environmental sustainability,
social sustainability and responsible consumption.
Review
ESG
47
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
The three pillars of this strategy are central to achieving our
objective of net zero environmental impact, contributing to an
inclusive, fair and equitable world and encouraging moderation
in consumption. We are transparent in our progress, measuring
success not only by the value we generate for our shareholders
but also by how we contribute to a resilient and enduring future
for both people and the planet.
The sustainability strategy BaBW 2030 was launched in April 2021
to drive progress towards a net zero, fairer and more balanced
world and it has been deeply integrated into how we operate.
The strategy includes nine ambition areas and measurable
goals, driving progress in environmental sustainability, social
responsibility and responsible consumption.
HEINEKEN’s net zero targets are approved by the Science-Based
Targets initiative (SBTi), aligning with the 1.5°C pathway for a
science-based approach. As part of our climate action efforts, we
have updated the carbon baseline year from 2018 to 2022, in
alignment with Heineken N.V.’s (our ultimate holding company)
reporting approach, to ensure an accurate measurement of
our carbon footprint. This change ensures that our progress
towards the net zero goal is measured against a more current
and comprehensive baseline, providing a clearer picture of our
environmental impact and the effectiveness of our sustainability
initiatives. We began reporting our carbon emissions reduction
based on the 2022 baseline, effective from the financial year 2024
reporting, ensuring a more comprehensive view of our Scopes 1, 2
and 3 emissions in our net zero journey.
We are dedicated to achieving our 2030 goals through close
monitoring and proactive implementation, with regular updates
tracked during quarterly Sustainability Committee (SC) meetings.
By strengthening our sustainability practices and raising the bar
on our ESG performance, HEINEKEN Malaysia is proud to present
this annual sustainability statement.
Scope and Reporting Framework
The sustainability statement covers the period from 1 January
2024 to 31 December 2024 (FY2024) and includes HEINEKEN
Malaysia and its wholly-owned operating subsidiary, Heineken
Marketing Malaysia Sdn Bhd (the Group) located in Petaling Jaya,
Selangor.
The statement has been prepared with reference to the Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad's (Bursa Malaysia) Main Market
Listing Requirements (MMLR) on sustainability reporting, Bursa
Malaysia’s Sustainability Reporting Guide (3rd edition) and the
indicators of the FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia (F4GBM) Index. Our
ESG disclosures are in line with the Global Reporting Initiative
(GRI) standards, and with reference to the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs).
AsanoperatingsubsidiaryofHeinekenN.V.,anEU-basedcompany,
we have included in our sustainability governance structure a
newly appointed personnel responsible for our sustainability
reporting to Heineken N.V.. This change ensures Heineken N.V.’s
compliance with Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive
(CSRD) while enhancing transparency and accountability in our
disclosures. In addition, we are referencing our climate-related
disclosures with IFRS S2, in preparation for the climate-related
disclosure standard required under the National Sustainability
Reporting Framework (NSRF).
Assurance Statement
The SC and the Board of Directors (the Board) of HEINEKEN
Malaysia have reviewed and approved the contents of this
statement. To ensure data accuracy and compliance, we engaged
Rapid Genesis Sdn Bhd, an independent consultant, to provide
limited assurance for our ESG Review and the ESG data section.
Additionally, our water balancing initiatives were quantified and
independently verified by Limnotech, a leading water sciences
and environmental engineering firm based in the United States.
Feedback Contribution
We continue to refine our sustainability reporting and welcome
feedback from our stakeholders. We value your input and invite
active engagement in our sustainability reporting journey.
For any inquiries or suggestions, please reach out to us at
MY1-generalenquiry@heineken.com.
Bursa Malaysia’s Sustainability Reporting
Guide (3rd edition)
Global Reporting Initiative Standards
FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index
United Nations Sustainable Development
Goals
Corporate Sustainability Reporting Directive
48 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
BaBW 2024 HIGHLIGHTS
HEINEKEN Malaysia remains focused on upholding ESG principles, shaping a future where brewing excellence aligns with responsible
business practices. Our BaBW 2024 Highlights section provides an overview of the key initiatives and achievements delivered throughout
the reporting period.
ENVIRONMENTAL
SUSTAINABILITY
Path towards Net Zero Impact
SOCIAL
SUSTAINABILITY
Path towards an Inclusive, Fair and
Equitable Company and World
RESPONSIBLE
CONSUMPTION
Path towards Moderation and
No Harmful Use
100%
renewable electricity since March 2022
through Green Electricity Tariff (GET)
programme
43%
of women in Board of Directors
>10%
of Heineken® media spend on
promoting responsible consumption
29%
improvement in water consumption
since FY2014
38%
of women in Management Team
Distributed over
RM140,000
in Grab e-hailing promo codes for
consumers through brand and
corporate events
36%
reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2
emissions in production vs FY2022
baseline
20,993hours
of training provided to employees
Fullyrecycled
andupcycled
our production waste since FY2017
ZERO
fatal accidents and serious injuries
Installed
3,500
mono-perc solar panels on Sungei Way
Brewery roof
2
social impact initiatives
209%
water balanced via water stewardship
projects
49
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
ESG Framework
Our ESG Framework reflects our focus on sustainability, aligned with the BaBW 2030 ambition. It centres on three core pillars:
environmental sustainability, social sustainability and responsible consumption. This approach ensures our operations are guided by
long-term goals, proactive management of ESG risks and a clear understanding of stakeholder expectations.
OUR PURPOSE
Brew the Joy of True Togetherness to Inspire a Better World
Passion for consumers and customers Courage to dream and pioneer Care for people and planet Enjoyment of life
Our
Values
ESG GOVERNANCE
Our
Foundation
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION
• Net Zero Carbon
• Maximise Circularity
• Towards Healthy Watersheds
and Nature
• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
• Fair and Safe Workplace
• Community Impact
• Always a Choice
• Address Harmful Use
• Make Moderation Cool
ESG Pillars
and Ambition
Areas
Reaching net zero carbon,
maximising circularity and
continue working towards healthy
watersheds
Embracing inclusion and diversity,
building a fairer and safer
workplace and investing in local
communities
Empowering consumers by
providing choice, transparency
and forging partnerships to reduce
harmful use of alcohol
Our
Agenda
• Waste and Effluent
Management
• Climate Resilience and Energy
Efficiency
• Water Stewardship
• Resource Use
• Employee Health, Safety and
Wellbeing
• Human Rights and Labour
Standards
• Supply Chain Management
• Human Capital Development
• Community Investment and
Development
• Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
• Product Safety and Quality
• Responsible Marketing and
Consumption
Material
Sustainability
Matters
Stakeholder
Groups Regulators/
Public Authorities
Consumers
Industry
Associations
Employees
Customers/
Trade Partners
NGOs/
Communities
Shareholders/
Investors
Suppliers/Vendors/
Contractors
Media/
Analysts
50 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Sustainability Governance Structure
HEINEKEN Malaysia has established a governance structure that ensures accountability in managing ESG matters, operating through a
three-tier framework comprising the Board, the SC and the Sustainability Working Group (SWG). As an operating subsidiary of Heineken
N.V., an EU-based company, we have included in our sustainability governance structure a newly appointed personnel responsible for
our sustainability reporting to Heineken N.V.. This change ensures Heineken N.V.’s compliance with CSRD while enhancing transparency
and accountability in our disclosures.
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE CHAIRPERSON
MANAGING DIRECTOR
Sustainability Secretariat
• Led by Corporate Affairs & Legal
Director
• Managed by Head of
Communications &
Sustainability
• Advised by Process & Controls
Improvement Function
• Advised by Sustainability &
Responsible Reporting Manager
Sustainability Working Group
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION
Sponsors:
 Finance Director
 Supply Chain Director
 Corporate Affairs & Legal Director
Sponsors:
 People Director
 Corporate Affairs & Legal Director
 Digital & Technology Director
Sponsors:
 Marketing Director
 Sales Director
 Corporate Affairs & Legal Director
Net Zero Carbon
• Net zero in production
• Net zero in value chain
Maximise Circularity
• Zero waste in landfill
• Waste to value
Towards Healthy Watersheds and
Nature
• Water in our production
• Water in our communities
• Water in our supply chain
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
• Gender diversity
• Cultural diversity
• Inclusive leadership training for
managers
Fair and Safe Workplace
• Fair wage
• Equal pay
• Fair living standards for 3rd party
employees
• Zero accidents
Community Impact
• Social impact initiative
Always a Choice
• 0.0 (non-alcoholic) options
• Transparent information on
labelling
Address Harmful Use
• Partnership in addressing harmful
use
Make Moderation Cool
• 10% media spend to promote
Responsible consumption
• Employee engagement on
Responsible consumption
Area Owners:
 Supply Chain
 Corporate Affairs & Legal
 Procurement
 Safety, Health & Environment
Area Owners:
 People Function
 Procurement
 Safety, Health & Environment
 Corporate Affairs & Legal
 Marketing
Area Owners:
 Marketing
 Sales
 Corporate Affairs & Legal
51
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
Roles and Responsibilities
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
• Provides strategic oversight concerning the Group’s sustainability strategies, material matters,
targets and policies; and the integration of ESG-related risks and opportunities, including climate-
related factors, into the Group’s strategy and risk management.
• Reviews periodic updates from the Managing Director and the Management Team on sustainability
performance, progress and key developments.
• Reviews and approves proposed sustainability initiatives and the annual sustainability statement.
SUSTAINABILITY WORKING GROUP
• Integrates sustainability strategies and initiatives into daily operations, advancing the BaBW 2030
goals.
• Engages stakeholders regularly, addressing concerns and aligning with expectations.
• Reports progress and performance in implementing sustainability strategies and initiatives to the
SC.
• Compiles ESG-related data for sustainability reporting and gathers updates from respective pillar
owners on key initiatives and future plans.
SUSTAINABILITY COMMITTEE
• Oversees the strategic management of material sustainability matters and resource allocation.
• Proposes and advises the Board on sustainability strategies, initiatives and targets.
• Identifies, assesses and manages ESG-related risks and opportunities, including climate-related
factors.
• Monitors quarterly progress across sustainability pillars in line with the BaBW 2030 goals and
reports updates to the Managing Director and the Management Team.
• Ensures effective implementation of sustainability strategies and initiatives to achieve the Group’s
targets.
52 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Our Sustainability Policy
The Group’s Sustainability Policy, approved by our SC and adopted by the Board, reflects our ESG strategies and aligns with our Purpose
and Values. It sets out core principles that guide our approach, providing a structured basis for integrating ESG considerations across
our operations and value chain.
The Sustainability Policy is available on our company website at https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/.
Our Green Claims Policy
In FY2024, the Group adopted the Green Claims Policy introduced by Heineken N.V. with an aim to ensure all environmental claims
on our products and initiatives are accurate, substantiated and compliant with regulations. The policy provides clear guidelines for
environmental claims in communications, marketing, product labels and advertising, emphasising reliable evidence and international
standards. It aims to prevent greenwashing, enabling consumers to make informed choices based on actual environmental impact.
The policy strengthens our ESG disclosures, enhancing transparency and trust in our sustainability efforts. It aligns with the HEINEKEN
sustainability frameworks and reinforces the Group’s support for ethical environmental stewardship.
Our Alignment with the UN SDGs
The Group integrates the UN SDGs into our BaBW strategy, aligning our 2030 ambitions and goals with relevant targets and indicators
to drive meaningful progress. As such, we have adopted eight SDGs that are most relevant to our business operations, with SDG 16
(Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions) added as a focus area. Below are the highlights of our contributions to the SDGs:
SDG Target Our Actions Materiality
3.5: Strengthen the prevention
and treatment of
substance abuse, including
harmful use of alcohol
• Introduced a Policy on Responsible Alcohol
Consumption
• Supported the Government’s efforts to eliminate
illicit alcohol sales in Malaysia as part of the
Confederation of Malaysian Brewers Berhad’s
(CMBB) initiatives
• Allocated more than 10% of the Heineken® annual
media spend to promote responsible consumption
• Provided Grab e-hailing promo codes to consumers
as part of the "When You Drive, Never Drink"
campaign at brand events, corporate events and
throughout the festive season
• Corporate
Governance and
Anti-Corruption
• Responsible
Consumption
5.5: Ensure women’s full and
effective participation for
leadership
• Adopted the HEINEKEN Code of Business Conduct
(HeiCode) and the HEINEKEN Human Rights Policy,
highlighting the principles of non-discrimination,
including but not limited to race, gender, nationality
and age
• Hired, compensated and promoted employees in
accordance with the principle of equal opportunity
• Diversity
6.3: Improve water quality by
reducing pollution
• Ensured the compliance of wastewater treatment
with the Environmental Quality Act 1974 and
the Environmental Quality (Industrial Effluent)
Regulations 2009, Fifth Schedule
• Achieved result that surpassed the Department of
Environment’s standards for wastewater treatment
• Water
Stewardship
6.4: Increase water-use efficiency
across all sectors
• Improved water consumption by 29% compared to
the 2014 baseline year and replenished 209% of the
water used in our products
• Water
Stewardship
6.6: Protect and restore
water-related ecosystems
• Supported the conservation and restoration efforts
through our Working Actively Through Education &
Rehabilitation (W.A.T.E.R.) Project
• Water
Stewardship
53
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
SDG Target Our Actions Materiality
7.2: Increase the share of
renewable energy
• Continued subscription to Tenaga Nasional Berhad’s
(TNB) GET programme since March 2022
• Installed 3,500 mono-perc solar panels on Sungei
Way Brewery roof with a total capacity of 2,600
MWh, operational since July 2024
• Climate
Resilience and
Energy Efficiency
7.3: Double the global rate of
improvement in energy efficiency
• Upgraded utilities, cooling systems and CO
2
plants
at the brewery to enhance energy efficiency
• Utilised energy-efficient refrigerators to improve
energy efficiency
• Climate
Resilience and
Energy Efficiency
8.7: Eradicate forced labour • Fully complied with the Employment Act 1955 and
the Minimum Wages Order 2022
• The principles of non-discrimination are outlined
in the HeiCode and the HEINEKEN Human Rights
Policy
• Advocated ethical business conduct and human
rights through the HEINEKEN Supplier Code and the
Distributor Code of Conduct
• Human Rights
and Labour
Standards
8.8: Protect labour rights and
promote safe and secure working
environments for all workers
• Ensured all employees received training on
HEINEKEN Life Saving Commitments (LSC)
• Addressed the widespread culture of overwork by
encouraging healthier work-life balance through the
Work Responsibly Campaign
• Employee,
Health, Safety
and Wellbeing
• Human Capital
Development
12.5: Reduce waste generation
through prevention, reduction,
recycling and reuse
• Recycled or upcycled all production waste since
2017
• Replaced plastic shrink wraps in all locally brewed
multi-can secondary packaging with paper-based
packaging, prem collar
• Collected returnable packaging materials, including
kegs, bottles and crates from on-trade outlets in
Peninsular Malaysia, for reuse
• Mandated supplier compliance with the HEINEKEN
Supplier Code
• Waste and
Effluent
Management
• Resource Use
13.1: Strengthen resilience and
adaptation to climate-related
hazards
• Progressed on the journey towards net zero
carbon emissions, targeting net zero emissions in
production by 2030 and across the entire value
chain by 2040
• Fully transitioned to renewable energy for Scope 2
through the GET programme
• Climate
Resilience and
Energy Efficiency
16.5: Substantially reduce
corruption and bribery
• All Board members received training on Anti-Bribery
and Anti-Corruption
• Conducted online courses to raise awareness among
employees of the Group’s Anti-Bribery and Anti-
Corruption principles
• Promoted the HEINEKEN Speak Up Policy to
drive awareness and encourage the reporting of
suspected misconduct
• Corporate
Governance and
Anti-Corruption
54 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Stakeholder Engagement
Our stakeholders play a key role in shaping decisions at HEINEKEN Malaysia. Having identified nine key stakeholder groups impacted
by our activities, we focus on ongoing engagement to gain insights into their concerns. We actively pursue our BaBW goals through
effective communication, cross-functional collaboration and strategic partnerships with external stakeholders.
Our Focus How We Engage Frequency Our Response
Shareholders/Investors
• Strategic direction and
business performance
• Business strategy and
targets
• Shareholders’ returns
• Sustainability agenda
• Annual General Meeting
• Investor Relations enquiries
• Enquiries to Company Secretary
• Analysts and media briefings
• Investor calls/meetings
• Financial announcements via
Bursa Malaysia
• Annual Reports in Investor
Relations section on corporate
website
• Annually
• As needed
• As needed
• Bi-annually
• As needed
• Quarterly
• Annually
• Updates on the Group’s strategic direction,
operational and financial performance
are shared through Bursa Malaysia’s
announcements platform
• Sustainability policies and practices, as well
as corporate governance, are communicated
through the Company’s Annual Report
Regulators/Public Authorities
• Industry issues
• Excise duty
• Licensing and
regulatory matters
• Anti-contraband
initiatives
• Support for business
operations
• Courtesy visits
• Dialogue sessions
• Workshops and training
• Scheduled meetings
• Roundtable discussions,
Industry and F&B sector
engagement via chambers
of commerce and trade
associations
• As needed
• As needed
• As needed
• Regularly
• As needed
• Engagement with the Government, as part
of CMBB, drives initiatives on responsible
consumption and combating illicit beer
Consumers
• Brand campaigns and
engagement activities
• Responsible
consumption
campaigns
• Product quality and
freshness
• Consumer attitude
and behaviour
• Brand events
• Social media campaigns
• Product sampling
• Consumer research interviews
and focus groups
• Virtual consumer engagements
• Regularly
• Ongoing
• Regularly
• Regularly
• Regularly
• Innovative packaging solutions are being
explored to reduce plastic use as we shift
towards paper-based materials such as prem
collars
• Advocate responsible consumption through
brand campaigns and corporate events
Suppliers/Vendors/Contractors
• Safety, Health and
Wellbeing
• Anti-bribery and
corruption
• Cost and value
• Engagement session
with Business Partners
on Scope
• Compliance with HEINEKEN’s
Supplier Code
• Supplier meetings
• Vendor registration briefings/
requirements
• Business partner engagement
sessions
• Ongoing
• Ongoing
• Ongoing
• Ongoing
• The Group’s suppliers are required to adhere
to the HEINEKEN Supplier Code and the
Distributor Code of Conduct
• Our collaboration with suppliers focuses on
creating and scaling efficient, innovative
packaging solutions
• Conducted engagement session with key
business partners to raise awareness of
Scope 3 emissions and ensure they are
informed about the reporting requirements
55
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
Our Focus How We Engage Frequency Our Response
Customers/Trade Partner
• Business strategy and
targets
• Identification of areas
for improvement
• Trade partner engagements
• Distributor engagement
sessions
• One-on-one engagements
• Joint business planning/review
meetings
• Regularly
• Regularly
• Regularly
• Regularly
• Business operations are conducted with
integrity, assisting customers in refining their
strategies, targets and sustainability efforts
• Collaboration with trade partners ensures
the return of reusable kegs, bottles and
crates through a deposit system to promote
circularity
Employees
• Safety, Health and
Wellbeing
• Alignment on business
strategy, direction and
goals
• Industrial relationship
management
• Talent development
• Cross-function
collaboration
• Employee
engagement
• Productivity
• Whistleblowing
(Speak Up)
• Responsible
consumption
• Diversity, Equity and
Inclusion
• Leadership capability
• Online communication platform
– Workplace by Facebook
• Employee Pulse Survey
• Employee Climate Survey
• Town halls
• Meetings with Union employees
• Flexible and open workspace
• Management Team meetings
• Leadership Team meetings
• Union Work-Site Committee
engagements
• Department meetings
• On-boarding programme for
new employees
• Employee engagement get-
togethers
• Annual Dinner
• Festive get-togethers
• Inclusive Behaviour workshops
• Ongoing
• Quarterly
• Annually
• Quarterly
• As needed
• Ongoing
• Monthly
• Monthly
• Twice a year
• Weekly
• As needed
• Regularly
• Annually
• Regularly
• Regularly
• Training on the LSC was provided to
employees
• Transparent performance reviews and
appraisals were conducted
• Various employee engagement programmes
were implemented to foster a positive
workplace culture
• Quarterly updates on sustainability
achievements to all employees
• Health and wellbeing workshops
• Regular data privacy and phishing trainings
NGOs/Communities
• Environmental
conservation projects
• Water stewardship
projects
• Fundraising for
schools via Tiger Sin
Chew CECC
• HEINEKEN Cares
community food aid
programme
• SPARK Foundation activities
• NGO partner activities
• Community engagement
programmes
• Fundraising initiatives
• Community events
• Participation in forum sessions
• Regularly
• Ongoing
• Ongoing and
Annually
• Regularly
• Regularly
• As needed
• Ongoing contributions are made to flagship
community initiatives, with collaboration
alongside NGO partners through the
HEINEKEN Cares Programme, administered
by the SPARK Foundation
• Audits conducted on W.A.T.E.R. Project
• Regular meetings with participating NGOs
conducted
Media/Analysts
• Strategic direction and
business performance
• Sustainability agenda
• Brand activities
• Media briefings
• Media interviews
• Media visits
• Product launches
• Brand marketing campaigns
• As needed
• As needed
• As needed
• As needed
• Ongoing
• 10% of Heineken® media spend is allocated
to promote responsible consumption
• Partnership with Grab Malaysia to promote
responsible consumption
56 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Our Focus How We Engage Frequency Our Response
Industry Associations
• Industry issues • Engagement session
• Dialogue and forum sessions
• Scheduled meetings
• As needed
• As needed
• Regularly
• Our Industry collaboration focused on
mitigating irresponsible drinking and
addressing drinking and driving issues
• We collaborate with seven industry
associations, including:
• CMBB
• Federation of Malaysian Manufacturers
(FMM)
• Malaysian Advertisers Association (MAA)
• Malaysian Dutch Business Council (MDBC)
• Malaysian Employers Federation (MEF)
• Malaysian International Chamber of
Commerce and Industry (MICCI)
• UN Global Compact Network Malaysia
and Brunei (UNGCMYB)
MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT
HEINEKEN Malaysia evaluates the relevance of ESG topics and material sustainability matters to both our organisation and stakeholders
to ensure alignment with business priorities, regulatory requirements and long-term sustainability goals.
The materiality assessment conducted in FY2022 identified 16 material sustainability matters. These material matters have remained
relevant to our operations and have been retained for FY2024.
Materiality Matrix
Importance to Stakeholders
Influence on Business
High
Medium
Medium High Very high
Very High
16
12
5
3
15
14
13
11
9
7
6
1
2
4
8
10
57
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION
1 Product Safety, Quality and Hygiene
6 Responsible Marketing and Consumption
GOVERNANCE
2 Regulatory Compliance
4 Ethical Business Conduct
8 Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
10 Risk Management
SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
7 Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing
9 Human Rights and Labour Standards
11 Supply Chain Management
13
14
15
Human Capital Development
Community Investment and Development
Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
3 Climate Resilience and Energy Efficiency
5 Water Stewardship
12 Waste and Effluent Management
16 Resource Use
58 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Mapping of Material Matters
The following table aligns our material sustainability matters with the relevant sustainability pillars, UN SDGs, key stakeholder groups
and the Company’s strategic initiatives. This mapping facilitates the development of clear objectives and underscores the interconnected
nature of these matters across our operations.
Material Matters Our Approach UN SDGs Key Stakeholder Groups
Governance
Regulatory
Compliance
We uphold compliance with laws and
regulations by conducting regular policy
reviews to align with evolving industry
standards
• Regulators and Public
Authorities
• Shareholders and Investors
• Customers/Trade Partners
• Suppliers/Vendors/Contractors
• Industry Associations
• Media/Analysts
Corporate
Governance and
Anti-Corruption
We maintain a strong governance
framework with stringent anti-corruption
policies to ensure ethical practices across
our operations
Data Privacy and
Cybersecurity
We safeguard data by implementing robust
cybersecurity measures while adhering to
global privacy standards
Risk Management We proactively manage risks through
continuous monitoring and adopting
best practices to mitigate business and
operational uncertainties
Environmental Sustainability
Climate Resilience
and Energy
Efficiency
We reduce carbon emissions by optimising
energy use and investing in renewable
energy to enhance climate resilience
• Regulators and Public
Authorities
• Shareholders and Investors
• Customers/Trade Partners
Water Stewardship We promote efficient water use and invest
in community water projects to balance our
water footprint
• Regulators and Public
Authorities
• NGOs and Communities
Waste and Effluent
Management
We minimise waste generation and ensure
proper treatment of effluent to maintain
environmental integrity
• Regulators and Public
Authorities
• NGOs and Communities
Resource Use We focus on reducing material usage and
maximising recycling to conserve natural
resources
• Shareholders and Investors
• Customers/Trade Partners
• Industry Associations
• Media/Analysts
Social Sustainability
Diversity We embrace diversity by fostering an
inclusive workplace culture that values
different perspectives
• Employees
Human Rights and
Labour Standards
We uphold human rights by ensuring
fair labour practices while prohibiting
discrimination across our operations
• Regulators and Public
Authorities
• Suppliers/Vendors/Contractors
• Employees
59
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
Material Matters Our Approach UN SDGs Key Stakeholder Groups
Social Sustainability (Continued)
Employee Health,
Safety and
Wellbeing
We prioritise employee wellbeing through
safety initiatives and comprehensive health
programmes
• Regulators and Public
Authorities
• Suppliers/Vendors/Contractors
• Employees
• Industry Associations
Human Capital
Development
We invest in skill development and training
to empower our workforce for future
challenges
• Employees
Community
Investment and
Development
We engage in impactful community
programmes, addressing local needs while
driving socio-economic growth
• Industry Associations
• Media/Analysts
Supply Chain
Management
We prioritise responsible sourcing and
collaborate with suppliers to ensure
adherence to ESG criteria and quality
standards
• Regulators and Public
Authorities
• Suppliers/Vendors/Contractors
• Employees
Responsible Consumption
Product Safety,
Quality and
Hygiene
We maintain strict quality control protocols
to deliver safe, high-quality products that
meet international standards
• Regulators and Public
Authorities
• Consumers
• Customers/Trade Partners
• Employees
Responsible
Marketing and
Consumption
We advocate responsible consumption
by promoting awareness campaigns and
aligning with ethical marketing guidelines
• Shareholders and Investors
• Consumers
• Customers/Trade Partners
• Employees
60 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
GOVERNANCE
HEINEKEN Malaysia maintains a governance structure rooted in ethical conduct and accountability, fostering integrity across all
levels of the organisation. These principles guide our daily operations, from frontline employees to senior leadership, ensuring
operational excellence, ethical sourcing and supply chain integrity. Together, we build trust and encourage responsible corporate
leadership which is essential for success in the competitive brewing industry.
2 Regulatory Compliance
4 Corporate Governance and Anti-Corruption
8 Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
10 Risk Management
Material Sustainability Matters Key Highlights
ZERO
substantiated non-compliance incidents with
applicable laws or regulations
ZERO
substantiated complaints concerning breaches of
customer privacy and losses of customer data
100%
employees underwent training on anti-bribery and
anti-corruption
Corporate Governance and Anti-Corruption
Legal compliance and ethical conduct are central to HEINEKEN Malaysia’s governance and anti-corruption efforts. To maintain the
highest standards of integrity and transparency across our operations, the Group maintains the following codes and policies.
HEINEKEN Code of Business Conduct (HeiCode)
The HeiCode was updated in 2023 to address evolving
business needs and emerging challenges. Organised into four
key areas – Caring for People and Planet, Maintaining Business
Integrity, Protecting our Assets and Engaging Responsibly –
the revised Code has been enhanced to clarify critical issues,
including harassment and corruption. Regular reviews ensure
its continued relevance and support our industry leadership.
Compliance is mandatory, and violations may result in
disciplinary action, termination of employment, or legal action
where appropriate.
To read the HeiCode, please visit https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/
61
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
HEINEKEN Policy on Bribery
Our anti-bribery policy maintains a firm stance against bribery and corruption. We ensure full legal compliance, implement
robust internal controls, offer periodic training and promote a culture of integrity and transparency to maintain the highest
ethical standards across our operations.
ZERO
incidents of corruption reported
100%
Board members and employees received
anti-bribery and anti-corruption training
HEINEKEN Policy on Fraud
Recognising the significant financial and reputational risks posed by fraud, we have a Fraud Policy that clarifies what constitutes
fraudulent activity and provides guidance for its identification and mitigation. Maintaining transparency, accuracy and
completeness in all records, both financial and non-financial, is essential for mitigating these risks and upholding stakeholder
confidence.
Fullyimplemented
fraud risk assessments
HEINEKEN Speak Up Policy
As part of the Speak Up Policy, we provide a confidential reporting channel for our employees and stakeholders to report their
concerns regarding unethical practices. Reports can be submitted online or by phone and are managed by an independent third
party under the oversight of the HEINEKEN Global Integrity Committee. The Speak Up Policy ensures confidentiality for those
reporting misconduct, including cases of fraud, corruption, harassment or discrimination. This service operates on a 24/7 basis,
providing timely responses to all concerns.
14
reports received via Speak Up Channel
100%
cases resolved successfully
NONE
of the Speak Up cases has caused any material financial impact to the Group
Risk Management
The Group has established a comprehensive system of risk management and internal control, drawing from the COSO Enterprise Risk
Management and Internal Control Reference model which is a key component of our HEINEKEN Business Framework.
The HEINEKEN Risk Management Framework (RMF) provides guidance for identifying and mitigating risks.
Type of Risks Our Actions
Responsible Commercial Communication
Risk of adverse public reaction to
external communications/activities
and potential change in regulations.
• Managed external activities and communications across commercial teams.
• Stepped up communications to enhance the Group’s reputation.
• Corporate Affairs and Marketing teams explore partnership with Grab Malaysia for
responsible consumption campaigns.
• Introduced a new responsible marketing code e-learning in FY2024.
• Engaged key government stakeholders on the Group’s socio-economic contributions and
corporate responsibility activities.
62 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Type of Risks Our Actions
Safety
Uncontrolled events which lead to
serious injuries or fatalities impacting
the communities, potentially followed
by business disruption, losses,
reputational or legal claims.
• A safety workshop was conducted with the Management Team.
• A fire drill alongside an emergency evacuation drill for a chemical leak, was conducted in
Sungei Way Brewery in collaboration with the Fire and Rescue Department (BOMBA).
• A driving restriction hour was imposed for the commercial team. Additionally, mandatory
safety e-learning sessions, focusing on LSC, were rolled out across the organisation.
Non-Compliance with Environmental Regulations
Occurrences of excessive waste,
pollution, or any other non-compliance
with legal and regulatory requirements
or stakeholder expectations may result
in legal claims, reputational damage,
or the revocation of the operational
license.
• Upgraded the Wastewater Treatment Plant with the employment of qualified personnel.
• Completed the inspection and repair of underground drainage in 2021.
• Proactive measures were taken to minimise the volume of scheduled waste within the
brewery.
Violation of Human Rights
Significant alleged or actual non-
compliance with the Human Rights
policy arising from our business
activities within our operations or
value chain, may result in claims,
fines and reputational damage.
• Adopted the HeiCode e-learning initiative to enhance awareness of human rights issues.
• Spot checks on contract workers’ payroll are conducted by the People Function and
Internal Audit Department to ensure compliance.
• The annual Control Self-Assessment conducted on internal controls related to human
rights has been rated effective.
Cyber Security Incident
Cyber-attacks targeting the Group
for the purposes of disrupting,
disabling, destroying or stealing its
critical data leading to potential loss
of intellectual property, fines, legal
expenses, loss of public confidence,
business disruption, reputational
damage, financial losses and loss of
our license to operate.
• Implemented the HEINEKEN Global Cybersecurity Framework, including firewall, network
and security operations centre.
• Adopted the HEINEKEN Information Security Maturity Assessment Framework as part
of the internal controls to protect and detect threats against information systems,
with quarterly assessments conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of the Group’s
information security management system and cyber security measures.
• Conducted monthly scanning of applications through the HEINEKEN Global Information
Security vendor.
• Launched the annual Cybersecurity Awareness programme.
• Launched Cyber Security e-learning to raise awareness.
• Conducted a Cyber Crisis Preparedness tabletop exercise.
Sustainability Goals
Failure to fulfil BaBW’s goals could
result in substantial damage to our
reputation and heightened scrutiny
of our sustainability programmes.
• A sustainability governance structure is in place.
• Management Team and the Board are updated quarterly on sustainability progress.
• Non-financial reporting controls have been implemented since 2022 to track our
progress and achievements of the BaBW goals.
Sustainability Disclosures
Inaccurate reporting or unbalanced
disclosure of non-financial indicators
and BaBW goals could undermine
transparency and accountability.
• Proactive measures were taken to mitigate the risks associated with the goals of BaBW.
• Consultants have been appointed to benchmark the standards, with the process
currently ongoing.
Data Breach
Accidental or deliberate loss of
sensitive or critical data leading to
fines, brand damage, adverse media
exposure, loss of customer confidence
and possibly loss of revenue.
• Reviewed data and reporting system access controls.
• Assessed the detection of unauthorised file transfer.
• Modified Access Profiles for production interfaces.
• Activated a phishing campaign across the organisation to enhance awareness
of phishing and its attack methods with a 1.22% click rate recorded. Digital and
Transformation team will continue to run this campaign to increase awareness.
• Recognised an opportunity to address potential consumer data leakage, safeguarding
our reputation.
• Monitored Data Privacy regulation to embed compliance in SOPs.
63
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
Data Security Measures in 2024
Email Phishing
Exercise
Disaster Recovery
Drill for Production
Systems
SCAM ME - QR
Phishing Campaign
Physical Cyber Security
Training with Live
Hacking Demos
Secure Brew - Cyber
Security Newsletter
Cyber Security
Awareness Day
Security Awareness
Training 2024
How to Identify
Phishing Attacks
Training
Continuous
Education on
WhatsApp Phishing
Scam Alert
Phishing
Recognition
Game 2.0
ZERO
substantiated complaints concerning breaches
of customer privacy and losses of customer data
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
We prioritise the protection of both personal and business data to
maintain trust and meet regulatory requirements. Safeguarding
this information minimises the risk of data breaches, preserves our
reputation and strengthens relationships with clients, enabling
continued operational performance and compliance.
In compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act (PDPA)
2010, our Privacy Policy governs data management activities
across the Group. The HEINEKEN Information Security Maturity
Assessment (ISMA) framework, now known as Security Control
Effectiveness Assessment (SCEA), was established by Heineken
N.V. in compliance with the NIST Cybersecurity Framework.
The NIST Cybersecurity Framework (CSF) is a set of guidelines
developed by the U.S. National Institute of Standards and
Technology (NIST) to help organisations manage and mitigate
cybersecurity risks. All this information is stipulated in the
HEINEKEN Cyber Security Policy. The framework is designed to
fortify our information systems against potential threats. The
efficacy of our cybersecurity risk management measures and
the robustness of our information security management system
undergo quarterly assessments through the SCEA evaluations.
In FY2024, all employees completed mandatory training
through the Data Privacy e-learning course to strengthen their
cybersecurity awareness. To further enhance vigilance, a series
of simulated phishing email exercises were conducted, focusing
on recognising phishing tactics and attacks. Additionally, we
engaged external specialists to perform network penetration
tests, simulating real-world cyberattacks to identify vulnerabilities
in our computer network. These tests not only help pinpoint
weaknesses but also offer valuable recommendations for
improving our security measures.
Type of Risks Our Actions
Disruption of Sourcing Continuity
Adverse change or high volatility
in currency rates leading to
deterioration of revenues and/or
increase in input costs and reduced
margins and/or liquidity.
• Continued to manage the Group’s foreign currency exposures and align with HEINEKEN
Global on hedging strategies and requirements.
64 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
As a responsible corporate citizen, HEINEKEN Malaysia acknowledges the environmental risks posed by climate change and
resource scarcity, including high energy and water consumption. In response, we adhere to the highest environmental responsibility
standards, ensuring our sustainability claims are substantiated by credible and verifiable data. Our BaBW 2030 ambition guides
our efforts with clear, measurable goals to reduce our environmental impact. Through this, we aim to brew responsibly and
contribute to a more resilient future.
Material Sustainability Matters
Key Highlights
100%
renewable electricity since March 2022 through
TNB GET programme
29%
improvement in water consumption vs 2014
baseline
3,500
mono-perc solar panels installed on roof of the
Sungei Way Brewery
3 Climate Resilience and Energy Efficiency
5 Water Stewardship
12 Waste and Effluent Management
16 Resource Use
ESG Pillars and Ambition Areas
• Reach Net Zero Carbon
• Maximise Circularity
• Towards Healthy Watersheds and Nature
36%
reduction in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions in
production vs FY2022 baseline
Fullyrecycled
andupcycled
our production waste since FY2017
209%
water balanced via water stewardship projects
65
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
Our Roadmap to Net Zero
HEINEKEN Global’s BaBW strategy sets out both short and long-term approaches to achieving net zero emissions across the entire
value chain. Our target is to achieve net zero emissions in Scopes 1 and 2 by 2030 and fully advance Scope 3 initiatives towards net
zero by 2040, relative to our 2022 baseline year.
Our strategy to reach net zero across our value chain is built on the four Rs: reduce, replace, remove and report. This involves transitioning
from fossil fuels to renewable energy across our operations and value chain. We have set long-term and near-term targets to achieve
this, approved by the SBTi. This ambition aligns with the 1.5°C global temperature limit in the Paris Agreement.
Our Net Zero Glidepath
2030 – Net zero in Scope 1 and 2 2040 – Net zero in Scope 3
NET ZERO CARBON
Our Ambition: We aim to achieve net zero emissions in Scopes 1 and 2 by 2030 and fully advance Scope 3
initiatives towards net zero by 2040.
Process Optimisation for Increased Energy Efficiency
HEINEKEN Malaysia has implemented various energy-saving initiatives, including utility upgrades, process improvements and plant
upgrades, resulting in a 1 kWh/hl reduction in cooling plant electricity consumption. Key measures include installing insulation on steam
boilers and fermentation tanks, investing in energy-efficient refrigeration and adding a heat recovery system in the brewhouse. These
are complemented by process optimisations such as reducing evaporation rates, enhancing clean-in-place efficiency and improving
condensate return rates to maximise energy efficiency across our operations.
Our Strategic Pillars
Reduce Remove
Replace Report
OUR NET ZERO ROADMAP IS ALL ABOUT THE 4 R’S
66 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Energy Management
In FY2024, HEINEKEN Malaysia’s total energy consumption is
recorded at 164,176 GJ. 62% of the total energy consumption
stemmed from natural gas usage followed by 35% from procured
electricity for the production process at the brewery. The remaining
are from non-production processes at the office and company-
owned vehicles. In FY2024, we recorded a reduction of 7% in total
energy consumption compared to FY2023.
RENEWABLE ENERGY INTEGRATION
• Installed 3,500 mono-perc solar panels on Sungei Way Brewery roof, covering 9,044m² with a 2,600 MWh
capacity.
• We subscribed to the GET programme with TNB, reducing emissions from our electricity usage.
Total Energy Consumption (GJ)
178,448
FY2022
175,726
FY2023
164,176
FY2024
Enhancing Scope 3 ESG Engagement with Suppliers and Business Partners
We have engaged with our key suppliers and business partners to strengthen our collective focus towards ESG principles. With the support
of our Procurement team and in partnership with the United Nations Global Compact Network Malaysia and Brunei (UNGCMYB), we
rolled out the ESG Start dashboard to provide suppliers with access to maturity assessments and e-learning modules, equipping them
with the necessary resources to strengthen their ESG practices while also contributing to our Scope 3 disclosures. This session aimed
to deepen our suppliers’ understanding of ESG principles and enhance their preparedness for compliance with ESG standards. It also
enables us to effectively report on our Scope 3 engagement with suppliers and business partners.
Note: Three years of energy data have been disclosed.
-7%
-2%
67
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
Electricity Consumption
FY2023
FY2022 FY2024
Total Electricity (Non-production) (MWh)
Total Electricity (Production) (MWh)
Electricity Intensity (Production) (kWh/hl)
15,835
8.97
15,240
9.39
15,934
9.17
1,608
1,349 566
Renewable Thermal Energy (Biogas) (m3)
FY2023
FY2022 FY2024
207,838
118,981 112,364
Non-Renewable Thermal Energy (Natural Gas)
FY2023
FY2022 FY2024
Total Thermal Energy (GJ)
62.2
69.1
58.3
109,808 112,087
101,348
Thermal Energy Intensity (MJ/hl)
Thermal Energy
The primary sources of thermal energy for our production
processes are natural gas, supplemented by biogas generated
from our wastewater treatment plant which provides a renewable
energy source. In FY2024, we recorded 101,348 GJ of natural
gas consumption with an intensity of 58.3 MJ/hl. Compared to
FY2023, our natural gas consumption has decreased by 10%.
Breakdown by Type of Energy Consumption
Procured Electricity
In FY2024, our procured electricity data accounts for consumption
at both the brewery and the office. HEINEKEN Malaysia’s total
electricity consumption in FY2024 amounted to 16,500 MWh,
where 97% was attributed to the production at the brewery. This
marks a 1% decrease compared to our electricity consumption
of 16,589 MWh in FY2023. Our electricity consumption for
production decreased by 5% in FY2024, aided by the installation
of mono-perc solar panels on our brewery roof.
Fuel Consumption from Company-Owned Vehicles (Litre)
FY2024
FY2023
FY2022
14,757 9,183
19,895 13,514
20,049 10,353
Petrol Consumption Diesel Consumption
For biogas consumption, we generated 112,364 m3 of biogas
this year. A decrease of 6% in FY2024 was observed. By reducing
water consumption across our production processes, we not only
minimised overall water usage but also decreased the load on
our wastewater treatment plant. This led to a lower volume of
wastewater to be processed, which directly impacted the amount
of biogas generated from the treatment plant, as less biogas was
needed to handle the reduced load.
Fuel Consumed by Company-Owned Vehicles
Since FY2022, we have tracked fuel consumption from company-
owned vehicles, including petrol and diesel. In FY2024, total fuel
consumption was 23,940 litres, with 62% from petrol and 38%
from diesel. Compared to FY2023, fuel consumption decreased
by 28%.
Total Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions
In FY2024, HEINEKEN Malaysia’s total GHG emissions were
6,873 tCO
2
e, with 84% from Scope 1, including thermal energy,
refrigerants and fuel consumption from company-owned vehicles.
We achieved zero Scope 2 emissions through a 100% transition
to renewable electricity. Additionally, our mono-perc solar panels
have contributed to an emissions reduction of 736 tCO
2
e from
July to December 2024. Our Scope 3 emissions, covering employee
commute and business travel, accounted for 16% of the total
emissions.
-6%
-43%
68 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Scope 1 emissions (tCO
2
e)
(natural gas, refrigerants and company-owned vehicles)
7,810 6,375 5,743
Scope 2 emissions (tCO
2
e)
(procured electricity in production and non-production)
11,146 10,600 10,543
Scope 2 emissions reduction (tCO
2
e)
(through procured electricity from GET programme)
(9,736) (10,600) (10,543)
Scope 2 emissions reduction (tCO
2
e)
(through solar panel installation in FY2024)
N/A N/A (736)
Total Scope 1 and 2 GHG Emissions (tCO
2
e) 9,220 6,375 5,743
Scope 3 emissions (tCO
2
e)
(employee commute and business travel)
N/A 1,310 1,130
Total GHG Emissions (tCO
2
e) 9,220 7,685 6,873
Notes:
i. FY2022’s emissions expanded to include Scope 1 emissions from production and company-owned vehicles, in addition to Scope 2 emissions from
production and office activities.
ii. Emissions for FY2023 and FY2024 encompass Scope 1 emissions from production and company-owned vehicles, Scope 2 emissions from production
and office operation and the inclusion of Scope 3 emissions from business travel (both land and air).
iii. Total GHG emissions data presented in HEINEKEN Malaysia’s Annual Report 2022 is only inclusive of Scopes 1 and 2 for production only.
iv. Three years of total GHG emissions data for all operations have been disclosed, applying the Operational Control consolidation method.
Total GHG Emissions from Production
Our GHG emissions from production include those from natural
gas consumption, refrigerants, signboards and purchased
electricity for use at the brewery. Our total carbon emissions have
decreased by 36% since our FY2022 baseline, recording at 3.39
kgCO
2
e/hl. This reduction is attributed to the Group’s complete
transition to renewable electricity since March 2022 and the
mono-perc solar panels installation on Sungei Way Brewery roof
which has been operational since July 2024.
Total Scope 1 Emissions (tCO
2
e)
FY2023
FY2022 FY2024
7,810
6,375
5,743
Direct Scope 1 Emissions
The Group’s Scope 1 emissions primarily stem from natural gas
usage and refrigerants in production processes. In FY2024, total
Scope 1 emissions amounted to 5,743 tCO
2
e, marking a 10%
decrease compared to 6,375 tCO
2
e in FY2023. In comparison
with our FY2022 baseline, a 26% reduction in Scope 1 emissions
has also been recorded, reflecting ongoing improvements in
operational efficiency.
Total GHG Emissions (Production)
FY2023
FY2022 FY2024
Total GHG Emissions (tCO
2
e)
5.18
3.88 3.39
9,148
6,294 5,893
Emissions Intensity (kgCO
2
e/hl) Indirect Scope 2 Emissions
The Group’s Scope 2 emissions are primarily consumed in both
production and non-production activities at the headquarters
office in Sungei Way Brewery. Since March 2022, we have
subscribed to TNB’s GET Programme which mitigated all Scope
2 emissions, where 100% of our electricity was sourced from
renewable sources, resulting in zero Scope 2 emissions recorded
for FY2023 and FY2024.
-10%
-18%
69
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
Total Scope 2 Emissions (tCO
2
e)
FY2023
FY2022 FY2024
1,410
0 0
Additionally, the 3,500 mono-perc solar panels installed on the
Sungei Way Brewery roof, with a total capacity of 2,600 MWh
further reduced 736 tCO
2
e from the period of July 2024 till
December 2024. The mono-perc solar panels are fully operational
since July 2024 which accounts for 7% of the total electricity
consumption of the brewery.
Scope 3 Emissions (tCO
2
e)
Employee Commute
Business Travel
FY2023
668
642
FY2024
668
462
Other Indirect Scope 3 Emissions
Our total Scope 3 emissions for FY2024 amounted to 1,130
tCO
2
e. Specifically, our emissions from business travel amounted
to 462 tCO
2
e, with 668 tCO
2
e attributed to employee commute.
Our emissions from employee commute represent the entire
workforce at HEINEKEN Malaysia (526 employees). We have
utilised an average-based methodology to estimate these
emissions, drawing insights from a survey conducted by Heineken
N.V. in FY2023, categorised by the Asia Pacific (APAC) region.
MAXIMISE CIRCULARITY
Our Ambition: We aim to reach zero waste
to landfill by 2025 at our production site,
advancing circularity by repurposing, recycling
and transforming waste into valuable resources,
contributing to a closed-loop value chain.
Waste and Effluent Management
HEINEKEN Malaysia places great importance on effective
waste management to minimise environmental impact and
optimise cost efficiency. The majority of our waste consists
of biodegradable byproducts such as spent grain, yeast and
kieselguhr, which have commercial value from reuse in other
industrial applications.
We prioritise the reuse of brewery by-products, such as spent
grain and yeast, while enhancing recycling initiatives to improve
resource efficiency. During the reporting year, the Group incurred
no environmental fines or penalties.
Total Waste Generated
Total Waste Generated (tonnes)
FY2023
FY2022 FY2024
35,423
32,632
34,317
Generated
34,317tonnes of waste
RM2.20million
revenue generated
Fullyrecycled
andupcycled
our production waste
Note: The total waste generated covers 100% of our operations.
70 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
TURNING WASTE INTO VALUE
A majority of our organic waste streams,
encompassing spent grain, yeast and kieselguhr,
have inherent biodegradability and considerable
commercial potential. We collaborate with external
partners to repurpose these by-products through
bioconversion processes, generating valuable
materials for a range of industries.
WASTE TO ENERGY
Wastewater is transformed into a valuable
resource for biogas production via anaerobic
digestion, thereby reducing our reliance on
fossil fuels within the brewing process. As part
of our ongoing ambition towards sustainability,
we actively explore innovative technologies for
converting organic waste into biogas.
Inorganic Waste Management
Our inorganic waste stream consists of a range of materials such as cardboard, glass, metals, plastics, damaged aluminium cans,
intermediate bulk containers (IBC) tanks and scheduled waste. Our brewery produces minimal scheduled waste, and it is handled by a
licensed contractor. To support effective waste segregation, we provide dedicated bins in cafés, office spaces and pantries, allowing staff
to separate food waste, packaging and other types of waste.
In FY2024, we produced a total of 916 tonnes of inorganic waste, where 45% of our inorganic waste consisted of glass.
Organic Waste Management
In FY2024, we produced a total of 33,401 tonnes of organic waste with spent grain accounting for 79.8% of the organic waste.
Spent grain Sludge
Spent yeast
Spent kieselguhr
General
Rejected malt and silo dust
Organic Waste Generated (tonnes)
FY2023
FY2022 FY2024
32,868
30,436
33,401
Breakdown of Organic Waste Generated
79.8%
0.1%
1.3%
2.0%
16.7%
0.1%
Inorganic Waste Generated (tonnes) Breakdown of Inorganic Waste Generated
FY2023
FY2022 FY2024
2,555
2,196
916
Mixed bottled Plastic scraps
Cardboard cartons
Metals
Scheduled
waste
Damaged cans
(aluminium)
Glass (Cullets)
Intermediate bulk
containers (IBC) tanks
45%
3%
15%
12%
1%
16%
6%
2%
71
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
Packaging Material
HEINEKEN Malaysia is proud to announce that through a strategic partnership aimed at advancing sustainability in secondary
packaging, we introduced prem collars in our secondary packaging material. We are replacing plastic shrink wraps in all locally brewed
multi-can secondary packaging with a paper-cardboard prem collar. Prem collar, a type of paperboard packaging made from renewable
materials that is used to hold cans, offers an alternative to traditional shrink wrap.
Through this innovative initiative, we are taking steps to reduce single-use plastic from our secondary packaging. This initiative is
also expected to reduce approximately 108 tonnes of single-use plastic from the packaging from the period of September 2023 to
December 2024.
Resource Use
Our approach emphasises reduction, reuse and recycling across kegs, bottles and crates. By embracing a circular packaging model, we
minimise our reliance on finite resources.
In FY2024, the returned kegs, bottles and plastic crates, which are collected from the on-trade outlets in Peninsular Malaysia, are at
99%, 91% and 99% respectively. FY2024 presents a unique challenge due to the seasonal peak periods in January and December,
which are two key months for stock build-up. During these peak periods, the returnable packaging materials are typically delayed as
customers accumulate stock to meet demand. These seasonal driven returnable patterns provide a great opportunity to refine and
optimise logistics processes. By understanding and anticipating these patterns, we can improve forecasting, enhance supply chain
efficiency, whilst ensuring our packaging returns remain consistent and contribute to a more sustainable circular economy to advance
our sustainability goals.
Percentage of Product Package Returned
FY2024
99%
91%
99%
FY2022
95%
82%
92%
FY2023
100% 100%
91%
Kegs Bottles Plastic crates
Reduced
approximately108tonnes
of plastic from packaging
72 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
TOWARDS HEALTHY WATERSHEDS AND NATURE
Our Ambition: Our 2030 water strategy, ‘Towards healthy watersheds and nature’ is designed to create long-term
value in our production processes and go beyond our brewery walls to actively support the health and sustainability
of local watersheds.
Our 2030 Water Goals
Water is not only essential to our products – it is an important
resourcethatsupportsallaspectsofouroperations.Wehavemade
water management a core priority, recognising its importance to
our business, communities and the environment. This strategy is
built on three key pillars: water in our production, water in our
communities where we operate and water in our supply chain.
At HEINEKEN Malaysia, we manage water use in production
through a combination of water efficiency improvements, reuse
and recycling initiatives and wastewater treatment processes. Our
focus is on improving water usage, reusing and recycling water
within our operations and promoting best practices beyond our
business. We also invest in advanced technologies to improve
water management efficiency.
For 2030, we aim to reduce the amount of water we use to
produce one litre of our products to 2.6 hl/hl. This target is part of
our measurable sustainability goals, which are regularly tracked
and reported to ensure we are making progress towards achieving
them. All wastewater produced in our brewery is treated to protect
the local ecosystem and comply with the Environmental Quality
Act 1974 and the Environmental Quality (Industrial Effluent)
Regulations 2009 Fifth Schedule (Standard B) by the Department
of Environment.
In our communities, we strive to balance the water used in our
products through initiatives that incorporate nature-based
solutions, including reforestation and rehabilitation projects at our
watershed and wastewater discharge. These actions are focused
on reducing water loss and improving resilience to climate change
impacts.
73
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
Water Consumption (hl/hl)
FY2014
4.32
FY2022
3.45
FY2023
3.41
FY2024
3.06
Water In Our Production
To achieve our 2030 goal of reducing water consumption to
2.6 hl/hl, we have upgraded our brewery to reduce our water
consumption. To further enhance our efforts, the integration
of flow metres enables precise monitoring and optimisation of
recycling processes, improving overall resource efficiency.
In FY2024, we recorded an average water consumption of 3.06 hl
per hl of beer produced, a 29% improvement versus the FY2014
baseline year. There was a decreasing pattern seen from previous
years, and we continue to strive to meet our BaBW target of
reducing average water consumption to 2.6 hl/hl.
Our wastewater treatment plant, with an annual capacity of 780
million litres, ensures full compliance with the Environmental
Quality Act 1974 and the Environmental Quality (Industrial
Effluent) Regulations 2009 Fifth Schedule (Standard B). Zero
incidents of non-compliance with water quality standards and
regulations were recorded in the reporting year.
Water In Our Communities
We aim to balance the amount of water used in our products
with our local watersheds through investing in water stewardship
projects. For every 1 litre of water in our beers and ciders, we target
to balance 1.5 litres of water in our watersheds. We have initiated
various water conservation projects and remain dedicated to
ongoing contributions. Central to these efforts is our flagship
initiative, the W.A.T.E.R Project, undertaken in collaboration with
the Global Environment Centre and local communities supported
by the Government agencies. Spearheaded by the SPARK
Foundation, HEINEKEN Malaysia’s corporate responsibility arm
established in 2007, our endeavours focus on environmental
protection and empowering local communities in the areas of
water access and food security.
Total Effluent Discharged (m3)
FY2023
FY2022 FY2024
443,752
370,304
327,086
-12%
-17%
In FY2024, wastewater discharge decreased by 12% compared to
FY2023. By implementing more efficient water usage practices,
optimising processes and promoting conservation efforts, we were
able to lower the volume of water used, which directly contributed
to a decrease in wastewater discharge.
74 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
HEINEKEN Malaysia Target:
Balance Volume (m3) = Water Intake (m3) – Treated Effluent (m3)
Balancing amount to be more than water used in our products
1.5 litre of water is replenished for every 1 litre of product. 0.5 litre accounts for unavoidable losses from evaporation and
moisture
Target Water Balancing (1.5 x water used in our products)
Watershed
supplies water
to communities
and industries
Long-term
watershed
health
protection
100% of wastewater treated
beyond standards of
Department of Environment
Water that goes to our products
is replenished through water
balancing programme.
1.5 litres of water is replenished for
every 1 litre used in our products
Water
consumption
for production
activities
Our water balancing volumes are quantified and verified in line with the Volumetric Water Benefit Accounting (VWBA) framework by
the World Resources Institute; volumetric benefit evaluation is independently verified by LimnoTech, a leading water sciences and
environmental engineering firm based in the United States.
In 2024: HEINEKEN Malaysia achieved 209% of our target water balancing volume
Water Balancing
Achievement:
545,422 m3
Water Balancing
Target:
260,761 m3
2024 Water balancing achievement through Water Stewardship initiatives
600,000
500,000
400,000
300,000
200,000
100,000
0
389,000 m3
Sg Way
Rehabilitation
Claydyke
136,102 m3
Reforestation
12,750 m3
Rainwater
Harvesting
Systems
7,570 m3
75
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
Sungai Way River Rehabilitation
WHERE Sungai Way river
Petaling Jaya
WHAT
Transformed water quality
from Class IV-V (extremely polluted) to Class III
(suitable for living organisms)
HOW
• Pollution reduction: point source mapping, rubbish
traps, solid waste monitoring
• Water quality improvement: food, oil and grease
traps systems and biological treatment
• River within river concept - constructed wetlands to
improve quality of water in the river
WHY
Located next to HEINEKEN Malaysia’s
Sungei Way Brewery, this is where our
treated wastewater is discharged
• Reduction in pollution
• Improved habitat and biodiversity
RESULT VOLUMETRIC
WATER BENEFIT
389,000 m3
(389 million litres)
Clay Dyke for Water Retention
WHERE Raja Musa Forest Reserve
Hulu Selangor
WHAT Constructed 305-metre clay dyke
at Raja Musa Forest Reserve
HOW
• Built four to five metres vertical wall of clay below
the peat surface to prevent peatland fires by
promoting wetter soil conditions
• Blocks water flow from the peatlands into disused
mining ponds, effectively raising the water table in
the areas upgradient to the dyke
WHY Sungai Selangor watershed
as a key water resource
• Increase in soil water retention
• Decrease in the risks of peatland fires
• Restoration of peatland, contributing
to the long-term sustainability of the
watershed
• ZERO forest fires since 2019
RESULT
VOLUMETRIC
WATER BENEFIT
136,102 m3
(136 million litres)
76 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Reforestation of Degraded Peatland
WHERE Raja Musa Forest Reserve
Hulu Selangor
WHAT
1,800 trees planted
and maintained on three hectares of degraded
peatland
HOW • Open planting techniques
• Cleared invasive weeds and plants
WHY Prevent peatland fires
by promoting wetter soil conditions
• Prevent further degradation of the peat
• Increased soil water retention
RESULT VOLUMETRIC
WATER BENEFIT
12,750 m3
(12.7 million litres)
Rainwater Harvesting for Local Communities
WHERE Klang Valley
WHAT
33 Rainwater Harvesting Systems
consists of an interconnected rooftop area that
serves as a catchment for the rainwater and
storage tanks to collect and store rainwater
HOW
• The rainwater collected serves as non-potable
water supply including cleaning, landscaping and
irrigation
• Increase water availability in the local community
to reduce wastage on treated water and stress on
our water resources
WHY Help communities
obtain access to alternative water sources to reduce
reliance on treated water
• Reduced demands on treated water
source
• Rainwater harvesting systems are
linked to 12 community farming
projects which help in supplementing
income and food
RESULT
VOLUMETRIC
WATER BENEFIT
7,570 m3
(7.5 million litres)
77
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
Our Progress Against BaBW 2030 Ambitions
Environmental Sustainability
Ambition Areas Our BaBW Global Ambitions Our FY2024 Progress
Net Zero Carbon • Reach net zero across our value chain by 20401
• Reach net zero in Scopes 1 and 2 by 20302
• Reduce Scope 3 FLAG (forest, land and agriculture)
emissions by 30% and non-FLAG by 25% by 2030
1 100% of our Scopes 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions.
2 100% of our Scopes 1 and 2 GHG emissions.
• Reduced 36% of carbon emissions (Scopes 1 and
2) in production vs 2022 baseline
• 100% renewable electricity via TNB GET
programme
• 3,500 mono-perc solar panels with a total
capacity of 2,600 MWh installed and operational
since July 2024
• Engaged 36 business partners on Scope 3
reporting
Maximise
Circularity
• Zero waste to landfill for all production sites by
2025
• Turn waste into value and close material loops
throughout the value chain
• Fully recycled and upcycled our production waste
since 2017
Towards Healthy
Watersheds and
Nature
• Reduce average water usage to 2.6 hl/hl in
water-stressed areas by 2030
• Fully balance3 water used in our products in
water-stressed areas by 2030
³ For every 1 litre of water in our products, we aim to
balance 1.5 litres of water through water stewardship
projects.
• Maximise reuse and recycling in water-stressed
areas by 2030
• Improved water consumption by 29% vs 2014
baseline year
• 3.06 hl water consumed per hl of beer
• 209% water balanced in 2024
• Treated wastewater is collected and reused for
general cleaning and gardening purposes
• 100% of wastewater treated beyond the
standards required by the Department of
Environment
Note: A comprehensive set of environmental data in compliance with Bursa Malaysia’s sustainability reporting requirements can be referred to the
Performance Data Table on page 99.
78 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
HEINEKEN’s social sustainability efforts focus on promoting diversity, equity and inclusion, supporting local communities and
ensuring the health and safety of employees and consumers. We strive to create a positive social impact through initiatives
that enhance well-being, foster safe drinking, and empower employees while contributing to societal development through
partnerships and community engagement. HEINEKEN is committed to aligning our business practices with global social
sustainability standards, driving long-term value for both society and the company.
Material Sustainability Matters
Key Highligts
43%
of women in Board of Directors
38%
of women in Management Team
20,993hours
of training provided to employees
List of Ambition Areas
• Embrace Inclusion & Diversity
• A Fair and Safe Workplace
• Positive Impact on our Communities
ZERO
fatal accidents
2
social impact initiatives
7 Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing
9 Human Rights and Labour Standards
11 Supply Chain Management
13
14
13
Human Capital Development
Community Investment and Development
Diversity
SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
Our social sustainability efforts focus on promoting Diversity, Equity and Inclusion (DEI), supporting local communities and
ensuring the health and safety of employees and consumers. We strive to create a positive social impact through initiatives that
enhance wellbeing, foster safe drinking and empower employees while contributing to societal development through partnerships
and community engagement. We aim to align our business practices with global social sustainability standards, driving long-term
value for both society and the company.
Material Sustainability Matters
Key Highlights
43%
of women in Board of Directors
38%
of women in Management Team
20,993Hours
of training provided to employees
List of Ambition Areas
• Embrace Inclusion and Diversity
• A Fair and Safe Workplace
• Positive Impact on our Communities
ZERO
fatal accidents and serious injuries
2
social impact initiatives
7 Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing
9 Human Rights and Labour Standards
11 Supply Chain Management
13
14
15
Human Capital Development
Community Investment and Development
Diversity
79
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
EMBRACE DIVERSITY, EQUITY AND INCLUSION
Our Ambition: We aim to create an environment where everyone feels valued and respected. Embracing diverse
perspectives and equitable opportunities enhances collaboration between our teams for a shared purpose.
Diversity
Guided by our DEI principles, we cultivate an environment where diverse strengths are valued, enabling individuals to reach their full
potential. Efforts to enhance gender balance in Senior Management are progressing, with targets set at 30% women by 2025 and 40%
by 2030. To accelerate progress, initiatives such as the DEI Strategy and Women Interactive Network (WIN) have been introduced.
DEI Strategy
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s DEI strategy promotes inclusivity by strengthening leadership, cultivating a supportive environment and
promoting equitable opportunities. Appointed from each department, DEI ambassadors play a key role in creating meaningful
spaces for employees to share their experiences and perspectives, driving deeper engagement across the organisation.
Our key DEI initiatives in FY2024 include:
Reigniting the “WANT” to participate by
refreshing DEI council members from various
functions.
Launched a DEI BINGO Challenge, gamifying
inclusion with activities for recognition and
rewards.
Curated two DEI-themed films, "Breaking Labels"
and "The Inner Voice", to challenge workplace
stereotypes and foster belonging.
Conducting Unconscious Bias Awareness
workshops for targeted teams to improve
awareness and practices.
80 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Our efforts to advance the gender equality agenda are embraced through five key pillars.
Talent Acquisition and External Brand
• Ensured our recruitment processes encourage equal opportunity by including diverse candidate
pools, with a target of at least 30% female applicants, particularly for Sales and Supply Chain roles.
• Designed inclusive job advertisements, free from gendered language, using gender-neutral titles
and descriptions to promote diversity.
• Implemented blind screening by eliminating photographs in CV submissions to reduce potential
biases.
• Maintained a merit-based hiring process, promoting fairness and objective criteria while striving for
gender diversity.
Leadership Development
• Required all People Managers to complete the All-Inclusive Leadership e-learning module, focusing
on strategies to advance gender equality.
• Rolled out the Inclusive Practices toolkit, comprising nine key strategies, including ensuring equal
opportunities for all.
Performance Management and Rewards/Gender Pay Parity
• Conducted unbiased performance discussions through Inclusive Leadership practices, contributing
to higher promotion rates for women employees.
• Incorporated Gender Pay Gap analysis into the annual salary review process, ensuring equitable
salary considerations for new hires based on internal benchmarks.
Employee Relations/Inclusive Culture
• Updated the Anti-Sexual Harassment policy to strengthen understanding and awareness among
employees.
• Delivered a refresher on the Speak Up Policy, reinforcing its importance and accessibility.
• Organised bi-annual feedback sessions, such as listening circles and dialogue forums, to
understand women’s perspectives on gender equality efforts.
• Guaranteed the inclusion of women in all internal and external events, initiatives and projects to
reflect organisational diversity.
81
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
Workforce Diversity
To improve our workforce diversity, hiring, remuneration and promotion practices are conducted without any discrimination based
on race, gender, sexual orientation, religion, national or social origin, age, or disability. Furthermore, our remuneration practices are
benchmarked against external market data to guarantee fair compensation for our employees.
In total, our workforce comprised 526 employees, with a gender ratio of 70:30 between male and female. In terms of age distribution,
9% were under 30 years old, 76% fell within the 30 to 50 range and 15% were above 50 years old. The breakdown also showed a
majority of employees in permanent positions, constituting 97% of the workforce.
Notes:
* A comprehensive comparison of three years data can be referred to the Performance Data Table on pages 100 and 101.
• Other individuals under the ethnic demographics encompass indigenous people of Sabah and Sarawak, Eurasians and foreign nationals.
• Senior Managers and Directors are exclusive of Board members.
Our Board of Directors exceeded the 30% female representation recommended under the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance
2021 by the Securities Commission Malaysia, achieving 43%. 43% of the Directors fell within the age range of 50 to 60, while 28.5%
were above 60 and 28.5% below 50.
Gender Diversity by Employee Category Age Diversity by Employee Category
Middle
Management
Non-
Managerial
Senior
Managers and
Directors
74% 80%
10% 10%
16% 11% 20%
<30 30-50 >50
79%
Middle
Management
Non-
Managerial
Senior
Managers and
Directors
79% 59% 61%
21%
41% 39%
Male Female
Percentage of Permanent and
Contractors/Temporary Staff
Contractors/Temporary Staff
Permanent Staff
97%
3%
Nationality
Malaysian
Non-Malaysian
98%
2%
Ethnic Diversity
Indian Malay
Chinese Others
75%
15%
3%
7%
Board Gender Diversity
Male Female
43%
57%
Board Age Diversity
<50 50-60 >60
43%
28.5%
28.5%
82 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Length of Service
25 years
10 years 35 years
24
3
4
Employee Engagement
We believe that engaging with our employees is key to instilling
a culture where all employees feel valued, giving them the
opportunity to be agents of positive change. In working towards
fostering a more inclusive and diverse workplace, HEINEKEN
Global created a global community of DEI ambassadors to
deliver its DEI goals and to respond to local contexts and
opportunities. In HEINEKEN Malaysia, we have established a
DEI Council, supported by the Management Team, to facilitate
awareness programmes and initiatives for all people leaders and
all employees from across functions and departments. They are
empowered to host inclusion sessions to gather the thoughts and
experiences of our employees on DEI.
EMPLOYEE CLIMATE SURVEY
We ensure continuous, two-way communication
across our organisation through impactful
engagement initiatives. Our annual
employee climate survey provides insights
into organisational culture and the work
environment. It includes the Employee
Engagement Index, measuring employees’
willingness to go beyond their core duties, and
the Performance Enablement Index.
As a result of our initiatives for the year, zero incidents of
discrimination were recorded.
A FAIR AND SAFE WORKPLACE
Our Ambition: We foster a culture of care where
employee safety and wellbeing are paramount.
We remain focused towards achieving
zero workplace accidents and ensuring all
employees receive fair compensation and
equitable treatment, underpinned by a robust
performance assessment framework.
Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing
HEINEKEN Malaysia prioritises employee wellbeing by providing
comprehensive benefits that support health, financial security
and work-life balance, creating a safe and supportive workplace.
In FY2024, we have achieved
Employee Engagement Index Score of
86
Performance Enablement Index Score of
84
Employee Benefits
• Personal accident
insurance
• Outpatient and inpatient
medical insurance
• Group term life insurance
• Dental and optical
benefits
Efforts to support employee wellbeing include providing parental
leaves to our employees, where we have recorded a 100% return-
to-work rate in FY2024.
Parental Leave FY2024
Number of employees entitled to Parental Leave 337
Number of employees that took Parental Leave 9
Number of employees that returned after
Parental Leave
9
Return-to-work rate 100%
In terms of performance, evaluations were conducted throughout
the year to ensure all employees had opportunities for growth
and development. Hence, all employees underwent performance
appraisals in FY2024.
In FY2024, the Group welcomed 56 new hires, reflecting
our ongoing pursuit of talent acquisition and growth. These
new employees contributed to various functions across the
organisation, bringing fresh perspectives and skills. During the
same period, we recorded a turnover of 38 employees and a
turnover rate of 7%, which highlights the need for continued focus
on employee retention strategies and fostering a positive work
environment.
83
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
Number of New Hires
by Gender
Female
Male
34
22
Number of New Hires
by Age
30-50
<30 >50
17
36
3
Number of Turnovers
by Employee Category
Non-
Managerial
20
Middle
Management
16
Senior
Managers
and
Directors
2
Human Rights and Labour Standards
We foster an inclusive and fair workplace that upholds dignity and respect for all. In line with the HeiCode which outlines the principles
of Caring for People and the Planet, the HEINEKEN Human Rights Policy reinforces our efforts towards non-discrimination, irrespective of
race, gender, nationality, age, religion, sexual orientation and disabilities. As of December 2024, 50.4% of our workforce were members
of trade unions, reflecting our resolve towards freedom of association and collective bargaining.
Our recruitment processes are designed to be transparent and free from bias, ensuring all employees are well-informed about their
employment conditions and any forthcoming changes to operations or policies. We place particular emphasis on hiring local talent,
including individuals from disadvantaged communities, as part of our inclusive recruitment strategy.
We also comply with the Malaysian Minimum Wages Order 2022, which is in line with HEINEKEN Global’s 2023 objective of achieving
global wage equity where we prioritise equal pay for equal work. To ensure fairness in wage practices, we carried out thorough
assessments across all operations in FY2024.
Health and Safety
No forced labour
Fair wages and income
Respect for human rights
in high-risk contexts
No discrimination
Rest and leisure
No harassment and
violence
No child labour
Access to water
Freedom of association
and the right to collective
bargaining
Our Human Rights Standards
ZERO
substantiated labour standards non-compliance issues reported for the past three years.
Note:
• Senior Managers and Directors are exclusive of Board members.
84 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Strengthening Workplace Safety and Compliance
Our operations adhere to the guidelines set by the Department of Safety and Health (DOSH) and comply with the Occupational
Safety and Health (Amendment) Act 1994 and the Factories and Machinery Act 1967. Central to our operations is the HeiCode which
integrates the HEINEKEN Health and Safety Policy, offering a structured approach to managing health and safety risks.
Life Saving Commitments (LSC)
Ensuring a safe working environment is essential for the implementation of LSC, in line with the HEINEKEN Global Safety Standards
and Requirements. The critical principles governing high-risk activities are defined by these LSC and apply to both employees and
contractors.
Health and Safety Programme Themes
• Emergency Response and Fire Safety
• Confined Space Safety
• Equipment and Electrical Safety
• Road Safety
• Occupational Safety and Hazard Management
• Chemical and Hazardous Material Safety
• Contractor Safety
• Risk Assessment and Control
526
employees trained on health and safety standards in FY2024
(FY2023: 519)
Life Saving Commitments
We foster a safe environment in the implementation of LSC, guided by the stringent HEINEKEN Global Safety Standards
and Requirements. These LSC delineate the fundamental principles governing our operation’s highest-risk activities and are
applicable to both our dedicated employees and contractors.
85
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
The Life Saving Commitments training (LSC e-learning) further strengthens our safety culture. This initiative achieved a completion rate
of 100% among people managers and 98% among targeted employees in FY2024. We also recorded zero instances of non-compliance
with the health and safety management system during FY2024.
In FY2024, the Group recorded zero fatalities and three lost-time injuries, meeting our target of zero fatal accidents and maintaining
continuous reduction in injury rate.
FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Total number of hours worked 960,831 1,062,866 1,070,196
Number of fatalities 0 0 0
Number of lost time accidents per 100 full-time employees 0 2 3
Lost time accident rate 0 0.4 0.5
Notes:
1. The value of 200,000 was used as a standardised value of the total amount of hours that 100 employees work weekly.
2. The number of hours worked, fatalities, lost time accidents and the lost time accident rate covers 100% of our operations.
HUMAN CAPITAL DEVELOPMENT
We have an integrated learning platform that provides access to a diverse range of courses to equip employees with critical business skills
and insights into digital trends, ensuring they remain adaptable and future-ready in a dynamic industry. The training and development
programmes for FY2024 focuses on six themes as outlined below:
Compliance and
Regulatory
Ethics and
Integrity
Commercial
Excellence
Diversity, Equity
and Inclusion
Leadership and
Management Skills
Environmental
Sustainability
Technology and
Software
Enhancing governance capabilities ensures informed
decision-making on critical sustainability matters.
Recognising this, Board members attended targeted
training programmes to refine their responsibilities,
equipping them with the knowledge needed to navigate an
evolving regulatory and sustainability landscape. A list of
the training programmes attended by some of our Board
members can be found below:
• Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance: A Practical
Guide
• Business, International Relations and the Political
Economy
• E-learning on HEINEKEN Responsible Marketing Code
2024
• E-learning on HeiCode 2024
• Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II - Leading
for Impact - Building high-impact boards for long-term
growth
Strengthening Board Expertise: Training and Development
The HEINEKEN Global Graduate Programme 2024 develops
graduates for future leadership roles by providing induction
and exposure to various functions within the HEINEKEN
network. Participants complete three four-month rotations
at HEINEKEN Malaysia and a six-month cross-functional
placement at another HEINEKEN operating company in
the APAC region, preparing them for leadership roles in
Commercial, Supply Chain, Finance, People, Corporate
Affairs, Legal and Digital and Transformation functions.
HEINEKEN Global Graduate Programme 2024
The Short-Term Assignment programme provides
local employees with international experience across
HEINEKEN’s operations in the APAC region, fostering
professional growth and expanding networks. In FY2024,
five employees successfully completed the short-term
assignments, showcasing their creativity and leadership in
diverse environments.
Short-Term Assignments
Types of Training Programmes
86 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s training and personal development
programmes offer employees a broad spectrum of learning
opportunities. Leveraging our integrated learning platform, staff
were able to access courses focused on both emerging digital
trends and cross-functional business skills.
Our employees completed 20,993 hours of training during
FY2024, averaging 40 hours (approximately five days) per
employee.
Total Training Hours by Employee Category
Middle
Management
Non-
Managerial
Senior
Managers and
Directors
12,070
7,491
1,432
Supply Chain Management
HEINEKEN Malaysia ensures that all suppliers strictly adhere to
the HEINEKEN Supplier Code. Updated in 2023, this code defines
our stance on ethical business conduct, human rights, ethical
procurement and environmental care.
Our supplier expectations are outlined in the
HEINEKEN Supplier Code and the HEINEKEN
General Terms and Conditions for Purchase
Orders, both accessible at www.heinekenmalaysia.
com/procurement
Acknowledging the vital role of third-party vendors, we
ensure their right to fair treatment, reasonable working
hours and safe working environments. Our SMART
Outsourcing programme incorporates an extensive
survey of contractors and local workers to identify any
gaps in their working conditions. The findings were
measured against our fair labour standards, and we
partnered with service providers to implement the
necessary enhancements. Drawing from these insights,
we established an action plan aimed at improving the
management of outsourced contracts and fostering better
workplace practices.
SMART Outsourcing
To mitigate risks linked to third-party engagements,
HEINEKEN Malaysia implements stringent evaluation
measures that include compliance with data protection
laws and respect for privacy. We collect and process
information such as company details, directors,
shareholders, Politically Exposed Persons and Ultimate
Beneficial Owners as part of our due diligence process.
Where risks are identified, third-party partners are
encouraged or directed to undertake remedial actions to
address these concerns.
Communication
We maintain consistent and transparent communication
with third parties by sharing questionnaire invitations,
reminders and follow-up correspondence. This includes
addressing risk management measures or requesting their
acceptance and implementation.
Due Diligence Process
• We gather and screen information about the company,
key personnel and ownership structure, ensuring
compliance with risk assessment standards.
• Third parties may be asked to complete a detailed
due diligence questionnaire to identify risks related to
bribery, money laundering or sanctions.
• Names are cross-checked against publicly accessible
databases that highlight risks involving bribery,
sanctions, human rights, negative media and, where
applicable, criminal offences or political links.
• Comprehensive reports summarise findings, if any, and
assign a risk rating to guide further action.
Supplier Evaluation
Our Speak Up Policy provides distributors and suppliers with
a secure channel for reporting any suspected misconduct or
unethical practices within the Group, enabling them to raise
concerns without fear of reprisal.
By actively engaging local suppliers, we reduce emissions,
support environmental preservation and boost local economies.
Incorporating this approach minimises transportation impacts
while fostering economic growth within local communities.
100%
of our suppliers adhered to the HEINEKEN
Supplier Code
96%
of our engaged suppliers were from local sources
Procurement spent on local suppliers increased to
80%
Note:
• Senior Managers and Directors are exclusive of Board members.
87
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
POSITIVE IMPACT IN OUR COMMUNITIES
Our Ambition: The Group aims to deliver at least
one positive social impact initiative annually.
Percentage of Suppliers Contracted
FY2023
FY2022 FY2024
94%
6%
95%
5%
96%
4%
Local Suppliers Foreign Suppliers
Percentage of Procurement Spent
FY2023
FY2022 FY2024
59%
41%
67%
33%
80%
20%
Local Suppliers Foreign Suppliers
To uphold the Group’s integrity, we conduct annual risk
assessments for both our new and existing suppliers, including an
evaluation on their social and environmental impacts.
FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Number of
suppliers assessed
for environmental
impacts
2 1 1
Number of suppliers
assessed for social
impacts
0 3 3
Community Investment and Development
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s BaBW 2030 strategy includes community-
focused initiatives such as food distribution, watershed restoration
and promoting responsible consumption. These efforts strengthen
our ties with local communities and demonstrate our focus towards
long-term social responsibility, contributing to a positive impact
The Tiger Sin Chew CECC programme demonstrated
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s ongoing ambition to advance
community wellbeing. In FY2024, the initiative raised
RM19 million through nine institutions. Since its launch in
1994, this programme has raised RM427 million and made
meaningful contributions to the education sector thanks to
the generous contributions of our stakeholders.
Tiger Sin Chew CECC
HEINEKEN Cares continued to strengthen support for
employees and local communities in FY2024, focusing
on essential needs such as clean water, food security
and community resilience. Through a collaboration with
Sokong, a digital fundraising platform for NGOs, non-profit
organisations and social enterprises, RM220,000 has been
allocated across FY2024 to aid underserved communities.
This initiative supports four NGOs in delivering food aid
and other critical resources to those in need. Our efforts
were guided by a carefully crafted narrative developed
in alignment with HEINEKEN Malaysia’s cross-functional
team, reinforcing the organisation’s social sustainability
position. By working closely with our trade partners and
stakeholders, HEINEKEN Cares remains focused on making
a meaningful impact in the lives of vulnerable communities
as we ensure long-term benefits beyond immediate relief.
HEINEKEN Cares 2024
In alignment with our ambition to social responsibility, HEINEKEN
Malaysia channelled RM2.9 million in external community
initiatives in FY2024.
RM2.9million
channelled in Community Projects in FY2024
for the future. HEINEKEN Malaysia remains a key contributor to
Malaysia’s economic development, both directly and indirectly.
Our products generate income for more than 27,000 Malaysian
businesses and retailers. As our presence in the brewing sector
continues to expand, our contributions to the nation’s economic
growth and community development will grow accordingly.
In FY2024, our tax contributions exceeded RM1.45 billion,
underscoring our substantial financial impact. Beyond this, we
drive economic activity by directly employing 526 individuals and
indirectly supporting over 30,000 jobs.
Project Number of Beneficiaries
Tiger Sin Chew
CECC
Nine institutions
HEINEKEN Cares 1,000 individuals from four projects
W.A.T.E.R Project
(Rainwater harvesting
beneficiaries)
6,990
88 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Our Progress Against BaBW 2030 Ambitions
Social Sustainability
Ambition Areas Our BaBW Global Ambitions Our FY2024 Progress
Diversity, Equity
and Inclusion
• Gender balance across Senior Management:
30% women by 2025, 40% by 2030
• Continue assessment and action towards
achieving equal pay for equal work
• 38% of women in Management Team
Fair and Safe
Workforce
• Continue to confirm that 100% of our employees
earn at least a fair wage
• Create fair living and working standards for third-
party employees and Brand Promoters
• Shape a leading safety culture to drive zero fatal
accidents and continue reduction in injury rate
• 100% assessment completed
• 0 fatalities
Community Impact • A social impact initiative in 100% of our markets
every year
• Tiger Sin Chew CECC
• HEINEKEN Cares Community Food Aid programme
Note: A comprehensive set of social data in compliance with Bursa Malaysia’s sustainability reporting requirements can be referred to the Performance
Data Table on pages 100 and 101.
89
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION
We promote responsible consumption by empowering consumers to make informed choices. Our marketing practices align with
social responsibility, emphasising moderation through clear messaging and initiatives that promote a balanced lifestyle.
Material Sustainability Matters
Key Highlights
>10%
of Heineken® media spend on promoting responsible
consumption
List of Ambition Areas
• Always a Choice
• Address Harmful Use
• Make Moderation Cool
1 Product Safety, Quality and Hygiene
6 Responsible Marketing and Consumption
Distributed over
RM140,000
in Grab e-hailing promo codes for consumers
through brand and corporate events
90 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
ALWAYS A CHOICE
Our Ambition: We continue to innovate by offering a diverse range, including zero-alcohol options. We prioritise
clear and transparent product information to empower consumers to make informed choices that align with their
preferences and lifestyles.
Everyone should have the option of selecting the right beverage for the right occasion. Our zero-alcohol option, Heineken® 0.0 provides
the refreshing fruity notes and soft malty body of beer without the effects of alcohol. This gives consumers a ‘real alternative’ which
promotes moderate alcohol consumption and a more balanced lifestyle.
We are focused on providing clear information about our products, making them available on both brand and corporate websites.
Information for consumers include Alcohol by Volume (ABV), calories, ingredients, allergens, nutrient information and harm reduction
symbols. We are also working towards our goal of providing clear and transparent product information on 100% of our products.
Product Safety, Quality and Hygiene
In promoting the health and wellbeing of our consumers, we practise stringent adherence to hygiene and safety standards and closely
monitor our operations throughout production processes. Our brewery was the first in Malaysia to receive the MS 1480: 2007 Hazard
Analysis Critical Control Point (HACCP) Certification from the Ministry of Health in August 2002 and we have also been accredited with
the ISO 9001:2015 certification, an international standard for quality management systems, since 2018.
We uphold our dedication to promote responsible consumption through our Responsible Marketing Code (RMC). We review all
marketing materials, including point-of-sale items, based on the following eight principles:
Responsible Marketing Code
Responsible
Marketing
Code
Respectful,
Transparent
and Truthful
Respect for
People and
Planet
Safe and
Appropriate
Behaviours
Does Not Claim
Social and
Sexual Success
Responsible
Drinking
Consumer
Choice
Adult
Appeal
Health,
Nutritional and
Functional Claims
1
8
4
5
2
7
3
6
91
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
In FY2024, we reported zero incidents of non-compliance with
the RMC in relation to our marketing communications. As the
majority of our brands transitioned to the new labelling format
in 2023, we have since reported zero instances of non-compliance
with the HEINEKEN Global Labelling Policy.
1. External agency develops marketing material
2. Reviewed by Brand Team
3. Verified by Marketing Manager
4. Signed off by Head of Communications and
Sustainability
5. Signed off by Senior Legal Manager
6. Signed off by Marketing Director
Marketing Material Reviewing Process
ADDRESS HARMFUL USE
Our Ambition: We aim to reduce harmful
alcohol use by promoting responsible
consumption, raising awareness and supporting
initiatives that encourage moderation and
informed choices among consumers.
Responsible Consumption
HEINEKEN Malaysia remains focused on tackling the harmful
use of alcohol. We will continue to cultivate local partnerships
to address alcohol harm including topics like the prevention of
underage drinking, drink-driving and binge drinking.
We believe awareness is key to emphasise the importance
of moderation and responsible consumption. In addition, by
cultivating partnerships at the local level, we aim to promote
responsible drinking practices, including preventing underage
drinking and reducing drink-driving incidents, while discouraging
excessive consumption.
Advocating Responsible Consumption
Since 2012, Heineken N.V. has endorsed the Beer, Wine and
Spirits Producers’ Commitments to Reduce Harmful Drinking. The
ambitions are centred on five key goals designed to encourage
responsible consumption, both within the organisation and
among external stakeholders.
HEINEKEN Malaysia continues to prioritise responsible
consumption and the reduction of harmful consumption
behavioursthrougharangeofongoinginitiatives.Over5,000Grab
e-hailing promo codes were distributed at brand and corporate
events in FY2024, encouraging responsible consumption. Beyond
this, a year-end campaign promoting responsible consumption
during the festive season saw over RM140,000 worth of Grab
e-hailing promo codes being distributed to consumers. These
efforts have positively impacted numerous communities towards
raising awareness on responsible consumption practices.
Illicit Alcohol Trade
HEINEKEN Malaysia actively participates in efforts to eradicate
illicit alcohol sales, collaborating closely with various ministries
and agencies under Multi-Agency Task Force, spearheaded by the
Ministry of Finance.
MAKE MODERATION COOL
Our Ambition: We dedicate 10% of our
Heineken® media spend to impactful campaigns
that promote responsible consumption,
including “Enjoy Responsibly” and “When You
Drive, Never Drink” initiatives, encouraging
moderate and safe alcohol consumption.
We believe in promoting responsible consumption and annually
allocate more than 10% of our Heineken® media budget to
support impactful campaigns such as “When You Drive, Never
Drink,” launched in 2022 and “Low, Slow, No,” “Boring Phone” and
“Player 0.0,” campaigns launched in 2024. This reporting year, we
increased this allocation to RM1.5 million.
HEINEKEN Malaysia advocates for responsible alcohol
consumption. Our employees are expected to exemplify this by
adhering to our strict policy on responsible alcohol consumption.
This policy emphasises the enjoyment of our products within the
context of a balanced lifestyle. Effective communication ensures
all employees understand their responsibilities and any breach of
this policy may result in disciplinary action, including termination.
92 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Our Progress Against BaBW 2030 Ambitions
Responsible Consumption
Ambition Areas Our BaBW Global Ambitions Our FY2024 Progress
Always a Choice • A zero-alcohol option for one strategic brand in
the majority of our markets (accounting for 90%
of our business) by 2025
• Clear and transparent consumer information on
100% of our products by 2024
• Heineken® 0.0 has been available in Malaysia
since 2019
• 100% fully compliant with the HEINEKEN Global
Labelling Policy for all brands
Address Harmful
Use
• A partnership to address alcohol-related harm in
100% of markets every year
• Partnership with Grab Malaysia offering Grab
e-hailing promo codes to promote responsible
consumption
Make Moderation
Cool
• 10% of Heineken® media spend invested every
year in responsible consumption campaigns,
reaching 1 billion consumers
• More than 10% of Heineken® media spend
invested in responsible consumption campaign
93
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
STRATEGIC ADVOCACY
HEINEKEN Malaysia has been actively involved in strategic
advocacy efforts centred on ESG principles and water stewardship
across 10 prominent platforms in 2024. This involvement
underscored our pursuit of sustainable business practices and
responsible environmental management.
Among the key events are The Star ESG Summit 2024, the
National Climate Governance Summit by Climate Governance
Malaysia, and the UNGCMYB Leads FLOWS 2024 Symposium
themed “Accelerating Impact for Water Resilience.” These
events have been instrumental in raising awareness about water
stewardship, responsible corporate governance and climate-
conscious decision-making.
The forums provided valuable insights into how companies can
better integrate ESG factors into their strategies. This helps them
address global challenges such as climate change and resource
management. Through these engagement sessions, HEINEKEN
Malaysia has reinforced our dedication to creating long-term
value not just for our stakeholders but also for the communities
and environments in which we operate.
94 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
RECOGNITIONS
HEINEKEN Malaysia has been honoured with various distinguished awards across the beverage sector, acknowledging our resolve
towards product excellence and sustainability. These accolades underscore our continuous efforts to embrace industry standards and
drive progress in all aspects of our operations.
The Star Positive Impact Awards 2023
HEINEKEN Malaysia won gold in three categories: Water
Management and Efficiency, Innovative Partnership and
Waste Management.
HR Excellence Awards 2024
HEINEKEN Malaysia secured two Gold Awards for Excellence
in Retention Strategy and Excellence in Total Rewards
Strategy.
Sustainability & CSR Malaysia Awards 2024
HEINEKEN Malaysia was recognised as Company of the Year
(Manufacturing) for the seventh consecutive year.
Malaysian Dutch Business Council Innovation &
Sustainability Awards 2024
HEINEKEN Malaysia was honoured for Best Sustainable Built
Environment, for its achievements under the Environment
pillar of the BaBW strategy.
95
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
UN Global Compact Network Malaysia and Brunei Forward
Faster Sustainability Awards 2024
HEINEKEN Malaysia triumphed in the Water Resilience
category for our Water Balancing efforts and initiatives in
promoting Healthy Watersheds at both the river behind
our brewery and the Raja Musa Forest Reserve, a key water
catchment area. We also received the SDG Reporting
Disclosure Recognition, underscoring our resolve towards
transparency and sustainability in reporting.
Asian Experience Awards 2024
Our e-Commerce platform, Drinkies, clinched two awards for
Malaysia Service Experience - E-Commerce: For our Drinkies
Star Bar and Malaysia Product Experience - E-Commerce: For
our Draught Beer Party Package.
Great Place to Work Certification
HEINEKEN Malaysia received the Great Place to Work
Certification, in recognition of our efforts in fostering an
engaged workforce.
Employee Experience Awards 2024 Malaysia
HEINEKEN Malaysia was awarded Bronze in the Best
Employee Wellness Strategy category, a testament to our
pursuit of fostering a healthy and supportive workplace
environment.
96 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Our Climate-related Disclosures
HEINEKEN Global’s BaBW strategy prioritises climate action through proactive mitigation and adaptation. Recognising the impact
of climate change on key ingredients such as barley, hops and water, we are enhancing supply chain sourcing, water stewardship and
agricultural resilience. Our climate progress, tracked through transparent disclosures aligned with the IFRS standards, targets net zero
emissions in production by 2030 and across our value chain by 2040.
Core Elements Disclosures Reference
Governance
The Board’s oversight of
climate-related risks and
opportunities.
• The Board is responsible for providing oversight on the Group’s
sustainability strategy, including its long-term direction, sustainability
strategy and overall strategic trajectory.
• As part of its governance and effectiveness assessment, the Board
also provides strategic direction on sustainability and climate-related
risks and opportunities.
• The Board provides oversight on the setting of targets related to
climate-related risks and opportunities by approving the Group’s
Annual Sustainability Plan and related targets and policies for risk
mitigation.
• The Board monitors progress towards BaBW 2030 goals and relevant
climate-related targets quarterly.
• The Group’s sustainability agenda is reviewed by the Board through
the assessment of progress on climate-related initiatives and
alignment with the BaBW ambition, while sustainability strategies
and initiatives are guided by adherence to the Group’s Sustainability
Policy.
Sustainability
Governance Structure
(pages 50 to 51)
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
(pages 102 to 110)
The Management’s role in
assessing and managing
climate-related risks and
opportunities.
• The Management provides oversight of initiatives under the BaBW
2030 strategy, with a focus on environmental sustainability, using
climate-related key performance indicators (KPIs).
• The Management is delegated to present periodic progress reports to
the Board on efforts to address climate-related risks and opportunities.
• The Management is also responsible for monitoring functional area
owners in executing initiatives under each BaBW pillar, ensuring
alignment with the 2030 goals, particularly regarding climate-related
risks and opportunities.
• The Management stays informed about climate-related risks and
opportunities by assessing quarterly updates from the SC, guided by
the Global BaBW strategy.
• The Management engages with stakeholders for feedback on
climate concerns and conducts periodic materiality assessments to
prioritise key climate-related issues impacting both the Group and our
stakeholders.
97
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
ESG Review
Core Elements Disclosures Reference
Strategy
Identified climate-related
risks and opportunities
over the short, medium and
long-term.
HEINEKEN Malaysia aligns with HEINEKEN Global’s climate strategy,
which includes systematically evaluating climate-related risks and
opportunities over different time horizons.
Short-term (<1 year): Immediate environmental dependencies, impacts
and risks requiring urgent action are reviewed quarterly by our Audit &
Risk Management Committee, ensuring a prompt strategic response.
Some risks are mitigated through short-term financial investments.
Medium-term (1–5 years): We engage in strategic planning to address
environmental risks that may arise, balancing immediate actions with
long-term sustainability goals.
Long-term (>5 years): We incorporate climate-related risks and
opportunities into our long-term planning to enhance the resilience
of assets and infrastructure, ensuring alignment with sustainability
objectives.
Detailed descriptions of the identified risks and opportunities are
available in the Heineken N.V. Annual Report 2024
www.theheinekencompany.com
Risk Management
(pages 61 to 63)
Heineken N.V. Annual
Report 2024
(pages 169 to 172)
Impact of climate-related
risks and opportunities on
the Group’s businesses,
strategy and financial
planning.
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s climate impact assessment aligns with the
resilience analysis conducted by Heineken N.V.. Due to their continued
relevance, the resilience analysis performed by Heineken N.V. in 2023
remains a key reference for HEINEKEN Malaysia.
Detailed descriptions of the potential risk and impact are available in the
Heineken N.V. Annual Report 2024 www.theheinekencompany.com
Resilience of the Group’s
strategy, taking into
consideration different
climate-related scenarios,
including a 2°C or lower
scenario.
Three key climate-related risks remain unchanged from the previous year
due to their ongoing relevance.
1. The impact of carbon pricing on the value chain and operations.
2. Water stress affecting operational resilience.
3. Barley yield losses due to changing climate conditions.
Heineken N.V. conducts scenario analysis to assess potential risks under
different climate scenarios:
• 1.5°C scenario:
– Increased implementation of carbon pricing and stricter emissions
trading schemes to drive decarbonisation.
– Advancements in water management and regulatory restrictions
contribute to efficient water use.
– Technological innovations in agriculture impact yield stability.
• 3–4°C scenario:
– Fragmented and inconsistent carbon pricing schemes.
– Population growth and uneven development intensify global water
stress.
– Extreme weather events and warmer winters affect crop yields,
increasing brewing costs.
Detailed analysis of these risks is available in the Heineken N.V. Annual
Report 2024 www.theheinekencompany.com
98 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
ESG Review
Core Elements Disclosures Reference
Risk Management
Processes for identifying
and assessing climate-
related risks.
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s Risk Management Framework (RMF) plays a key
role in the Group’s operational structure.
• To identify critical sustainability risks and opportunities, particularly in
relation to the implications of climate change by utilising the Group’s
EverGreen strategy. We also evaluate the impact and likelihood of
occurrence through these assessments.
• To undertake periodic evaluations by the Management to mitigate
the risks identified and ensure strategic alignment.
• To conduct annual materiality reassessments aligning with the RMF,
highlighting key issues such as climate change risks and ensuring they
are addressed in the overall strategy.
Statement on Risk
Management and
Internal Control
(pages 115 to 121)
Risk Management
(pages 61 to 63)
Materiality Assessment
(pages 56 to 57)
Processes for managing
climate-related risks.
The Group’s risk management processes are centred around our BaBW
strategy. A key focus is on increasing the use of renewable energy
to reduce our carbon footprint. Additionally, the development of a
Sustainability Policy provides a clear framework for the Group and
stakeholders, guiding the integration of sustainability practices across
operations.
Net Zero Carbon:
Climate Resilience and
Energy Management
(pages 65 to 69)
Sustainability Policy
(page 52)
Integration of processes for
identifying, assessing and
managing climate-related
risks into the overall risk
management.
HEINEKEN Malaysia conducts an annual risk assessment to evaluate
climate-related risks and ensure alignment with the overall RMF. During
this process, the Management Team evaluates the adequacy and
effectiveness of action plans to appropriately manage the identified
climate-related risks.
Risk Management
(pages 61 to 63)
Metrics and Targets
Metrics used to assess
climate-related risks and
opportunities in line with
climate strategy and risk
management process.
We evaluate climate-related risks and opportunities in line with our
BaBW 2030 goals and broader risk management approach. In line with
our sustainability ambition, we have updated our carbon baseline year
from 2018 to 2022 to enhance the accuracy of our carbon footprint
measurement. Further to this, the quantification approach is applied to
evaluate the climate-related risks as outlined in the Heineken N.V. Annual
Report 2024.
Our Progress Against
BaBW 2030 Ambitions
(page 77)
Heineken N.V. Annual
Report 2024
(page 171)
Disclosure of Scope 1, Scope
2, and, if appropriate, Scope
3 GHG emissions and the
related risks.
The disclosure of our Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions for FY2024
is based on our 2022 baseline year. In compliance with the Bursa
Malaysia’s sustainability reporting requirements, we have continued to
track and report on our Scope 3 emissions, specifically those related to
employee commute and business travel.
Net Zero Carbon:
Total GHG Emissions
(pages 67 to 69)
Targets used to manage
climate-related risks
and opportunities and
performance against
targets.
We have set targets to achieve net zero carbon emissions in production
(Scopes 1 and 2) by 2030 and across our entire value chain by 2040.
To track our progress, we have established KPIs that align with our
environmental sustainability goals. These KPIs monitor our ongoing
environmental performance and provide insight into how we are
advancing towards our targets.
Our Progress Against
BaBW 2030 Ambitions
(page 77)
99
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
The table below contains the common and specific sustainability indicators required by Bursa Malaysia under their Enhanced Sustainability
Guide (3rd edition), and it is presented in the prescribed format as shown in the Bursa Malaysia’s Illustrative Sustainability Report.
GOVERNANCE
Indicator Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Corporate Governance and Anti-Corruption
Bursa C1(a) Percentage of employees who have received
training on anti-corruption by employee category
• Non-Managerial % 100 100 100
• Middle Management % 100 100 100
• Senior Managers and Directors % 100 100 100
Bursa C1(b) Percentage of operations assessed for corruption
related risks
% 100 100 100
Bursa C1(c) Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions
taken
Number 0 0 0
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
Bursa C8(a) Number of substantiated complaints concerning
breaches of customer privacy or losses of customer data
Number 0 0 0
ENVIRONMENT
Indicator Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Climate Resilience and Energy Management
Bursa C4(a) Total energy consumption GJ 178,448 175,726 164,176
Bursa C11(a) Scope 1 emissions in tonnes of CO
2
e tCO
2
e 7,810 6,375 5,743
Bursa C11(b) Scope 2 emissions in tonnes of CO
2
e tCO
2
e 11,146 10,600 10,543
Scope 2 emissions reduction (through procured electricity from
the GET programme)
tCO
2
e (9,736) (10,600) (10,543)
Bursa C11(c) Scope 3 emissions in tonnes of CO
2
e (business
travel and employee commuting)
tCO
2
e - 1,310 1,130
Waste and Effluent Management
Bursa C10(a) Total waste generated Metric
tonnes
35,423 32,632 34,317
Bursa C10(a)(i) Total waste diverted from disposal Metric
tonnes
35,423 32,632 34,317
Bursa C10(a)(ii) Total waste directed to disposal Metric
tonnes
0 0 0
Bursa S8(a) Total volume of water (effluent) discharge over the
reporting period
m3 443,752 370,304 327,086
Water Stewardship
Bursa C9(a) Total volume of water used hl of
water/hl
of beer
3.45 3.42 3.06
Notes:
i. FY2022’s emissions expanded to include Scope 1 emissions from production and company-owned vehicles, in addition to Scope 2 emissions from
production and office activities.
ii. Emissions for FY2023 and FY2024 encompass Scope 1 emissions from production and company-owned vehicles, Scope 2 emissions from production
and office operation and the inclusion of Scope 3 emissions from business travel (both land and air).
iii. Total GHG emissions data presented in HEINEKEN Malaysia’s Annual Report 2022 is only inclusive of Scopes 1 and 2 for production only.
iv. Three years of total GHG emissions data for all operations have been disclosed, applying the Operational Control consolidation method.
Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Indicators
100 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
SOCIAL
Indicator Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing
Bursa C5(a) Number of work-related fatalities Number 0 0 0
Bursa C5(b) Lost time incident rate (LTIR) Rate 0 0.4 0.5
Bursa C5(c) Number of employees trained on health and safety
standards
Number - 519 526
Human Rights and Labour Standards
Bursa C6(d) Number of substantiated complaints concerning
human rights violation
Number 0 0 0
Human Capital Development
Bursa C6(a) Total hours of training by employee category
• Non-Managerial Hours - 10,082 12,070
• Middle Management Hours - 8,262 7,491
• Senior Managers and Directors Hours - 1,264 1,432
Bursa C6(c) Total number of employee turnover by employee
category
• Non-Managerial Number 10 14 20
• Middle Management Number 23 17 16
• Senior Managers and Directors Number 3 1 2
Diversity
Bursa C3(a) Percentage of employees by gender and age
group, for each employee category
Gender group by employee category
• Non-Managerial (Male) % 80 78 79
• Non-Managerial (Female) % 20 22 21
• Middle Management (Male) % 58 61 59
• Middle Management (Female) % 42 39 41
• Senior Managers and Directors (Male) % 56 57 61
• Senior Managers and Directors (Female) % 44 43 39
Age group by employee category
• Non-Managerial (<30) % 19 13 10
• Non-Managerial (30-50) % 65 71 74
• Non-Managerial (>50) % 16 16 16
• Middle Management (<30) % 14 12 10
• Middle Management (30-50) % 78 76 79
• Middle Management (>50) % 8 12 11
• Senior Managers and Directors (<30) % 0 0 0
• Senior Managers and Directors (30-50) % 71 77 80
• Senior Managers and Directors (>50) % 29 23 20
Bursa C3(b) Percentage of directors by gender and age
• Male % 57 57 57
• Female % 43 43 43
• <50 % 0 14 28.5
• 50-60 % 57 57 43.0
• >60 % 43 29 28.5
Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Indicators
Note:
• Senior Managers and Directors are exclusive of Board members.
101
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Indicator Unit FY2022 FY2023 FY2024
Bursa C6(b) Percentage of employees that are contractors or
temporary staff
• Permanent % 93 97 97
• Contract % 7 3 3
Supply Chain Management
Bursa C7(a) Proportion of spending on local suppliers % 59 67 80
Community Investment and Development
Bursa C2(a) Total amount invested in the community where the
target beneficiaries are external to the listed issuer
RM 3.1 million 3 million 2.9 million
Bursa C2(b) Total number of beneficiaries of the investment in
communities
Tiger Sin Chew CECC Number 8 institutions 8 institutions 9 institutions
HEINEKEN Cares Number 14,500
individuals from
7 projects
5,000
individuals from
6 projects
1,000
individuals from
4 projects
W.A.T.E.R Project Number 6,700
individuals
6,750
individuals
6,990
individuals
Note:
1. Other individuals under the ethnic demographics encompass the indigenous people of Sabah, Sarawak, Eurasians and foreign nationals.
Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Indicators
102 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
The Board of Directors (the Board) of Heineken Malaysia Berhad (HEINEKEN Malaysia or
the Company) is committed to upholding good business ethics and corporate governance
(CG), as these are crucial for the long-term sustainability and performance of the
Company and its subsidiaries (the Group). The Company supports the principles of good
governance, and the recommended practices outlined in the Malaysian Code on Corporate
Governance (MCCG).
The Board is pleased to present this statement to provide
shareholders and investors with an overview of the CG practices
applied by the Company during FY2024. This overview
makes reference to the following key CG principles and the
recommended practices set out in the MCCG and it should be
read together with the Audit & Risk Management Committee
Report, Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control,
ESG Review and the Corporate Governance Report (CG Report)
for FY2024 which are available on the Company’s website
https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/
Board Leadership and Effectiveness
Principle
A
Board Leadership and Effectiveness
Principle
A
Effective Audit and Risk Management
Principle
B
Integrity in Corporate Reporting and
Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders
Principle
C
Chairman of the Board should not be a
member of the Nomination & Remuneration
Committee
Principle
1.4
For Large Companies, the Board comprises a
majority independent directors
Principle
5.2
Disclosure on a named basis the top five
Senior Management’s remuneration in
bands of RM50,000
Principle
8.2
As of the date of this statement, the Company has materially
complied with the principles and adopted all recommended
practices, including two step-up practices in the MCCG, except for
the following:
The Company's application of MCCG principles and CG practices,
along with explanations for any departures, are detailed in the CG
Report 2024.
Governance Framework
To ensure orderly and effective discharge of the functions
and responsibilities of the Board, the Board has established a
governance framework. Within this framework, specific powers
are delegated to the appropriate Board Committees as well as
the Managing Director and his team. The governance framework
is depicted as follows:
Board of
Directors
Board of
Directors
Functional
Committees
Functional
Committees
Managing
Director
Managing
Director
Audit & Risk
Management
Committee
Audit & Risk
Management
Committee
Nomination &
Remuneration
Committee
Nomination &
Remuneration
Committee
Management
Team
Management
Team
Risk and
Control
Workgroup
Risk and
Control
Workgroup
Sustainability
Committee
Sustainability
Committee
Assurance Providers
 External Audit
 Internal Audit
 Process & Control Improvement
103
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
Board Responsibilities
The Board is collectively responsible for defining the Group’s
strategic direction, overseeing the conduct of businesses and
evaluating management effectiveness. It considers the interests
of all stakeholders in its decision-making to ensure the Group’s
objectives of creating long-term sustainable value for the benefit
of our stakeholders are met.
The Board is also responsible to establish the corporate values,
promote good governance practices, reinforce ethical and
professional behaviour and ensure its obligations to shareholders
and other stakeholders are fulfilled.
The Board is guided by its Charter which delineates the purpose,
composition, key roles and primary responsibilities as well as
the internal procedural matters for the Board. The principal
responsibilities of the Board are in line with those outlined in
the MCCG. The Board Charter serves as a reference for Board
members, assisting them in discharging their fiduciary duties as
Directors.
The Board is supported by the Audit & Risk Management
Committee (ARMC) and the Nomination & Remuneration
Committee(NRC),witheachentrustedwithspecificresponsibilities
and authorities to review relevant matters prior to tabling to
the Board for approval. The Chairpersons of these respective
Board Committees report to the Board on discussions held and
recommendations made.
The roles of the Chairman and the Managing Director are held
by separate individuals. The responsibilities of the Chairman are
outlined in the Board Charter. The Managing Director, appointed
by the Board, is primarily responsible for the daily management
of the Group’s business and operations, ensuring organisational
effectiveness and implementing strategies and policies
approved by the Board. The Managing Director is supported by
the Management Team, which is assisted by several functional
committees that are tasked to oversee key operating areas.
The Board delegates the following responsibilities, with
appropriate oversight, to the Management Team for achieving
the defined corporate objectives:
• Implementing the approved strategy and operating plans
• Managing the Group's business and operations
• Managing the Group’s resources, cash flow and investments
• Assessing risks and opportunities arising from the evolving
market environment
• Ensuring compliance with applicable regulatory requirements
The responsibilities and authorities of the Management Team are
outlined in the Statement of Authority approved by the Board.
A schedule of key matters is specifically reserved for the Board’s
consideration and decision-making to ensure that the direction
and control of the Group are in its hands. These matters are
outlined in the Board Charter approved by the Board.
The Board Charter is available on the Company’s website at
https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/
Board Meetings
The Board meets quarterly to review business and financial
performance and discuss operational and industry issues as
well as challenges affecting the Group. Additional meetings are
scheduled as necessary, to address urgent and important matters.
Directors can participate in meetings remotely via a designated
virtual meeting platform. To assist Directors and Management
in planning for the financial year, meetings of the Board and the
Board Committees are scheduled in advance before the start of
each new financial year.
In 2024, the Board had five meetings. The Finance Director and
the Company Secretary attended every meeting whilst other
Management Team members were invited to attend specific
sessions to report on their respective areas of responsibility.
The attendance of each Director at the Board meetings, was as
follows:
Name Designation Attendance
Dato’ Sri Idris Jala
(Chairman)
Independent
Non-Executive Director
5/5
Choo Tay Sian,
Kenneth
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
5/5
Seng Yi-Ying Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
*4/5
Lau Nai Pek Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director
5/5
Chua Carmen Independent
Non-Executive Director
*4/5
Erin Sakinah Atan Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
5/5
Martijn Rene van
Keulen
(Appointed on
1 July 2024)
Managing Director 2/2
Roland Bala
(Resigned on
1 July 2024)
Managing Director 3/3
* Absent from one meeting due to other commitment.
During Board Meetings, the Managing Director leads the
presentation, providing comprehensive explanation of the Group’s
strategy and priorities, business performance and other pertinent
issues whilst the Finance Director reports on the Group’s financial
performance and financial-related matters. Other Management
Team members provide updates on activities and issues within
their responsibility.
Directors are encouraged to actively participate and share their
perspectives during deliberations in meetings. They may also pose
questions to Management before each Board Meeting for better
104 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
preparation. Directors with a direct or deemed interest must
abstain from deliberation and voting on the related resolution.
Board decisions are made by consensus.
The proceedings of all meetings, including discussed issues,
decisions, conclusions, dissenting views and whether any Director
abstained from voting or deliberating on a specific matter at the
meetings, along with required actions to be taken by responsible
parties, are recorded in the minutes by the Company Secretary.
Between Board meetings, time-sensitive or administrative matters
requiring the Board’s decisions or approvals will be addressed
via circular resolutions, supported by relevant information and
explanations. This procedure is also applicable to the Board
Committees.
As a good CG practice, the Independent Directors convened a
meeting during FY2024, excluding the Non-Independent Directors
and Management. This session provided an opportunity for them
to exchange insights and discuss potential enhancements in
governance.
Access to Information
The Board emphasises on provision of timely and high-quality
information by Management to enable effective deliberation
and decision-making. Prior to each meeting, a structured agenda,
along with management reports and proposals, is provided to the
Directors at least five days in advance (or no fewer than three
days under any circumstances). To enhance meeting efficiency,
the agenda is organised according to the priority of the matters
or proposals to be discussed, with clear indications to guide
the Directors whether the items are for approval, discussion or
notation. Additionally, time allocations for each agenda item are
specified to ensure the meetings are conducted efficiently.
All Directors have unrestricted access to the Management Team,
allowing them to have informal meetings with the team members
to discuss significant developments or matters concerning the
Group’s operations. The Board also has full access to information,
as well as the advice and services of the Company Secretary, who
is a Chartered Secretary and qualified under the Companies Act
2016. The Company Secretary ensures that Directors receive
adequate information and sufficient time to prepare for Board
meetings. Additionally, the Company Secretary prepares minutes
of meetings promptly and advises the Board on corporate
administration and governance matters, including compliance
with relevant regulatory requirements.
With the Board’s approval, Directors, whether collectively or
individually, may seek and obtain independent professional
advice at the Company’s expense on specific issues to assist them
in discharging their duties effectively.
Directors’ Professional Development
Directors recognise the importance of broadening their
perspectives and staying updated with market developments
and regulatory changes to enhance their ability in discharging
their duties and responsibilities. The Board, through its annual
effectiveness evaluation, assessed training needs based on
feedback from the Directors. Additionally, Directors may
personally identify specific areas where additional training would
be beneficial. When necessary, learning sessions on relevant
topics pertinent to the Group’s business will be organised for the
Directors.
All Directors have completed the Mandatory Accreditation
Programme (MAP) Part I on CG and Director’s roles, duties and
liabilities as required under the Bursa Securities’ Main Market
Listing Requirements (MMLR). Most Directors have also completed
the MAP Part II on sustainability, which is another mandatory
programme to be completed in 2025.
During FY2024, several Directors attended learning programmes
on global macroeconomics trends, governance and risk
management practices, business, international relations and the
political economy, responsible marketing, anti-bribery and anti-
corruption, competition law and team coaching. Additionally,
some Board members participated in forums and seminars as
speakers and panelists in their areas of expertise.
Commitment to Integrity and Ethical Conduct
Establishing a culture of integrity and ethical within the
organisation is important for preserving the Group’s reputation
and enhancing stakeholders’ confidence. The Board remains
committed to upholding exemplary business conduct by
implementing adequate policies and procedures. Directors,
officers, employees and business partners of the Group are
required to observe and maintain high standards of integrity
and ethical behaviour in their duties or business dealings, and
to comply with relevant regulatory requirements and policies
adopted by the Group, including those relating to anti-bribery and
anti-corruption.
The Group has adopted the following codes that outline its
responsibility to conducting business with integrity and fairness,
adherence to laws, promoting sustainability and ensuring
responsibility as well as the key principles for ethical and business
conduct expected from stakeholders in their dealing with the
Group.
HEINEKEN Code of Business Conduct (HeiCode)
The HeiCode outlines the core principles and expectations that
apply to all individuals within the Group. It addresses various
topics, including discrimination, harassment, fraud and corruption.
It specifies the standards of conduct and behaviour expected
in daily work, both within and outside the Group. The HeiCode
covers all aspects of the Group’s business operations, organised
into four broad categories:
• Caring for People and Planet
• Maintaining Business Integrity
• Protecting our Assets
• Engaging Responsibly
105
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
The HeiCode and the underlying policies, communication and
training materials are documented and accessible through a
Business Conduct Portal for employees. Annually, all employees
must complete the following e-learning modules as part of
the Company’s efforts to enhance awareness and assess their
understanding of the respective codes and underlying principles:
• Code of Business Conduct
• Anti-Bribery and Corruption
• Responsible Marketing Code
• Security Awareness
• Fraud Awareness
• Data Privacy
• Competition law
• Life Saving Commitments
• Responsible Consumption
Board members and employees, including Senior Management,
are required to annually disclose any potential conflicts of interest
between their personal interests and those of the Company or its
subsidiaries. This policy ensures decisions within the Group are
based on objective business judgement and are not influenced by
personal interests or gains.
HEINEKEN Responsible Marketing Code
The Group has adopted the HEINEKEN Responsible Marketing
Code, which governs all commercial communications to ensure
adherence to the highest standards of responsible marketing.
The Code focuses on promoting moderate drinking, respect
and truthfulness in commercial activations. It also includes
guidelines for low and no-alcohol business, digital media and self-
regulation initiatives. The Group’s licence to operate depends on
its efforts in marketing its brands responsibly and driving sensible
consumption. All marketing materials undergo thorough review
against the Code prior to publication.
The Code is updated periodically to reflect developments in the
fast-changing world, with the latest update in April 2024.
HEINEKEN Supplier Code and Distributor Code of Conduct
All business partners are expected to comply with all applicable
laws and regulations where they operate and affirm their
responsibility to responsible business conduct at all times. They
are required to meet the Group’s expectations for conducting
business responsibly, respecting human rights, ensuring health
and safety and protecting the environment as outlined in the
HEINEKEN Supplier Code and the Distributor Code of Conduct.
The Group has implemented proactive measures to ensure its
business partners uphold our values and dedication to responsible
business conduct. The Group has established a due-diligence
tool designed to identify, assess and address risks associated
with third parties engaged by the Group, including suppliers and
distributors. Among the risks evaluated by this tool are bribery
and corruption.
HEINEKEN Speak Up Policy
The HEINEKEN Speak Up Policy provides employees and
stakeholders with a standard procedure to confidentially report
concerns related to suspected misconduct or unethical practices
within the Group, without fear of retaliation. Reports may be
submitted to designated trusted representatives appointed by
the Company or through an external Speak Up Service, which
is available 24/7. The Speak Up Service is managed by an
independent third party. All Speak Up reports are assessed by a
Global Speak Up Review Team, comprising representatives from
Global Business Conduct, Global Process & Control Improvement,
Global Audit and Global People. This team determines the
admissibility of concerns and identifies whether they should
be handled by the Global Integrity Committee or by respective
company involved.
The policy has been communicated to employees and business
partners, emphasising that reports are treated confidentially and
that retaliation is not tolerated.
The HeiCode and the HEINEKEN Speak Up Policy are available on the
Company’s website at https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-
governance/.
Sustainability Governance
The Board ensures the Company’s sustainability strategy aligns
with the Group’s strategic direction to support its long-term goals.
It provides oversight on management of material sustainability
risks and opportunities, ensuring ESG factors, including climate-
related factors, are integrated into the Group’s strategy and risk
management.
The Group has adopted the HEINEKEN sustainability strategy
Brew a Better World 2030 (BaBW) which outlines measurable and
ambitious goals across three pillars: environmental sustainability,
social sustainability and responsible consumption. The objectives
are to achieve net zero environmental impact, fostering an
inclusive, fair and equitable world, and promoting moderation in
consumption.
ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY
 Reach Net Zero Carbon
 Maximise Circularity
 Towards Healthy Watersheds and Nature
SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY
 Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
 Fair and Safe Workplace
 Community Impact
RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION
 Always a Choice
 Address Harmful Use
 Make Moderation Cool
106 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
The BaBW ambitions and targets align with the benchmarks
established by the United Nations Global Compact., aiming to
contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals
to protect the planet, ensure prosperity and end poverty. Initiatives
within each priority area are driven by relevant functions and
departments across the organisation.
Since 2022, the Group has implemented an ESG Framework,
aligningtheBaBWambitionswiththeGroup’soverallsustainability
strategy and emphasising key components of its sustainability
agenda. The Group has also adopted a Sustainability Policy to
reinforce its responsibility to integrating sustainability practices
throughout its operations and value chain, particularly in the
areas of ESG.
The Board is supported by a management Sustainability
Committee responsible for strategically managing the
material sustainability matters, including the formulation and
implementation of the Group’s sustainability priorities and
initiatives. The Sustainability Committee is chaired by the
Managing Director, who has been entrusted by the Board to
oversee the Group’s sustainability matters. He is supported by
a secretariat led by the Corporate Affairs & Legal Director (CAL
Director). The committee comprises members of the Management
Team who monitor the progress of sustainability performance
within their respective pillars. The CAL Director reports to the
Managing Director and the Board on a quarterly basis on the
progress of the sustainability priorities and initiatives undertaken
by the Group.
Additional details regarding the Company’s sustainability strategy
are reported in the ESG Review of this Annual Report.
The Sustainability Policy is available on the Company’s website at
https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/
Board Size, Composition and Diversity
As of the date of this statement, the Board is composed of
seven Directors. It is chaired by an Independent Non-Executive
Chairman and includes a Managing Director along with five
Non-Executive Directors. Among these Non-Executive Directors,
three, including the Chairman, are Independent Directors,
constituting 43% of the Board. The remaining three Non-Executive
Directors are Non-Independent Directors.
Board
Composition
43%
43%
14%
Executive Director
Independent Non-
Executive Director
Non-Independent
Non-Executive
Director
Ethnicity
14%
57%
29%
Others
Chinese
All the Directors are professionals of high calibre and integrity.
Collectively, the Board has a diverse set of skills, experience and
expertise in various fields including strategy and risk management,
business and administration, finance and accounting, media
relations and corporate affairs, sustainability and legal which are
necessary for the overall effectiveness of the Board and Board
Committees.
TheprimaryresponsibilityofIndependentDirectorsistosafeguard
the interests of minority shareholders and other stakeholders.
Their role includes providing independent perspectives and advice
promoting accountability and balance in Board decisions.
Mr Lau Nai Pek, the ARMC Chairman, has been designated as the
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company. His
roles are outlined in the Board Charter.
The Board recognised the recommendation under the MCCG
for large companies to have a majority of Independent
Non-Executive Directors on the Board. Considering the
current shareholding structure, where 51% of the Company’s
equity interest is held indirectly by Heineken N.V. through its
wholly-owned subsidiary, GAPL Pte Ltd, the Board believes that to
fully leverage the experience of the HEINEKEN Group and ensure
a focus on long-term value creation, it is in the best interest of the
Company and the stakeholders that the Board includes a fair and
adequate representation of the major shareholders.
The Group acknowledges the importance of having an inclusive
and diverse Board and has continued to maintain a balanced mix
of gender, ethnicity and age diversity with sufficient independent
elements for effective functioning. The Board considers diversity
factors in the selection and appointment process to ensure that
members can provide a variety of perspectives, insights and
challenges necessary for effective decision-making. The diversity
of the Board is depicted as follows:
The female representation on the Board has exceeded
the Malaysian Government’s target of 30% for public
listed companies.
57%
Male
43%
Female
Bumiputera
107
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
Age
Group
28.5%
28.5%
43%
40-49 years
50-59 years
60 years and above
The Group has adopted the HeiCode and the HEINEKEN Human
Rights Policy, which outline the principles of non-discrimination
without distinction based on factors such as race, gender,
nationality and age. Promoting a culture of diversity and inclusion,
along with gender equality across the organisation, will continue
to be a priority for the Group.
Regarding the tenure limitation of Independent Directors, the
Board is guided by the recommended approach under the MCCG.
Shareholders’ approval is sought to retain Independent Directors
whose cumulative tenure exceeds the nine-year limit, failing
which, they will be re-designated as Non-Independent Directors.
Appointments to the Board
There is a formal and transparent process for the selection,
nomination and appointment of suitable candidates to the Board.
The NRC reviews the existing composition of the Board, identifies
gaps and determines the selection criteria for new appointments
toaddressthesegapsandenhancetheBoard’scomposition.When
reviewing and recommending a new Director appointment to the
Board, the NRC assesses the suitability of identified candidates
based on their profile, professional knowledge and experience,
considering the criteria outlined in the Directors’ Fit and Proper
Policy. The NRC leverages the Directors’ network of professional
and business contacts as well as and external sources, to identify
qualified candidates and conduct engagement sessions with
shortlisted candidates before making a final recommendation to
the Board for approval.
To uphold objectivity and independent judgement in accordance
with the best practices of the MCCG, the Board will ensure that
no individual is appointed or continues to serve as a Director if
the individual is or becomes an active politician. Furthermore,
the Board adheres to a cooling-off period of three years before
appointing any former audit partners and their affiliates as
Independent Directors.
A comprehensive induction programme will be organised for
newly appointed Directors to facilitate their understanding of
the Group’s business and operations, organisational structure,
management functions and the issues and challenges facing both
the Group and the industry. Members of the Management Team
will present their specific areas of responsibility, providing an
overview of the key strategies and priorities within their functions.
Additionally, as part of the induction programme, a brewery tour
will be arranged to enhance understanding of the supply chain
operations.
The Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy is available on the Company’s website
at https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/
Board Effectiveness Evaluation
The Board, through the NRC, evaluates its collective performance
annually by reviewing the effectiveness of the Board’s structure
and activities as well as those of the Board Committees. For
FY2024, this evaluation was conducted internally with the support
of the Company Secretary. This process involved the Board
members completing online questionnaires that encompassed
various parameters to evaluate the Board’s performance against
best practices.
Based on the evaluation, the Board was satisfied with its overall
performance and concluded that both the Board as a whole and
its Board Committees were effective in discharging their functions
and duties, in that:
• The Board and the Board Committees have the required
mix of competent members and are well-balanced with
appropriate diversity in terms of skills, business experience,
knowledge, gender and ethnicity. This diversity contributes
to the overall effectiveness of the decision-making process
for the Company and the Group. The Board adheres to CG
standards and has established policies and processes to
discharge its duties and responsibilities.
• The Board is led by a knowledgeable and respected Chairman
known for being inclusive and effective. He facilitates open
discussions, allowing Directors to express their views and
he succinctly summarises their observations. This approach
ensures the Board functions cohesively and decisions are
made objectively in the best interest of the Company.
• Board members understand their roles and responsibilities in
providing strategic oversight of the Group’s business conduct
and management. They exhibit comprehensive knowledge of
the Group’s business and good insights into external trends
and developments. They share a common understanding
of the Group’s long-term strategy and goals and maintain
oversight of the execution of the strategy and business plan.
Board members demonstrate professional independence and
impartiality during deliberations at meetings.
• Board members demonstrated a strong dedication to
discharging their fiduciary duties where they participate
actively in discussions during Board and Board Committees’
meetings. The attendance record of the Board was good, and
the Board agenda, meeting reports and minutes of meetings
adhered to the standards of good CG.
• The working relationship among the Board members has
been positive, characterised by meaningful interactions and
mutual respect. There have been professional and constructive
debates on wide ranging topics and issues, with valuable
insights, guidance and feedback provided to the Management
during Board deliberations. Additionally, the Management
Team has provided consistent support, enabling the Board to
effectively perform its function and duties.
108 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
For FY2025, the Board will maintain its strategic oversight of the
Group’s business conduct and performance management, with a
focus on the following areas:
(i) Digital transformation, leveraging new technologies including
AI to drive productivity and operational efficiency.
(ii) Risk management, specifically reputational risks.
(iii) Sustainability and ESG reporting.
(iv) Talent Development.
NRC
The NRC is responsible for assisting the Board with Nomination
& Remuneration matters. The NRC consists of five Non-Executive
Directors, with a majority being Independent Directors including
the Chairman.
Name Designation Date appointed
Years of
service
Dato’ Sri
Idris Jala
(Chairman)
Independent
Non-Executive
Director
1 January 2017 8 years +
Choo
Tay Sian,
Kenneth*
Non-
Independent
Non-Executive
Director
26 October 2020 4 years +
Lau Nai Pek Senior
Independent
Non-Executive
Director
22 May 2021 3 years +
Chua Carmen Independent
Non-Executive
Director
13 May 2023 1 year +
Erin Sakinah
Atan*
Non-
Independent
Non-Executive
Director
14 July 2023 1 year +
The roles and responsibilities of the NRC are outlined in its Terms
of Reference, available on the Company’s website at https://www.
heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/.
The Managing Director and the Company Secretary attend every
meeting, whilst the People Director attends by invitation as
required by the NRC. The NRC Meeting is normally held before or
in conjunction with the Board Meeting. When necessary, decisions
are made through circular resolutions. At Board Meeting, the
Chairman of the NRC reports to the Board on matters deliberated
at the NRC Meeting.
The NRC had one meeting in FY2024 with full attendance. During
this meeting, the NRC deliberated on and reported the following
matters to the Board:
• Management’s proposals on short-term incentives payment
and annual salary review for Group employees.
• Evaluation of Board and Board Committees’ effectiveness
and Directors’ performance.
• Recommendation for re-election of retiring Director at the
Company’s Annual General Meeting (AGM).
During FY2024, the NRC also considered and recommended the
appointment of Mr Martijn Rene van Keulen, nominated by the
major shareholder, to succeed Mr Roland Bala as the Managing
Director of the Company for the Board’s approval, ensuring a
smooth leadership transition.
Remuneration
The remuneration matters of the Group fall under the purview
of the NRC. The NRC is guided by the following principles as
stipulated in the Company’s Remuneration Policy:
• Remuneration should reflect performance, complexity and
responsibility with a view to attract, motivate and retain high-
performance individuals whilst enhancing the Company’s
value for its shareholders.
• Remuneration practices are benchmarked against external
market data using remuneration surveys to ensure fair
compensation for staff.
• The process of remuneration management shall be
transparent, conducted in good faith and adhere to
appropriate levels of confidentiality.
The remuneration of the Management Team including the
Managing Director, is determined based on the HEINEKEN
Global Senior Management Reward Policy. The remuneration
package consists of both fixed and performance-linked elements,
along with a long-term incentive plan. Salaries for the Managing
Director do not include a commission or a percentage of the
Group’s turnover. The Managing Director is not entitled to
annual fee nor any meeting allowances for attending Board and
Board Committees Meetings. The performance of the Managing
Director is evaluated annually, taking into account both corporate
and individual performance metrics.
The remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors is determined
based on a standard fixed fee with the Chairman of the Board
and the Board Committees receiving additional allowance due to
their additional responsibilities and commitments. Non-Executive
Directors who are members of Board Committees also receive
an additional fee. A meeting allowance is provided for attending
meetings of the Board and Board Committees. The remuneration
package for the Non-Executive Directors is detailed in the CG
Report 2024.
The NRC is tasked with reviewing the remuneration package for
Non-Executive Directors to ensure it appropriately reflects their
experience, level of responsibilities and contributions, and is
competitive with market practices. Any proposed changes to the
remuneration package will be submitted to the Board for approval.
The Board collectively determines the remuneration of the Non-
Executive Directors based on the recommendation of the NRC.
Each Non-Executive Directors shall abstain from deliberating and
109
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
voting on their own remuneration. The fees for Directors, along
with any benefits payable to Non-Executive Directors, shall be
subject to shareholders’ approval at the AGM.
At the 60th AGM held on 16 May 2024, shareholders’ approval
was sought for the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits up
to RM810,000 for the Non-Executive Directors for FY2024. The
total remuneration paid to the Non-Executive Directors of the
Company for FY2024 was RM804,600. A detailed breakdown
of the remuneration paid to the Non-Executive Directors and
the Managing Director (former and present), who served during
FY2024, is disclosed in the CG Report 2024.
The Remuneration Policy is available on the Company’s website at
https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/
Effective Audit and Risk Management
Principle
B
ARMC
As of the date of this statement, the ARMC consists of three
Non-Executive Directors, with a majority being Independent
Directors, including the Chairman. The Chairman of the ARMC
is not the Chairman of the Board. All members are financially
literate, possess relevant expertise and experience, understand
the Group’s business and are able to objectively review, analyse,
challenge and provide recommendations on matters within the
ARMC’s jurisdiction, including the financial reporting process.
None of the ARMC members are former audit partners who
are required to observe a cooling-off period of at least three
years before appointment. Detailed information regarding the
composition and responsibilities of the ARMC is outlined in the
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report.
The Board, through the NRC, assessed the performance and
effectiveness of the ARMC for FY2024 and is satisfied that the
ARMCanditsmembershaveeffectivelydischargedtheirfunctions,
duties and responsibilities in accordance with the ARMC’s Terms
of Reference.
The Board ensures that the Group’s financial statements comply
with the relevant financial reporting standards and applicable
legislations and regulations. The Statement by the Directors
regarding the preparation of the Group’s financial statements is
included in the Financial Statements section of this Annual Report.
Suitability and Independence of External Auditors
The Board, through the ARMC, maintains a professional
relationship with the external auditors. The ARMC has a clear
authority to communicate directly with external auditors.
The ARMC meets the external auditors at least twice a year to
review their audit plan, audit findings and the Group’s financial
statements. Additionally, the ARMC conducts private meetings
with the external auditors twice annually without the presence
of the Managing Director and Management staff to discuss any
areas of concerns or confidential matters, as well as audit findings
and other observations from the audit process.
The ARMC evaluates the independence and objectivity of the
external auditors in performing statutory audit for the Group,
as well as prior to the engagement of non-audit services of
the external auditors. The external auditors, Deloitte PLT, have
confirmed that they comply with the independence requirements
set forth in the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and
Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (By-Laws)
and the International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants
(including International Independence Standards) of the
International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA
Code). They have also affirmed that they have fulfilled their
ethical responsibilities according to the By-Laws and IESBA Code.
The ARMC also reviews the nature of non-audit services and the
associated fees to ensure they do not compromise the auditors’
independence and objectivity. Additionally, the ARMC has in place
pre-approved policies and procedures governing the provision
of permissible and non-permissible non-audit services to the
Group to further ensure that these services do not impair the
audit firm’s independence. For FY2024, the external auditors
were primarily engaged to perform statutory audit on the
Group’s financial statements and review reporting deliverables to
Deloitte Netherlands as well as the Company’s Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control. The fees for these services
were reported in the Audit & Risk Management Committee
Report. The ARMC also reviews the Annual Transparency Report
issued by Deloitte PLT.
Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board is also responsible for ensuring the Group has in place
an effective risk management and internal control system to
manage and mitigate significant risks across the Group and to
safeguard stakeholders’ interests and the Group’s assets. The
Group adopted the HEINEKEN Risk Management and Internal
Control Systems which enable Management to identify, assess,
prioritise and manage risks on a continuous and systematic basis.
The Board, through the ARMC continually reviews the adequacy,
integrity and effectiveness of the risk management and internal
control systems to ensure that the same are soundly conceived, in
place, effectively administered and regularly monitored.
As an integral part of the risk management and internal control
systems, an assessment is also performed under the HEINEKEN
Risk and Control Matrix compliance programme on the internal
controls surrounding the Group financial reporting process on
an annual basis, focusing on transparency, accountability and
safeguarding of the Group’s assets. Outcome of the assessment is
reported to the ARMC during their quarterly meetings.
The Internal Audit function, which is performed in-house, assists
the ARMC and the Management in the effective discharge of their
responsibilities in respect of risk management, internal control
and governance. It is guided by its Charter and its principal
responsibility is to provide independent and objective reviews on
110 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
the Group’s internal control system so as to ensure that controls
which are instituted are appropriate and can effectively address
acceptable risk exposures. The Internal Audit function also
ensures that recommendations to improve controls are followed
through by Management.
The Internal Audit function, which is led by the Head of Internal
Audit,hasaclearlineofreportingtotheARMCanditsperformance
is reviewed by the ARMC on an annual basis. The ARMC also
reviews the internal audit plan including the adequacy of the
audit scope, approach, methodology, resources and authority of
the Internal Audit function in carrying out its audit activities. It is
independent of the operational and management activities they
audit. Further information on the Internal Audit function were
reported in the Audit & Risk Management Committee Report.
Based on the evaluation carried out by the ARMC on the
performance of the Internal Audit function for FY2024, the
Internal Audit function was found to be effective and able to
function independently in discharging its responsibilities in that it
provided value added recommendations that helped strengthen
the internal controls within the Group.
The Board is of the view that the overall risk management and
internal control systems in place for FY2024 are operating
adequately and effectively for the purpose of safeguarding the
Group’s assets, as well as shareholders’ investments and the
interests of customers, employees and other stakeholders. The key
features of the risk management and internal control systems are
set out in the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
Integrity in Corporate Reporting and
Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders
Principle
C
Communication with Stakeholders
The Company recognises the importance of timely and equitable
dissemination of material information to shareholders, investors
and the public. It consistently maintains an active and proactive
communication approach with its shareholders and other
stakeholders to foster mutual understanding of each party’s
objectives and expectations.
The Company is guided by the disclosure requirements of the
Main Market Listing Requirements along with the Corporate
Disclosure Guide issued by Bursa Securities, HEINEKEN Media
Policy and HEINEKEN Financial Disclosure Guidelines. These
guidelines specify the authorised spokespersons responsible
for communicating specific information to both internal and
external stakeholders. They also provide specific guidance on the
disclosure of material information, maintaining confidentiality
and dissemination of information.
The Company’s Annual Report serves as a communication
tool with the Group’s stakeholders, providing a comprehensive
review of the Group’s financial and non-financial performance.
The Company ensures that its annual report is published on a
timely basis and made available electronically to shareholders
immediately upon publication.
The Company leverages various communication platforms
to engage with shareholders and stakeholders. These include
announcements via Bursa LINK, publication on the Company’s
website, bi-annually results briefings with analysts, fund
managers and media, engagements through the Investor
Relations function and the Company’s social media. In 2024,
the Company conducted several engagement activities with its
stakeholders. Details of the engagement activities are reported
in the Stakeholder Engagement section within the ESG Review in
this Annual Report.
Conduct of General Meetings
The AGM is a key platform for Directors and Management Team to
engage shareholders, providing insights into the Group’s business,
governance and performance. Shareholders were notified of the
AGM ahead of time, and relevant reports were published via the
Company’s and Bursa Malaysia’s website at least 28 clear days
prior to the meeting. Shareholders were also given the opportunity
to submit pre-meeting questions regarding the AGM agenda via
the Tricor’s TIIH Online website.
In 2024, the Company conducted its AGM entirely virtually using
the remote participation and voting (RPV) facilities. The AGM was
attended by all Board members, the Finance Director, Company
Secretary, the External Auditors and shareholders of the Company.
At the AGM, the Managing Director presented a comprehensive
review of the Group’s business and financial performance,
alongside an overview of the Group’s activities, key challenges,
market outlook and strategies and priorities for the ensuring
year. Shareholders were provided with the opportunity to submit
real-time questions, comments or suggestions for improvement
and cast their votes via the RPV facilities. The Chairman,
representing the Board, along with the Managing Director,
addressed questions submitted in advance by shareholders,
including those from the Minority Shareholder Watch Group as
well as the real-time questions posed during the meeting. All
resolutions outline in the notice of the AGM were voted by poll,
and an independent scrutineer was appointed to validate the
votes for each resolution. The poll results were announced before
the conclusion of the AGM and were subsequently published
on the Company’s website and via Bursa LINK on the same
day. Additionally, the minutes of AGM, along with the written
responses to relevant questions raised were also made available
on the Company’s website at www.heinekenmalaysia.com.
LOOKING AHEAD
The Board will continue to uphold strong governance and ethical
practices, strengthen sustainability oversight and ensure all
material risks are managed effectively to drive sustainable growth
and performance for the Group.
This CG Overview Statement was approved by the Board on
11 March 2025.
111
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report
The Audit & Risk Management Committee (ARMC) comprises the following three Non-Executive Directors, with a majority being
Independent Directors including the Chairman:
Name Designation Date appointed Years of service
Lau Nai Pek (Chairman) Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 22 May 2021 3 years +
Choo Tay Sian, Kenneth* Non-Independent Non-Executive Director 26 October 2020 4 years +
Chua Carmen Independent Non-Executive Director 13 May 2023 1 year +
* Representing HEINEKEN, major shareholder of the Company.
Mr Lau Nai Pek is a member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants whilst Mr Choo Tay Sian, Kenneth is a Chartered
Accountant and a member of the Institute of Singapore
Chartered Accountants. Accordingly, the Company complies with
Paragraph 15.09(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (Bursa Malaysia).
The representation of the major shareholder in the ARMC is
essential in that it provides an avenue for the major shareholder’s
representative to share insights on HEINEKEN Global best
practices and learning with the Company. None of the ARMC
members were former audit partners who are required to
observe a cooling-off period of at least three years before being
appointed.
The ARMC discharges its functions according to its Terms of
Reference in that it assists the Board in fulfilling its statutory
duties and responsibilities by ensuring:
• accurate and timely financial reporting and compliance with
applicable financial reporting standards;
• adequate internal control in the systems and processes which
enable the Company and its subsidiaries (Group) to operate
effectively and efficiently;
• that an effective risk management framework is in place to
manage risks impacting the Group;
• that Internal Audit functions effectively. Audits are also
performedbyexternalauditorsobjectivelyandindependently;
and
• theGroupcomplieswithapplicablelaws,rulesandregulations
and has in place an appropriate code of business conduct
that covers policies on, among others, bribery, fraud, conflicts
of interest and Speak Up on concerns about suspected
misconduct within the Group or potential violation of the
code.
The Terms of Reference of the ARMC is available on the Company’s website
at https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/.
ACTIVITIES OF THE ARMC
During the financial year ended 31 December 2024 (FY2024),
the ARMC had four meetings with a 100% attendance rate. The
Managing Director, the Finance Director and the Head of Internal
Audit of the Company normally attend the meetings. When
necessary, certain members of the Management Team will be
invited to the meetings to assist in clarifying matters raised at
the meeting.
The main activities carried out by the ARMC during FY2024 were
as follows:
Financial Reporting
• Reviewed the quarterly financial reports to Bursa Malaysia
based on the Group’s business and financial performance,
working capital movements, capital expenditure and cash
flow positions as well as its performance outlook and financial
performance plan.
• Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the
Group including the pertinent disclosures in the notes to the
financial statements.
Risk Management and Internal Control
• Reviewed the top 10 risks and emerging risks together with
the risk mitigating measures and the progress of mitigating
actions on a quarterly basis. Illicit alcohol trade, contraband/
counterfeit products, growing conservatism, increase in
excise duty, data privacy, cyber security, weakened consumer
sentiment, volatile currency rates and people safety were
among the key risk areas deliberated.
• Reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s
risk management and internal control systems based on the
following assessments performed by Management:
(i) business self-assessment under the HEINEKEN Risk and
Control Matrix compliance programme which assesses
the Group’s internal controls over financial and non-
financial reporting; and
(ii) control self-assessment which focuses on the
implementation and execution of the mandatory
standards and procedures under the HEINEKEN Rules
that describe the boundaries within which the Group can
operate, with the objectives of protecting the Group’s
assets and reputation.
• Reviewed the control issues reported in the ServiceNow
Integrated Risk Management system (formerly BWise), an
integrated risk management solution used for enterprise and
fraud risk assessment, issues and actions management, to
ensureallkeyrisksandcontrolissueswereeffectivelyaddressed
in compliance with the Group’s policies and procedures.
• Reviewed the key changes to the HEINEKEN Rules and
additional actions required to ensure compliance.
• Reviewed audit observations and recommendations
provided by the HEINEKEN Global Audit Team in respect
of audits performed on selected operating processes, and
implementation of action plans by Management to address
the concerns raised.
112 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Internal Audit
• Reviewed the internal audit annual plan including the
adequacy of the audit scope, approach, methodology,
resources and authority of the Internal Audit function in
carrying out its audit activities.
• Reviewed the quarterly internal audit reports which
encompassed the audit issues, audit opinion or conclusion,
audit recommendations, Management’s responses to these
recommendations and improvement actions in internal
controls, systems and process efficiency enhancements; and
suggested additional improvement opportunities in the said
areas.
• Reviewed the progress of the implementation of audit
recommendations on a quarterly basis to ensure all key risks
and control gaps were addressed.
• Reviewed outcome of ad-hoc investigations/special
reviews conducted by the Internal Audit function on
matters concerning misconduct and suspicion of fraud or
circumvention of internal controls within the Group.
• Reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process, resource
requirements for the year and assessed the performance and
contributions of the Internal Audit function as well as the
competency and performance of the Head of Internal Audit.
External Audit
• Reviewed the external audit plan including the significant
accounting and auditing issues and impact of changes
in accounting standards applicable to the Group prior to
commencement of annual statutory audit by the external
auditors.
• Reviewed the external audit findings and observations and
the accompanying management reports and representation,
focusing particularly on key audit matters and risk items, and
key accounting and audit adjustments.
• Held two private sessions with the external auditors without
the presence of the Management in conjunction with the
ARMC meetings in February 2024 and November 2024. The
ARMC enquired about Management’s co-operation with the
external auditors, their sharing of information, proficiency
and adequacy of resources in the financial reporting function
and key areas of concern or issues encountered by the
external auditors during their audit. The ARMC was satisfied
that there were no areas of concern on the process in the year
end audit, full cooperation was extended to the auditors and
no information was being withheld from the auditors.
• Obtained written assurance from the external auditors to
confirm their independence and objectivity in performing
statutory audit. Deloitte PLT have confirmed that they are
and have been independent throughout the conduct of
the audit engagement in accordance with the terms of all
relevant professional and regulatory requirements. The ARMC
was satisfied that they were not likely to create any conflict of
interest nor impair the independence and objectivity of the
external auditors.
• Evaluated the performance of the external auditors taking
into consideration the competencies, the quality of the audit
deliverables and the resource capacity of the audit team. The
ARMC was satisfied with the work performed and services
provided by Deloitte PLT and recommended to the Board
on their re-appointment and remuneration for FY2024. The
re-appointment of external auditors was approved at the
Company’s Annual General Meeting in May 2024. The ARMC
also reviewed the Annual Transparency Report issued by
Deloitte PLT.
For FY2024, the fees paid/payable to the external auditors,
Deloitte PLT in relation to the audit and non-audit services
rendered to the Company and the Group are as follows:
Company
RM’000
Group
RM’000
Statutory audit services 155 245
Non-audit services
(i) Review of reporting
deliverables to Deloitte
Netherlands 30 30
(ii) Review of the Statement
on Risk Management and
Internal Control 10 10
195 285
The ARMC believes that the provision of these services by the
external auditors to the Group was fair and reasonable given the
scope of the audit and the size of the Group business as well as
their knowledge and understanding of the Group operations, and
they did not compromise their independence and objectivity.
Related Party Transactions (RPT) and Conflict of Interest
• Reviewed the quarterly recurrent RPT entered into by the
Company and the Group to ensure transactions with related
parties were carried out within the mandate approved by
shareholders; and the announcement to Bursa Malaysia in
respect of the deviation between actual transacted value
and estimated value provided in the shareholders’ mandate.
• Reviewed the proposed shareholders’ mandate for recurrent
RPT to be entered into by the Group for the ensuing year.
• Reviewed the processes that the Company has in place for
identifying, evaluating, approving, reporting and monitoring
of recurrent RPT based on the assurance from the Internal
Audit function.
• Reviewed potential conflict of interest situations based on
declaration submitted by Board members, Management
Team members and employees, along with the measures
taken to mitigate the potential conflicts. No conflict-of-
interest situation required ARMC’s attention.
Others
• Reviewed Management’s proposal on dividend distribution
for FY2024, taking into consideration the Group’s earnings
and cash flow requirements and its solvency position.
• Reviewed Management’s proposal on increase of account
receivables factoring capacity, taking into consideration
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report
113
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
the Group’s working capital requirements, debt and equity
structure and its cash flow positions.
• Reviewed the status of the material litigation involving the
Company and its operating subsidiary which was disclosed
under Note 26 of the Group’s Audited Financial Statements.
During FY2024, the ARMC Chairman had two meetings with the
external auditors and had separate meetings with the Managing
Director, Finance Director and the Head of Internal Audit prior to
every scheduled ARMC Meeting.
The ARMC Chairman reports to the Board on matters deliberated
and highlighted significant matters for Board’s attention. The
ARMC has provided useful recommendations in assisting the
Board in making informed decisions and enabling effective
functioning of the Board.
The ARMC has unrestricted access to any information pertaining
to the Group enabling it to discharge its duties effectively.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The ARMC is supported by the Internal Audit function in
discharging its duties and responsibilities. The Internal Audit
function is an integral part of the assurance framework and
its principal role is to undertake independent and systematic
reviews of the Group’s internal control system to provide objective
assurance on the adequacy, integrity and effectiveness of the
Group’s risk management, internal controls, anti-bribery and anti-
corruption, Speak Up and the overall governance processes.
The Internal Audit function is performed in-house and it is headed
by Eugene Ding Diew Ping who reports functionally to the ARMC
and administratively to the Managing Director. The Internal Audit
function does not have any direct operational responsibility or
authority over any of the activities it audits, nor has it engaged in
any activity that might impair the internal auditor’s judgement. All
the internal audit staff had confirmed via an annual declaration
that they were free from any relationships or conflict of interests
which could impair their objectivity and independence.
The Head of Internal Audit, Eugene Ding Diew Ping, holds a
Bachelor’s Degree of Business (Accounting) from the University of
Technology Sydney, Australia. He is also a Chartered Accountant of
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants and a Chartered Member
of the Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia (IIAM). He has over
20 years of internal audit experience. Currently, he is supported
by an Internal Audit Assistant Manager and an Internal Audit
Executive. During FY2024, relevant trainings were provided to the
internal audit team to enhance their competencies.
The Internal Audit function is guided by an Internal Audit Charter
approved by the ARMC. The charter sets out the purpose, scope,
responsibility and authority of the function.
The Internal Audit function carried out its activities based on
the Internal Audit Plan approved by the ARMC. The Internal
Audit Plan is developed based on the risk profiles identified in
accordance with the Group’s Risk Management Framework and in
consultation with the Management Team. The ARMC reviews the
extent of the audit scope and coverage of the Group’s activities;
and the adequacy, competency and the internal audit resources
to support the completion of the plan. At the quarterly ARMC
meetings, the Head of Internal Audit reports to the ARMC on the
progress of internal audit activities and the resource requirements.
The report to the ARMC also covers significant risk and control
issues, including fraud risks, governance issues and other matters
that require the ARMC’s attention.
In carrying out the audit activities, the Internal Audit function has
adopted the International Standards for the Professional Practice
of Internal Auditing (IIA Standards) issued by the International
Internal Audit Standards Board. The internal audit staff adhere
to the Code of Ethics adopted by the IIA which sets out, among
others, the principles relevant to the profession and practice of
internal auditing and the rules of conduct expected of internal
auditors.
During FY2024, the Internal Audit function completed 17
audit assignments which included five investigative audits on
matters reported via the Speak Up channel and requested by
Management. The audits were performed using a risk-based
approach followed by root-cause analysis and were consistent with
the Group’s established framework in designing, implementing
and monitoring of its internal control systems. The audit covered
various operational areas within the Group, which included:
• Regional sales offices and distributors’ safety standards
• Procurement process
• Packaging material management process
• Management of spare parts in supply chain
• Employee claims processing
• Controls over consumer redemption of vouchers
• Compliance with the HEINEKEN Brand Promoters Policy
• Recurrent RPT
Findings from the audits were highlighted to Management who
are responsible for ensuring that the agreed action plans to
address the reported weaknesses are implemented within the
required timeline. On a regular basis, the Internal Audit function
reviewed the status of implementation of the recommended
actions and preventive measures. The audit findings, audit opinion
or conclusion and the status of implementation of the action plan
were reported to the Risk and Control Workgroup and presented
to the ARMC for review at their respective quarterly meetings.
The Internal Audit function also collaborates with the Process &
ControlImprovementTeamtoreviewtheGroup’sriskmanagement
process. Additionally, it provided support to the Safety Team by
conducting a pre-audit review of the safety controls outside of
production and assisted the Industrial Relations function during
domestic inquiries.
The total expenses incurred by the Internal Audit function in
dischargingitsfunctionsandresponsibilitiesforFY2024amounted
to RM971,000 (FY2023: RM832,000). The expenses incurred
comprised mostly of salaries and departmental overheads.
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report
114 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
The ARMC had evaluated the performance of the Internal
Audit function for FY2024 and was satisfied with the overall
performance of the function as it had been effective in performing
its duties. The Internal Audit function also provided value added
recommendations to the organisation, strengthening its internal
controls, improving efficiency of processes whilst enabling cost
savings, and was able to function independently.
EFFECTIVENESS OF ARMC
The Board, via the Nomination & Remuneration Committee,
reviewed the composition and performance of the ARMC through
its annual Board and Board Committees effectiveness evaluation.
Based on the evaluation conducted for FY2024, the Board was
of the view that the present composition in the ARMC was
appropriate in that the ARMC members possess the appropriate
level of expertise and experience. They understand the Group’s
business well and can objectively review, analyse, challenge
and recommend matters deliberated by the ARMC including
the financial reporting process. During the year, all members
of the ARMC have attended various development and learning
programmes to stay informed of the market developments
and changes in the statutory and regulatory requirements. The
Board agreed that the ARMC had continued to support the
Board in matters related to the Group’s financial and audit, risk
management and internal control. The Board was also satisfied
that the ARMC has effectively discharged its functions, duties and
responsibilities in accordance with its Terms of Reference in that
it had provided useful recommendations to the Board for better
decision-making and consequently made Board Meetings more
efficient and effective.
This report was approved by the Board on 11 March 2025.
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report
115
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board of Directors (the Board) is pleased to present this Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control, which outlines the nature and key elements of the
risk management and internal control systems of Heineken Malaysia Berhad (HEINEKEN
Malaysia or the Company) and its subsidiaries (collectively, the Group) for the financial
year ended 31 December 2024 (FY2024). This statement is prepared in accordance with
the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control – Guidelines for Directors of
Listed Issuers which is in line with Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad’s Main Market Listing Requirements (MMLR) and Principle B of the Malaysian
Code on Corporate Governance (MCCG).
BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITY
The Board is responsible and accountable for the Group’s systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing the
effectiveness, adequacy and integrity of the system. In this regard, the Board is assisted by the Audit & Risk Management Committee
(ARMC), who is responsible to ensure that appropriate methods and procedures are adopted in the risk management and internal
control activities and to obtain the level of assurance required by the Board.
BUSINESS FRAMEWORK
As part of the HEINEKEN Group, the Group has adopted the HEINEKEN Business Framework (the Business Framework) established
by Heineken N.V.. The Framework articulates the key elements that the Company relies on to operate effectively and deliver long-term
value creation whilst protecting its people, assets and reputation.
Execution and Change Management
People Processes Systems Data
Our Purpose, Our Dream and Our Values
Behaviours
How we act
EverGreen
Strategy
Governance
How we govern internally
Code of Business Conduct
How we behave
Policies
Risk Management
How we manage risks
Monitoring and Assurance
HEINEKEN Rules
How we work
Laws and Regulations
Standards and Procedures
HEINEKEN’s Purpose, Dream and Values underpin the HEINEKEN’s EverGreen strategy, enabled by our organisational structure and
strong governance. The behaviours provide clear guidance to all employees on how to act and foster a culture of achievement,
collaboration and growth, underpinned by a Behaviours Framework that reflects the expected attitude in decision-making.
Continuous Risk Management supports the achievement of business objectives, based on our Risk Assessment Cycle, the HEINEKEN
Code of Business Conduct (HeiCode) and the HEINEKEN Rules (HeiRules). As part of the Risk Assessment Cycle, the Management
Team reviews and updates the risks faced by the Group on a continuous basis throughout the year. The HeiCode and its underlying
policies set out the Group’s responsibility to conduct business with integrity and fairness, and respect for the law and our values. The
HeiRules articulate how we work and the standards to which we commit. They are a key element for managing the risks faced by our
Company and translating our objectives into clear instructions on how to conduct our daily business.
The Group’s systems of risk management and internal control, which are based on the Committee on Sponsoring Organisations
(COSO) Enterprise Risk Management and Internal Control Reference model, form a fundamental part of the Business Framework.
116 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
RISK MANAGEMENT
Risks are an essential element when opportunities are assessed and strategies are set. At HEINEKEN Malaysia, risk management
is an integral part of doing business, supported by good governance. The Group has adopted the HEINEKEN Risk Management
Framework (the Risk Management Framework) which is embedded within the Business Framework. The Risk Management Framework
addresses the risks the Group inevitably faces in achieving its strategy. Managing risks in a conscious manner increases the likelihood
of delivering our strategies and business objectives. The Group has adopted a proactive approach to ensure risk management is
embedded in our processes for effective decision-making which is essential to create and preserve the Group’s long-term value.
The Risk Management Framework comprises a four-step process and is supported by six key pillars:
Objectives
Strategic and business
objectives are aligned to
the Group strategy
Risks
Risk assessment is
performed on identified
risks based on impact and
likelihood of occurrence
Actions and Controls
Management actions to
mitigate the identified
risks are periodically
monitored
Evaluation
Management action plan is
reviewed as part of business
performance review and risk
assessment cycle
Key Pillars
Structure
Risk management is an integral part of
how we do business and is embedded in
operations at all levels of the organisation.
People and Competencies
Having people with the right mindset
and behaviour, equipped to address
opportunities, risks and required actions.
Governance and Performance
Risk management aligns with
the organisational governance
with a strong tone at the top.
Reward and Recognition
Employees are recognised for
their contributions towards risk
management.
Processes and Tasks
Processes are key for effective risk
management, this is done via a four step
process embedded into our daily activities.
Information and Systems
Utilising risk management information
system that contains a comprehensive
database of key risks faced by the Group.
Risk Management
supports the
achievement of our
objectives, through
more effective
decision making.
How we do Business
Risk management is an integral
part of how we do business,
and is at the core of HEINEKEN
Business Framework
How it is Structured
To manage risks, we are
structured around the
Three-lines of
Defence model
How it is Embedded
Risk management is
embedded in operations at
all levels of the
organisation
Risk Management
117
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
The risk profile of the Group is determined during the risk assessment sessions with the Management Team. This process is facilitated
by the Process & Control Improvement (P&CI) Team and is an integral part of the Risk and Control Workgroup (RCW). During each
assessment session, members of the Management Team are engaged to identify and review key risk areas within their respective
function. They are responsible for ensuring that appropriate and effective mitigation plans are in place to manage the identified risks.
The risks landscape, along with the mitigation plans, is assessed and categorised according to the level of impact and likelihood, using
the following Risk Management Matrix adopted by the Group:
IMPACT RISK MANAGEMENT MATRIX
Major Medium Medium High High Major
Significant Medium Medium Medium High High
Moderate Low Medium Medium Medium High
Minor Low Low Medium Medium Medium
Insignificant Low Low Low Low Medium
Nearly Impossible Unlikely Possible Likely Almost Certain
Likelihood
The identified risks will be mapped on a heat map and ranked according to their level of risk and impact; and then presented to the
Management Team at the quarterly RCW meeting. In determining the most appropriate responses to address the risks, the following
risk mitigation strategy will be applied:
For the managing of risk management activities, the Group applies the “Three-lines of Defence” model as follows:
Board and ARMC
First Line – Management
Ownership and Responsibility
Management is ultimately
responsible for identifying, assessing
and mitigating risks.
Second Line – P&CI
Support, Improvement and
Monitoring
Management is supported by
the P&CI Team that oversees
compliance with the Group policies,
processes and controls, facilitates
the implementation of effective risk
management practices and drives
continuous improvements of internal
controls.
Third Line – Internal Audit
Independent, Objective Assurance
The Internal Audit function is
tasked to review key processes,
projects and systems based on
the Group’s strategic priorities and
most significant risk areas and
provide independent and objective
assurance on the effectiveness of
governance, risk management and
internal control processes.
The above is also supported by assurance activities carried out by the external auditors whose responsibility is to evaluate and
provide independent and objective assurance on the financial statements and risk management processes including reliability
of information, compliance with regulations and procedures; and efficient and effective use of resources.
Take
Accept the risk, the probability and
possible impact on the business are
accepted
Transfer
Decide to pass the risk or costs of
the impact outside the organisation,
through third party contracts or take out
insurance to cover the costs of the impact
Treat
Take action to reduce the risk by
lessening the impact. This can involve
improved procedures and internal
controls
Terminate
Decide to eliminate the risk by
terminating the activity or the
pursuance of the objective that
causes the risk
Risk
Response
Actions
Risk
Response
Actions
118 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
The RCW, which is made up of members of the Management Team and is chaired by the Managing Director, oversees the areas of risk
management and internal control of the Group. It meets on a quarterly basis to review the risk management activities and internal
control issues raised. Matters deliberated in the RCW meetings are reported to the ARMC. The RCW is supported by the P&CI Team
who is tasked to oversee compliance with the Group’s Risk Management and Internal Control Systems and drive continuous process
improvements.
The P&CI Team, which comprises of a P&CI Manager and a P&CI Executive, is a function within the Finance Department whilst
the Internal Audit Department maintains a functional reporting relationship with the ARMC and reports administratively to the
Managing Director.
INTERNAL CONTROLS
As an integral part of the Business Framework, internal control activities are carried out with the aim of providing reasonable assurance
as to the accuracy of financial information, non-financial disclosures, the Company’s compliance with applicable laws and internal
policies and the effectiveness of internal processes.
The internal controls are defined in HeiRules, encompassing all mandatory standards and procedures including financial and
non-financial reporting, IT and Tax. On an annual basis, a Control Self-Assessment (CSA) is performed by each function to evaluate
the implementation and execution of the mandatory standards and procedures stipulated under the HeiRules. The Group has also
adopted the HEINEKEN’s Risk and Control Matrix (RACM) compliance programme that focuses on internal controls over financial
reporting. The RACM assessment is conducted on key controls surrounding the Group’s financial reporting process based on materiality
level. It focuses on transparency, accountability and the safeguarding of assets.
The P&CI Team coordinates both CSA and RACM assessments annually. The assessments are performed by competent assessors and
the outcome are tested by qualified reviewers. The P&CI Team discusses non-compliance areas and control deficiencies with relevant
process owners and documents them in a monitoring tool whilst ensuring remediation action plans are in place. Completed actions
are retested to ensure adequate remediation. Any deficiencies identified will be assessed and reported to the RCW and the ARMC
during their quarterly meetings.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The primary role of the Internal Audit function is to undertake independent and systematic reviews of the Group’s internal control
system so as to provide objective assurance on the adequacy, integrity and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management, internal
controls, anti-bribery/anti-corruption, Speak Up and the overall governance processes within the Group.
The Internal Audit function has a clear reporting line to the ARMC and its performance is reviewed by the ARMC annually. It is
independent of the operational and management activities they audit and have unrestricted access to information, records, physical
properties and personnel, in order for it to complete the audit assignments.
Audits are carried out based on the risk-based Annual Audit Plan approved by the ARMC. The audit reports which highlight significant
findings and audit recommendations with regards to the effectiveness of governance, risk management and internal control
processes, including regulatory compliance such as related party transactions are presented to the RCW and the ARMC at their
quarterly meetings.
Details of activities carried out by the Internal Audit function during FY2024 are further disclosed in the Audit & Risk Management
Committee Report.
KEY ELEMENTS OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL SYSTEMS
The key elements of the Group’s risk management and internal controls system are described below:
Authority and Responsibility
• As part of the Risk Management Framework, and in line with the MCCG, the Board has an organisational structure that clearly
defined lines of accountability, responsibilities and delegated authority to the Board Committees and the Management, ensuring
they discharge their duties effectively. Risk management and internal controls matters are under the purview of the ARMC, chaired
by the Senior Independent Director.
119
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
• There is a schedule of key matters reserved for Board
deliberation and decision. The Group practices segregation
of duties to ensure that specific tasks or duties within related
business processes and related systems are assigned to
different employees, preventing unintentional or fraudulent
transactions.
• Internal policies and procedures governing the core business
processes, along with the limits of authority delegated to
appropriate levels of employees, are documented and stored
in a document repository portal. These documents are
regularly reviewed and updated to reflect changing risks or to
address operational deficiencies.
Monitoring, Reporting and Performance Measurement
• The Management Team meets monthly to review business
performance and to identify, discuss and address operational,
financial and key management issues. On a quarterly basis,
the Managing Director reports to the Board on key business
and operational issues, including strategy, performance,
resources and regulatory compliance.
• The RCW meets quarterly to review risk management and
internal control activities, discuss risk mitigation strategies
and follow-up on action plans implemented in response to
issues raised as a result of reviews, assessments and tests
performed by the P&CI Team and the internal/external
auditors.
• Compliance audits for the ISO 9001:2015 Quality
Management System and the Hazard Analysis Critical
Control Point (HACCP) requirements are conducted according
to the frequency determined by the Ministry of Health to
ensure adherence to product safety standards.
• The Group has adopted the HEINEKEN Information Security
Maturity Assessment (ISMA) framework as part of its internal
controls to protect and detect threats against its information
systems. Quarterly ISMA assessments are conducted to
evaluate the effectiveness of the Group’s information security
management system and cyber security risk management
measures.
• The annual planning process involves each function
preparing and reviewing their strategies and activity plans,
including budgets, prior to the commencement of a new
financial year. The annual plan, which embeds the budget,
is reviewed by the Management Team and approved by the
Board. The Management Team conducts a monthly review
of performance and expenditure against the plan to ensure
effective execution and spends are managed in line with
the strategic and financial objectives of the organisation.
Performance gaps or key variances are followed up and
addressed by respective functions.
• Regular stakeholder engagements with employees, investors,
analysts, media, trade partners and relevant authorities are
conducted to understand stakeholders’ needs and collect
feedback for continuous improvements.
• On behalf of the Management Team, the Managing Director
and the Finance Director sign-off a bi-annual Letter of
Representation to the Chief Financial Officer of Heineken
N.V.. This letter demonstrates management’s accountability
over financial and non-financial reporting disclosures,
financial reporting controls, compliance with the HeiCode
and HeiRules and reporting of fraud and irregularities.
Integrity and Ethical Values
• The Group has adopted the HeiCode which outlines the
standards of ethics and responsible business conduct
expected from employees at all levels. The HeiCode
encompasses all aspects of the Group’s business operations,
categorised under four broad areas: Caring for People and
Planet, Maintaining Business Integrity, Protecting Our
Assets and Engaging Responsibly. These areas include
responsible alcohol consumption; responsibility to health
and safety, human rights and sustainable initiatives, equal
opportunities and the prevention of discrimination and
harassment, avoidance and disclosure of conflicts of interest,
insider trading, management of intellectual property and
confidential information, privacy and data protection; fair
competition practices, responsible communication, fraud,
bribery, offering and acceptance of gifts, entertainment,
hospitality and donations, money laundering and sanctions;
and business partner governance. Annually, employees are
required to disclose to the Company any potential conflicts
between their personal interest and those of the Company or
its subsidiaries. This ensures decisions within the Group are
based on objective business judgement and not influenced
by personal interests or gain.
• The Group has taken proactive actions to ensure that our
business partners align with our values and responsible
business conduct. Our distributors and suppliers adopt the
HEINEKEN Distributor Code of Conduct and the HEINEKEN
Supplier Code (the Codes) in running their business, further
details on this were set out under ‘Other policies’ below.
A due-diligence tool was implemented to identify, assess
and remedy risks associated with third parties engaged by
the Group, including suppliers and distributors. Bribery and
corruption are among the risks assessed by the tool.
• The Group also adopted the HEINEKEN Speak Up Policy,
which provides employees and stakeholders a standard
process to confidentially report concerns related to suspected
misconduct or unethical practices within the Group, without
fear of retaliation. Reports may be submitted to designated
trustedrepresentativesappointedbytheCompanyorthrough
an external Speak Up Service, which is available 24/7. The
Speak Up Service is managed by an independent third party.
AllSpeakUpreportsareassessedbyaGlobalSpeakUpReview
Team, comprising representatives from Global Business
Conduct, Global Process & Control Improvement, Global Audit
and Global People. This team determines the admissibility of
concerns and identifies whether they should be handled by
120 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
the Global Integrity Committee or by respective company
involved. The policy has been communicated to all employees,
emphasising that reports are treated confidentially, and that
retaliation is not tolerated. It has also been communicated
to distributors and suppliers through engagement sessions
and e-learning that focuses on the Codes. This policy
is available for reference on the Company’s website at
https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/
• Employees are guided by HEINEKEN’s Purpose, Dream and
Values which are integrated into the Group’s policies and
procedures, and work culture.
Employees’ Competency and Awareness
• Annually, employees are required to complete the following
e-learning modules as part of the Company’s efforts to
enhance awareness and evaluate their understanding of
the respective codes and underlying principles. The People
function closely monitors the results from the online
assessments.
o Code of Business Conduct
o Anti-Bribery and Corruption
o Responsible Marketing Code
o Security Awareness
o Fraud Awareness
o Data Privacy
o Competition Law
o Life Saving Commitments
o Responsible Consumption
In addition to the e-learning modules, annual briefings
were conducted for regional sales employees to ensure they
remain updated and to address any questions on challenges
or issues encountered in their daily operations.
• Training and development programmes covering health and
safety, technical knowledge and leadership are organised
for employees to ensure that they are equipped with
necessary knowledge/skills and competencies to carry out
their responsibilities in achieving the Group’s objectives.
The Group provides an integrated learning platform where
employees can access a wide range of courses, covering areas
such as cross functional business skills, digital trends and
self-development.
• The Group relies on IT systems to support its operations
via data analysis and reports essential for business
decision-making. As part of the cyber security awareness
measures, mandatory trainings were conducted for all
employees through an online learning platform. Additionally,
a simulated phishing email exercise was performed during
the year to enhance awareness of phishing and its attack
methods.
• Briefings are held to update employees on legislative changes
that may impact the Group’s operations or business practices.
These briefings cover updates in food legislation, local council
licensing requirements relevant to the beer industry and
the new Guidelines on the Marketing and Advertising of
Intoxicating Liquor introduced by the Communications and
Multimedia Content Forum of Malaysia.
• Induction programmes for new joiners are organised to raise
awareness and educate them on the Group’s approach to risk
management and internal control. These programmes also
aim to enhance participants’ understanding of the Group’s
risk management and control procedures, as well as their
responsibilities in managing risks.
Other Policies
• The Codes outline the standard for ethical and business
conduct expected from distributors and suppliers in
their business dealings with the Group. The Codes were
communicated to distributors and suppliers though
e-learning modules and engagement sessions aimed at
raising awareness and assessing their understanding of the
principles outlined within the Codes, particularly regarding
bribery, fraud and the offering and acceptance of gifts and
entertainment.
• The Group’s assets are insured against potential incidents
that may lead to material financial losses. Additionally,
stringent measures are implemented to ensure that major
assets within the Group are securely protected.
• The Group has adopted the HEINEKEN Crisis Manual and
has a Contingency Plan and an Emergency Preparedness
and Response Plan for crisis situations. A Crisis Management
Team, consisting of members of the Management Team, is
in place to provide leadership and timely decision-making
to ensure business operations continue during significant
disruption or disaster. The plan addresses scenarios such
as fire/explosion, product contamination and IT disaster.
During FY2024, an emergency evacuation drill for fire and a
chemical leak and a disaster recovery drill focusing on critical
systems were conducted. These drills involved comprehensive
examination and simulation of potential crisis scenarios to
evaluate the organisation’s preparedness, resilience and
ability to mitigate the damages, ensure people safety and
recover essential systems during a crisis.
BOARD ASSESSMENT
The Board is of the view that, the overall risk management and
internal control systems in place for FY2024, and up to the date
of approval of this statement, are operating adequately and
effectively. This covers all material aspects, based on, the same
assurance provided by the Managing Director and the Finance
Director, who represent the Management Team of the Company,
through the Letter of Representation submitted to Heineken
N.V.. During the financial year under review, no material financial
or non-financial losses were reported due to weaknesses or
inadequacies in internal control. The Board will continue to review
the systems and ensure that measures are taken to strengthen
the risk management and internal control environment within
the Group.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
121
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
REVIEW OF THE STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS
In compliance with Paragraph 15.23 of the MMLR, the external auditors have reviewed this statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control for inclusion in the Annual Report 2024. Their limited assurance review was conducted in accordance with the Audit
and Assurance Practice Guide 3 (AAPG3) issued by the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. AAPG3 does not require the external
auditors to provide an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal control systems.
Based on the review, the external auditors have reported that nothing has come to their attention that had caused them to believe
that this statement is not prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the disclosures required by the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers to be set out, or is the Statement factually inaccurate.
This statement was approved by the Board on 11 March 2025.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
122 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
123 Directors’ Report
127 Independent Auditors’ Report
130 Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
131 Statements of Financial Position
132 Statements of Changes in Equity
133 Statements of Cash Flows
135 Notes to the Financial Statements
170 Statement by Directors
170 Declaration by the Officer Primarily Responsible for the Financial Management of the Company
Financial
Statements
123
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Directors’ Report
The directors of HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the
Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2024.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in the production, packaging, marketing and distribution of beverages, primarily alcoholic, whilst
the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 13 to the financial statements.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The results of operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year are as follows:
Group Company
RM’000 RM’000
Profit for the year attributable to:
Owners of the Company 466,749 481,539
In the opinion of the directors, the results of operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have not been
substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.
DIVIDENDS
Since the end of the previous financial year, the amount of dividends paid or proposed by the Company are in respect of the following:
(i) A final ordinary dividend of 88 sen per stock unit under the single tier tax system totalling RM265,846,240 in respect of the
financial year ended 31 December 2023 on 25 July 2024; and
(ii) An interim ordinary dividend of 40 sen per stock unit under the single tier tax system totalling RM120,839,200 in respect of the
financial year ended 31 December 2024 on 30 October 2024.
The directors now recommend the declaration of a final ordinary dividend of 115 sen per stock unit under the single tier system totalling
RM347,412,700 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2024 which if approved by the owners of the Company will be
payable on 23 July 2025.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed in the financial
statements.
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
The Company has not issued any new shares or debentures during the financial year.
SHARE OPTIONS
No options have been granted by the Company to any parties during the financial year to take up unissued shares of the Company.
No shares have been issued during the financial year by virtue of the exercise of any option to take up unissued shares of the Company.
As at the end of the financial year, there were no unissued shares of the Company under options.
124 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Directors’ Report
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the directors took reasonable steps:
(a) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of allowance for
doubtful debts, and had satisfied themselves that all known bad debts had been written off and that adequate allowance had
been made for doubtful debts; and
(b) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including the value of
current assets as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company had been written down to an amount which
the current assets might be expected so to realise.
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(a) which would render the amount written off as bad debts or the amount of allowance for doubtful debts in the financial statements
of the Company inadequate to any substantial extent; or
(b) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
misleading; or
(c) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group and of
the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(d) not otherwise dealt with in this report or financial statements which would render any amount stated in the financial statements
of the Group and of the Company misleading.
At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(a) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year which secures the
liability of any other person; and
(b) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.
No contingent or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable within the period of twelve months after
the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the directors, will or may substantially affect the ability of the Group and of the
Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due.
In the opinion of the directors, no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between the
end of the financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect substantially the results of operations of the Group and of
the Company for the succeeding financial year.
DIRECTORS
The directors of the Company in office during the financial year and during the period from the end of the financial year to the date of
this report are:
Dato’ Sri Idris Jala
Choo Tay Sian, Kenneth
Seng Yi-Ying
Lau Nai Pek
Chua Carmen
Erin Sakinah Atan
Martijn Rene van Keulen (Appointed on 1 July 2024)
Roland Bala (Resigned on 1 July 2024)
125
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
DIRECTORS (CONTINUED)
The directors of the subsidiaries of the Company in office during the financial year and during the period from the end of the financial
year to the date of this report are:
Renuka A/P V. Indrarajah
Christiaan Johannes Folkerts
Martijn Rene van Keulen (Appointed on 1 July 2024)
Roland Bala (Resigned on 1 July 2024)
Dato’ Dominic Joseph Puthucheary (Resigned on 30 November 2024)
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
None of the directors in office at the end of the financial year held shares or had beneficial interest in the ordinary stock units/shares of
the Company or its related corporation during or at the beginning and end of the year.
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, none of the directors of the Company has received or become entitled to receive any benefit
(other than the benefit included in the aggregate amount of emoluments received or due and receivable by directors as disclosed
below) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the director or with a firm of which he is a member,
or with a company in which he has a substantial financial interest.
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Directors:
Fees 738 598 732 592
Remuneration 3,632 5,583 3,632 5,583
Share-based payment 685 939 685 939
Meeting attendance allowance 55 63 55 63
Estimated monetary value of benefits-in-kind otherwise
than in cash 766 428 766 428
5,876 7,611 5,870 7,605
During and at the end of the financial year, no arrangement subsisted to which the Company was a party whereby directors of the
Company might acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate.
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND AUDITORS
The Company maintains a directors and officers liability insurance for the purposes of Section 289 of the Companies Act, 2016,
throughout the year, which provides appropriate insurance cover for the directors and officers of the Group. The amount of insurance
premium paid during the financial year amounted to RM47,846.
No indemnity was given to or insurance effected for auditors of the Company and of the Group during the financial year.
Directors’ Report
126 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
HOLDING CORPORATIONS
The directors regard GAPL Pte. Ltd. (“GAPL”) and Heineken Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. (“HAPPL”), both corporations incorporated in the Republic
of Singapore, as the immediate and intermediate holding corporations.
HAPPL is owned by Heineken N.V., a corporation incorporated in the Netherlands, which in turn is the ultimate holding corporation of
the Company.
AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The amount paid/payable as remuneration of the auditors for the financial year ended 31 December is as below:
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Statutory audit fees 245 236 155 149
Other services 40 40 40 40
AUDITORS
The auditors, Deloitte PLT, have expressed that they do not seek re-appointment at the forthcoming annual general meeting.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
in accordance with a resolution of the directors,
______________________________
DATO’ SRI IDRIS JALA
______________________________
MARTIJN RENE VAN KEULEN
Petaling Jaya, Selangor
11 March 2025
Directors’ Report
127
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of Heineken Malaysia Berhad (Incorporated in Malaysia)
REPORT ON THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
OPINION
We have audited the financial statements of HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD, which comprise the statements of financial position
of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2024, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income,
statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the year then ended, and notes to
the financial statements, including material accounting policy information, as set out on pages 130 to 169.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the
Company as at 31 December 2024, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act,
2016 in Malaysia.
BASIS FOR OPINION
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing. Our
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code
of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other
ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
KEY AUDIT MATTERS
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a
separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue recognition - Accruals for promotional allowances and volume rebates
Accounting for promotional allowances and volume rebates impacts the amounts of revenue recognised during the year. The revenue
accounting policies are disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements. Management judgement is required to estimate the value of
promotional allowances and volume rebates. This estimate is considered to be a key audit matter relevant to our audit of the financial
statements.
Our audit response
Our audit procedures included, amongst others, evaluating controls relating to management’s process for determining the value of
promotional allowances and volume rebates. In addition, we performed substantive testing and analytical procedures to test the
accuracy and completeness of the underlying calculation of the accruals. These procedures included challenging the appropriateness
of management’s assumptions and estimates, and agreeing input data, including volume sold, pricing and allowance data to the
underlying agreements entered into with customers. We also compared the actual promotional discounts and rebates incurred against
the accrual made in the prior year.
We have determined that there are no key audit matters in the audit of the separate financial statements of the Company to
communicate in our auditors’ report.
128 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of Heineken Malaysia Berhad (Incorporated in Malaysia)
INFORMATION OTHER THAN THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND AUDITORS’ REPORT THEREON
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Chairman’s Statement,
Five-Year Financial Indicators, Analysis of Group Revenue, Management Discussion and Analysis, Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control, Properties owned by the Group and Directors’ Report (but does not include the financial statements of the Group
and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon) which we obtained prior to the date of this auditors’ report and the Analysis
of Stockholdings, Corporate Governance Overview Statement, Audit and Risk Management Committee Report, Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control which are expected to be made available to us after that date.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not express
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of the
Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditors’ report, we
conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report
in this regard.
When we read the other information that are expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditors’ report, if we conclude
that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance.
RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE DIRECTORS FOR THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that give
a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and
the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also responsible for such internal control as the directors
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material
misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and
the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have
no realistic alternative but to do so.
AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved
standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing, we
exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, whether due
to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and
appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher
than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override
of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and of the Company’s internal
control.
129
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITIES FOR THE AUDIT OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures
made by the directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s or
the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw
attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such
disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of
our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as a going
concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, including
the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves
fair presentation.
• Plan and perform the group audit to obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the
entities or business units within the group as a basis for forming an opinion on the group financial statements. We are responsible
for the direction, supervision and review of the audit work performed for purposes of the group audit. We remain solely responsible
for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence,
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and
where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe
these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we have not
acted as auditors, are as disclosed in Note 13 to the financial statements.
OTHER MATTERS
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act, 2016 in
Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.
DELOITTE PLT (LLP0010145-LCA)
Chartered Accountants (AF 0080)
TEOH CHEAP CHEE
Partner - 03472/11/2025 J
Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
11 March 2025
Independent Auditors’ Report
To the Members of Heineken Malaysia Berhad (Incorporated in Malaysia)
130 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Statements of Profit or Loss and Other Comprehensive Income
for the Year Ended 31 December 2024
Group Company
Note 2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue 2,796,791 2,637,741 1,667,265 1,478,397
Cost of sales (1,851,951) (1,758,969) (1,616,611) (1,442,365)
Gross profit 944,840 878,772 50,654 36,032
Other operating income 9,145 11,391 6,581 3,697
Distribution, marketing and selling expenses (245,793) (263,951) (1,062) (898)
Administrative expenses (110,660) (106,084) (27,910) (28,785)
Other operating expenses (1,801) (1,817) (1,758) (1,735)
Dividend income - - 441,564 370,344
Results from operating activities 595,731 518,311 468,069 378,655
Finance income 5 1,180 1,154 1,134 1,111
Finance costs 6 (12,608) (8,585) (7,376) (8,185)
Net finance costs (11,428) (7,431) (6,242) (7,074)
Profit before tax 7 584,303 510,880 461,827 371,581
Income tax (expense)/credit 8 (117,554) (124,080) 19,712 (28)
Profit/Total comprehensive income for the
year attributable to:
Owners of the Company 466,749 386,800 481,539 371,553
Basic/Diluted earnings per ordinary stock unit
(sen) 9 154.5 128.0
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of the Financial Statements.
131
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Statements of Financial Position
as at 31 December 2024
Group Company
Note 2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Non-current Assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 582,071 576,464 549,770 544,959
Intangible assets 11 18,360 20,357 16,690 18,083
Right-of-use assets 12 20,041 18,848 11,603 11,665
Investment in subsidiaries 13 - - 14,344 14,344
Deferred tax assets 14 1,441 1,742 - -
Other receivables and prepaid expenses 15 1,095 2,663 55 31
Total Non-current Assets 623,008 620,074 592,462 589,082
Current Assets
Inventories 16 152,098 120,564 69,923 80,309
Current tax assets 22,071 29,912 22,071 22,383
Receivables, deposits and prepaid expenses 15 450,525 433,561 10,009 7,938
Cash and bank balances 32,486 43,318 20,733 38,376
Total Current Assets 657,180 627,355 122,736 149,006
Total Assets 1,280,188 1,247,429 715,198 738,088
Equity
Share capital 17 151,049 151,049 151,049 151,049
Reserves 388,289 307,623 246,371 151,103
Total Equity Attributable To Owners of The
Company 539,338 458,672 397,420 302,152
Non-current Liabilities
Lease liabilities 19 5,850 5,021 535 530
Deferred tax liabilities 14 15,124 34,567 15,124 35,149
Total Non-current Liabilities 20,974 39,588 15,659 35,679
Current Liabilities
Borrowings 18 80,000 135,000 80,000 135,000
Trade and other payables 20 632,817 610,263 220,892 264,177
Provision for restructuring 21 - - - -
Lease liabilities 19 4,476 3,906 1,227 1,080
Current tax liabilities 2,583 - - -
Total Current Liabilities 719,876 749,169 302,119 400,257
Total Liabilities 740,850 788,757 317,778 435,936
Total Equity and Liabilities 1,280,188 1,247,429 715,198 738,088
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of the Financial Statements.
132 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Statements of Changes in Equity
for the Year Ended 31 December 2024
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of the Financial Statements.
Share
capital
Capital
reserve
Distributable
-Retained
earnings Total
Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
As at 1 January 2023 151,049 647 336,757 488,453
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 386,800 386,800
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based
payments - 314 - 314
Dividends 22 - - (416,895) (416,895)
As at 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 151,049 961 306,662 458,672
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 466,749 466,749
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based
payments - 602 - 602
Dividends 22 - - (386,685) (386,685)
As at 31 December 2024 151,049 1,563 386,726 539,338
Company
As at 1 January 2023 151,049 585 195,685 347,319
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 371,553 371,553
Credit to equity for equity-settle share-based
payments - 175 - 175
Dividends 22 - - (416,895) (416,895)
As at 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 151,049 760 150,343 302,152
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 481,539 481,539
Credit to equity for equity-settle share-based
payments - 414 - 414
Dividends 22 - - (386,685) (386,685)
As at 31 December 2024 151,049 1,174 245,197 397,420
133
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Statements of Cash Flows
for the Year Ended 31 December 2024
Group Company
Note 2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) OPERATING
ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax 584,303 510,880 461,827 371,581
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and
equipment 10 80,267 65,343 68,927 54,203
Amortisation of prepaid contractual
promotion expenses 5,197 6,959 - -
Amortisation of intangible assets 11 6,078 5,689 5,474 5,085
Inventories written off/(back) 822 8,180 (442) 3,052
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 12 4,989 3,980 1,677 1,670
Finance costs 6 12,608 8,585 7,376 8,185
Property, plant and equipment written off 10 269 817 259 816
Net unrealised loss on foreign exchange 180 19 190 3
Gain on disposal of right-of-use assets (7) - - -
Gain on disposal of property, plant and
equipment (131) (254) - (107)
Reversal of provision for restructuring 21 - (288) - (288)
Finance income 5 (1,180) (1,154) (1,134) (1,111)
Dividend income from a subsidiary - - (441,564) (370,344)
Operating Profit Before Working Capital
Changes 693,395 608,756 102,590 72,745
Movement in working capital:
(Increase)/Decrease in:
Receivables, deposits and prepaid expenses (20,593) 159,741 (2,095) 158,053
Inventories (32,356) 61,940 10,828 (2,735)
Increase/(Decrease) in:
Trade and other payables 11,048 (86,569) (54,988) (15,142)
Cash Generated From Operations 651,494 743,868 56,335 212,921
Income tax paid (126,271) (151,182) - (4,782)
Interest paid (12,608) (8,585) (7,376) (8,185)
Net Cash From Operating Activities 512,615 584,101 48,959 199,954
134 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Group Company
Note 2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) INVESTING
ACTIVITIES
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 10 (74,247) (133,581) (62,070) (123,444)
Acquisition of intangible assets 11 (4,081) (5,516) (4,081) (5,516)
Interest received 1,180 1,154 1,134 1,111
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and
equipment 162 260 - 107
Dividend received - - 441,564 370,344
Net Cash (Used In)/From Investing Activities (76,986) (137,683) 376,547 242,602
CASH FLOWS USED IN FINANCING
ACTIVITIES
Dividends paid 22 (386,685) (416,895) (386,685) (416,895)
Repayment of revolving credit and trade
financing - net (55,000) (35,000) (55,000) (35,000)
Repayment of lease liabilities 29 (4,776) (3,759) (1,464) (1,432)
Net Cash Used In Financing Activities (446,461) (455,654) (443,149) (453,327)
NET DECREASE IN CASH AND BANK
BALANCES (10,832) (9,236) (17,643) (10,771)
CASH AND BANK BALANCES AT BEGINNING
OF YEAR 43,318 52,554 38,376 49,147
CASH AND BANK BALANCES AT END OF
YEAR 32,486 43,318 20,733 38,376
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of the Financial Statements.
Statements of Cash Flows
for the Year Ended 31 December 2024
135
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
Heineken Malaysia Berhad is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on the Main
Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The Company is principally engaged in the production, packaging, marketing and distribution of beverages, primarily alcoholic,
whilst the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 13.
The registered office and principal place of business of the Company is located at Sungei Way Brewery, Lot 1135, Batu 9, Jalan
Klang Lama, 46000 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been authorised by the Board of Directors for issuance on
11 March 2025.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and the requirements of the Companies
Act, 2016 in Malaysia.
Application of Amendments to MFRS
In the current financial year, the Group and the Company adopted all Amendments to MFRSs issued by the Malaysian Accounting
Standards Board (“MASB”) and effective for an annual financial period beginning on or after 1 January 2024:
Amendments to MFRS 16		 Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
Amendments to MFRS 101		 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
Amendments to MFRS 101		 Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
Amendments to MFRS 7 and MFRS 107 Supplier Finance Arrangement
The adoption of the above amendments to MFRSs did not result in significant changes in the accounting policies of the Group
and of the Company and has no significant effect on the financial performance or position of the Group and of the Company.
New Standards and Amendments to MFRSs in issue but not yet effective
At the date of authorisation for issue of these financial statements, the new standards and amendments to MFRSs which were in
issue but not yet effective and not early adopted by the Group and the Company are as listed below:
MFRS 18 Presentation and Disclosure in Financial Statements3
MFRS 19 Subsidiaries without Public Accountability: Disclosures3
Amendments to 121 Lack of Exchangeability1
Amendments to MFRS 9 and MFRS 7 Amendments to the Classification and Measurement of Financial Instruments2
Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint
Venture4
Annual improvements to MFRS Accounting Standards - Volume 112
1 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025, with earlier application permitted.
2 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2026, with earlier application permitted.
3 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2027, with earlier application permitted.
4 Effective date deferred to a date to be determined and announced by MASB, with earlier application permitted.
The directors anticipate that the abovementioned Standards and Amendments will be adopted in the annual financial statements
of the Group and of the Company when they become effective and that the adoption of these Standards and Amendments will
have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company in the period of initial application.
136 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Statement of Compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting
Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis of Accounting
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention except as
disclosed in the summary of material accounting policies. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration
given in exchange for assets.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another
valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group and the Company take into account the
characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset
or liability at the measurement date. Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in these financial statements is
determined on such a basis, except for leasing transactions that are within the scope of MFRS 16 and measurements that have
some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in MFRS 102 or value-in-use in MFRS 136.
In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to
which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement
in its entirety, which are described as follows:
• Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access
at the measurement date;
• Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability,
either directly or indirectly; and
• Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The principal accounting policies are set out below:
Basis of Consolidation and Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the
Company (its subsidiaries). Control is achieved when the Company:
• has power over the investee;
• is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and
• has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one
or more of the three elements of control listed above.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company. Total
comprehensive income of subsidiary is attributed to the owners of the Company.
All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the
Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
137
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Basis of Consolidation and Subsidiaries (continued)
Subsidiaries
Investment in subsidiaries, which are eliminated on consolidation, are stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses, if
any, in the Company’s financial statements.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognised when or as a performance obligation in the contract with customer is satisfied, i.e. when the “control” of
the goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer. A performance obligation
is a promise to transfer a distinct goods or services (or a series of distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and
that have the same pattern of transfer) to the customer that is explicitly stated in the contract and implied in the Group’s and the
Company’s customary business practices.
Revenue is measured at the amount of consideration to which the Group and the Company expect to be entitled in exchange for
transferring the promised goods or services to the customers, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties such as sales
taxes or goods and services taxes. If the amount of consideration varies due to discounts, rebates, refunds, credits, incentives,
penalties or other similar items, the Group and the Company estimate the amount of consideration to which it will be entitled
based on the expected value or the most likely outcome. If the contract with customer contains more than one performance
obligation, the amount of consideration is allocated to each performance obligation based on the relative stand-alone selling
prices of the goods or services promised in the contract.
The revenue is recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue
recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
The control of the promised goods or services may be transferred over time or at a point in time. The control over the goods or
services is transferred over time and revenue is recognised over time if:
• the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group’s and the Company’s performance
as the Group and the Company perform;
• the Group’s and the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is
created or enhanced; or
• the Group’s and the Company’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group and the
Company have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Revenue for performance obligation that is not satisfied over time is recognised at a point in time at which the customer obtains
control of the promised goods or services.
(i) Sales of Goods
Revenue is generated by the sale and delivery of products to customers. Revenue is measured based on the consideration
specified in a contract with a customer. The products are mostly own-produced finished goods from the Group’s brewing
activities, but also contain purchased goods from related companies for resale to customers. The Group and the Company
recognise revenue at a point in time when they transfer control over a product or service to a customer and satisfy their
performance obligation to a customer. Where applicable, rebates and discounts to customers are accounted as net
of revenue according to contract. The revenue is recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant
reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable
consideration is subsequently resolved.
(ii) Dividend Income
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Company’s rights to receive payment is established.
138 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Income Tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected amount of income taxes payable in respect of the taxable profit for the year and is measured using
the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax is provided for, using the “liability” method, on temporary differences at the reporting date between the tax bases
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised
for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, unused
tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the
deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits can be utilised. Deferred tax is not recognised if the
temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that affects neither the accounting
profit nor taxable profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is no
longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset is realised or the liability settled,
based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting date. Deferred tax is recognised
in profit or loss except when it arises from a transaction which is recognised directly in equity, in which case the deferred tax is
also charged or credited directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current
tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority the Group and the Company intend to
settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is
probable that future benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the Company and the cost can be measured
reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. All other repair and maintenance costs are charged to profit
or loss in the year in which they are incurred.
Returnable bottles and kegs in circulation are recorded within property, plant and equipment and a corresponding liability is
recorded in respect of the obligation to repay the customers’ deposits. Deposits paid by customers for returnable items are
reflected in the consolidated statement of financial position within current liabilities.
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each component of an item
of property, plant and equipment from the date that they are available for use. Freehold land is not depreciated. Capital work-in-
progress are not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.
The following annual rates based on the estimated useful lives of the various assets:
Buildings		 50 years
Plant and machinery 13 - 20 years
Movable plant 2 - 10 years
Where significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, the cost of the item is allocated
on a reasonable basis between the parts and each part is depreciated separately.
At each reporting date, the residual values, useful lives and depreciation method of property, plant and equipment are reviewed,
and the effects of any change in estimates are recognised prospectively.
139
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Property, Plant and Equipment (continued)
Gain or loss arising from the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is calculated using weighted average method, and includes cost of raw materials, duties where applicable,
and other expenses incurred in acquiring inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition. For finished
goods and work-in-progress, cost also includes direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads based on
normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated cost of completion and
the estimated cost necessary to make the sale.
Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s statements of financial position when the Group becomes
a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the
acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value
through profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate, on
initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair value
through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Financial Assets
All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis. Regular way
purchases or sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame established by
regulation or convention in the marketplace.
All recognised financial assets are measured subsequently in their entirety at either amortised cost or fair value, depending on the
classification of the financial assets.
Classification of financial assets
Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are measured subsequently at amortised cost:
• the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual
cash flows; and
• the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal
and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Amortisation cost and effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest
income over the relevant period.
140 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Financial Assets (continued)
Amortisation cost and effective interest method (continued)
For financial assets other than purchased or originated credit‑impaired financial assets (i.e. assets that are credit‑impaired on
initial recognition), the effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees
and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or
discounts) excluding expected credit losses, through the expected life of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter
period, to the gross carrying amount of the debt instrument on initial recognition. For purchased or originated credit‑impaired
financial assets, a credit‑adjusted effective interest rate is calculated by discounting the estimated future cash flows, including
expected credit losses, to the amortised cost of the debt instrument on initial recognition.
The amortised cost of a financial asset is the amount at which the financial asset is measured at initial recognition minus
the principal repayments, plus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method of any difference between that
initial amount and the maturity amount, adjusted for any loss allowance. The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is the
amortised cost of a financial asset before adjusting for any loss allowance.
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method for debt instruments measured subsequently at amortised cost.
For financial assets other than purchased or originated credit‑impaired financial assets, interest income is calculated by applying
the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset, except for financial assets that have subsequently
become credit‑impaired (see below). For financial assets that have subsequently become credit‑impaired, interest income is
recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset. If, in subsequent reporting periods,
the credit risk on the credit‑impaired financial instrument improves so that the financial asset is no longer credit‑impaired, interest
income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of the financial asset.
For purchased or originated credit‑impaired financial assets, the Group recognises interest income by applying the credit‑adjusted
effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset from initial recognition. The calculation does not revert to the
grossbasisevenifthecreditriskofthefinancialassetsubsequentlyimprovessothat thefinancial asset is no longer credit‑impaired.
Interest income is recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group and the company apply the simplified approach to measure expected credit losses (“ECL”) on trade receivables
measured at amortised cost and trade intercompany balances. This entails recognising a lifetime expected loss allowance for
all trade receivables. Loss rates are determined based on grouping of receivables sharing the same credit risk characteristics and
past due days.
Management assesses the ECL for portfolios of trade receivables based on customer segments, historical information on payment
patterns, terms of payment, concentration maturity, and information about the general economic situation in the countries.
No significant changes to estimation techniques or assumptions were made during the reporting period.
The Group considers the probability of default upon initial recognition of asset and whether there has been a significant increase
in credit risk on an ongoing basis throughout each reporting period. To assess whether there is a significant increase in credit risk,
the Group compares the risk of a default occurring on the asset as at the reporting date with the risk of default as at the date of
initial recognition. It considers available reasonable and supportable forward-looking information.
A significant increase in credit risk is presumed if a debtor is more than 180 days past due in making a contractual payment which
is based on past payment trends. Credit risk on trade receivables can be reduced through bank guarantees.
For other receivables and non-trade intercompany balances, the Group and the Company apply 3-stage approach to measure ECL
which reflect their credit risk and how the loss allowance is determined. The Group and the Company assessed the intercompany
receivables as performing category with a low risk of default and a strong capacity to meet contractual cash flows. The basis of
measuring ECL are based on 12 months ECL.
141
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Financial Assets (continued)
Impairment of financial assets (continued)
Groupings of instruments for ECL measured on collective basis
(i) Collective assessment
• To measure ECL, trade receivables have been grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past
due.
(ii) Individual assessment
• Trade receivables that are in default or credit impaired are assessed individually.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it
transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group
neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset,
the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group
retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the
financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
On derecognition of a financial asset measured at amortised cost, the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the
sum of the consideration received and receivable is recognised in profit or loss.
Financial Liabilities
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method or at FVTPL.
However, financial liabilities that arise when a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition or when the
continuing involvement approach applies, and financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group, are measured in accordance
with the specific accounting policies set out below.
Financial liabilities measured subsequently at amortised cost
Financial liabilities that are not (i) contingent consideration of an acquirer in a business combination, (ii) held‑for‑trading, or (iii)
designated as at FVTPL, are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest
expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments
(including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and
other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial liability, or (where appropriate) a shorter period, to the
amortised cost of a financial liability.
Foreign exchange gains and losses
For financial liabilities that are denominated in a foreign currency and are measured at amortised cost at the end of each
reporting period, the foreign exchange gains and losses are determined based on the amortised cost of the instruments. These
foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss for financial liabilities that are not part of a designated hedging
relationship. For those which are designated as a hedging instrument for a hedge of foreign currency risk foreign exchange gains
and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a separate component of equity.
142 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
3. MATERIAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Financial Liabilities (continued)
Foreign exchange gains and losses (continued)
The fair value of financial liabilities denominated in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign currency and translated at
the spot rate at the end of the reporting period. For financial liabilities that are measured as at FVTPL, the foreign exchange
component forms part of the fair value gains or losses and is recognised in profit or loss for financial liabilities that are not part of
a designated hedging relationship.
Contingent Liabilities
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed by the occurrence
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events beyond the control of the Group or a present obligation that is not
recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. A contingent liability
also arises in the extremely rare case where there is a liability that cannot be recognised because it cannot be measured reliably.
Statements of Cash Flows
The Group and the Company adopt the indirect method in the preparation of the statements of cash flows.
4. CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
(i) Critical judgements in applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies
In the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 3 above,
management is of the opinion that there are no instances of application of judgement which are expected to have a
significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
(ii) Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Management believes that there are no key assumptions made concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation
uncertainty at the end of the reporting period, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities of the Group and of the Company within the next financial year except as discussed below.
Accruals for promotional discounts and volume rebates
Significant management judgment is required relative to the consideration of the Group’s ability to estimate the
promotional allowances and volume rebates, which impact revenue recognition. In making the estimates, the Group refers
to the terms agreed with the customers and relies on the historical and current sales information to determine the accruals
for promotional discounts and rebates as at the end of the reporting period.
 
Recognition of deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against
which the deductible temporary differences and unused tax credits can be utilised. This involves judgement regarding the
future financial performance of the Group in which the deferred tax assets have been recognised.
Allowance for obsolete and slow moving inventories
The Group and the Company review the inventory age listing on a periodic basis. This review involves comparison of the
carrying value of the aged inventory items with the respective net realisable value. The purpose is to ascertain whether an
allowance is required to be made in the financial statements for any obsolete and slow moving items. In addition, the Group
and the Company conduct physical counts on inventories on a periodic basis in order to determine whether an allowance
is required to be made.
143
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
4. CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY (CONTINUED)
(ii) Key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
Returnable packaging deposits
The Group collects deposits from customers on returnable packaging materials such as bottles, kegs, crates and cylinders.
Management estimates the returnable packaging materials being circulated in the market and the expected return from
customers. The estimate is based on circulation time and losses of returnable packaging materials in the market.
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are recognised when a possible obligation pending on whether some uncertain future events occurs,
or a present obligation but payment is not probable or the amount cannot be measured reliably. Significant management
estimate is required to determine likelihood of the obligations to be realised by the Group.
5. FINANCE INCOME
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Interest income received from deposits placed with
licensed banks 1,180 1,154 1,134 1,111
6. FINANCE COSTS
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Interest expenses of financial liabilities that are not
at fair value through profit or loss:
Revolving credit and trade financing 7,283 8,086 7,283 8,086
Factoring 4,773 160 - -
Lease liabilities 552 339 93 99
Recognised in profit or loss 12,608 8,585 7,376 8,185
144 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
7. PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Profit before tax is arrived at after the following:
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
After charging:
Personnel expenses (including key management
personnel):
Wages, salaries and others 108,360 100,802 35,898 33,151
Contributions to state plans 16,834 15,106 5,119 4,479
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
(Note 10) 80,267 65,343 68,927 54,203
Amortisation of prepaid contractual promotion
expenses 5,197 6,959 - -
Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 11) 6,078 5,689 5,474 5,085
Inventories written off 822 8,180 - 3,052
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (Note 12) 4,989 3,980 1,677 1,670
Rental expense on buildings 6,401 7,483 528 802
Property, plant and equipment written off 269 817 259 816
Hire of equipment 1,570 2,700 852 1,012
Net unrealised loss on foreign exchange 180 19 190 3
Auditors’ remuneration:
Statutory audit 245 236 155 149
Other services 40 40 40 40
And after crediting:
Dividend income from unquoted subsidiary - - 441,564 370,344
Net realised gain on foreign exchange 4,421 1,451 4,221 1,510
Reversal of provision for restructuring (Note 21) - 288 - 288
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 131 254 - 107
Gain on disposal of right-of-use assets 7 - - -
Inventories written back - - 442 -
145
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
8. INCOME TAX EXPENSE/(CREDIT)
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Estimated tax payable:
Current year 136,859 122,867 273 231
(Over)/Under provision in prior years (163) 449 40 150
136,696 123,316 313 381
Deferred tax (Note 14):
Current year (18,965) 1,115 (19,772) 686
Overprovision in prior years (177) (351) (253) (1,039)
(19,142) 764 (20,025) (353)
117,554 124,080 (19,712) 28
A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit before tax at the applicable statutory income tax rate to the income
tax expense at the effective income tax rate of the Group and of the Company is as follows:
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Profit before tax 584,303 510,880 461,827 371,581
Tax at statutory tax rate of 24% (2023: 24%) 140,233 122,611 110,838 89,179
Tax effects of:
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 2,643 1,618 620 903
Recognition of deferred tax arising from
reinvestment allowances (24,982) (247) (24,982) (247)
(Over)/Under provision in prior years:
Current tax (163) 449 40 150
Deferred tax (177) (351) (253) (1,039)
Tax exempt dividend - - (105,975) (88,918)
117,554 124,080 (19,712) 28
146 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
9. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY STOCK UNIT
Basic earnings per ordinary stock unit
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary stock unit at 31 December 2024 was based on the profit attributable to the
holders of ordinary stock units of RM466,749,000 (2023: RM386,800,000) and the number of ordinary stock units outstanding
of 302,098,000 (2023: 302,098,000).
Group
2024 2023
Issued ordinary stock unit (‘000) 302,098 302,098
Basic earnings per ordinary stock unit (sen) 154.5 128.0
There were no diluted earnings per ordinary stock unit for the Group as at 31 December 2024.
10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group
Freehold
land Buildings
Plant and
machinery
Movable
plant
Capital
work-in-
progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2023 4,037 106,796 498,531 376,942 155,663 1,141,969
Additions - 149 4,282 51,331 81,559 137,321
Write offs - (35) (10,115) (18,251) - (28,401)
Disposals - - (84) (2,723) - (2,807)
Reclassifications - 739 111,046 5,366 (117,151) -
At 31 December 2023/
1 January 2024 4,037 107,649 603,660 412,665 120,071 1,248,082
Additions - 1,031 7,039 30,729 47,375 86,174
Write offs - (112) (3,357) (15,816) - (19,285)
Disposals - - - (1,687) - (1,687)
Reclassifications - 2,765 137,623 16,640 (157,028) -
At 31 December 2024 4,037 111,333 744,965 442,531 10,418 1,313,284
147
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Group
Freehold
land Buildings
Plant and
machinery
Movable
plant
Capital
work-in-
progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 January 2023 - 67,828 331,206 237,626 - 636,660
Charge for the year - 2,746 20,704 41,893 - 65,343
Write offs - (35) (9,863) (17,686) - (27,584)
Disposals - - (84) (2,717) - (2,801)
At 31 December 2023/
1 January 2024 - 70,539 341,963 259,116 - 671,618
Charge for the year - 2,555 25,975 51,737 - 80,267
Write offs - (57) (3,347) (15,612) - (19,016)
Disposals - - - (1,656) - (1,656)
At 31 December 2024 - 73,037 364,591 293,585 - 731,213
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2024 4,037 38,296 380,374 148,946 10,418 582,071
At 31 December 2023 4,037 37,110 261,697 153,549 120,071 576,464
Company Buildings
Plant and
machinery
Movable
plant
Capital
work-in-
progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2023 98,385 498,531 283,885 155,149 1,035,950
Additions 149 4,282 48,767 73,986 127,184
Write offs (35) (10,115) (17,208) - (27,358)
Disposals - (84) (1,441) - (1,525)
Reclassifications 482 111,046 3,046 (114,574) -
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 98,981 603,660 317,049 114,561 1,134,251
Additions 1,027 7,039 23,764 42,167 73,997
Write offs (112) (3,357) (14,024) - (17,493)
Reclassifications 2,765 137,623 6,917 (147,305) -
At 31 December 2024 102,661 744,965 333,706 9,423 1,190,755
148 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Company Buildings
Plant and
machinery
Movable
plant
Capital
work-in-
progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 January 2023 60,542 331,206 171,408 - 563,156
Charge for the year 2,208 20,704 31,291 - 54,203
Write offs (35) (9,863) (16,644) - (26,542)
Disposals - (84) (1,441) - (1,525)
At 31 December 2023/
1 January 2024 62,715 341,963 184,614 - 589,292
Charge for the year 1,986 25,975 40,966 - 68,927
Write offs (57) (3,347) (13,830) - (17,234)
At 31 December 2024 64,644 364,591 211,750 - 640,985
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2024 38,017 380,374 121,956 9,423 549,770
At 31 December 2023 36,266 261,697 132,435 114,561 544,959
During the financial year, the Group and the Company acquired property, plant and equipment as follows:
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cash payments 74,247 133,581 62,070 123,444
Other payables 11,927 3,740 11,927 3,740
Total additions 86,174 137,321 73,997 127,184
11. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Group
Computer
software
Capital
work-in-
progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2023 100,678 5,930 106,608
Additions 55 5,461 5,516
Write offs (2,392) - (2,392)
Reclassifications 9,242 (9,242) -
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 107,583 2,149 109,732
Additions 153 3,928 4,081
Write offs (1,283) - (1,283)
Reclassifications 5,893 (5,893) -
At 31 December 2024 112,346 184 112,530
149
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
11. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
Group
Computer
software
Capital
work-in-
progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Amortisation
At 1 January 2023 86,078 - 86,078
Amortisation for the year 5,689 - 5,689
Write offs (2,392) - (2,392)
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 89,375 - 89,375
Amortisation for the year 6,078 - 6,078
Write offs (1,283) - (1,283)
At 31 December 2024 94,170 - 94,170
Carrying Amounts
At 31 December 2024 18,176 184 18,360
At 31 December 2023 18,208 2,149 20,357
Company
Cost
At 1 January 2023 97,433 5,931 103,364
Additions 55 5,461 5,516
Write offs (2,392) - (2,392)
Reclassifications 9,242 (9,242) -
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 104,338 2,150 106,488
Additions 153 3,928 4,081
Write offs (1,283) - (1,283)
Reclassifications 5,893 (5,893) -
At 31 December 2024 109,101 185 109,286
Amortisation
At 1 January 2023 85,712 - 85,712
Amortisation for the year 5,085 - 5,085
Write offs (2,392) - (2,392)
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 88,405 - 88,405
Amortisation for the year 5,474 - 5,474
Write offs (1,283) - (1,283)
At 31 December 2024 92,596 - 92,596
Carrying Amounts
At 31 December 2024 16,505 185 16,690
At 31 December 2023 15,933 2,150 18,083
150 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
12. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Group
Long term
leasehold land Building
Motor
vehicles Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2023 11,426 5,529 10,451 27,406
Additions - 1,461 5,276 6,737
Disposals - (2,964) (115) (3,079)
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 11,426 4,026 15,612 31,064
Additions - 1,384 4,877 6,261
Disposals - - (1,983) (1,983)
At 31 December 2024 11,426 5,410 18,506 35,342
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 January 2023 1,020 4,899 5,396 11,315
Depreciation for the year 255 1,126 2,599 3,980
Disposals - (2,964) (115) (3,079)
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 1,275 3,061 7,880 12,216
Depreciation for the year 255 1,073 3,661 4,989
Disposals - - (1,904) (1,904)
At 31 December 2024 1,530 4,134 9,637 15,301
Carrying Amounts
At 31 December 2024 9,896 1,276 8,869 20,041
At 31 December 2023 10,151 965 7,732 18,848
Company
Cost
At 1 January 2023 11,426 2,179 4,997 18,602
Additions - 59 145 204
Disposals - (2,238) - (2,238)
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 11,426 - 5,142 16,568
Additions - 686 953 1,639
Disposals - - (999) (999)
At 31 December 2024 11,426 686 5,096 17,208
151
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
12. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
Company
Long term
leasehold land Building
Motor
vehicles Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 January 2023 1,020 2,029 2,422 5,471
Depreciation for the year 255 209 1,206 1,670
Disposals - (2,238) - (2,238)
At 31 December 2023/1 January 2024 1,275 - 3,628 4,903
Depreciation for the year 255 237 1,185 1,677
Disposals - - (975) (975)
At 31 December 2024 1,530 237 3,838 5,605
Carrying Amounts
At 31 December 2024 9,896 449 1,258 11,603
At 31 December 2023 10,151 - 1,514 11,665
13. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Unquoted shares, at cost 14,344 14,344
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Proportion of ownership
interest and voting power
Name of entity
Country of
incorporation
2024
%
2023
% Principal activities
Heineken Marketing Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Marketing and distribution of
beverages primarily alcoholic
in Malaysia
Ramaha Corporation (M) Sdn. Bhd.* Malaysia 100 100 Property holding and land
development
Heineken East Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.* Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
* Elected to be exempted from audit under Practice Directive No.3/2017 issued by the Companies Commission of Malaysia.
152 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
14. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
The deferred tax amounts, determined after appropriate offsetting, are as follows:
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Deferred tax assets 1,441 1,742 - -
Deferred tax liabilities (15,124) (34,567) (15,124) (35,149)
(13,683) (32,825) (15,124) (35,149)
Assets
Inventories 1,988 2,338 789 1,335
Receivables, deposits and prepaid expenses 377 491 - -
Trade and other payables 3,209 3,382 3,065 2,429
Unused reinvestment allowances 29,515 4,533 29,515 4,533
Unused capital allowances 16,902 10,547 16,902 10,547
Lease liabilities 2,479 2,142 423 386
Tax assets 54,470 23,433 50,694 19,230
Set off of tax (53,029) (21,691) (50,694) (19,230)
1,441 1,742 - -
Liabilities
Property, plant and equipment (65,718) (54,169) (65,408) (54,014)
Right-of-use assets (2,435) (2,089) (410) (365)
Tax liabilities (68,153) (56,258) (65,818) (54,379)
Set off of tax 53,029 21,691 50,694 19,230
(15,124) (34,567) (15,124) (35,149)
Net
Property, plant and equipment (65,718) (54,169) (65,408) (54,014)
Inventories 1,988 2,338 789 1,335
Receivables, deposits and prepaid expenses 377 491 - -
Trade and other payables 3,209 3,382 3,065 2,429
Unused reinvestment allowances 29,515 4,533 29,515 4,533
Unused capital allowances 16,902 10,547 16,902 10,547
Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities 44 53 13 21
Tax liabilities (13,683) (32,825) (15,124) (35,149)
153
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
14. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
Movement in temporary differences during the year:
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At beginning of year (32,825) (32,061) (35,149) (35,502)
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 8):
Property, plant and equipment (11,549) (10,629) (11,394) (10,578)
Inventories (350) (656) (546) 549
Receivables, deposits and prepaid expenses (114) 1 - -
Trade and other payables (173) (986) 636 (1,132)
Unused reinvestment allowances 24,982 965 24,982 965
Unused capital allowances 6,355 10,547 6,355 10,547
Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities (9) (6) (8) 2
19,142 (764) 20,025 353
At end of year (13,683) (32,825) (15,124) (35,149)
15. RECEIVABLES, DEPOSITS AND PREPAID EXPENSES
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Non-current
Other receivables 162 55 55 31
Prepaid expenses 933 2,608 - -
1,095 2,663 55 31
Current
Trade
Trade receivables 438,622 424,351 - -
Less: Impairment losses [Note 28.4(a)] (1,573) (2,041) - -
437,049 422,310 - -
Amount due from related parties 17 - 17 -
437,066 422,310 17 -
Non-trade
Amount due from intermediate holding corporation 860 5 783 -
Amount due from ultimate holding corporation 54 - - -
Amount due from related parties 1,450 633 885 214
Amount due from a subsidiary - - 4,043 4,043
Deposits 4,257 4,009 2,900 2,821
Other receivables 813 1,119 574 536
Prepaid expenses 6,025 5,485 807 324
13,459 11,251 9,992 7,938
450,525 433,561 10,009 7,938
154 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
15. RECEIVABLES, DEPOSITS AND PREPAID EXPENSES (CONTINUED)
(a) Trade receivables
Included in trade receivables is a portfolio of receivables which are subject to factoring arrangement. Under this
arrangement, the Group will transfer the relevant trade receivables to a bank in exchange for cash with no recourse to the
Group subsequent to the transfer.
(b) Amounts due from related parties, intermediate holding corporation, ultimate holding corporation and subsidiaries
The non-trade amounts due from ultimate holding corporation, intermediate holding corporation, related parties and a
subsidiary are unsecured, interest-free and repayable on demand.
(c) Other receivables
Included in other receivables are staff loans of the Group and of the Company amounting to RM210,000 (2023: RM95,000)
and RM73,000 (2023: RM50,000) respectively of which RM162,000 (2023: RM55,000) and RM55,000 (2023: RM31,000)
are repayable after the next 12 months for the Group and the Company respectively.
(d) Prepaid expenses
Included in prepayments of the Group are upfront payments for contracts with on-trade retailers of RM6,150,945 (2023:
RM7,769,235) of which RM932,661 (2023: RM2,608,448) are to be amortised over a period of more than 12 months but
not exceeding 36 months. The upfront payments are made to the on-trade retailers to carry out promotional activities over
the period specified in the contract. The amount is amortised to profit or loss based on actual volumes sold by the on-trade
retailers as stipulated in the contract.
16. INVENTORIES
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Raw materials 24,416 35,712 24,416 35,712
Work-in-progress 11,174 12,975 11,174 12,975
Finished goods 84,758 47,730 9,796 13,127
Packaging materials 12,887 10,684 12,887 10,684
Engineering stores and spares 18,863 13,463 11,650 7,811
152,098 120,564 69,923 80,309
Recognised in profit or loss:
Inventories recognised as cost of sales 1,575,697 1,507,363 1,457,246 1,302,552
The Group has written off inventories of RM822,000 (2023: RM8,180,000). The Company has written back provision made for
inventories of RM442,000 (2023: Written off of RM3,052,000). In prior year, the inventories written off arose mainly from global
delay in sea freight shipment on imported brands.
155
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
17. SHARE CAPITAL
Group and Company
Number of shares Amount
2024 2023 2024 2023
(‘000) (‘000) RM’000 RM’000
Issued and fully paid up shares with no par value
classified as equity instrument:
Ordinary stock units 302,098 302,098 151,049 151,049
The holders of ordinary stock units are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are entitled to one vote
per ordinary stock unit at meetings of the Company.
18. BORROWINGS
Group and Company
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Current
Revolving credit and trade financing (unsecured) 80,000 135,000
Revolving credit and trade financing as at 31 December 2024 consist of the following:
Tenure
(weeks)
Interest rate
(per annum)
Maturity date Nominal value
(RM’000)
Revolving credit 8 3.63% 24 January 2025 30,000
Revolving credit 4 3.56% 31 January 2025 50,000
Revolving credit and trade financing as at 31 December 2023 consist of the following:
Tenure
(weeks)
Interest rate
(per annum)
Maturity date Nominal value
(RM’000)
Revolving credit 4 3.54% 4 January 2024 45,000
Trade financing 9 3.80% 5 February 2024 90,000
The principal and interest are repayable in full upon maturity.
156 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
19. LEASE LIABILITIES
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Non-current 5,850 5,021 535 530
Current 4,476 3,906 1,227 1,080
10,326 8,927 1,762 1,610
Minimum lease payments:
Not later than 1 year 5,020 4,328 1,298 1,127
Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 6,290 5,537 558 538
11,310 9,865 1,856 1,665
Less: Unexpired finance charges (984) (938) (94) (55)
10,326 8,927 1,762 1,610
Present value of lease liabilities:
Not later than 1 year 4,476 3,906 1,227 1,080
Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 5,850 5,021 535 530
10,326 8,927 1,762 1,610
The Group and the Company discounted the lease liabilities by using the Group’s and the Company’s incremental borrowing rates
of 3.42% - 7.49% (2023: 3.42% - 6.97%).
During the year, the Group and the Company recognised RM7,970,802 (2023: RM10,183,206) and RM1,380,906 (2023:
RM1,813,589) respectively of short-term leases and leases of low value assets on a straight-line basis as expenses.
20. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Trade
Amount due to intermediate holding corporation 12,465 9,817 286 619
Amount due to related parties 12,056 20,265 8,096 16,356
Trade payables 173,911 175,583 92,632 114,259
198,432 205,665 101,014 131,234
Non-trades
Amount due to intermediate holding corporation - 213 - 213
Amount due to related parties 5,680 5,176 5,680 5,176
Amount due to a subsidiary - - 34,523 36,887
Returnable packaging deposits 33,323 31,674 770 355
Other payables 51,345 56,941 47,442 52,918
Derivative financial liabilities 1 - 1 -
Accrued expenses 344,036 310,594 31,462 37,394
434,385 404,598 119,878 132,943
632,817 610,263 220,892 264,177
157
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
20. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (CONTINUED)
(a) Amount due to related parties, intermediate holding corporation and a subsidiary
The trade amount due to related parties and intermediate holding corporation are subject to normal trade terms.
The non-trade amounts due to related parties, intermediate holding corporation and a subsidiary are unsecured, interest-
free and repayable on demand.
(b) Trade payables
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted to the Group and the Company range
from 90 to 150 days (2023: 90 to 150 days).
(c) Other payables
Included in others payables are amount due to suppliers for acquisition of property, plant, and equipment, sales tax payable
and payroll.
(d) Accrued expenses
IncludedinaccruedexpensesoftheGroupareaccrualsforpromotionalexpensesofRM274,279,000(2023:RM246,686,000).
(e) Derivative financial liabilities
The Group’s and the Company’s derivatives comprise solely foreign exchange forward contracts incepted to hedge its
currency exposures arising from short term borrowings in United States Dollar (“USD”). In the previous financial year, foreign
exchange forward contracts were entered into with licensed banks. The foreign exchange forward contracts generally had
a maturity period between 1 to 2 months.
Details of the Group’s and of the Company’s derivative financial instruments are outlined below:
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Fair value of remeasured foreign forward
exchange contracts 1 - 1 -
21. PROVISION FOR RESTRUCTURING
On 28 October 2020, Heineken N.V., the ultimate holding corporation, announced a review of the effectiveness and efficiency of
the organisations at Head Office, regional offices and each of its local operations as a part of its strategic review. Subsequently
on 16 December 2020, the Group and the Company announced the restructuring exercise to the employees.
The provision relates to redundancy costs incurred. The Group and the Company have completed the restructuring exercise in the
financial year 2023.
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At beginning of year - 288 - 288
Reversal of provision - (288) - (288)
At end of year - - - -
158 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
22. DIVIDENDS
Dividends recognised by the Group and the Company are:
Sen per stock unit Total amount Date of payment
RM’000
31 December 2024
Interim 2024 ordinary 40 120,839 30 October 2024
Final 2023 ordinary 88 265,846 25 July 2024
Total amount 386,685
31 December 2023
Interim 2023 ordinary 40 120,839 10 November 2023
Final 2022 ordinary 98 296,056 20 July 2023
Total amount 416,895
The directors now recommend the declaration of a final ordinary dividend of 115 sen per stock unit under the single tier tax
system totalling RM347,412,700 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2024 which, if approved by the owners of
the Company, will be payable on 23 July 2025.
23. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COMPENSATION
The key management personnel of the Group and of the Company include the directors of the Company and subsidiaries and
certain members of senior management of the Group and the Company. Their compensation are as follows:
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Directors:
Fees 738 598 732 592
Remuneration 3,632 5,583 3,632 5,583
Share-based payment 685 939 685 939
Meeting attendance allowance 55 63 55 63
Estimated monetary value of benefits-in-kind
otherwise than in cash 766 428 766 428
5,876 7,611 5,870 7,605
Other key management personnel:
Short term employee benefits 9,483 10,173 6,854 6,492
Share-based payment 600 801 448 602
15,959 18,585 13,172 14,699
Other key management personnel comprise persons other than the directors of Group entities, having authority and responsibility
for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group entities either directly or indirectly.
159
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
24. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group’s business is focussed only in malt liquor brewing including production, packaging, marketing and distribution of
its products, principally in Malaysia. In the current financial year, less than 1% of the total sales is exported, mainly to Asian
countries. As such, only one reportable segment analysis is prepared. The Managing Director of the Company (the chief operating
decision maker) reviews internal management reports at least on a monthly basis.
Performance is measured based on segment profit, as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by
the Managing Director of the Company. Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such
information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of the segments relative to other entities that operate within this
industry.
Segment assets and liabilities
Segment assets and liabilities information is neither included in the internal management reports nor provided regularly to the
Managing Director of the Company. Hence, no disclosure is made on segment assets and liabilities.
Segment capital expenditure
Segment capital expenditure is the total costs incurred during the financial year to acquire property, plant and equipment, right-
of-use assets and intangible assets.
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Total additions to property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and intangible
assets 96,516 149,574
Segment profit
Included in the measure of segment profits are:
Revenue from external customers 2,796,791 2,637,741
Depreciation and amortisation (91,334) (75,012)
Not included in the measure of segment profit but provided to the Managing Director of
the Company:
Net finance costs (11,428) (7,431)
Reconciliation of reportable segment revenue, profit and other material items.
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Net finance costs
Finance income 1,180 1,154
Finance costs (12,608) (8,585)
Consolidated net finance costs (11,428) (7,431)
No reconciliation is performed for reportable segment profit, revenue, depreciation and amortisation to consolidated figures as
there are no differences.
160 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
25. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Capital expenditure commitments
Property, plant and equipment:
Authorised and contracted for within one year 10,208 20,445 8,357 20,324
26. CONTINGENT LIABILITY – UNSECURED
(i) On 13 April 2021, the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Heineken Marketing Malaysia Sdn. Bhd (“Companies”),
had received a Writ of Summons dated 2 April 2021 and Statement of Claim dated 29 March 2021 filed by Thirteen Wings
Sdn Bhd, Ashwin Kumar Kandiah (trading under Sivam Kandiah Enterprise, Ashwin Kandiah Enterprise and Skan Ventures),
Astrike Sdn Bhd, Axcend Sdn Bhd, Turbo Booze Sdn Bhd and Hops Sdn Bhd (“Plaintiffs”) under Kuala Lumpur High Court Civil
Suit No. WA-22NCVC-221-04/2021 (“Suit”) in respect of a dispute regarding the purchase and supply of the Company’s
products. The Plaintiffs are claiming among others that the Companies had failed to honour an alleged contract and are
seeking for, among others, specific performance of an alleged contract, in the alternative, damages for breach of contract in
the liquidated sum of RM26,520,000; and various consequential orders and declarations relating to various contract terms.
The Companies had disputed the claims and filed their defence accordingly on 20 May 2021.
(ii) On 6 December 2021, the Companies received another Writ of Summons and Statement of Claim filed by the Plaintiffs
under Kuala Lumpur High Court Civil Suit No. WA-22NCVC-781-12/2021 (“Claim”). The Claim is related to the Suit filed
in April 2021 as they arose from the same series of transactions, dealings and disputes between the Plaintiffs and the
Companies. The Plaintiffs claimed that the Companies have breached the contract between the Plaintiffs and Heineken
Marketing Malaysia Sdn Bhd relating to the company’s products (“Contract”) and they are claiming, among others, the
liquidated sum of RM58,225,545. As the Claim and the Suit are inter-related, the Plaintiffs have pleaded that they will be
applying to have the Claim and the Suit consolidated and/or heard together.
The directors are of the opinion that they have a strong defence against the Suit, which is frivolous and vexatious and the
Claim, which is unwarranted, premature and vexatious. Correspondingly, the Companies had on 10 January 2022 filed their
defence and counterclaim against the Plaintiffs in respect of Plaintiffs’ breaches of the Contract and are claiming, among
others, a sum of RM36,984,914. The trial for the first suit and the second suit commenced on 19 November 2024 and
continued on 6 March 2025. The next hearing is scheduled for 13 March 2025, 19 August 2025 and 20 August 2025.
27. RELATED PARTIES
Identity of related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group or the Company
has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control or jointly control the party or exercise significant influence over the party in making
financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group or the Company and the party are subject to common control.
Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
Related parties also include key management personnel defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for planning,
directing and controlling the activities of the Group either directly or indirectly. The key management personnel include all the
directors of the Group, and certain members of senior management of the Group.
The Group has related party relationships with its holding corporations, related corporations, subsidiaries and key management
personnel.
The directors regard GAPL Pte. Ltd. (“GAPL”) and Heineken Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. (“HAPPL”), both corporations incorporated in the
Republic of Singapore, as the immediate and intermediate holding corporations.
161
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
27. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)
Identity of related parties (continued)
HAPPL is owned by Heineken N.V., a corporation incorporated in the Netherlands, which in turn is the ultimate holding corporation
of the Company.
Significant related party transactions
Significant related party transactions of the Group and the Company other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial
statements are shown below. The balances related to the below transactions are shown in Notes 15 and 20.
Group Company
2024 2023 2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Intermediate holding corporation
Heineken Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.
Royalties paid and payable (44,747) (39,963) - -
Subsidiary
Heineken Marketing Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.
Dividend income - - 441,564 370,344
Sale of products - - 1,663,651 1,478,352
Management service fee received and receivable - - 55,787 50,533
Related corporations
Related corporations of Heineken N.V.
Sales of products 3,613 44 3,613 44
Purchase of goods (27,478) (28,099) (27,478) (28,099)
Royalties paid and payable (14,146) (13,059) - -
Marketing and technical fees paid and payable (38,143) (39,119) (35,207) (36,084)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the Group’s ability to continue
as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business.
The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital, which the Group defines as results from operating activities divided by
total equity attributable to owners of the Company. The Board of Directors also monitors the level of dividends to owners of the
Company.
The Group monitors and maintains a balanced level of total equity to ensure the Group has adequate capital to support its future
development and the payment of dividends to owners of the Company. There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital
management during the financial year.
Under the requirements of Bursa Malaysia Practice Note 17, the Company is required to maintain a consolidated shareholders’
equity equal to or not less than 25 percent of the share capital and such shareholders’ equity is not less than RM40 million. The
Company has complied with this requirement.
162 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.1 Material Accounting Policies
Details of the material accounting policies and methods adopted (including the criteria for recognition, the basis of
measurement and the bases for recognition of income and expenses) for each class of financial asset, financial liability and
equity instrument are disclosed in Note 3.
28.2 Categories of Financial Instruments
2024 2023
Group RM’000 RM’000
Financial assets
At amortised cost:
Receivables and deposits 444,662 428,131
Cash and bank balances 32,486 43,318
Financial liabilities
At fair value:
Trade and other payables - derivative financial liabilities 1 -
At amortised cost:
Trade and other payables - others 632,817 610,263
Borrowings 80,000 135,000
Lease liabilities 10,326 8,927
2024 2023
Company RM’000 RM’000
Financial assets
At amortised cost:
Receivables and deposits 9,257 7,645
Cash and bank balances 20,733 38,376
Financial liabilities
At fair value:
Trade and other payables - derivative financial liabilities 1 -
At amortised cost:
Trade and other payables - others 220,892 264,177
Borrowings 80,000 135,000
Lease liabilities 1,762 1,610
28.3 Financial Risk Management
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
• Credit risk
• Market risk
• Liquidity risk
163
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.4 Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet
its contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from its trade receivables. The Company’s
exposure to credit risk arises principally from trade amount subsidiaries and advances to subsidiaries.
(a) Receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit
evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount. The Group requires collateral to
be pledged by most of its customers to cover a percentage of the credit limit granted to them.
The Group has factoring arrangement in place and will transfer the relevant trade receivables to a bank in exchange
for cash with no recourse to the Group subsequent to the transfer.
New customers are subject to the credit evaluation process and existing customers’ risk profiles are reviewed regularly
with a view to setting appropriate terms of trade and credit limits. Where appropriate, further transactions are
suspended and legal actions are taken to attempt recoveries and mitigate losses. Financial guarantees from certain
customers may be obtained.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk from receivables is represented by the
carrying amounts in the statement of financial position.
The Group has taken reasonable steps to ensure that receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are stated
at their realisable values. Due to the nature of the industry, a significant portion of these receivables are regular
customers that have been transacting with the Group. The Group uses ageing analysis to monitor credit quality of
the receivables. Any receivables having significant balances past due, which are deemed to have higher credit risk, are
monitored individually.
The Group has credit policies in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Under these
policies all customers requiring credit are reviewed and new customers are analysed individually for creditworthiness
before payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. This review can include external ratings, where
available, and in some cases bank references. Credit limits are determined for each customer and are reviewed
regularly.
The Group has a policy in place in respect of compliance with Anti-Money Laundering Laws. The Group considers it
important to know with whom business is done and from whom payments are received.
The Group establishes allowances on trade receivables using an expected credit losses model. These allowances cover
specific loss components that relate to individual exposures, and a collective loss component established for groups
of similar customers. The collective loss allowance is determined based on historical data of payment statistics and
updated periodically to incorporate forward looking information.
At the end of the reporting period, the Group has a concentration of credit risk in the form of trade debtors from 3
(2023: 3) main customers, representing approximately 57% (2023: 53%) of the Group’s trade receivables.
164 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.4 Credit Risk (continued)
(a) Receivables (continued)
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral (continued)
The carrying amounts of collateral for trade receivables as at the end of reporting period were:
Group
Carrying amounts
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Type of collateral
Bank guarantees 63,940 65,270
Properties charged 51,972 51,067
Quoted shares pledged 1,554 1,554
117,466 117,891
Impairment losses
The Group applies the MFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses (“ECL”) which uses a lifetime
expected loss allowance for all trade receivables. To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been
grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.
In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group manages its debtors and takes appropriate actions (including
but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue balances. Generally, trade receivables will pay within 60 days.
The Group uses an allowance matrix to measure ECLs of trade receivables for all segments. Consistent with the debt
recovery process, invoices which are past due more than 180 days will be considered as credit impaired. The Group
writes off a trade receivable when there is information indicating that the debtor is in severe financial difficulty and
there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade receivables as at the end
of the reporting period which are grouped together as they are expected to have similar risk nature:
Trade receivables - days past due
2024 Not past due
1 - 30
days
31 - 180
days
More than
180 days Total
Group RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Expected credit loss rate 0% 0% 0% 100%
Estimated total gross
carrying amount at
default 400,342 33,351 3,356 1,573 438,622
Lifetime ECL (1,573)
437,049
165
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.4 Credit Risk (continued)
(a) Receivables (continued)
Impairment losses (continued)
Trade receivables - days past due
2023 Not past due
1 - 30
days
31 - 180
days
More than
180 days Total
Group RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Expected credit loss rate 0% 0% 0% 100%
Estimated total gross
carrying amount at
default 404,929 16,683 698 2,041 424,351
Lifetime ECL (2,041) (2,041)
422,310
The movements in the allowance for impairment losses of receivables during the financial year were:
Group
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
At beginning of year 2,041 2,041
Write offs (468) -
At end of year 1,573 2,041
The allowance account in respect of trade receivables is used to record impairment losses. Unless the Group is
satisfied that recovery of the amount is possible, the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the
receivable directly.
(b) Amount due from subsidiaries, intermediate holding corporation and related parties
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group and the Company undertake trade and non-trade transactions with the intermediate holding corporation
and related parties. The Company also provides unsecured advances to subsidiaries. The Group and the Company
monitor their results regularly.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts
in the statement of financial position.
Advances are only provided to subsidiaries which are wholly owned by the Company.
Impairment losses
As at the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the intercompany balances are not recoverable.
166 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.5 Market Risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates that will affect the
Group’s financial position or cash flows.
(a) Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk through normal trading activities on sales and purchases that are
denominated in currency other than the respective functional currencies of Group entities. The currencies giving rise
to this risk are primarily U.S. Dollar (“USD”), Singapore Dollar (“SGD”), Euro Dollar (“EURO”) and Great Britain Pound
(“GBP”).
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its foreign currency risk. The outstanding forward exchange
contracts as at the end of reporting period are disclosed in Note 20 (e).
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the respective functional currencies of the
Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:
Denominated in
USD SGD EURO GBP
Group RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2024
Trade payables (5,735) (354) (17,162) (151)
2023
Trade payables (3,391) (6,424) (28,702) -
A foreign currency risk arising from Group’s operations is not material, sensitivity analysis is not presented.
(b) Interest rate risk
The Group’s fixed rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in their fair values due to changes in interest rates.
Short term receivables and payables are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk.
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group does not have a formal policy in place for managing the risk arising from interest rate. The fluctuation of
interest rate is however monitored closely by the Group.
167
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.5 Market Risk (continued)
(b) Interest rate risk (continued)
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments, based
on carrying amounts as at the end of reporting period was:
Group and Company
2024 2023
RM’000 RM’000
Fixed rate instruments
Borrowings 80,000 135,000
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss,
and the Group does not designate derivatives as hedging instruments under a fair value hedge accounting model.
Therefore, a change in interest rates at the end of reporting period would not affect profit or loss.
28.6 Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s exposure
to liquidity risk arises principally from its trade and other payables and borrowings.
The Group maintains a level of cash equivalents and bank facilities deemed adequate by the management to ensure, as
far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they fall due. It is not expected that the cash
flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significant earlier, on at significant different amounts.
Maturity analysis
The table below summaries the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end of the
reporting period based on undiscounted contractual payments:
Carrying
amount
Contractual
interest rate
Contractual
cash flows
Under
1 year
Between
1 and 2
years
Between
2 and 5
years
Group RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
As at 31 December
2024
Borrowings
- Revolving credit and
trade financing 80,000 3.56% to 3.63% 80,325 80,325 - -
Trade and other
payables 632,817 - 632,817 632,817 - -
Lease liabilities 10,326 3.42% to 7.49% 11,310 5,020 3,221 3,069
723,143 724,452 718,162 3,221 3,069
168 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notes to the Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.6 Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis (continued)
Carrying
amount
Contractual
interest rate
Contractual
cash flows
Under
1 year
Between
1 and 2
years
Between
2 and 5
years
Group RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
As at 31 December
2023
Borrowings
- Revolving credit and
trade financing 135,000 3.54% to 3.80% 135,693 135,693 - -
Trade and other
payables 610,263 - 610,263 610,263 - -
Lease liabilities 8,927 3.42% to 6.97% 9,865 4,328 2,371 3,166
754,190 755,821 750,284 2,371 3,166
Company
As at 31 December
2024 
Borrowings
- Revolving credit and
trade financing 80,000 3.56% to 3.63% 80,325 80,325 - -
Trade and other
payables 220,892 - 220,892 220,892 - -
Lease liabilities 1,762 3.42% to 7.49% 1,856 1,298 436 122
302,654 303,073 302,515 436 122
As at 31 December
2023
Borrowings
- Revolving credit and
trade financing 135,000 3.54% to 3.80% 135,693 135,693 - -
Trade and other
payables 264,177 - 264,177 264,177 - -
Provision for
restructuring - - - - - -
Lease liabilities 1,610 3.42% to 6.97% 1,665 1,127 538 -
400,787 401,535 400,997 538 -
169
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notes to the Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.7 Fair values
The carrying amounts of cash and bank balances, short term receivables and payables, short term borrowings and lease
liabilities reasonably approximate their fair values due to the relatively short term nature of these financial instruments or
exposed to floating interest rates.
The fair value of the Group’s foreign exchange forward contracts at the end of the reporting period as disclosed in Note
20(e) is determined by reference to the differences between the contract rates and quoted forward exchange rates of
contract with similar quantum and maturity profile at the end of the reporting period. The fair value is categorised as Level
2 in the fair value hierarchy and classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
29. RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
The table below details the reconciliation of the opening and closing amounts in the statements of financial position for each
liability for which cash flows have been, or would be, classified as financing activities in the statements of cash flows:
Note
As at
1.1.2024
Non-cash
changes
Addition Drawdown Repayment
As at
31.12.2024
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Borrowings 18 135,000 - 2,525,000 (2,580,000) 80,000
Lease liabilities 19 8,927 6,175 - (4,776) 10,326
Company
Borrowings 18 135,000 - 2,525,000 (2,580,000) 80,000
Lease liabilities 19 1,610 1,616 - (1,464) 1,762
Note
As at
1.1.2023
Non-cash
changes
Addition Drawdown Repayment
As at
31.12.2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Borrowings 18 170,000 - 2,252,000 (2,287,000) 135,000
Lease liabilities 19 5,949 6,737 - (3,759) 8,927
Company
Borrowings 18 170,000 - 2,252,000 (2,287,000) 135,000
Lease liabilities 19 2,838 204 - (1,432) 1,610
Cash Flows
Cash Flows
170 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Statement by Directors
Declaration by the Officer Primarily Responsible for the
Financial Management of the Company
The directors of HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD state that, in their opinion, the accompanying financial statements are drawn up in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the
Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as at
31 December 2024 and of the financial performance and the cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the year ended on that
date.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
in accordance with a resolution of the directors,
______________________________
DATO’ SRI IDRIS JALA
______________________________
MARTIJN RENE VAN KEULEN
Petaling Jaya, Selangor
11 March 2025
I, CHRISTIAAN JOHANNES FOLKERTS, the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of HEINEKEN MALAYSIA
BERHAD, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the accompanying financial statements are, in my opinion, correct and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act,
1960.
____________________________________
CHRISTIAAN JOHANNES FOLKERTS
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the
abovenamed CHRISTIAAN JOHANNES FOLKERTS
at PETALING JAYA, SELANGOR
this 11th day of March 2025.
Before me,
PESURUHAN JAYA SUMPAH MALAYSIA
B459
GUNALAN A/L MUNUSAMY
1.1.2025 - 31.12.2027
NO. 13, (TINGKAT 1) JALAN 52/10, PJ NEW TOWN, 46200 PETALING JAYA, SELANGOR
COMMISSIONER FOR OATHS
171
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Other Information
PROPERTIES HELD BY THE GROUP
Address
Land area
(acres) Existing use Tenure
Approximate
age of
building
(years)
Net book value
as of
31 December
2024
RM’000
Date of acquisition/
revaluation*
Lot 1135, Batu 9
Jalan Klang Lama
46000 Petaling Jaya
Selangor
20.84 Office building
and factory
Leasehold
expiring
23 September
2063
58 43,468 30 September 1984*
120, Air Keroh
Industrial Estate
75450 Melaka
1.07 Office building
and store
Leasehold
expiring
13 January 2080
42 220 30 September 1984*
Lot 123, Semambu
Industrial Site
25350 Kuantan
Pahang
0.52 Office building
and store
Leasehold
expiring
5 March 2046
42 147 30 September 1984*
Lot 1136, Batu 9
Jalan Klang Lama
46000 Petaling Jaya
Selangor
2.88 Storage Freehold Not
applicable
4,037 31 December 1991
47,872
* The revaluation of properties was carried out primarily for the purpose of bonus issue in 1984.
UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS
There was no corporate proposal undertaken by Heineken Malaysia Berhad to raise proceeds during the financial year ended
31 December 2024.
MATERIAL CONTRACTS
There were no material contracts (not being contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business) entered into by Heineken Malaysia
Berhad and/or its subsidiaries involving the interest of Directors and major shareholders, either still subsisting at the end of the financial
year ended 31 December 2024 or entered into since the end of the previous financial year.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST/CONVICTION OF OFFENCES/SANCTIONS/PENALTIES
None of the members of the Board and the Management Team has any:
• family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of Heineken Malaysia Berhad.
• conflict of interest in any business arrangement involving Heineken Malaysia Berhad.
• convictions for any offences, other than traffic offences, within the past 5 years.
• public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 31 December 2024.
172 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Analysis of Stockholdings
As of 6 March 2025
Share Capital		 : RM151,049,000
Number of Issued Shares : 302,098,000 ordinary stock units
Class of Shares 		 : Ordinary stock unit
Voting Rights 		 : One vote per ordinary stock unit
Size of Holdings No. of Stockholders % No. of Stock Units %
1 – 99 1,085 8.57 7,752 0.00
100 – 1,000 6,257 49.43 3,636,924 1.20
1,001 – 10,000 4,196 33.15 15,516,327 5.14
10,001 – 100,000 952 7.52 26,927,070 8.91
100,001 – 15,104,899 167 1.32 101,940,027 33.75
15,104,900 and above 1 0.01 154,069,900 51.00
Total 12,658 100.00 302,098,000 100.00
SUBSTANTIAL STOCKHOLDERS AS PER REGISTER OF SUBSTANTIAL STOCKHOLDERS
Name
Direct
No. of Stock Units %
Indirect
No. of Stock Units %
GAPL Pte Ltd 154,069,900 51.00 - -
DIRECTORS’ INTEREST
According to the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings, none of the Directors (including the spouses or children of the Directors who
themselves are not Directors of the Company) holding office as of 6 March 2025 had any interest in the ordinary stock units of the
Company or its related corporations.
30 LARGEST STOCKHOLDERS AS PER RECORD OF DEPOSITORS
Name No. of Stock Units %
1. GAPL Pte Ltd 154,069,900 51.00
2. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
- Great Eastern Life Assurance (Malaysia) Berhad (PAR 1)
6,996,780 2.32
3. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- Exempt AN for UOB Kay Hian Pte Ltd (A/C Clients)
3,951,138 1.31
4. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- The Bank of New York Mellon for Virtus KAR International Small-Mid Cap Fund
3,793,700 1.25
5. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
- Deutsche Trustees Malaysia Berhad for Hong Leong Value Fund
3,166,600 1.05
6. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
- Exempt AN for AIA Bhd
2,259,400 0.75
7. CIMB Group Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- Exempt AN for DBS Bank Ltd (SFS)
2,223,300 0.74
8. Tai Tak Estates Sdn Bhd 2,156,000 0.71
9. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- JPMCB NA for Vanguard Total International Stock Index Fund
2,078,484 0.69
10. Key Development Sdn Berhad 2,037,000 0.67
11. ChinChoo Investment Sdn Berhad 1,865,000 0.62
173
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Name No. of Stock Units %
12. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- The Bank of New York Mellon for Virtus KAR Emerging Markets Small-CAP Fund
1,806,300 0.60
13. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
- PAMB for Prulink Equity Fund
1,791,300 0.59
14. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- SSBT Fund JNDP for JNL Multi-Manager Emerging Markets Equity Fund
1,743,400 0.58
15. Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- Exempt AN for Citibank New York (Norges Bank 19)
1,670,300 0.55
16. Hong Leong Assurance Berhad
- As Beneficial Owner (Life PAR)
1,611,900 0.53
17. Ho Han Seng 1,600,000 0.53
18. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- The Bank of New York Mellon for Florida Retirement System
1,586,000 0.52
19. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- JPMCB NA for Vanguard Emerging Markets Stock Index Fund
1,550,673 0.51
20. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- Exempt AN for State Street Bank & Trust Company (West CLT OD67)
1,547,000 0.51
21. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- SSBT Fund KG67 for Invesco EQV International Small Company Fund
1,416,900 0.47
22. Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- CBLDN for Pohjola Bank PLC (Client AC-EUR)
1,322,100 0.44
23. Kam Loong Mining Sdn Bhd 1,320,000 0.44
24. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
- Deutsche Trustees Malaysia Berhad for Hong Leong Balanced Fund
1,300,000 0.43
25. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
- Prudential Assurance Malaysia Berhad for Prulink Strategic Fund
1,299,900 0.43
26. Gan Teng Siew Realty Sdn Berhad 1,277,000 0.42
27. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- SSBT Fund KG33 for Invesco EQV Asia Pacific Equity Fund
1,237,400 0.41
28. HLB Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- Tan Eng Chin Holdings (Pte.) Limited (CUST.SIN 40555)
1,150,000 0.38
29. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- BBH (Lux) SCA for Fidelity Funds Asena
1,138,300 0.38
30. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
- Great Eastern Life Assurance (Malaysia) Berhad (PAR 1 ACB Fund)
1,076,400 0.36
Total 212,042,175 70.19
Analysis of Stockholdings
As of 6 March 2025
174 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Statement of 2024 Volumetric Water Benefits
175
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Independent Assurance Statement
Relating to Heineken Malaysia Berhad’s Sustainability Statement (ESG Review) in the
Group’s Annual Report 2024
Statement of External Assurance
Terms of Engagement
Rapid Genesis Sdn. Bhd. has been engaged by Heineken Malaysia Berhad to provide an independent, limited assurance review of
selected key performance indicators (KPIs), hereafter referred to as ‘Selected Information’, as outlined below in HEINEKEN Malaysia
Berhad’s Sustainability Statement (ESG Review) in the Group’s Annual Report 2024. These indicators have been prepared in accordance
with HEINEKEN Malaysia's reporting criteria (referred to as ‘HEINEKEN Reporting Criteria’). The engagement was carried out by a
multidisciplinary team with expertise in environmental, social and governance matters relevant to sustainability reporting.
Governance
Material Matters GRI Standards Sub-Topic Selected KPIs
Regulatory
Compliance
GRI 2: General
Disclosures
- Sustainability Statement 2024
Ethical Business
Conduct
GRI 205: Anti-
corruption
Anti-Corruption • Operations assessed for risks related to corruption
• Anti-Corruption and Bribery training and communication
• Composition of the highest governance body
Data Privacy and
Cybersecurity
GRI 418: Customer
Privacy
Data Privacy Data Privacy and Security
Risk Management GRI 201: Economic
Performance
Economic
Performance
Economic Performance
Environment
Climate Resilience
and Energy
Efficiency
GRI 302: Energy
GRI 305: Emissions
Scope 1, 2 and
3 emissions
• Scope 1: Direct
• Scope 2: Indirect
• Scope 3:
- Employee commuting
- Business travel (Land)
- Business travel (Air)
Solar Energy • Reduction in procured electricity
• GHG emissions offset
Energy
Consumption
• Total energy usage (within and outside of organisation)
• Energy intensity
• Reduction of energy consumption
• Reduction in energy requirements of products and services
Water Stewardship GRI 303: Water and
Effluent
Water Consumption • Total water consumption
• Water efficiency
• Water circularity
• Total wastewater discharged
• Water balancing
Waste and Effluent
Management
GRI 306: Waste Organic and
Inorganic Waste
• Total waste generated
• Total waste directed to disposal
• Total waste diverted from disposal
• Organic and inorganic waste management
Resource Use GRI 301: Materials Material Return
Rate
• Material return rate
• Materials used by weight or volume
• Recycled input materials used
Prem Collar (also in
GRI 306)
• Material sustainability
• Investment in equipment
• Reduction in plastic use for packaging
176 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Social Sustainability
Material Matters GRI Standards Sub-Topic Selected KPIs
Diversity GRI 405: Diversity
and Equal
Opportunity
Workforce Diversity • Workforce Breakdown
• Workforce Diversity by Race
• Employees that are contractors of temporary staff
• Employee Engagement
Employee Health,
Safety and
Wellbeing
GRI 403:
Occupational
Health and Safety
Safety and Health • Training on Health and Safety Standards
• Additional Health and Training programmes for FY2024
• All GRI 403 indicators
Human Rights and
Labour Standards
GRI 401:
Employment
GRI 404: Training
and Education
Human Rights and
Labour Standards
• Total number of employees new hires by employee category,
age and gender
• Total number of employee turnover by employee category
• Length of service
• Human Rights Violation
• Parental Leave
• Benefits provided to full time employees
Human Capital
Development
GRI 404: Training
and Education
Training and
Development
• Total training spend
• Total hours of training by employee category
• Average hours of training per employee
• Employee Training and Development Programmes in
FY2024
• Graduate and Internship Programmes
• Short Term Assignment
Community
Investment and
Development
GRI 201:
Economic
Performance
GRI 413: Local
Communities
Community • SPARK Foundation
• Education – English Enrichment Training Programmes
(EETP)
• Environment – W.A.T.E.R Project
• HEINEKEN Cares
• Grab e-hailing code investment
• Tiger Sin Chew CECC
Supply Chain
Management
GRI 204:
Procurement
Supply Chain • Proportion of spending on local suppliers
• Supply Chain Performance
• Green Fridges
• Supplier Code
• Supplier Screening
• Supplier Assessment
Responsible Consumption
Product Safety,
Quality and Hygiene
GRI 416:
Customer Health
and Safety
Responsible
Drinking
Responsible Drinking
Responsible
Marketing and
Consumption
GRI 417:
Marketing and
Labelling
Responsible
Drinking
Product Responsibility
IFRS S2
Climate Change IFRS S2 N/A Climate-related disclosures
Statement of External Assurance
177
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Scope of Coverage
The scope of our engagement includes data review of the
‘Selected Information’ within Heineken Malaysia’s organisational
boundaries:
• Organisational boundary: HEINEKEN Malaysia Bhd and
Heineken Marketing Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.
• Control approach: Operational Control and Finance Control
• Period: 1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024.
Reporting Criteria
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s Reporting Criteria include:
• Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements on
Sustainability Reporting.
• Bursa Malaysia’s Sustainability Reporting Guide (3rd Edition)
• FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia (F4GMB) Index.
• The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting
Standards 2021.
• United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (UNSDG).
• International Financial Reporting Standards Climate-related
Disclosures (IFRS S2).
Management’s Responsibility
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s management is responsible for:
• Selecting, preparing and presenting the selected KPIs in
accordance with HEINEKEN Malaysia’s reporting criteria.
• Identifying stakeholders, stakeholder requirements,
material issues and responsibilities related to sustainability
performance.
• Designing, implementing and maintaining internal controls to
ensure the accuracy of the ‘Sustainability Statement’ and that
it is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or
error.
• Determining the appropriateness of measurement and
reporting criteria based on the intended users of the ‘Selected
Information’ and ensuring those criteria are publicly accessible.
Rapid Genesis’ Responsibility
Our responsibility is to provide a limited assurance conclusion on
the selected KPIs based on the procedures performed and the
evidencegathered.Thisengagementwasconductedinaccordance
with International Standard for Assurance Engagement (ISAE)
3410: Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse Gas Statements
for Environment component and ISAE 3000: Assurance
Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial
Information for both the Social and Governance components.
A limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000
(Revised) and ISAE 3410 involves assessing the suitability of
HEINEKEN Malaysia’s reporting criteria, evaluating the risk
of material misstatements and responding to those risks as
necessary. The procedures we performed, based on professional
judgement, included inquiries, process observations, document
inspection, analytical procedures, evaluation of quantification
methods and reconciliation with underlying records.
Our Independence and Quality Control
Rapid Genesis implements and maintains a robust quality
management system that aligns with the requirements of ISO
9001:2015, fulfilling the standards of the International Standard
on Quality Management 1. Furthermore, our practitioners adhere
to the Professional Requirements that meets the demand of the
Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants established by the
International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA). We
at our level best comply with ethical requirements and plan and
perform the verification to obtain a limited assurance conclusion
based on the work undertaken and evidence provided.
Assurance Activities
Assurance activities that were carried out included but not limited
to:
i. Document Review
• RGSB reviewed HEINEKEN Malaysia’s sustainability
statement, relevant policies and internal documentation
to understand the context and methodology applied in
compiling the performance data.
ii. Interviews and Discussions
• RGSB conducted interviews with key personnel
responsible for sustainability reporting and data
collection.
• RGSB sought clarification regarding specific data
collection methods and any assumptions made during
the reporting process.
iii. Data Testing and Verification
• RGSB performed sample-based testing to verify the
accuracy of the reported data. This included validating
the underlying records, reports and systems used to
generate the reported figures.
• Calculations were performed to ensure that reported
energy consumption, GHG emissions, water usage, waste
generation and other performance data were consistent
with the reporting standards and methodologies
outlined in the GRI indicators.
• For GHG emissions indicators (Scope 1, Scope 2 and
partial Scope 3), RGSB verified that emission factors
and calculation methods complied with recognised
standards.
iv. Review of Internal Controls
• RGSB assessed the internal control systems via sample-
based approach to ensure that the data presented in
the sustainability report was complete, accurate and
consistent.
• This review included evaluating the processes for
tracking employee training hours, injury reports, diversity
metrics, anti-corruption training and procurement spend
with local suppliers.
v. Review of Policies and Procedures
• RGSB reviewed HEINEKEN Malaysia’s policies on ethics,
anti-corruption, health and safety and sustainability to
assess how effectively these policies were communicated
to employees, suppliers and other stakeholders.
Statement of External Assurance
178 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Limited Assurance Conclusion
Based on our examination of the data and evidence provided
by HEINEKEN Malaysia, we have no reason to believe that the
Selected Information for the year ended 2024 has not been
prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with HEINEKEN
Malaysia’s Reporting Criteria.
Other Matters
No additional assurance procedures were performed on the
previous sustainability report for the 2025 external assurance
review. Information from prior reporting periods has not been
subject to assurance procedures. Our report does not cover
disclosures beyond the ‘Selected Information’ in HEINEKEN’s
Sustainability Statement 2024. The maintenance of HEINEKEN
Malaysia’s website is the responsibility of HEINEKEN Malaysia’s
management. We did not assess these matters and accept no
responsibility for changes to the information since the report’s
publication on their website.
Restriction of Liability
Our work is intended solely to provide a limited assurance
conclusion on the selected KPIs to the management of HEINEKEN
Malaysia. We do not accept or assume liability to any other parties
for our work, this report, or the conclusion reached.
Rapid Genesis Sdn Bhd
Tang Kok Mun
Lead Consultant
14 March 2025
Statement of External Assurance
179
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Reporting Index
Bursa Malaysia’s
Common Material Matters Indicators Location (Page)
Anti-corruption Percentage of employees who have received
training on anti-corruption by employee category
Corporate Governance and Anti-Corruption
(61)
Percentage of operations assessed for corruption-
related risks
Corporate Governance and Anti-Corruption
(61)
Confirmed incidents of corruption and action taken Corporate Governance and Anti-Corruption
(61)
Community/Society Total amount invested in the community where the
target beneficiaries are external to the listed issuer
Community Investment and Development (87)
Total number of beneficiaries of the investment in
communities
Community Investment and Development (87)
Diversity Percentage of employees by gender and age group,
for each employee category
Diversity (81)
Percentage of directors by gender and age group Diversity (81)
Energy management Total energy consumption Climate Resilience and Energy Efficiency
(66 to 67)
Health and safety Number of work-related fatalities Human Rights and Labour Standards (85)
Lost time incident rate Human Rights and Labour Standards (85)
Number of employees trained on health and safety
standards
Human Rights and Labour Standards (85)
Labour practices and
standards
Total hours of training by employee category Human Capital Development (86)
Percentage of employees that are contractors or
temporary staff
Diversity (81)
Total number of employee turnover by employee
category
Employee Health, Safety and Wellbeing (83)
Number of substantiated complaints concerning
human rights violations
Human Rights and Labour Standards (83)
Supply chain management Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supply Chain Management (87)
Data privacy and security Number of substantiated complaints concerning
breaches of customer privacy and losses of
customer data
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity (63)
Water Total volume of water used Water Stewardship (73)
Waste management Total waste generated, and a breakdown of the
following:
(i) total waste diverted from disposal
(ii) total waste directed to disposal
Waste and Effluent Management (69)
Emissions management Scope 1 emissions in tonnes of CO
2
e Climate Resilience and Energy Efficiency (68)
Scope 2 emissions in tonnes of CO
2
e Climate Resilience and Energy Efficiency (69)
Scope 3 emissions in tonnes of CO
2
e (at least for
the categories of business travel and employee
commuting)
Climate Resilience and Energy Efficiency (69)
180 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
GRI CONTENT INDEX
Statement of use HEINEKEN Malaysia has reported the information cited in this GRI content index for the period
1 January 2024 to 31 December 2024 with reference to the GRI Standards.
GRI 1 used GRI 1: Foundation 2021
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION (Page)
GRI 2: General
Disclosures 2021
2-1 Organisational details 3, 47
2-2 Entities included in the organisation’s sustainability reporting 47
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point 47
2-5 External assurance 47, 175 to 178
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships 3, 16 to 17, 30 to 45
2-7 Employees 81 to 83
2-8 Workers who are not employees 81
2-9 Governance structure and composition 50, 108 to 109
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 110
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 102 to 103
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of
impacts
51, 106
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts 50 to 51, 103
2-14 Role of the highest governance body in sustainability reporting 51
2-16 Communication of critical concerns 105, 122 to 123
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body 87
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body 108
2-19 Remuneration policies 108 to 109
2-20 Process to determine remuneration 108 to 109
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy 46 to 53
2-23 Policy commitments 52
2-24 Embedding policy commitments 52, 61, 104 to 105
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts 61
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns 61
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 61
2-28 Membership associations 56
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement 54 to 56
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements 54 to 55
GRI 3: Material Topics
2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics 56
3-2 List of material topics 57
3-3 Management of material topics Throughout the
ESG Review
46 to 104
GRI 201: Economic
Performance 2016
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to
climate change
96 to 98
GRI 204: Procurement
Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 87
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
2016
205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 61
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and
procedures
61
205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 61
GRI Standards 2021 Content Index
181
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION (Page)
GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 71
301-2 Recycled input materials used 71
GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 66 to 67
302-2 Energy consumption outside of the organisation 66 to 67
302-3 Energy intensity 67
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 66 to 67
302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 66 to 67
GRI 303: Water and
Effluents 2018
303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource 72 to 76
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 72 to 76
303-4 Water discharge 73
303-5 Water consumption 73
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 68
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 68 to 69
305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 68 to 69
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 68
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 68
GRI 306: Waste 2020 306-1 Waste generation and significant waste-related impacts 69
306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 69 to 70
306-3 Waste generated 69 to 70
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 69 to 70
306-5 Waste directed to disposal 69 to 70
GRI 401: Employment
2016
401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 83
401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to
temporary or part-time employees
82
401-3 Parental leave 82
GRI 403: Occupational
Health and Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 84 to 85
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment and incident investigation 84
403-3 Occupational health services 84 to 85
403-4 Worker participation, consultation and communication on
occupational health and safety
84 to 85
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 84
403-6 Promotion of worker health 84
403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts
directly linked by business relationships
84 to 85
403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management
system
84 to 85
403-9 Work-related injuries 85
403-10 Work-related ill health 85
GRI 404: Training and
Education 2016
404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 86
404-2 Programmes for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance
programmes
85
GRI 405: Diversity and
Equal Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 81
GRI 406: Non-
discrimination 2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 83
GRI Standards 2021 Content Index
182 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
GRI STANDARD DISCLOSURE LOCATION (Page)
GRI 407: Freedom
of Association and
Collective Bargaining
2016
407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association
and collective bargaining may be at risk
83
GRI 408: Child Labour
2016
408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child
labour
83
GRI 409: Forced or
Compulsory Labour 2016
409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or
compulsory labour
83
GRI 413: Local
Communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments
and development programmes
87
413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on
local communities
87
GRI 417: Marketing and
Labelling 2016
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service
information and labelling
91
GRI 418: Customer
Privacy 2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy
and losses of customer data
63
GRI Standards 2021 Content Index
UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX
Global Compact Principle Location (Page)
Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of
internationally proclaimed human rights;
Human Rights and Labour Standards (83)
Supply Chain Management (87)
Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Human Rights and Labour Standards (83)
Supply Chain Management (87)
Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the
effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining;
Human Rights and Labour Standards (83)
Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Human Rights and Labour Standards (83)
Supply Chain Management (87)
Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; Human Rights and Labour Standards (83)
Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and
occupation.
Diversity (81)
Human Rights and Labour Standards (83)
Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to
environmental challenges;
Climate Resilience and Energy Management (64 to 69)
Waste and Effluent Management (69 to 71)
Resource Use (71)
Towards Healthy Watersheds (72)
Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental
responsibility; and
Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally
friendly technologies.
Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms,
including extortion and bribery.
Corporate Governance and Anti-Corruption (61)
Risk Management (62)
183
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Group Directory
Heineken Malaysia Berhad
Sungei Way Brewery, Lot 1135
Batu 9, Jalan Klang Lama
46000 Petaling Jaya
Selangor, Malaysia
T : +603 7861 4688
F : +603 7861 4567
E : MY1-generalenquiry@heineken.com
BINTULU
Lot 999, Block 26, Kemena Land District,
Kidurong Light Industrial Estate,
97000 Bintulu,
Sarawak,
Malaysia.
T : 1800-88-6633
E : support.cs.my@heineken.com
BUTTERWORTH
No. 8 & 9 Lorong Perusahaan Maju 11
Taman Perusahaan Pelangi
13600 Seberang Prai
Butterworth, Malaysia
T : 1800-88-6633
E : support.cs.my@heineken.com
IPOH
1A, Jalan Perniagaan Sengat 2
31350 Ipoh
Perak, Malaysia
T : 1800-88-6633
E : support.cs.my@heineken.com  
JOHOR BAHRU
No. 22 (Lot 1569) Jalan Dewani
Off Jalan Tampoi
Kawasan Perindustrian Temenggong
81100 Johor Bahru, Johor, Malaysia
T : 1800-88-6633
E : support.cs.my@heineken.com
KLANG VALLEY
Sungei Way Brewery, Lot 1135
Batu 9, Jalan Klang Lama
46000 Petaling Jaya
Selangor, Malaysia
T : 1800-88-6633
F : +603 7861 4567
E : support.cs.my@heineken.com
KOTA KINABALU
Building No. 19B, Lot 21
Sedco Light Industrial Estate
Jalan Kilang, Kolombong
88450 Kota Kinabalu
Sabah, Malaysia
T : 1800-88-6633
E : support.cs.my@heineken.com
KUANTAN
Lot 123, Jalan Industri Semambu 8,
Kawasan Perindustrian Semambu,
25350 Kuantan
Pahang, Malaysia
T : 1800-88-6633
E : support.cs.my@heineken.com
KUCHING
No.14, Lorong Evergreen 2A,
RH Park Commercial, Batu 9½
Jalan Penrissen
93250 Kuching
Sarawak, Malaysia
T : 1800-88-6633
E : support.cs.my@heineken.com
MALACCA
No. 120, Jalan Usaha 10
Ayer Keroh Industrial Estate
75450 Malacca, Malaysia
T : 1800-88-6633
E : support.cs.my@heineken.com
 
MENTAKAB
No. 10, Jalan Dagang 3,
Taman Perindustrian Temerloh,
28400 Mentakab
Pahang, Malaysia
T : 1800-88-6633
E : support.cs.my@heineken.com
MIRI
Lot 1448, Block 17 KBLD
Eastwood Valley
Industrial Park Phase 1
98000 Miri
Sarawak, Malaysia
T : 1800-88-6633
F : +60 (85)411 897
E : support.cs.my@heineken.com
SANDAKAN
Lot 32-1F, Jalan Dataran BU 4
Utama Zone 3 Commersil, Batu 6
90000 Sandakan
Sabah, Malaysia
T : 1800-88-6633
F : +60 (89)274 082
E : support.cs.my@heineken.com
SIBU
Lot 2983, Block 19
Lorong Then Kung Suk 4
96000 Sibu
Sarawak, Malaysia
T : 1800-88-6633
E : support.cs.my@heineken.com
TAWAU
TB 9988, Lot 4A & 5A,
Perdana Square, Mile 3.5,
Jalan Apas,
91000 Tawau
Sabah, Malaysia
T : 1800-88-6633
E : support.cs.my@heineken.com
REGIONAL SALES OFFICES
CORPORATE OFFICE
Heineken Marketing Malaysia Sdn Bhd
184 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notice of 61st Annual General Meeting
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the 61st Annual General Meeting (61st AGM) of Heineken Malaysia Berhad (the Company) will be held
at Grand Summit (Level M1), Connexion @ The Vertical, Bangsar South City, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on
Wednesday, 7 May 2025 at 9.30 a.m. for the following purposes:
AGENDA
Ordinary Business
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 and the
Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon.
2. To approve the payment of a single tier final dividend of 115 sen per stock unit in respect of the
financial year ended 31 December 2024.
3. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation pursuant to Clause 84 of the Company’s
Constitution as Directors of the Company:
(i) Mr Choo Tay Sian, Kenneth
(ii) Ms Seng Yi-Ying
4. To re-elect Mr Martijn Rene van Keulen who retires pursuant to Clause 91 of the Company’s
Constitution as a Director of the Company.
5. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits up to an aggregate amount of RM810,000
for the Non-Executive Directors of the Company for the financial year ending 31 December 2025.
6. To appoint KPMG PLT as Auditors of the Company, to replace Deloitte PLT, who are not seeking
re-appointment at the 61st AGM, and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
Special Business
To consider and, if deemed fit, to pass the following resolutions:
7. Proposed Continuance in Office as Independent Non-Executive Director
“That approval be and is hereby given to Dato’ Sri Idris Jala, whose tenure will reach a cumulative
term of 9 years on 1 January 2026, to continue in office as an Independent Non-Executive Director
of the Company until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting.”
8. Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading
Nature (Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate)
“That, subject to the provisions of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad, approval be and is hereby given to the Company and/or its subsidiaries to enter into any of
the recurrent transactions of a revenue or trading nature with the HEINEKEN Group of Companies
and persons connected with them as set out in the Circular to Shareholders dated 8 April 2025, which
are necessary for the day-to-day operations and/or in the ordinary course of business of the Company
and its subsidiaries on terms not more favourable to the related parties than those generally available
to the public and are not detrimental to the minority shareholders of the Company and that such
approval shall continue to be in force until:
(i) the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company at which time it will lapse,
unless by a resolution passed at a general meeting, the authority conferred by this resolution is
renewed; or
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next Annual General Meeting of the Company is
required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the Companies Act, 2016 (the Act) (but shall
not extend to such extensions as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of the Act); or
(iii) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the shareholders at a general meeting,
whichever is earlier;
Please refer to Note 2
Ordinary Resolution 1
Ordinary Resolution 2
Ordinary Resolution 3
Ordinary Resolution 4
Ordinary Resolution 5
Ordinary Resolution 6
Ordinary Resolution 7
Ordinary Resolution 8
185
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notice of 61st Annual General Meeting
And that the Directors of the Company be and are hereby authorised to complete and do all such acts
and things as they may consider expedient or necessary to give effect to the Proposed Shareholders’
Mandate.”
9. To consider any other business of which due notice has been given in accordance with the Act and
the Company’s Constitution.
NOTICE OF DIVIDEND ENTITLEMENT AND PAYMENT
Subject to the approval of Stockholders, a single tier final dividend of 115 sen per stock unit in respect of the financial year ended
31 December 2024 will be paid on 23 July 2025 to Stockholders registered at the close of business on 25 June 2025.
A Depositor shall qualify for entitlement to the dividend only in respect of:
(a) shares deposited into the Depositor’s securities account before 12.30 pm on 23 June 2025 in respect of shares which are exempted
from mandatory deposit;
(b) shares transferred into the Depositor’s securities account before 4.30 pm on 25 June 2025 in respect of ordinary transfers; and
(c) shares bought on a cum entitlement basis according to the Rules of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
By Order of the Board
Ng Sow Hoong
Company Secretary
MAICSA 7027552
SSM PC No. 202008000593
Petaling Jaya, Selangor
8 April 2025
NOTES
1. Entitlement to attend 61st AGM and Appointment of Proxy
1.1 For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the 61st AGM, the Company shall be requesting
Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to issue a Record of Depositors as at 28 April 2025 in accordance with the Company’s
Constitution and Section 34 of the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991. Only a depositor whose name
appears on the Record of Depositors as at 28 April 2025 shall be entitled to attend the said AGM or appoint proxies to
attend and/or vote on his/her behalf at the said AGM.
1.2 A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend and vote in his/
her stead. Where a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the member shall specify the proportion of the member’s
shareholding to be represented by each proxy.
1.3 Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central
Depository) Act 1991 which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account
(Omnibus Account), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in
respect of each Omnibus Account it holds. Where an exempt authorised nominee appoints more than one (1) proxy, the
proportion of shareholdings to be represented by each proxy must be specified in the Form of Proxy. An exempt authorised
nominee with more than one (1) securities account must submit a separate Form of Proxy for each securities account.
1.4 If the appointer is a corporation, the Form of Proxy must be executed under its Common Seal or signed by an officer or
attorney duly authorised. Any alteration to the Form of Proxy must be initialed.
1.5 Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the Form of Proxy are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
186 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notice of 61st Annual General Meeting
1.6 The Form of Proxy can be submitted through either one (1) of the following avenues no later than Tuesday, 6 May 2025
at 9.30 a.m. or in the event of any adjournment, no later than twenty-four (24) hours before the time appointed for the
adjourned meeting:
(a) Lodgement of Form of Proxy in hardcopy
To be deposited at Tricor’s Office at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South,
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or alternatively at the drop-in box provided at Unit G-3, Ground
Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; OR
(b) Electronic lodgement of Form of Proxy
The Form of Proxy can be lodged electronically via TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online. Kindly refer to the
Administrative Guide for the 61st AGM on the procedures for electronic lodgement of Form of Proxy via TIIH Online
website.
1.7 Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited at Tricor’s
Office at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or alternatively at the drop-in box provided at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue
3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia no later than 24 hours before the time appointed
for holding the 61st AGM or adjourned general meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote.
A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the
applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
1.8 For a corporate member who has appointed a representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL/DULY CERTIFIED certificate
of appointment at Tricor’s Office at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No.
8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or alternatively at the drop-in box provided at Unit G-3, Ground Floor,
Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia no later than 24 hours
before the time appointed for holding the 61st AGM or adjourned general meeting. The certificate of appointment should
be executed in the following manner:
(a) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be executed under seal in
accordance to the constitution of the corporate member.
(b) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be affixed with the
rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and executed by:
(i) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the corporate
member is incorporated.
1.9 Pursuant to the Main Market Listing Requirements (MMLR) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set out
in this notice will be put to vote by way of poll.
2. Agenda 1 : Audited Financial Statements
The audited financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 are laid in accordance with Section 340(1) of
the Act for discussion only. They do not require shareholders’ approval and hence, will not be put forward for voting.
3. Ordinary Resolutions 2 to 4 : Re-election of Retiring Directors
Clause 84 of the Company’s Constitution provides that one-third (1/3) of the Directors of the Company for the time being shall
retire by rotation at each AGM of the Company and all Directors shall retire from office at least once every 3 years but shall be
eligible for re-election. Pursuant to this, Mr Choo Tay Sian, Kenneth and Ms Seng Yi-Ying are due for retirement by rotation and
they have offered themselves for re-election at the 61st AGM.
Clause 91 of the Company’s Constitution provides that any new Director appointed by the Board during the year shall hold office
only until the next AGM and shall be eligible for re-election but shall not be taken into account in determining the Directors who
are to retire by rotation at that meeting. Mr Martijn Rene van Keulen who was appointed on 1 July 2024 is to stand for re-election
at the 61st AGM pursuant to this Clause.
187
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Notice of 61st Annual General Meeting
Leveraging the annual Board and Directors Effectiveness Evaluation, the Nomination & Remuneration Committee (NRC) had
on 12 February 2025, reviewed the performance and contributions of the above retiring Directors. Based on the evaluation, the
Board agreed that they have discharged their duties and responsibilities effectively and had provided valuable contributions to
the leadership of the Board; and accordingly recommended that the aforesaid retiring Directors be re-elected at the 61st AGM
of the Company. All Directors standing for re-election have abstained from deliberations and decisions on their own eligibility to
stand for re-election at the NRC and/or Board Meetings and they will continue to abstain from deliberations and decisions on
their own eligibility to stand for re-election at the 61st AGM of the Company.
The profile of the Directors standing for re-election is set out in the Directors’ Profile in the Annual Report 2024.
4. Ordinary Resolution 5 : Payment of Directors’ Fees and Benefits
At the 60th AGM of the Company held on 16 May 2024, shareholders approved the payment of Directors’ fee and benefits up to
an amount of RM810,000 to the Non-Executive Directors of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2024. Details
of the payment of the Directors’ fees and benefits for the said financial year are disclosed under the Corporate Governance Report
for the financial year ended 31 December 2024 which is available on the Company’s website https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/
corporate-governance/.
There is no proposed revision to the existing Directors’ Remuneration Package which was last approved by shareholders on 16 May
2024. The Directors’ fees payable to the Non-Executive Directors for the financial year ending 31 December 2025 are calculated
based on the current composition of the Board and the Board Committees and the number of meetings scheduled for the Board
and Board Committees whilst the benefits are mainly the provision of car and petrol card for the use of the Independent Non-
Executive Chairman.
The proposed motion, if passed, will facilitate the payment to Non-Executive Directors of the Company during the financial year.
In the event the proposed amount is insufficient (due to enlarged Board size), approval will be sought at the next AGM for the
shortfall. Non-Executive Directors who are shareholders of the Company shall abstain from voting on this motion at the 61st AGM.
5. Ordinary Resolution 6 : Appointment of Auditors
Deloitte PLT have served as the Auditors of the Company since April 2017. They were re-appointed at the 60th AGM held on
16 May 2024 to hold office until the conclusion of the 61st AGM. Deloitte PLT have indicated that they do not seek re-appointment
as Auditors of the Company.
The Company received a letter dated 8 January 2025 from its major shareholder, GAPL Pte Ltd, nominating KPMG PLT as the
Auditors of the Company. A copy of this letter is set out in the Annual Report 2024. GAPL Pte Ltd is indirectly owned by Heineken
N.V. which has appointed KPMG Accountants N.V. as external auditors for the financial year 2025. Both KPMG Accountants N.V.
and KPMG PLT are part of the global KPMG network affiliated with KPMG International Limited.
As an operating company of the HEINEKEN Group, it is recommended that KPMG PLT be appointed as Auditors of the Company.
This proposed change aims to facilitate the efficient flow of information within the auditing entities of the HEINEKEN Group,
thereby minimising non-value-added work for auditors. More importantly, it will help optimise the Company’s business resources
and costs. If approved, KPMG PLT will serve as the appointed Auditors until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
6. Ordinary Resolution 7 : Proposed Continuance in Office as Independent Non-Executive Director
The Board, through the NRC, evaluated the contributions and independence of Dato’ Sri Idris Jala, whose tenure is expected
to reach nine years on 1 January 2026. Based on the evaluation, the Board recommended that he continues to serve as an
Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company on the basis that he possesses the following attributes necessary for
discharging his duties and responsibilities:
(a) He has met the criteria of an Independent Director as prescribed under the MMLR.
(b) He is an inclusive and effective Chairman, highly respected by the Directors and Management for his extensive knowledge,
experience and dynamism. During Board and NRC meetings, he demonstrated strong leadership by fostering open and
constructive discussions, providing objective views and contributing to informed and balanced decision-making.
(c) He provides insights into his experiences and best practices for driving leadership transformation and strategic oversight,
whilst ensuring good corporate governance and enhancing performance management.
(d) He performs his role as Board Chairman with due care and diligence, carrying out his professional duties as an Independent
Non-Executive Director in the interest of the Company and shareholders. He abstains from participating in deliberation or
decision-making on matters where a conflict of interest may arise.
188 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Notice of 61st Annual General Meeting
Dato’ Sri Idris Jala has abstained from deliberations and decisions on this matter at the NRC and/or Board Meetings and he will
continue to abstain from deliberations and decisions at the 61st AGM of the Company. The profile of Dato’ Sri Idris Jala is set out
in the Directors’ Profile in the Annual Report 2024.
7. Ordinary Resolution 8 : Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading
Nature
Ordinary Resolution 8, if passed, will allow the Company and/or its subsidiaries to enter into the recurrent related party transactions
in the ordinary course of business and the need to convene separate general meetings each time such recurrent related party
transactions occur would be eliminated. This will save administrative time, inconvenience and expenses associated with holding
such meetings, without compromising the Group’s corporate objectives or adversely impacting its business opportunities. The
Shareholders’ Mandate is subject to renewal on an annual basis.
Further information on the Proposed Shareholders’ Mandate is set out in the Circular to Shareholders of the Company dated
8 April 2025.
189
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Administrative Guide
61st Annual General Meeting
Date
Wednesday
7 May 2025
Time
9.30 a.m.
Venue
Grand Summit (Level M1), Connexion @ The Vertical, Bangsar South
City, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Mode of Meeting
Physical
Entitlement to Attend and Vote
Only a depositor whose name appears on the Record of Depositors as at 28 April 2025 shall be entitled to attend the said Annual
General Meeting (AGM) or appoint proxies to attend and/or vote on his/her behalf at the said AGM.
Registration will commence at 7.30 a.m. and will remain open until 10.00 a.m. or such time as may be determined by the Chairman of
the meeting. Members and proxies are encouraged to come early to facilitate registration.
For verification purpose, members and proxies are required to produce their original identity card (I/C) or passport (for foreigners) at
the registration counter. Only original I/C or passport will be accepted for the purpose of identity verification. Please ensure that you
collect your I/C or passport thereafter.
No person will be allowed to register on behalf of another person even with the original I/C or passport of that other person.
Upon verification and registration, please sign on the attendance list and an identification wristband will be provided at the registration
counter.
If you are attending the meeting as a shareholder as well as proxy, you will be registered once and will only be given one (1) identification
wristband.
The identification wristband has a passcode printed on it, which will be required for electronic voting purposes.
No person will be allowed to enter the meeting hall without wearing the identification wristband. There will be no replacement of lost
or misplaced identification wristband.
A help desk will be available for any other enquiries/assistance/revocation of proxy’s appointment.
Appointment of Proxy/Proxies
A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend and vote in his/her stead. Where
a member appoints more than one (1) proxy, the member shall specify the proportion of the member’s shareholding to be represented
by each proxy.
Members who wish to appoint a proxy/proxies to attend and vote at the 61st AGM are required to complete, execute and submit the
Forms of Proxy through either one of the following avenues no later than Tuesday, 6 May 2025 at 9.30 a.m. or in the event of any
adjournment, no later than twenty-four (24) hours before the time appointed for the adjourned meeting:
(a) Lodgement of Form of Proxy in hardcopy
To be deposited at Tricor’s Office at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan
Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or alternatively at the drop-in box provided at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium,
Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia; OR
190 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Administrative Guide
61st Annual General Meeting
(b) Electronic lodgement of Form of Proxy
The Form of Proxy can be lodged electronically via TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online by following the procedures below:
Procedures for Electronic Lodgement of Form of Proxy
i. Steps for Individual Members
Register as a user with
TIIH Online
(For first time
registration only)
• Using your computer, access the website at https://tiih.online and register as a user under the
“e-Services”. Please refer to the tutorial guide posted on the homepage for assistance.
• If you are already a user with TIIH Online, you are not required to register again.
Proceed with
submission of Form of
Proxy
• After the release of the Notice of Meeting by the Company, login with your username (i.e. email
address) and password.
• Select the corporate event “HEIM 61ST AGM - Submission of Proxy Form”.
• Read and agree to the Terms and Conditions and confirm the Declaration.
• Insert your CDS account number and indicate the number of shares for your proxy/proxies to
vote on your behalf.
• Appoint your proxy/proxies or Chairman of the meeting and insert the required details of your
proxy/proxies.
• Indicate your voting instructions FOR or AGAINST, otherwise your proxy/proxies will decide your
vote on your behalf.
• Review and confirm your proxy/proxies appointment.
• Print e-Form of Proxy for your record.
ii. Steps for Corporation or Institutional Members
Register as a user with
TIIH Online
(For first time
registration only
• Access TIIH Online at https://tiih.online.
• Under e-Services, the authorised or nominated representative of the corporation or institutional
member selects “Create Account by Representative of Corporate Holder”.
• Complete the registration form and upload the required documents.
• Registration will be verified, and you will be notified by email within one (1) to two (2) working
days.
• Proceed to activate your account with the temporary password given in the email and re-set
your own password.
(Note: The representative of a corporation or institutional shareholder must register as a user in
accordance with the above steps before he/she can subscribe to this corporate holder electronic
proxy submission. Please contact our Share Registrar if you need clarifications on the user
registration.)
Proceed with
submission of Form of
Proxy
• Login to TIIH Online at https://tiih.online.
• Select the corporate event: “HEIM 61ST AGM – Submission of Proxy Form”.
• Read and agree to the Terms and Conditions and confirm the Declaration.
• Proceed to download the file format for “Submission of Proxy Form” in accordance with the
Guidance Note set therein.
• Prepare the file for the appointment of proxy(ies) by inserting the required data.
• Proceed to upload the duly completed proxy appointment file.
• Select “Submit” to complete your submission.
• Print the confirmation report of your submission for your record
Appointment of Corporate Representatives/Power of Attorney
Corporate representatives of corporate members must deposit their original or duly certified certificate of appointment of corporate
representative at Tricor’s Office as provided above no later than Tuesday, 6 May 2025 at 9.30 a.m. to attend and vote at the 61st AGM.
Attorneys appointed by power of attorney are to deposit their power of attorney at Tricor’s Office as provided above no later than
Tuesday, 6 May 2025 at 9.30 a.m. to attend and vote at the 61st AGM.
191
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Administrative Guide
61st Annual General Meeting
Poll Voting
Voting at the 61st AGM will be conducted by poll in accordance with Paragraph 8.29A of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The Company has appointed Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd as Poll Administrator to conduct the poll by way of
electronic voting (e-voting) and an independent scrutineer will be appointed to verify the poll results.
E-voting for each of the resolutions as set out in the 61st AGM Notice will take place only upon the conclusion of the deliberations of
all the businesses transacted at the meeting. Attendees at the meeting will be briefed and guided by the Poll Administrator before the
commencement of the voting process.
Upon completion of the voting session for the 61st AGM, the independent scrutineers will verify the poll results followed by the Chairman’s
declaration on whether the resolutions are duly passed.
Annual Report 2024 and Circular to Shareholders
The Company’s Annual Report 2024 and Circular to Shareholders are available for download from our Company’s website at
https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/annual-reports.html or Bursa Malaysia’s website at https://www.bursamalaysia.com/market/.
Innovation Products for Home Sampling
There will be no product sampling before or after the meeting. However, innovation products will be distributed to members or proxies
for home sampling upon registration subject to the following conditions:
• Each registered member or proxy who is present shall be given one (1) sampling pack only upon registration.
• For a member who appoints more than one (1) proxy, one (1) sampling pack will only be given to the first proxy stated in the Form
of Proxy.
• If you are a proxy representing more than one (1) member, you shall receive one (1) sampling pack only.
• If you are a member and also appointed as proxy by another member, you shall receive one (1) sampling pack only.
• If the proxy/proxies has/have obtained the sampling pack earlier, member(s) who decided to attend will not be given any sampling
pack.
Parking
Redemption of free parking will be provided at the help desk for members/proxies attending the 61st AGM physically who park their
vehicles at the car parks within the Connexion premises. The Company will not provide cash reimbursements for parking charges
incurred by members/proxies who park their vehicles at the car parks of other buildings or use the valet parking service within the
Connexion premises.
Meeting Enquiry
Members are reminded to check the Company’s website for announcements of any changes to the 61st AGM arrangements. For any
enquiry in relation to the 61st AGM, please contact the following during office hours on Monday to Friday from 8.30 a.m. to 5.30 p.m.
(excluding public holidays):
Share Registrar – Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd
General +603 2783 9299
Fax +603-2783 9222
Email is.enquiry@vistra.com
192 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
Letter of Nomination of Auditors
Heineken Malaysia Berhad
Company no. 196401000020 (5350-X)
FORM OF PROXY
61st Annual General Meeting
No. of Stock Units held:
CDS Account No.:
(For Nominees Account Only)
Contact No.:
I/We _________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(Full Name as per NRIC/Passport/Certificate of Incorporation)
NRIC/Passport/Company No. ____________________________________________________________________________________
of ____________________________________________________________________________________________________________
(Full address)
being a member or members of HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD, hereby appoint:
Name : Proportion of Stockholding
No. of Stock Unit %
NRIC/Passport No. :
Address :
and/or failing him/her,
Name : Proportion of Stockholding
No. of Stock Unit %
NRIC/Passport No. :
Address :
(Note : to put on a separate sheet where there are more than two (2) proxies)
or failing him/her, THE CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as my/our proxy/proxies to attend and vote for me/us and on my/our behalf at the
61st Annual General Meeting (61st AGM) of the Company to be held at Grand Summit (Level M1), Connexion @ The Vertical, Bangsar
South City, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia on Wednesday, 7 May 2025 at 9.30 a.m. and at any adjournment
thereof.
Please indicate with an “X” in the spaces below as to how you wish your votes to be casted. If no specific direction as to voting is given,
the proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his/her discretion.
Ordinary Resolutions FOR AGAINST
1. Payment of final dividend for the financial year ended 31 December 2024
2. Re-election of Mr Choo Tay Sian, Kenneth as a Director
3. Re-election of Ms Seng Yi-Ying as a Director
4. Re-election of Mr Martijn Rene van Keulen as a Director
5. Payment of Directors’ fees and benefits to Non-Executive Directors
6. Appointment of KPMG PLT as Auditors
7. Continuance of Dato’ Sri Idris Jala as Independent Non-Executive Director
8. Shareholders’ Mandate on recurrent related party transactions
Dated this ________ day of _______________________ 2025
Personal Data Privacy
By submitting this form, I hereby confirm that I have read, understood and agreed to the personal data privacy terms as set out in the Personal Data Protection Act 2010
Notice which is published on the Company’s website at https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/privacy-policy/
Please read the notes overleaf before completing this Form of Proxy.
Signature or Common Seal of Member(s)
IMPORTANT NOTICE
1. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to attend the 61st AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd to issue a
Record of Depositors as at 28 April 2025 in accordance with the Company’s Constitution and Section 34 of the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991. Only
a depositor whose name appears on the Record of Depositors as at 28 April 2025 shall be entitled to attend the said AGM or appoint proxies to attend and/or vote on
his/her behalf at the said AGM.
2. A member entitled to attend and vote at the meeting may appoint more than one (1) proxy to attend and vote in his/her stead. Where a member appoints more than
one (1) proxy, the member shall specify the proportion of the member’s shareholding to be represented by each proxy.
3. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depository) Act 1991 which holds ordinary shares in
the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one securities account (Omnibus Account), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised nominee
may appoint in respect of each Omnibus Account it holds. Where an exempt authorised nominee appoints more than one (1) proxy, the proportion of shareholdings to
be represented by each proxy must be specified in the Form of Proxy. An exempt authorised nominee with more than one (1) securities account must submit a separate
Form of Proxy for each securities account.
4. If the appointer is a corporation, the Form of Proxy must be executed under its Common Seal or signed by an officer or attorney duly authorised. Any alteration to the
Form of Proxy must be initialed.
5. Please ensure ALL the particulars as required in the Form of Proxy are completed, signed and dated accordingly.
6. The Form of Proxy can be submitted through either one (1) of the following avenues no later than Tuesday, 6 May 2025 at 9.30 a.m. or in the event of any adjournment,
no later than twenty-four (24) hours before the time appointed for the adjourned meeting:
(a) Lodgement of Form of Proxy in hardcopy
To be deposited at Tricor’s Office at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia, or alternatively at the drop-in box provided at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia; OR
(b) Electronic lodgement of Form of Proxy
The Form of Proxy can be lodged electronically via TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online. Kindly refer to the Administrative Guide for the 61st AGM on the
procedures for electronic lodgement of Form of Proxy via TIIH Online website.
7. Any authority pursuant to which such an appointment is made by a power of attorney must be deposited at Tricor’s Office at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical
Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or alternatively at the drop-in box provided at Unit G-3, Ground Floor,
Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia no later than 24 hours before the time appointed for holding the 61st
AGM or adjourned general meeting at which the person named in the appointment proposes to vote. A copy of the power of attorney may be accepted provided that it
is certified notarially and/or in accordance with the applicable legal requirements in the relevant jurisdiction in which it is executed.
8. For a corporate member who has appointed a representative, please deposit the ORIGINAL/DULY CERTIFIED certificate of appointment at Tricor’s Office at
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or alternatively at the drop-in box
provided at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia no later than 24 hours before the time
appointed for holding the 61st AGM or adjourned general meeting. The certificate of appointment should be executed in the following manner:
(a) If the corporate member has a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be executed under seal in accordance to the constitution of the corporate member.
(b) If the corporate member does not have a common seal, the certificate of appointment should be affixed with the rubber stamp of the corporate member (if any) and
executed by:
(i) at least two (2) authorised officers, of whom one shall be a director; or
(ii) any director and/or authorised officers in accordance with the laws of the country under which the corporate member is incorporated.
9. Pursuant to the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, all the resolutions set out in the 61st AGM Notice will be put to vote by way of poll.
Please fold here to seal
Please fold here to seal
THE SHARE REGISTRAR OF HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd
Unit 32-01 Level 32 Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Affix stamp
195
HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024
ESGReview HowWeAreGoverned OurNumbersandOtherInformation
Information
Corporate
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Dato’ Sri Idris Jala
Chairman
Independent Non-Executive Director
Martijn Rene van Keulen
Managing Director
Lau Nai Pek
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Chua Carmen
Independent Non-Executive Director
Choo Tay Sian, Kenneth
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Seng Yi-Ying
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Erin Sakinah Atan
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
COMPANY SECRETARY
Ng Sow Hoong
MAICSA 7027552
SSM PC No. 202008000593
Tel: +603 7861 4688
Email: rachel.ng@heineken.com
REGISTERED OFFICE
Sungei Way Brewery
Lot 1135, Batu 9, Jalan Klang Lama
46000 Petaling Jaya, Selangor, Malaysia
Tel: +603 7861 4688
Fax: +603 7861 4567
Email: MY1-generalenquiry@heineken.com
Website: www.heinekenmalaysia.com
AUDITORS
Deloitte PLT (LLP0010145-LCA)
Chartered Accountants (AF 0080)
Level 16, Menara LGB, 1 Jalan Wan Kadir
60000 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel: +603 7610 8888
Fax: +603 7726 8986
SHARE REGISTRAR
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn Bhd
Registration No. 197101000970 (11324-H)
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite
Avenue 3, Bangsar South
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel: +603 2783 9299
Fax: +603 2783 9222
Email: is.enquiry@vistra.com
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Citibank Berhad
Registration No. 199401011410 (297089-M)
BNP Paribas Malaysia Berhad
Registration No. 201001034168 (918091-T)
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad
Registration No. 198401015221 (127776-V)
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Bhd
Registration No. 199301017069 (271809-K)
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Stock name: HEIM
Stock code: 3255
196 HeinekenMalaysiaBerhad • AnnualReport2024 Our Business Model PerformanceReview
Who We Are
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
196401000020 (5350-X)
Sungei Way Brewery
Lot 1135, Batu 9
Jalan Klang Lama
46000 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
T : +603-7861 4688
F : +603-7861 4602
