86 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
The Board of Directors (the Board) of Heineken
Malaysia Berhad (HEINEKEN Malaysia or the
Company) firmly believes that commitment to
good business ethics and corporate governance
(CG) is essential to the long-term sustainability
of the business and performance of the Company
and its subsidiaries (the Group). The Company
supports the principles of good governance and the
recommended practices provided in the Malaysian
Code on Corporate Governance (MCCG).
Financial year 2022 (FY2022) was a year of recovery as the
Group witnessed encouraging recovery in business performance
following the full re-opening of economic activities when the
country transitioned to the endemic phase in April 2022. Despite
this positive development, the business environment remained
volatile given the continued pressures from rising input costs and
inflation that were expected to impact consumer purchasing
power. The Board remained focus on strengthening the
Group’s resilience by providing an effective stewardship whilst
maintaining high CG standards and embracing a responsible
business culture throughout the Group. This has enabled the
Group to deliver a solid performance for FY2022.
The Board is pleased to present this statement to provide
shareholders and investors with an overview of the CG practices
applied by the Company during FY2022. This overview
makes reference to the following key CG principles and the
recommended practices as set out in the MCCG and it should
be read in conjunction with the Audit & Risk Management
Committee Report, Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Control, ESG Review and the Corporate Governance Report (CG
Report) for FY2022 which is available on the Company’s website
https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/
Principle A Principe B Principle C
Board Leadership
and Effectiveness
Effective
Audit and Risk
Management
Integrity in Corporate
Reporting and
Meaningful Relationship
with Stakeholders
As of the date of this statement, the Company has complied
in all material aspects with the principles and has applied all
recommended practices including two of the step-up practices in
the MCCG with the exception of the following practices:
Practice 1.4 Chairman of the Board should not be a member
of the Nomination & Remuneration Committee
Practice 5.2 For Large Companies, the Board comprises a
majority Independent Directors
Practice 5.3 Tenure of an Independent Director does not
exceed nine years
Practice 8.2 Disclosure on a named basis the top five (5)
Senior Management’s remuneration in bands of
RM50,000
The details of how the Company has complied with the MCCG
principles and applied the CG practices and the explanation on
the departed practices are outlined in the CG Report 2022.
PRINCIPLE A
BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
Governance Framework
In order to ensure orderly and effective discharge of the functions
and responsibilities of the Board, the Board has in place a
governance framework where specific powers of the Board are
delegated to the relevant Board Committees and the Managing
Director and his team. The governance framework is depicted as
follows:
Board of Directors
Functional
Committees
Audit & Risk
Management Committee
Managing
Director
Nomination &
Remuneration Committee
Risk and
Control Workgroup
Management
Team
Sustainability
Committee
Assurance Providers
[ External Audit
[ Internal Audit
[ Process & Control
Improvement
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
87
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
Board Responsibilities
The Board is collectively responsible for defining the Group’s
strategic direction and overseeing the conduct of the Group’s
businesses and the management effectiveness. It takes into
consideration the interests of all stakeholders in its decision-
making to ensure the Group’s objectives of creating long-term
sustainable value for the benefit of our stakeholders are met.
The Board is also responsible to set the corporate values and
promote good corporate governance culture within the Group
which reinforces ethical, prudent and professional behavior and
ensure that its obligations to shareholders and other stakeholders
are met.
The Board is guided by its Charter which sets out the purpose,
composition, key roles and principal responsibilities as well as
the internal procedural matters for the Board. The principal
responsibilities of the Board are in line with that provided in
the MCCG. The Board Charter serves as a source of reference
for Board members to assist them in discharging their fiduciary
duties as Directors.
The Board is supported by the Audit & Risk Management
Committee (ARMC) and the Nomination & Remuneration
Committee (NRC), which are entrusted with specific
responsibilities and authorities to review matters before tabling
to the Board for approval. The Chairman of the respective Board
Committees reports to the Board on matters deliberated and
recommendations made by the Board Committees.
The roles of the Chairman and the Managing Director are held by
separate individuals. The roles of the Chairman are defined in the
Board Charter. The Managing Director, who is appointed by the
Board, is primarily responsible for the day-to-day management
of the business and operations of the Group, organizational
effectiveness and the implementation of the Group’s strategies
and policies approved by the Board. He is supported by the
Management Team who is assisted by several functional
committees that are tasked to oversee key operating areas.
The Board delegates the following responsibilities, with
appropriate oversight, to the Management Team for meeting
the defined corporate objectives:
• Implementing approved strategy and operating plans
• Managing the Group's business and operations
• ManagingtheGroup’sresources,cashflowandinvestments
• Evaluating risks and opportunities arising from changing
market environment
• Ensuring compliance with applicable regulatory
requirements
The responsibilities and authorities of the Management Team
are defined in the Statement of Authority approved by the Board.
There is a schedule of key matters reserved specifically for the
Board deliberation and decision to ensure the direction and
control of the Group are in its hands. The list of matters is
provided in the Board Charter approved by the Board.
The Board Charter is available on the Company’s website at
https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/
Board Meetings
The Board meets on a quarterly basis to review the Group’s
business and financial performance and discuss operational
and industry issues as well as challenges impacting the Group.
Additional meetings will be convened as and when necessary,
to deliberate urgent and important matters. Directors
may participate at the meeting remotely via a designated
virtual meeting platform. In order to facilitate Directors and
Management’s planning for the whole financial year, meetings of
the Board and the Board Committees are scheduled in advance
before the commencement of each new financial year.
In 2022, the Board had four (4) meetings. The Finance Director
and the Company Secretary are in attendance in every meeting
whilst the other Management Team members are invited to
attend the Board meetings at designated sessions for them to
report on areas within their responsibility. The attendance of
each Director at the Board meetings, was as follows:
Name Designation Attendance
Dato’ Sri Idris Jala
(Chairman)
Independent
Non-Executive Director
4/4
Datin Ngiam
Pick Ngoh, Linda
Independent
Non-Executive Director
4/4
Roland Bala Managing Director 4/4
Choo Tay Sian,
Kenneth
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
4/4
Seng Yi-Ying
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
4/4
Lau Nai Pek
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director
4/4
Raquel Batallones
Esquerra
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
3/4*
* Absent from one meeting due to other meeting commitment abroad
88 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
At Board Meetings, the Managing Director would lead the
presentation to the Board and provide comprehensive explanation
of the Group’s strategy and priorities, business performance and
other pertinent issues whilst the Finance Director would report
to the Board on the Group’s financial performance and matters
related to the finance function. Other Management Team
members would update the Board on activities and issues within
their responsibility.
During the meetings, Directors are encouraged to participate in
the meeting and share their views and insight in the course of
deliberation. They are also encouraged to pose queries (if any)
to Management prior to each Board Meeting to enable them to
better prepare for the meeting. Any Director who has a direct
or deemed interest in the subject matter shall abstain from
deliberation and voting on the respective resolution. Decisions of
the Board are made by consensus.
The proceedings of all meetings, including issues discussed,
decisions and conclusions including dissenting views made and
whether any Director abstained from voting or deliberating on
a particular matter at the meetings with required actions to be
taken by responsible parties are documented in the minutes by
the Company Secretary. In the intervals between Board meetings,
Board’s decisions or approvals for matters that are time-sensitive
or administrative in nature will be sought via circular resolutions
which are supported with relevant information and explanations
and the same applies to the Board Committees.
As a good corporate governance practice, the Independent
Directors met once outside of regular Board meetings in June
2022 without the presence of Non-Independent Directors and
Management to share observations and exchange views on
potential improvements in governance.
Access to Information
The Board emphasizes on provision of timely and quality
information by Management to facilitate effective deliberation
and decision-making process. Prior to each meeting, a structured
agenda together with management reports and proposals
will be provided to the Directors at least five (5) days (or in
any event not less than three (3) days) before the meeting. In
order for meetings to be more effective, the meeting agenda is
organised according to the priority of the matters/proposals to
be deliberated with an indication to guide the Directors as to
whether the matters are for approval, discussion or for notation
purpose and time allocated for each agenda item in order for the
meetings to be conducted efficiently.
All Directors have unrestricted access to the Management Team
in that they may have informal meetings with the Management
Team members to brief them on matters or major developments
concerning the Group operations. The Board also has full access
to information and the advice and services of the Company
Secretary who is a Chartered Secretary and is qualified under
the Companies Act 2016. The Company Secretary ensures the
Directors are provided with adequate information and time
to prepare for Board meetings. The Company Secretary also
prepares minutes of meetings in a timely manner and provides
advisory services to the Board on corporate administration
and governance matters including compliance with relevant
regulatory requirements.
Subject to the approval of the Board, the Directors, either
as a group or individually may seek and obtain independent
professional advice at the Company’s expense on specific issues
to assist them in discharging their duties effectively.
Directors’ Professional Development
Directors are mindful of the needs to broaden their perspective
and to keep abreast with developments in the marketplace as well
as changes to the regulatory requirements in order to enhance
their ability in discharging their duties and responsibilities
more effectively. The Board, through its annual effectiveness
evaluation, assessed the training needs based on feedback
gathered from the Directors. From time to time, Directors may
also personally identify training on specific areas that would
assist them in discharging their responsibilities. When necessary,
learning sessions on topics which are relevant to the Group’s
business will also be organised for the Directors.
During FY2022, Directors attended various development and
learning programmes on topics related to corporate governance
and sustainability, consumer trends and commercial strategy,
anti-bribery and corruption, data protection and information
security, digital assets, risk management, leadership and
organizational management. Some Board members have also
been invited to participate in forums and seminars as speakers
and panelists in areas of their expertise.
Commitment to Integrity and Ethical Conduct
Establishing a culture of integrity and ethical in the organisation
is essential in preservation of the Group’s reputation and thereby
increase the confidence of stakeholders. The Board continues
to uphold good business conduct by ensuring adequate policies
and procedures are put in place. Directors, officers, employees
and business partners of the Group are required to observe and
maintain high standards of integrity and ethical behaviour in the
performance of their responsibilities or conducting business and
to comply with relevant regulatory requirements and policies
adopted by the Group, including those relating to anti-bribery
and anti-corruption.
The Group has in place the following codes which outline its
commitment to conducting business with integrity and fairness,
respect for the laws, our values and our Company Manifesto - We
are HEINEKEN; as well as the principles for ethical and business
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
89
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
conduct expected from relevant stakeholders in their dealing
with the Group.
HEINEKEN Code of Business Conduct (HeiCode)
The HeiCode has embedded seventeen (17) policies that covers
all aspects of the Group’s business operations, categorised under
four (4) key commitments namely:
• We advocate for responsible consumption
• We respect people and the planet
• We conduct business with integrity and fairness
• We safeguard our Company’s assets
The HeiCode and the underlying policies, communication
and training materials are documented and available in a
Business Conduct Portal for employee access. They are reviewed
and updated periodically to reflect the changing business
environment. On an annual basis, all employees are required
to complete the following e-learning as part of the Company’s
efforts to drive awareness and assess their understanding of the
respective codes and the underlying principles:
• Code of Business Conduct
• Anti-Bribery and Corruption
• Responsible Marketing Code
• Security Awareness
• Fraud Awareness
• Data Privacy
• Competition law
Employees are also required to disclose to the Company on a
yearly basis if there is a possible conflict between their interest
and that of the Company or any of its subsidiaries. This is to
ensure decisions within the Group are based on sound and
objective business judgement, not influenced by any possible
personal interests or gain.
HEINEKEN Responsible Marketing Code
The Group strictly adheres to the legal and regulatory guidelines
and has a stringent Responsible Marketing Code that governs
how it markets its products. The Code also covers low and no-
alcohol business as well as our digital media and self-regulation
initiatives. Our licence to operate depends on our efforts in
marketing our brands responsibly and in driving sensible
consumption. All marketing materials undergo a diligent
check against our Responsible Marketing Code before they are
published.
HEINEKEN Supplier Code and Distributor Code of Conduct
All business partners are required to adhere to all applicable laws
and regulations where they operate and affirm their commitment
to responsible business conduct at all times. They are expected
to live up to the Group expectations towards conducting business
responsibly, respecting human rights, ensuring health and safety,
and protecting the environment as outlined in the HEINEKEN
Supplier Code and the Distributor Code of Conduct.
The Group has taken proactive steps to ensure its business
partners embrace our values and commitment to responsible
business conduct. The Group has a due-diligence tool which is
designed to identify, assess, and remedy risks associated with
third parties engaged by the Group including suppliers and
distributors. Bribery and corruption are among the risks to be
assessed by the tool.
HEINEKEN Speak Up Policy
The HEINEKEN Speak Up Policy provides employees and
stakeholders with a standard process to report concerns about
suspected misconduct within the Group in confidence and
without fear of retaliation. The policy was communicated to the
Group employees and business partners to create awareness
of the Speak Up platform for them to raise concerns about
suspected misconduct within the organisation.
The Speak Up Service is managed by an independent third party
and is available 24/7, 365 days a year. Report can be submitted
through the Speak Up Service via online or phone call. All Speak
Up reports are handled by a Case Manager who works under the
supervision and instruction of the HEINEKEN Global Integrity
Committee which comprises representatives from the HEINEKEN
Business Conduct Office, Global Audit, Global People and Global
Legal Affairs.
In 2022, nine (9) reports were received via the HEINKEN Speak
Up channel and of these, four (4) reports were referred to the
Company for further investigation. The remaining five (5) cases
were not referred to the Company for further investigation upon
assessment by the HEINEKEN Global Speak Up Review Team as
they were found to be frivolous and unsubstantiated. Internal
Audit and People functions conducted necessary investigations
and resolved all the four (4) cases. The nature of these Speak Up
reports were centered around non-compliances with the Group’s
policies and procedures. Corrective and preventive actions
including disciplinary measures as well as process and control
improvements were taken by the Company subsequent to the
investigations. None of the Speak Up cases has caused any
material financial impact to the Group. The Group will continue
to encourage its employees and business partners to Speak Up
given that this is an effective mechanism to protect the Group
against fraud and non-compliance with rules and policies.
The HeiCode and the HEINEKEN Speak Up Policy are available on
the Company’s website at https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/
corporate-governance/.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
90 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Sustainability Governance
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Company has in
place appropriate sustainability strategy which is aligned with
the Company’s strategic direction to support the Group’s long-
term objectives. The Board emphasizes on strategic management
of material sustainability risks and opportunities, which includes
integration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) factors
in their decision-making process and in the Group’s operations.
The Group has adopted the HEINEKEN Global’s sustainability
strategy - Brew a Better World (BABW) with commitments until
year 2030 that prioritise on the following areas to protect the
environment, support local communities and make a positive
contribution to the society:
Environmental
Sustainability
• Reach Net Zero Carbon
• Maximise Circularity
• Towards Healthy Watersheds
Social
Sustainability
• Embrace Diversity, Equity and Inclusion
• A Fair & Safe Workplace
• Positive Impact on Our Communities
Responsible
Consumption
• Always A Choice
• Address Harmful Use
• Promoting Moderation Cool
The BABW ambitions and targets are in line with the benchmarks
set by the United Nations Global Compact and they are aimed
to contribute to the United Nations Sustainable Development
Goals to protect the planet, ensure prosperity and end poverty.
Initiatives within each priority area are driven by relevant
functions/departments across the organisation.
In FY2022, the Group developed an ESG Framework which aligns
the BABW ambitions with the Group’s overall sustainability
strategy and highlights key elements of its sustainability agenda.
The Group has also in place a Sustainability Policy to reinforce its
commitment in embedding sustainability practices throughout
its operations and value chain specifically in the areas of ESG.
The Board is supported by a Management Sustainability
Committee which is responsible for the strategic management
of the material sustainability matters including the formulation
and implementation of the Group’s sustainability priorities
and initiatives. The Sustainability Committee is chaired by the
Managing Director, who is entrusted by the Board to oversee
the sustainability matters of the Group and he is supported by a
secretariat which is led by the Corporate Affairs & Legal Director
(CAL Director). The committee comprises members of the
Management Team who monitor the progress of sustainability
performance in the respective pillars. The CAL Director reports
to the Managing Director and the Board on a quarterly basis
on the progress of the sustainability priorities and initiatives
undertaken by the Group.
Further information about the Company’s approach to
sustainabilityaredisclosedintheESGReviewinthisAnnualReport.
The Sustainability Policy is available on the Company’s website at
https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/
Board Size, Composition and Diversity
Asofthedateofthisstatement,theBoardhasseven(7)Directors,
led by an Independent Non-Executive Chairman, and supported
by a Managing Director as well as five (5) Non-Executive
Directors. Three (3) of the Non-Executive Directors (including the
Chairman) are Independent Directors, representing 43% of the
Board whilst the remaining three (3) Non-Executive Directors are
Non-Independent Directors.
All the Directors are professionals of high calibre and integrity.
As a whole, the Board possesses a diverse set of skills, experience
and expertise in various fields including strategy and risk,
business and administration, finance and accounting, media and
public relations, legal and human resource which are necessary
for the overall Board and Board Committees’ effectiveness.
The primary responsibility of Independent Directors is to protect
the interests of minority shareholders and other stakeholders. They
play a key role in providing independent views and advice and their
effective participation serves to promote greater accountability
and balance in the Board’s decision-making process.
Mr Lau Nai Pek, the ARMC Chairman, has been designated as the
Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the Company. His
roles are defined in the Board Charter.
The Board acknowledged the practice recommended under the
MCCG for large companies to have a majority Independent
Non-Executive Directors in the Board. Based on the current
shareholding structure of the Company in which 51% of its
equity interest are held indirectly by Heineken NV via its wholly-
owned subsidiary, GAPL Pte Ltd, the Board was of the view that
Non-Independent
Non-Executive
Directors
Independent
Non-Executive
Directors
Executive
Director
14%
43%
43%
Board Composition
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
91
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
to fully leverage the experience of the HEINEKEN Group and to
ensure focus on long-term value creation, it is in its best interest
and that of its stakeholders that the Board includes a fair and
adequate representation of the major shareholders.
The Group recognises the importance of ensuring an inclusive
and diverse Board and has continued to maintain the right size
and balance of gender, ethnicity and age diversity with adequate
independent elements for effective functioning. The Board gives
appropriate weight to diversity considerations in the selection
and appointment process with a view to ensure that the Board
members are able to provide a range of perspectives, insights and
challenge required to support effective decision-making. The Board
diversity as of the date of this statement is depicted as follows:
57%
Male
43%
Female
The female representation on the Board has exceeded
the Malaysian Government’s target of 30% for public
listed companies.
Ethnic Diversity
Age Diversity
14%
28%
57%
57%
Others
Chinese
45-60 years Above 60 years
Bumiputera
43%
The Group has adopted the HeiCode and the HEINEKEN Human
Rights Policy which outline the principles of non-discrimination
without distinction according to, among others, race, gender,
nationality and age. Embracing a diversity and inclusion
culture that promotes diversity and gender equality across
the organisation will remain a key priority for the Group going
forward.
On the limitation of tenure of Independent Directors, the Board
is guided by the recommended approach under the MCCG.
Shareholders’ approval is sought for retention of Independent
Directors whose cumulative tenure exceeds the 9-year limit, failing
which he/she shall be re-designated as Non-Independent Director.
At the 58th AGM held in 2022, the Company has obtained
shareholders’ approval via a two-tier voting process to allow Datin
Ngiam Pick Ngoh, Linda, whose tenure had exceeded the 9-year
mark on 3 December 2021, to continue as an Independent Non-
Executive Director of the Company until the conclusion of the
forthcoming AGM.
Appointments to the Board
There is a formal and transparent process for selection,
nomination and appointment of suitable candidates to the
Board. The NRC is responsible to review the existing composition
of the Board, identifying the gaps and subsequently determining
the selection criteria for the new appointment with a view
to close the gap and to strengthen the Board composition. In
reviewing and recommending any new Director appointment
to the Board, the NRC assesses the suitability of candidate
identified based on his/her profile, professional knowledge and
experience taking into consideration the criteria set out in the
Directors’ Fit & Proper Policy. The NRC leverages on the Directors’
wide network of professional and business contacts as well as
and external sources to identify suitable qualified candidates
and conduct engagement sessions with shortlisted candidates
before its final recommendation to the Board for approval.
In order to promote objectivity and independent judgement in
line with the best practices of the MCCG, the Board will ensure
that no person is to be appointed as a Director of the Board or
continue to serve as a Director if the person is or becomes an
active politician. The Board also observes a cooling-off period of
three (3) years before any appointment of former audit partners
and its affiliates as Independent Directors to the Board.
Induction programme will be arranged for newly appointed
Directors to enable them to better understand the Group’s
business and operations, organizational structure and
management functions as well as issues and challenges facing
the Group and the industry. The Management Team members
will present their respective area of responsibility with an
overview of the key strategies and priorities of their function.
As part of the induction programme, a brewery tour will also be
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
92 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
arranged to provide greater understanding about the supply
chain operations.
Newly appointed Directors (if appointed for the first time in a
listed issuer) are also expected to complete the Mandatory
Accreditation Programme as required by Bursa Malaysia.
The Directors’ Fit & Proper Policy is available on the Company’s
website at https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/
Board Effectiveness Evaluation
On an annual basis, the Board through the NRC, evaluates the
Board’s collective performance by examining the effectiveness of
the structure and activities of the Board and Board Committees as
well as the contribution of Board members. For FY2022, the Board
engaged the Institute of Corporate Directors Malaysia (ICDM)
to conduct an independent and objective Board and Directors
Effectiveness Evaluation.
The evaluation was conducted by ICDM through a combination of
the following steps:
• Review of relevant corporate governance-related documents
in confidentiality.
• Directors and Management Team participated in online
surveys on the Board and Board Committees’ performance,
as well as individual Director’s self and peer evaluation.
• One-on-one confidential interviews with the Chairman and
each of the Directors.
• Performed a gap analysis on the Company’s governance
standards and practices versus the prescribed requirements
and best practices.
• Compilation of observations and recommendations based on
feedback gathered from the interviews, online surveys and
document review.
• Report the key observations and recommendations to the
Chairman and subsequently to the Board for consideration.
• Following the Board discussion, feedback and
recommendations for individual Directors were shared to the
Chairman and all Directors respectively.
Based on the evaluation, the Board concluded that the Board has
been effective in discharging its functions and duties, in that:
• Board members unanimously viewed the Chairman as
an inclusive and effective leader who is open-minded and
most knowledgeable. The Chairman provided room for the
Directors to voice their views and succinctly summarises their
observations, thus keeping the Board constantly focused
during every meeting. In addition, his extensive experience
and wide exposures have enabled him to effectively share
best practices of other boards he sits on and facilitate robust
discussions at meetings. All Board members have expressed
their utmost respect for the Chairman.
• Board members considered the Managing Director to be a
performing and capable leader, with a high level of passion,
enthusiasm and in-depth knowledge of the business,
culminating in the Managing Director earning the trust of the
Board and the Management Team.
• Board members were committed in discharging their fiduciary
duties where active and fruitful discussions were had with
participation by the Independent Directors at the Board level
and in the Board Committees. The Board members have a
good attendance record whilst the Board agenda, information
prior to meetings, minutes of meetings and preparation by
members met the standards of good corporate governance.
• The Board comprises a good mix and balance of experience,
skillsets, diversity in gender and is a qualified Board. The
Board has met the standards of corporate governance and
has established policies and processes in place to discharge
its duties and responsibilities.
• The Board worked as a team with emphasis on honest open
communications, trust, respect as well as driving the right level
of accountability and integrity. The relationships between the
Board members were generally friendly, collegial and new
members foundtheirfellow Directors supportive andavailable
for advice, if needed. In addition, the Management Team was
generally very receptive to the Board’s critical questioning and
challenges resulting in driving the Management performance
positively.
• With effective guidance and support of the Board, the
Management Team managed the crisis very well during
the pandemic years, with radical but good decisions being
made resulting in a strong recovery of the Group’s business
performance.
The Board deliberated on and agreed to implement the following
recommendations for enhancement:
• A dedicated session for the Board to discuss the Group’s
strategy plan.
• Establish a Board succession plan, refresh long serving
Independent Director and consider exploring independent
sources in identifying candidates for appointment of
Directors.
• Establish a more comprehensive on-boarding program for the
Board.
• Establish a structured annual training and development
plan for the Board (following findings from the technical
competencies of each individual Director) to enable the
Directors to continuously keep abreast of the emerging trends
and developments in sustainability, regulatory requirements
and other relevant areas.
• Board to consider additional forward-looking topics beyond
the normal meeting agenda.
• Board to have open discussion with the Managing Director
periodically for sharing of new insights.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
93
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
NRC
The NRC is entrusted by the Board to assist the Board with regard to its nomination and remuneration matters. As of the date of this
statement, The NRC comprises the following five (5) Non-Executive Directors, with majority being Independent Directors including
the Chairman:
Name Designation Date Appointed Years of Service
Dato’ Sri Idris Jala (Chairman) Independent Non-Executive Director 1 January 2017 6 years +
Datin Ngiam Pick Ngoh, Linda Independent Non-Executive Director 8 April 2013 9 years +
Choo Tay Sian, Kenneth* Non-Independent Non-Executive Director 26 October 2020 2 years +
Lau Nai Pek Senior Independent Non-Executive Director 22 May 2021 1 year +
Raquel Batallones Esguerra* Non-Independent Non-Executive Director 1 September 2021 1 year +
* Representing HEINEKEN, major shareholder of the Company.
The roles and responsibilities of the NRC are defined in the NRC’s Terms of Reference.
The Managing Director and the Company Secretary are in attendance in every meeting whilst the People Director attends the meeting
by invitation as and when required by the NRC. The NRC Meeting is normally held before or in conjunction with the Board Meeting.
When necessary, decisions are made via circular resolutions. At Board Meeting, the Chairman of the NRC reports to the Board on
matters deliberated at the NRC Meeting. During FY2022, the NRC had one (1) meeting with a 100% attendance rate.
During FY2022, the NRC deliberated and reported the following matters to the Board:
• Management’s proposals on short-term incentive payment and salary increment and promotion for the Group employees;
• Evaluation of effectiveness of the Board and the Board Committees and the Directors’ contribution in relation to the effective
decision-making of the Board and the independence of Independent Directors;
• Recommendation for re-election of retiring Directors at the Company’s AGM based on satisfactory evaluation of the Directors’
performance and contribution to the Board; and
• Recommendation for retention of Datin Ngiam Pick Ngoh, Linda, who had served on the Board beyond nine years, as Independent
Director of the Company.
The NRC’s Terms of Reference is available on the Company’s website at https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/.
Remuneration
The remuneration matters of the Group fall under the purview of the NRC. The NRC is guided by the following principles as stipulated
in the Remuneration Policy of the Company:
• Remuneration should reflect performance, complexity and responsibility with a view to attracting, motivating and retaining high
performance individuals and promoting the enhancement of the Company’s value to its shareholders.
• Remuneration practices are benchmarked against external market data through the use of remuneration surveys to ensure staff
are fairly remunerated.
• The process of remuneration management shall be transparent, conducted in good faith and in accordance with appropriate
levels of confidentiality.
The remuneration of the Management Team including the Managing Director is guided by the HEINEKEN Global Senior Management
Reward Policy. Their remuneration package consists of both fixed and performance-linked elements and a long-term incentive scheme.
Salaries payable to the Managing Director shall not include a commission on or percentage of the Group turnover. The Managing
Director is not entitled to annual fee nor any meeting allowances for the Board and Board Committees Meetings he attended. The
performance of the Managing Director is reviewed annually taking into consideration the corporate and individual performance.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
94 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
The remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors is based on
a standard fixed fee with the Chairman of the Board and the
Board Committees receiving additional allowance for additional
responsibilities and commitment required. An additional fee is
alsopaidtoNon-ExecutiveDirectorssittingonBoardCommittees.
A meeting allowance is paid for attendance at meetings of the
Board and Board Committees. The remuneration package for the
Non-Executive Directors is disclosed in the CG Report 2022.
The NRC is responsible to review the remuneration package for
the Non-Executive Directors to ensure the same is appropriately
reflective of experience and the level of responsibilities and
contributions; and competitive compared with the prevalent
market practices. Any changes to the remuneration package will
be presented to the Board for approval.
The Board, collectively, determines the remuneration of the
Non-Executive Directors based on the recommendation of the
NRC. Each of the Non-Executive Directors shall abstain from
deliberating and voting on their own remuneration. Fees of
Directors, and any benefits payable to Non-Executive Directors
shall be subject to shareholders’ approval at AGM.
At the 58th AGM held on 12 May 2022, shareholders’ approval
was sought for the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits
up to RM700,000 to the Non-Executive Directors for FY2022.
Total remuneration paid to the Non-Executive Directors of the
Company for FY2022 was RM661,950. The detailed breakdown
of the remuneration paid to the Directors, including the
Managing Director, of the Company who served during FY2022
is disclosed in the CG Report 2022.
The Remuneration Policy is available on the Company’s website
at https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/corporate-governance/
PRINCIPLE B
EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
ARMC
As of the date of this statement, the ARMC comprises three (3)
Non-Executive Directors, with a majority being Independent
Directors including the Chairman. The ARMC Chairman is not the
Chairman of the Board. All the members are financially literate,
they possess the appropriate level of expertise and experience
and have sufficient understanding of the Group business and
are able to objectively review, analyse, challenge and make
recommendations on matters under the purview of the ARMC
including the financial reporting process. None of the ARMC
members were former audit partners who are required to observe
a cooling-off period of at least three (3) years before being
appointed. Details of the composition and responsibilities of the
ARMC are set out in the Audit & Risk Management Committee
Report.
The Board via the NRC, evaluated the performance and
effectiveness of the ARMC for FY2022 and is satisfied that
the ARMC and its members have been able to discharge their
functions, duties and responsibilities in accordance with the
ARMC’s Terms of Reference.
The Board is responsible for ensuring that the Group’s financial
statements comply with the relevant financial reporting
standards and any other applicable legislations and regulations.
The Statement by the Directors in relation to the preparation
of the Group’s financial statements is set out in the Financial
Statements section of this Annual Report.
Suitability and Independence of External Auditors
The Board, through the ARMC, maintains a professional
relationship with the external auditors. The ARMC has explicit
authority to communicate directly with external auditors. The
ARMC meets the external auditors at least twice a year to discuss
their audit plan, audit findings and their reviews of the Group’s
financial statements. The ARMC also have private meetings
with the external auditors twice annually without the presence
of the Managing Director and the Management staff to discuss
areas of concerns, if any, or additional matters which may be
of a confidential nature; and the audit findings and any other
observations they may have during the audit process.
The ARMC assesses the independence and objectivity of the
external auditors in carrying out statutory audit for the Group
and prior to the engagement of non-audit services of the
external auditors. The external auditors, Messrs Deloitte PLT,
have confirmed that they have complied with the independence
requirements set out in the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics,
Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants
(By-Laws) and the International Code of Ethics for Professional
Accountants (including International Independence Standards)
of the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants
(IESBA Code) and that they have fulfilled their ethical
responsibilities in accordance with the said By-Laws and IESBA
Code.
The ARMC also reviews the nature of the non-audit services and
the related fee levels individually and in aggregate relative to the
audit fee to ensure they do not compromise their independence
and objectivity. The external auditors are engaged mainly to
perform statutory audit on the Group’s financial statements.
For FY2022, the external auditors also reviewed the reporting
deliverables to Deloitte Netherlands and the Company’s
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control. The fees
paid for the above services were reported in the Audit & Risk
Management Committee Report.
The ARMC considers the re-appointment and terms of
engagement of the external auditors, guided by the following
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
95
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
criteria and the assessment performed by HEINEKEN Global at
the global level:
• Technical and competencies of the audit team
• Adequacy of resources and relevant specialist/experts
deployed to conduct the audit
• Audit scope and planning taking into consideration the size
and complexity of the Group
• Audit communications to the ARMC
• Audit and non-audit fees
• Independence and objectivity
Risk Management and Internal Control
The Board is also responsible for ensuring the Group has in place
an effective risk management and internal control system to
manage and mitigate significant risks across the Group and to
safeguard stakeholders’ interests and the Group’s assets. The
Group adopted the HEINEKEN Risk Management and Internal
Control Systems which enable Management to identify, assess,
prioritise and manage risks on a continuous and systematic basis.
The Board, through the ARMC continually reviews the adequacy,
integrity and effectiveness of the risk management and internal
control systems to ensure that the same are soundly conceived,
in place, effectively administered and regularly monitored.
As an integral part of the risk management and internal control
systems, an assessment is also performed under the HEINEKEN
Risk and Control Matrix compliance programme on the internal
controls surrounding the Group financial reporting process on
an annual basis, focusing on transparency, accountability and
safeguarding of the Group’s assets. Outcome of the assessment
is reported to the ARMC during their quarterly meetings.
The Internal Audit function, which is performed in-house, assists
the ARMC and the Management in the effective discharge of
their responsibilities in respect of risk management, internal
control and governance. It is guided by its Charter and its
principal responsibility is to provide independent and objective
reviews on the Group’s internal control system so as to ensure
that controls which are instituted are appropriate and can
effectively address acceptable risk exposures. The Internal Audit
function also ensures that recommendations to improve controls
are followed through by Management.
The Internal Audit function, which is led by the Head of
Corporate Assurance, has a clear line of reporting to the ARMC
and its performance is reviewed by the ARMC on an annual
basis. The ARMC also reviews the internal audit plan including
the adequacy of the audit scope, approach, methodology,
resources and authority of the Internal Audit function in carrying
out its audit activities. It is independent of the operational
and management activities they audit. Further information on
the Internal Audit function were reported in the Audit & Risk
Management Committee Report.
Based on the evaluation carried out by the ARMC on the
performance of the Internal Audit function for FY2022, the
Internal Audit function was found to be effective and able to
function independently in discharging its responsibilities in that it
provided value added recommendations that helped strengthen
the internal controls within the Group.
The Board is of the view that the overall risk management
and internal control systems in place for FY2022 are operating
adequately and effectively for the purpose of safeguarding
the Group’s assets, as well as shareholders’ investments and
the interests of customers, employees and other stakeholders.
The key features of the risk management and internal control
systems are set out in the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control.
PRINCIPLE C
INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL
RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
Communication with Stakeholders
The Company acknowledges the importance of timely and equal
dissemination of material information to shareholders, investors
and public at large. It continued to maintain an active and
proactive communication approach with its shareholders and
other stakeholders to facilitate mutual understanding of each
other’s objectives and expectations.
The Company is guided by the disclosure requirements of the
Main Market Listing Requirements along with the Corporate
Disclosure Guide issued by Bursa Securities and the HEINEKEN
Media Policy and HEINEKEN Financial Disclosure Guidelines
which stipulate the authorised spokesperson through which/
whom certain information shall be disclosed to internal and
external stakeholders with specific guidance on the disclosure
of material information, maintenance of confidentiality of
information and dissemination of information.
The Company’s Annual Report remains a key channel of
communication with the Group’s stakeholders in that it provides
a comprehensive review on the Group’s key financial and non-
financial performance. The Company disseminates its annual
report to its shareholders on a timely basis. The report is also
made available to shareholders electronically as soon as it is
published.
The Company leverages on various communication platforms
to reach out to shareholders and stakeholders. These include
among others, announcements via Bursa LINK, disclosures
on the Company’s website, bi-annually results briefings with
analysts, fund managers and media, engagements through the
Investor Relations function and the Company’s social media. In
2022, numerous engagement activities were carried out by the
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
96 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Company to engage its stakeholders. Details of the engagement
activities are reported in the Stakeholder Engagement section
within the ESG Review in this Annual Report.
Conduct of General Meetings
AGM is a principal platform for Directors and Management Team
to engage shareholders to provide them a greater understanding
of the Group’s business, governance and performance. Prior to
the AGM, shareholders were notified on the meeting and the
relevant reports were published via the Company’s and Bursa
Malaysia’s website at least twenty-eight (28) clear days ahead
of the meeting and they were allowed to send pre-meeting
questions in relation to the AGM agenda items to the Tricor’s
TIIH Online website.
In 2022, the Company’s AGM was conducted entirely on a virtual
basis using the remote participation and voting (RPV) facilities.
Save for Ms Raquel Batallones Esguerra who was absent due to
other meeting commitment abroad, all other Board members
were present at the broadcast venue together with the external
auditor, the Company Secretary and the Finance Director whilst
some of the Management Team members were also present at
the AGM.
At the AGM, a comprehensive review of the Group’s business
and financial performance together with an overview of the
Group’s activities, key challenges, market outlook the Group’s
strategies and priorities for the ensuring year was presented by
the Managing Director. Shareholders were given the opportunity
and time to submit real-time questions, provide comments
or suggestions for improvement and cast their votes via the
RPV facilities. The Chairman, on behalf of the Board, and the
Managing Director also addressed questions submitted in
advance by shareholders including the Minority Shareholder
Watch Group. A scrutineer was appointed to validate the votes
cast at the AGM, after which, the poll results were announced
and published on the Company’s website and via Bursa LINK
on the same day after the meeting. Minutes of AGM together
with the written response to relevant questions raised were also
published on the Company’s website within 30 business days
after the AGM.
TheCompanywillcontinuetoleveragetechnologytoenhancethe
quality of engagement and to ease shareholder’s participation
at AGM.
LOOKING AHEAD
The Board will continue to ensure the Group maintains a robust
governance framework and embraces an ethical corporate
culture by strengthening its sustainability governance whilst
ensuring all material risks are managed appropriately to deliver
sustainable growth and performance for the Group.
This CG Overview Statement was approved by the Board on
20 March 2023.
Corporate Governance Overview Statement
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
97
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report
The Audit & Risk Management Committee (ARMC) comprises
the following three (3) Non-Executive Directors, with a majority
being Independent Directors including the Chairman:
Name Designation Date Appointed
Years of
Service
Lau Nai Pek
(Chairman)
Senior
Independent
Director
22 May 2021 1 year +
Datin Ngiam
Pick Ngoh,
Linda
Independent
Director
21 August 2014 8 years +
Choo Tay Sian,
Kenneth*
Non-
Independent
Director
26 October 2020 2 year +
* Representing HEINEKEN, major shareholder of the Company.
Mr Lau Nai Pek is a member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants whilst Mr Choo Tay Sian, Kenneth is a Chartered
Accountant and a member of the Institute of Singapore
Chartered Accountants. Accordingly, the Company complies with
Paragraph 15.09(1) of the Main Market Listing Requirements of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The representation of the major shareholder in the ARMC is
essential in that it provides an avenue for the major shareholder’s
representative to share insights on HEINEKEN Global best
practices and learning with the Company. None of the ARMC
members were former audit partners who are required to observe
a cooling-off period of at least three (3) years before being
appointed.
The ARMC discharges its functions according to its Terms of
Reference in that it assists the Board in fulfilling its statutory
duties and responsibilities by ensuring:
• accurate and timely financial reporting and compliance with
applicable financial reporting standards;
• adequate internal control in the systems and processes
which enable the Company and its subsidiaries (Group) to
operate effectively and efficiently;
• that an effective risk management framework is in place to
manage risks impacting the Group;
• that Internal Audit functions effectively and audits
are performed by external auditors objectively and
independently; and
• the Group complies with applicable laws, rules and
regulations and has in place an appropriate code of
business conduct that covers policies on, among others,
bribery, fraud, conflicts of interest and Speak Up on concerns
about suspected misconduct within the Group or potential
violation of the code.
The Terms of Reference of the ARMC is available on the
Company’s website at https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/
corporate-governance/.
ACTIVITIES OF THE ARMC
During the financial year ended 31 December 2022 (FY2022),
the ARMC had four (4) meetings with a 100% attendance rate.
The Managing Director, the Finance Director and the Head of
Corporate Assurance of the Company normally attend the
meetings. When necessary, certain members of the Management
Team will be invited to the meetings to assist in clarifying matters
raised at the meeting.
The main activities carried out by the ARMC during FY2022 were
as follows:
Financial Reporting
• Reviewed the quarterly financial reports to Bursa Malaysia
based on the Group’s financial performance, borrowings and
cashflow positions as well as its performance outlook.
• Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the
Group including the pertinent disclosures in the notes to the
financial statements.
Risk Management and Internal Control
• Reviewed the top ten (10) risks and emerging risks together
with the risk mitigating measures and the progress of
mitigating actions on a quarterly basis. Illicit trade, growing
conservatism, fraud, increase in excise duty and tax
expense, cyber security risks, rising input costs, supply chain
disruptions, environmental risks and employee health and
safety were among the key risk areas deliberated.
• Reviewed the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk
management and internal control framework based on the
following self-assessment performed by Management:
(i) business self-assessment under the HEINEKEN Risk
and Control Matrix compliance programme which
assesses the Group’s internal controls over financial
reporting; and
(ii) control self-assessment which focuses on the
implementation and execution of the mandatory
standards and procedures under the HEINEKEN
Rules that describe the boundaries within which the
Group can operate, with the objectives of protecting
the Group's assets and reputation.
• Reviewed the control issues reported in the BWise system,
an online risk management reporting system which tracks
key processes compliance, on a quarterly basis to ensure all
key risks and control issues were effectively addressed.
• ReviewedkeychangestotheHEINEKENRulesandadditional
actions required to ensure compliance.
98 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report
• Reviewed the implementation of non-financial reporting
controls in line with the Brew a Better World strategy.
• Reviewed the amendments to the Statement of Authority
which documents the approval limits and approving
processes related to the Group’s business and operations.
Internal Audit
• Reviewed the internal audit annual plan including the
adequacy of the audit scope, approach, methodology,
resources and authority of the Internal Audit function in
carrying out its audit activities.
• Reviewed the quarterly internal audit reports which
encompassed the audit issues, audit opinion or conclusion,
audit recommendations, Management’s responses to
these recommendations and improvement actions in the
area of internal controls, systems and process efficiency
enhancements; and suggested additional improvement
opportunities in the said areas.
• Reviewed the progress of the implementation of audit
recommendations on a quarterly basis to ensure all key risks
and control gaps were addressed.
• Reviewed outcome of ad-hoc investigations/special reviews
conducted by the Internal Audit function on matters reported
via the Speak Up channel concerning misconduct and
suspicion of fraud or operational failures within the Group.
• Reviewed the effectiveness of the audit process, resource
requirements for the year and assessed the performance
and contributions of the Internal Audit function as well as
the competency and performance of the Head of Corporate
Assurance.
External Audit
• Reviewed the external audit plan including the significant
accounting and auditing issues and potential financial
implication of climate-related risks and impact of new
or proposed changes in accounting standards and
regulatory requirements applicable to the Group prior to
commencement of annual statutory audit by the external
auditors.
• Reviewed the external audit findings and observations
and the accompanying management reports and
representation, focusing particularly on key audit matters
and key accounting and audit adjustments.
• Held two private sessions with the external auditors without
the presence of the Management in conjunction with the
ARMC meetings in February 2022 and November 2022.
The ARMC enquired about Management’s co-operation
with the external auditors, their sharing of information,
proficiency and adequacy of resources in financial reporting
functions and key areas of concern or issues encountered
by the external auditors during their audit. The ARMC was
satisfied that there were no areas of concern on the process
for the year end audit, full cooperation was extended to the
auditors and no information was being withheld from the
auditors.
• Obtained written assurance from the external auditors to
confirm on their independence and objectivity in performing
statutory audit. Deloitte PLT have confirmed that they
are and have been independent throughout the conduct
of the audit engagement in accordance with the terms
of all relevant professional and regulatory requirements.
The ARMC was satisfied that they were not likely to create
any conflict of interest nor impair the independence and
objectivity of the external auditors.
• Evaluated the performance of the external auditors taking
into consideration the competencies, the quality of the audit
deliverables and the resource capacity of the audit team.
The ARMC was satisfied with the work performed by Deloitte
PLT and recommended to the Board on their re-appointment
and remuneration for FY2022. The re-appointment of
external auditors will be tabled at the forthcoming Annual
General Meeting for shareholders’ approval.
For FY2022, the fees paid/payable to the external auditors,
Deloitte PLT in relation to the audit and non-audit services
rendered to the Company and the Group are as follows:
Company
RM’000
Group
RM’000
Statutory audit services 136 214
Non-audit services
(i) Review of reporting
deliverables to Deloitte
Netherlands 30 30
(ii) Review of the Statement
on Risk Management and
Internal Control 10 10
176 254
The ARMC believes that the provision of these services by the
external auditors to the Group was fair and reasonable given the
scope of the audit and the size of the Group business as well
as their knowledge and understanding of the Group operations,
and they did not compromise their independence and objectivity.
Related Party Transactions (RPT)
• Reviewed the quarterly recurrent RPT entered into by the
Company and the Group to ensure transactions with related
parties were carried out within the mandate approved by
shareholders.
• Reviewed the proposed shareholders’ mandate for recurrent
RPT to be entered into by the Group for the ensuing year.
• Reviewed the processes that the Company has in place for
identifying, evaluating, approving, reporting and monitoring
of recurrent RPT based on the assurance from the Internal
Audit function.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
99
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report
Others
• Reviewed Management’s recommendation on dividend
distribution for FY2022, taking into consideration of the
Group’s earnings and cashflow requirements and its solvency
position.
• Reviewed the potential impact of the material litigation
involving the Company and its operating subsidiary
(Companies) which was disclosed under Note 26 of the
Group’s Audited Financial Statements, and the Companies’
legal position against the litigation case.
• Reviewed issues raised by the tax authority arising from a tax
audit and the mitigating measures and actions undertaken
by Management to address the issues.
During FY2022, the ARMC Chairman had two meetings with the
external auditors and had separate meetings with the Managing
Director, Finance Director and the Head of Corporate Assurance
prior to every scheduled ARMC Meeting.
The ARMC Chairman reports to the Board on matters deliberated
and highlighted significant matters including unusual events or
transactions for Board’s attention. The ARMC has provided useful
recommendations in assisting the Board in making informed
decisions and enabling effective functioning of the Board.
The ARMC has unrestricted access to any information pertaining
to the Group enabling it to discharge its duties effectively.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The ARMC is supported by the Internal Audit function in
discharging its duties and responsibilities. The Internal Audit
function is an integral part of the assurance framework and its
principal role is to undertake independent and systematic reviews
of the Group's internal control system so as to provide objective
assurance on the adequacy, integrity and effectiveness of the
Group’s risk management, internal controls, anti-bribery and
anti- corruption, Speak Up and the overall governance processes.
The Internal Audit function is performed in-house under the
purview of the Corporate Assurance Department (CAD) which
oversees both internal audit and process & control improvement
(P&CI) matters. The CAD is headed by Mr Eugene Ding Diew Ping
who reports functionally to the ARMC and administratively to
the Managing Director and the Finance Director for P&CI related
matters. The Internal Audit function does not have any direct
operational responsibility or authority over any of the activities
it audits nor has it engaged in any activity that might impair
the internal auditor’s judgement. All the internal audit staff had
confirmed via an annual declaration that they were free from
any relationships or conflict of interests which could impair their
objectivity and independence.
The Head of CAD, Mr Eugene Ding Diew Ping, is a holder of a
Bachelor’s Degree of Business (Accounting) from the University
of Technology Sydney, Australia. He is a Chartered Accountant of
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants and a Chartered Member
of the Institute of Internal Auditors Malaysia (IIAM). He has
over twenty (20) years of internal audit experience. Currently,
he is supported by a P&CI Manager who is assisted by a P&CI
Executive; and an Internal Audit Manager assisted by an Internal
Audit Executive. During FY2022, relevant trainings were provided
to the internal audit team to enhance their competencies.
The Internal Audit function is guided by an Internal Audit Charter
approved by the ARMC. The charter sets out the purpose, scope,
responsibility and authority of the function.
The Internal Audit function carried out its activities based on
the Internal Audit Plan approved by the ARMC. The Internal
Audit Plan is developed based on the risk profiles identified in
accordance with the Group’s Risk Management Framework and in
consultation with the Management Team. The ARMC reviews the
extent of the audit scope and coverage of the Group’s activities;
and the adequacy, competency and the internal audit resources
to support the completion of the plan. At the quarterly ARMC
meetings, the Head of CAD reports to the ARMC on the progress
of internal audit activities and the resource requirements,
including interim changes and the impact of resource limitations.
The report to the ARMC also covers significant risk and control
issues, including fraud risks, governance issues and other matters
that require the ARMC’s attention.
In carrying out the audit activities, the Internal Audit function
has adopted the International Standards for the Professional
Practice of Internal Auditing (IIA Standards) issued by the
International Internal Audit Standards Board. The internal audit
staff adhere to the Code of Ethics adopted by the IIA which sets
out, among others, the principles relevant to the profession and
practice of internal auditing and the rules of conduct expected
of internal auditors.
The Internal Audit function maintains a Quality Assurance and
Improvement Programme (QAIP) to evaluate the internal audit
activity’s conformance with the IIA Standards and the Code of
Ethics. The QAIP includes periodic internal self-assessment and
external assessment to be conducted at least once every five
(5) years by a qualified independent assessor or assessment
team from outside the organisation. The external assessment is
scheduled to be carried out in the second half of 2023.
During FY2022, the Internal Audit function completed eighteen
(18) audit assignments which included four (4) investigative
audits on matters reported via the Speak Up channel and
requested by Management. The audits were performed using a
risk-based approach followed by root-cause analysis and were
consistent with the Group’s established framework in designing,
100 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
implementing and monitoring of its internal control systems. The
audit covered various operational areas within the Group, which
included:
• Regional sales offices and distributors’ warehouse safety
standards.
• Third party vendors’ compliance with the minimum wage
requirements and the working hours limit prescribed in the
Employment Act 1955 and their workers’ living conditions.
• Trade activities in selected outlets in East Malaysia.
• Safety, health and environment standards in workplace.
• Management of returnable packaging materials.
• Accounts payable process.
• Employees’ disclosure on conflict of interest.
• Recurrent RPT.
Findings from the audits were highlighted to Management who
are responsible for ensuring that the agreed action plans to
address the reported weaknesses are implemented within the
requiredtimeframe.Onaregularbasis,theInternalAuditfunction
reviewed the status of implementation of the recommended
actions and preventive measures. The audit findings, audit
opinion or conclusion and the status of implementation of the
action plan were reported to the Risk and Control Workgroup and
presented to the ARMC for review at their respective quarterly
meetings.
The Internal Audit function also works collaboratively with the
P&CI team to review the risk management process of the Group
as a whole.
The total expenses incurred by the Internal Audit function
in discharging its functions and responsibilities for FY2022
amounted to RM883,000 (FY2021: RM780,000). The expenses
incurred comprised mostly of salaries and departmental
overheads.
The ARMC had evaluated the performance of the Internal
Audit function for FY2022 and was satisfied with the overall
performanceofthefunctionasithadbeeneffectiveinperforming
its duties. The Internal Audit function also provided value added
recommendations to the organisation, strengthening its internal
controls, improving efficiency of processes whilst enabling cost
savings, and was able to function independently.
EFFECTIVENESS OF ARMC
The Board, via the Nomination & Remuneration Committee,
reviewed the composition and performance of the ARMC
through its annual Board and Board Committees effectiveness
evaluation. Based on the evaluation conducted for FY2022,
the Board was of the view that the present composition in the
ARMC was appropriate in that the ARMC members possess the
appropriatelevelofexpertiseandexperience.Theyhavesufficient
understanding of the Group’s business and are able to objectively
review, analyse, challenge and make recommendations on
matters under the purview of the ARMC including the financial
reporting process. During the year, all members of the ARMC
have attended various development and learning programmes to
keep themselves abreast of current developments in the market
place and changes in the statutory and regulatory requirements.
The Board agreed that the ARMC had continued to support the
Board in matters related to the Group’s financial and audit, risk
management and internal control. The Board was also satisfied
that the ARMC has effectively discharged its functions, duties
and responsibilities in accordance with its Terms of Reference in
that it had provided useful recommendations to the Board for
better decision-making and consequently made Board Meetings
more efficient and effective.
This report was approved by the Board on 20 March 2023.
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
101
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control
The Board of Directors (the Board) is pleased to present this Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Control, which outlines the nature and key elements of the risk management and internal control systems
of Heineken Malaysia Berhad (HEINEKEN Malaysia or the Company) and its subsidiaries (the Group) for
the financial year ended 31 December 2022 (FY2022). This statement is prepared in accordance with
the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control – Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers
which is in line with Paragraph 15.26(b) of the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Main Market Listing
Requirements (MMLR) and Principle B of the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (MCCG).
BOARD’S RESPONSIBILITY
The Board is responsible and accountable for the Group’s systems of risk management and internal control and for reviewing the
effectiveness, adequacy and integrity of the system. In this regard, the Board is assisted by the Audit & Risk Management Committee
(ARMC) who is responsible to ensure that appropriate methods and procedures are adopted in the risk management and internal
control activities and to obtain the level of assurance required by the Board.
BUSINESS FRAMEWORK
As part of the HEINEKEN Group, the Group has adopted the HEINEKEN Business Framework (the Business Framework) established
by Heineken NV. The Framework articulates the key elements that the Company relies on to operate effectively and deliver long-term
value creation whilst protecting the Company’s people, assets and reputation.
HEINEKEN’s Purpose, Dream and Values underpin the HEINEKEN’s EverGreen strategy, enabled by our organizational structure and strong
governance. The behaviours provide clear guidance to all employees on how to act and foster a culture of achievement, collaboration
and growth, underpinned by a Behaviours Framework that reflects the expected attitude in decision-making, including risk taking.
Our Purpose, Our Dream and Our Values
Code of Business Conduct
How we behave
Policies
Risk Management
How we manage risk
Monitoring and Assurance
HEINEKEN Rules
How we work
Laws and regulations
Standards and Procedures
EverGreen
Governance
How we govern internally
Behaviours
How we act
Execution and Change Management
People Processes Systems Data
Continuous Risk Management supports the achievement of business objectives based on our Risk Assessment Cycle, the HEINEKEN
Code of Business Conduct (HeiCode) and the HEINEKEN Rules (HeiRules). As part of the Risk Assessment Cycle, the Management
Team reviews and updates the risks faced by the Group on a continuous basis throughout the year. The HeiCode and its underlying
policies set out the Group’s commitment to conduct business with integrity and fairness, and respect for the law and our values. The
HeiRules articulate how we work and the standards to which we commit. They are a key element for managing the risks faced by our
Company and translate our objectives into clear instructions on how to conduct our daily business.
The Group’s systems of risk management and internal control, which are based on the Committee on Sponsoring Organisations
(COSO) Enterprise Risk Management and Internal Control Reference model, form a fundamental part of the Business Framework.
102 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
How we do Business
Risk management is an integral part of how we do business, and is at
the core of HEINEKEN Business Framework
How it is Structured
To manage risks, we are
structured around the HEINEKEN
3 Lines of Defence model
How it is Embedded
Risk management is embedded
in operations at all levels of the
organisation
RISK
MANAGEMENT
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
RISK MANAGEMENT
Risks is an important element when opportunities are assessed
and strategies set. At HEINEKEN Malaysia, risk management is an
integralpartofdoingbusiness,supportedbygoodgovernance.The
Group has adopted the HEINEKEN Risk Management Framework
(the Risk Management Framework) which is embedded within the
Business Framework. The Risk Management Framework addresses
the risks the Group inevitably faces in achieving its strategy.
Managing risks in a conscious manner increases the likelihood
of delivering our strategies and business objectives. The Group
has adopted a proactive approach to ensure risk management is
embedded in our processes for effective decision-making which is
essential to create and preserve the Group’s long-term value.
The Risk Management Framework comprises a four-step process
and is supported by six (6) key pillars:
Objectives
Strategic and business objectives are aligned to the
Group strategy
Risks
Risk assessment is performed on identified risk based on
impact and likelihood of occurrence
Actions & Controls
Management actions to mitigate the identified risk
are periodically monitored
Evaluation
Management action plan is reviewed as part
of business performance review and risk assessment cycle
Key Pillars
Structure
Risk management is an integral part of how we do
business and is embedded in operations at all levels
of the organisation.
Governance & Performance
Risk management aligns with the organisational
governance with a strong tone at the top.
Processes & Tasks
Processes are key for effective risk management, this
is done via a four-step process embedded into our
daily activities.
People & Competencies
Having people with the right mindset and behaviour,
equipped to address opportunities, risks and required
actions.
Reward & Recognition
Employees are recognised for their contributions
towards risk management.
Information & Systems
Utilising risk management information system that
contains a comprehensive database of key risks faced
by the Group.
Risk Management supports the achievement of our objectives,
through more effective decision making.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
103
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
The risk profile of the Group is established during the risk assessment sessions with the Management Team. This exercise is facilitated
by the Process & Control Improvement (P&CI) Team and is fully embedded as a key activity of the Risk and Control Workgroup
(RCW). At each assessment session, members of the Management Team are engaged to identify and review key risk areas within
their responsible function and they are responsible to ensure the adequacy and effectiveness of mitigating plans to manage the risks
identified. The risks landscape as well as the mitigation plans are assessed and categorised based on the level of impact and likelihood
as set out in the following Risk Management Matrix adopted by the Group:
IMPACT RISK MANAGEMENT MATRIX
Major Medium Medium High High Major
Significant Medium Medium Medium High High
Moderate Low Medium Medium Medium High
Minor Low Low Medium Medium Medium
Insignificant Low Low Low Low Medium
Nearly Impossible Unlikely Possible Likely Almost Certain
Likelihood
The identified risks will be mapped out in a heat map and ranked according to the level of risk and impact and the same will be tabled
to the Management Team at the quarterly RCW meeting. In determining the most appropriate responses to be taken to address the
risks, the following risk mitigation strategy will be applied:
Risk
Response
Actions
Take
Accept the risk, the probability
and possible impact on the
business are accepted
transfer
Decide to pass the risk or costs of
the impact outside the organisation,
through third party contracts or take out
insurance to cover the costs of the impact
treat
Take action to reduce the risk by
lessening the impact. This can
involve improved procedures
and internal controls
terminate
Decide to eliminate the risk by
terminating the activity or the
pursuance of the objective that
causes the risk
104 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
For the managing of risk management activities, the Group applies the “Three-lines of Defence” model as follows:
Board and ARMC
First Line – Management
Ownership and Responsibility
Management is ultimately
responsible for identifying, assessing
and mitigating risks.
The above is supported by assurance activities carried out by the external auditors whose responsibility is to evaluate and
provide independent and objective assurance on the financial statements and risk management processes including reliability of
information, compliance with regulations and procedures; and efficient and effective use of resources.
Second Line – P&CI
Support, Improvement and
Monitoring
Management is supported by
the P&CI Team that oversees
compliance with the Group policies,
processes and controls, facilitates
the implementation of effective risk
management practices and drives
continuous improvements of internal
controls.
Third Line – Internal Audit
Independent, Objective Assurance
Internal Audit function is tasked
to review key processes, projects
and systems based on the Group’s
strategic priorities and most
significant risk areas and provide
independent and objective assurance
on the effectiveness of governance,
risk management and internal control
processes.
The RCW, which is made up of members of the Management
Team and is chaired by the Managing Director, oversees the areas
of risk management and internal control of the Group. It meets
on a quarterly basis to review the risk management activities
and internal control issues raised. Matters deliberated in the
RCW meetings are reported to the ARMC. The RCW is supported
by the P&CI Team who is tasked to oversee compliance with the
Group’s Risk Management and Internal Control Systems and
drive continuous process improvements.
The P&CI Team, which comprises a P&CI Manager and a
P&CI Executive, is a function within the Corporate Assurance
Department (CAD) which oversees both internal audit and P&CI
matters. The Head of CAD reports functionally to the ARMC
and administratively to the Managing Director and the Finance
Director for P&CI related matters.
INTERNAL CONTROLS
As an integral part of the Framework, internal control activities
are carried out with the aim of providing reasonable assurance
as to the accuracy of financial information, non-financial
disclosures, the Company’s compliance with applicable laws and
internal policies, and the effectiveness of internal processes.
The internal controls are defined in HeiRules, which comprise
all mandatory standards and procedures including financial
reporting, IT and Tax. On an annual basis, a Control Self-
Assessment (CSA) is performed by each function to assess the
implementation and execution of the mandatory standards
and procedures required under the HeiRules. The Group has
also adopted the HEINEKEN’s Risk and Control Matrix (RACM)
compliance programme that focuses on internal controls over
financial reporting. The RACM assessment is performed on key
controls surrounding the Group’s financial reporting process
based on materiality level; and it focuses on transparency,
accountability and safeguarding of assets.
The P&CI Team coordinates both CSA and RACM assessments on
an annual basis. The assessments are performed by competent
assessors and the outcome are tested by qualified reviewers.
The P&CI Team discusses non-compliance areas, if any, and
control deficiencies with relevant process owners and reports it
in a monitoring tool whilst ensuring the necessary remediation
action plan is in place. Completed actions are then retested
to ensure adequate remediation. Deficiencies, if any, will be
assessed and reported to the RCW and the ARMC during their
quarterly meetings.
INTERNAL AUDIT
The Internal Audit function is performed in-house under the
purview of the CAD. The primary role of the Internal Audit
function is to undertake independent and systematic reviews
of the Group’s internal control system so as to provide objective
assurance on the adequacy, integrity and effectiveness of the
Group’s risk management, internal controls, anti-bribery/anti-
corruption, Speak Up and the overall governance processes
within the Group.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
105
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
The Internal Audit function has a clear reporting line to the
ARMC and its performance is reviewed by the ARMC annually.
It is independent of the operational and management activities
they audit and have unrestricted access to information, records,
physical properties, and personnel, in order for it to complete the
audit assignments.
Audits are carried out based on the Internal Audit Plan
approved by the ARMC. The audit plan is developed based on
the risk profiles identified in accordance with the Group’s Risk
Management Framework in consultation with the Management
Team. The audit reports which highlight significant findings
and audit recommendations in respect on the effectiveness of
governance, risk management and internal control processes are
presented to the RCW and the ARMC at their quarterly meetings.
Details of activities carried out by the Internal Audit function
during FY2022 are further disclosed in the Audit & Risk
Management Committee Report.
KEY ELEMENTS OF RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL
CONTROL SYSTEMS
The key elements of the Group’s risk management and internal
controls system are described below:
Authority and Responsibility
• As part of the Risk Management Framework, and in line with
the MCCG, the Board has an organizational structure with
clearly defined lines of accountability and responsibilities
and delegated authority to the Board Committees and the
Management to ensure they discharge their duties. Matters
concerning risk management and internal controls are
under the purview of the ARMC that is chaired by the Senior
Independent Director.
• There is a schedule of key matters reserved specifically
for Board deliberation and decision. The Group practices
segregation of duties to ensure that specific tasks or duties
within related business processes or associated with the
systems supporting business processes are allocated to
different employees, to prevent unintentional or fraudulent
transactions.
• Internal policies and procedures of core business processes
together with limits of authority delegated to appropriate
levels of employees are documented and stored in a
document repository portal. These documents are subject to
review and improvements to reflect changing risks or resolve
operational deficiencies.
Monitoring, Reporting and Performance Measurement
• The Management Team meets on a monthly basis to
review business performance, identify, discuss and resolve
operational, financial and key management issues. On a
quarterly basis, the Managing Director reports to the Board
on key business and operational issues covering, but not
limited to strategy, performance, resources and regulatory
compliance.
• The RCW meets on a quarterly basis to review risk
management and internal control activities and discuss
risk mitigation strategies and follow-up on action plans
implemented in response to matters raised as a result of
reviews, assessments and tests performed by the P&CI Team
and the internal/external auditors.
• Compliance audit in line with the ISO 9001:2015 Quality
Management System and the Hazard Analysis Critical
Control Point (HACCP) requirements are conducted based
on the frequency determined by the Ministry of Health to
monitor compliance with product safety requirements.
• The Group has adopted the HEINEKEN’s Information
Security Maturity Assessment (ISMA) framework as part of
the Group’s internal control to protect and detect threats
against the Company’s information systems. Quarterly ISMA
assessment is performed to evaluate the strength of the
Group’s information security management system and the
effectiveness of the Group’s cyber security risk management
measures.
• The annual planning process involves respective functions
preparing and reviewing their strategies and activity plans
including budgets before a new financial year commences.
The annual plan which embeds the budget is reviewed
by the Management Team and approved by the Board.
Monthly review of performance and expenditure versus
the plan is carried out by the Management Team to ensure
effectiveness of execution and spends are managed in
line with the strategic and financial objectives of the
organisation. Performance gaps or key variances, if any, are
followed up and addressed by respective functions.
• Regularstakeholderengagementswithemployees,investors,
analysts, media, trade partners and relevant authorities are
held to better gauge the needs of the stakeholders and
gather feedback for continuous improvements.
• On behalf of the Management Team, the Managing Director
and the Finance Director sign-off a bi-annual Letter of
Representation to the Chief Financial Officer of Heineken NV,
demonstrating management’s accountability over financial
and non-financial reporting disclosures, financial reporting
controls, compliance with the HeiCode and HeiRules and
reporting of fraud and irregularities.
Integrity and Ethical Values
• The Group has adopted the HeiCode which governs the
standards of ethics and responsible business conduct
expected from employees at all levels. The HeiCode has
embedded seventeen (17) policies which covers all aspects
of the Group’s business operations, categorised under
four (4) broad areas namely, Responsible Consumption,
Respect People and the Planet, Conducting Business with
106 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Integrity and Fairness and Safeguarding of Company’s
Assets. The four areas cover responsible alcohol
consumption; commitment to health and safety, human
rights and sustainable initiatives, equal opportunities and
no discrimination, avoidance and disclosure of conflicts
of interest, insider trading, management of intellectual
property and confidential information, privacy and
data protection; fair competition practices, responsible
communication, fraud, bribery, offering and acceptance
of gifts, entertainment, hospitality and donations, money
laundering and sanctions; and business partner governance.
On a yearly basis, all employees are required to disclose to
the Company if there is a possible conflict between their
interest and that of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
This is to ensure decisions within the Group are based on
sound and objective business judgement, not influenced by
any possible personal interests or gain.
• The Group has taken proactive actions to ensure the
business partners share our values and commitment towards
responsible business conduct. Our distributors and suppliers
adopt the HEINEKEN Distributor Code of Conduct and the
HEINEKEN Supplier Code in running their business, further
details on this were set out under ‘Other policies’ below. A
due-diligence tool was implemented to identify, assess
and remedy risks associated with third parties engaged by
the Group including suppliers and distributors. Bribery and
corruption are among the risks to be assessed by the tool.
• The Group also adopted the HEINEKEN Speak Up Policy,
which provides employees and stakeholders a standard
process to raise concerns about suspected misconducts
within the Group in confidence and without fear of
retaliation. Speak Up allows and encourages employees and
stakeholders to report suspected misconducts through their
line managers, to a colleague in the people or legal function
or to trusted representatives appointed by the Company.
The Speak Up service is managed by an independent third
party appointed by Heineken NV and is available 24/7,
365 days a year. Reports can be made online or via a phone
call. All Speak Up reports are handled by a Case Manager
who works under the supervision of the HEINEKEN Global
Integrity Committee which comprises representatives from
the HEINEKEN Business Conduct Office, Global Audit, Global
People and Global Legal Affairs. The Speak Up Policy was
communicated to all employees to create awareness that
there is an established channel for them to raise concerns
about suspected misconduct within the organisation. The
Speak Up Policy was also communicated to distributors and
suppliers through engagement sessions and e-learning that
focuses on the Distributor Code of Conduct and Supplier
Code of Conduct to encourage business partners to raise
their concerns about suspected misconducts within the
Group. The Speak Up policy is available for reference at the
Company’s website https://www.heinekenmalaysia.com/
corporate-governance/
• Employees are guided by HEINEKEN’s Purpose, Dream and
Values which are embedded within the Group’s policies and
procedures and work culture.
Employees’ Competency and Awareness
• On an annual basis, employees are required to complete the
following e-learning as part of the Company’s efforts to drive
awareness and assess their understanding of the respective
codes and the underlying principles. The results from the
online assessments are closely monitored by the People
function.
o Code of Business Conduct
o Anti-Bribery and Corruption
o Responsible Marketing Code
o Security Awareness
o Fraud Awareness
o Data Privacy
o Competition law
In addition to the e-learning, briefings were conducted
for regional sales employees on an annual basis to keep
them refreshed at the same time to address any questions
on challenges or issues faced during their day-to-day
operations.
• Training and development programmes on areas related to
health and safety, technical knowledge and leadership are
organised for employees to ensure that they are equipped
with necessary knowledge/skills and competencies to carry
out their responsibilities towards achieving the Group’s
objectives. The Group has in place an enhanced integrated
learning platform for employees to access a vast selection
of courses ranging from cross functional business skills and
digital trends to self-development.
• The Group relies on IT systems to support its operations via
data, analysis and reports essential for business decision-
making. As part of the measures to raise awareness on
cyber security, mandatory trainings were conducted for all
employees through an online learning platform. A simulated
phishing email exercise was also carried out during the
year to enhance awareness on phishing and its methods of
attack.
• Briefings are conducted to keep employees informed on
changes to legislation that are expected to affect the
Group’s operations or the way the Group conducts its
business. These include changes in food legislations, local
council licencing requirements relevant for the beer industry
and the recent revamp of the Malaysian Communications
and Multimedia Content Code 2022.
• Induction programmes for new joiners are organised
with the aim of raising their awareness and educating
them on the Group’s approach to risk management and
internal control. The programmes also provide a forum to
enhance the participants’ understanding of the Group’s risk
management and control procedures as well as their roles in
managing risks.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
107
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Other Policies
• The Distributor Code of Conduct and the HEINEKEN
Supplier Code (the Codes) which outline the standard for
ethical and business conduct expected from distributors and
suppliers in their business dealings with the Group. The said
Codes were communicated to distributors and suppliers via
e-learning and engagement sessions to drive awareness and
assess their understanding of the Codes and the underlying
principles related to, among others, bribery, fraud and
offering and acceptance of gifts and entertainment.
• The Group’s assets are insured against any mishap that
will result in material losses. Measures are also put in place
to ensure major assets within the Group are physically
safeguarded.
• The Group has adoptedtheHEINEKENCrisisManualand has
in place a Contingency Plan and an Emergency Preparedness
& Response Plan which lays out contingency plans and
procedures to follow in the event of a crisis. The Group has
a Crisis Management Team which comprises members of
the Management Team, to provide leadership and timely
decision-making to ensure continuity of business operations
in the event of a significant disruption or disaster. Among
the crisis scenarios covered under the plan are fire/explosion,
product contamination and IT disaster. During FY2022, a
cyber crisis preparedness simulation was conducted by an
external party with the support of the Information Security
Team of Heineken NV to evaluate the Group’s preparedness
in managing cyber-attack related incidences.
BOARD ASSESSMENT
The Board is of the view that, the overall risk management and
internal control systems in place for FY2022, and up to the date
of approval of this statement are operating adequately and
effectively. This covers all material aspects, based on, the same
assurance provided by the Managing Director and the Finance
Director who represent the Management Team of the Company
via the Letter of Representation submitted to Heineken NV.
During the financial year under review, there were no material
financial and non-financial losses reported as a result of
weaknesses or inadequacies in internal control. The Board will
continue to review the systems and ensure that measures will be
taken to strengthen the risk management and internal control
environment within the Group.
REVIEW OF THE STATEMENT BY EXTERNAL AUDITORS
As required by Paragraph 15.23 of the MMLR, the external
auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control for inclusion in the Annual Report 2022. Their
limited assurance review was performed in accordance with the
Audit and Assurance Practice Guide 3 (AAPG3) issued by the
Malaysian Institute of Accountants. AAPG3 does not require
the external auditors to form an opinion on the adequacy and
effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal
control systems.
Based on the review, the external auditors have reported that
nothing has come to their attention that had caused them
to believe that this statement is not prepared, in all material
respects, in accordance with the disclosures required by the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines
for Directors of Listed Issuers to be set out, nor is the statement
factually inaccurate.
This statement was approved by the Board on 20 March 2023.
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control
108 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Our Numbers &
Other Information
108 Financial Statements
170 Other Information
171 Analysis of Stockholdings
173 Statement of 2022 Volumetric Water Benefits
174 Statement of External Assurance
176 GRI Index
179 Group Directory
181 Corporate Information
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
109
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Directors’ Report
The directors of HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the
Group and of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES
The Company is principally engaged in the production, packaging, marketing and distribution of beverages, primarily alcoholic, whilst
the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 13 to the financial statements.
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
The results of operations of the Group and of the Company for the financial year are as follows:
Group Company
RM’000 RM’000
Profit for the year attributable to:
Owners of the Company 412,824 422,994
In the opinion of the directors, the results of operations of the Group and of the Company during the financial year have not been
substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature.
DIVIDENDS
Since the end of the previous financial year, the amount of dividends paid or proposed by the Company are in respect of the following:
(i) A final ordinary dividend of 66 sen per stock unit under the single tier tax system totalling RM199,384,680 in respect of the
financial year ended 31 December 2021 on 28 July 2022; and
(ii) An interim ordinary dividend of 40 sen per stock unit under the single tier tax system totalling RM120,839,200 in respect of the
financial year ended 31 December 2022 on 11 November 2022.
The directors now recommend the declaration of a final ordinary dividend of 98 sen per stock unit under the single tier system
totalling RM296,056,040 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2022 which if approved by the owners of the Company
will be payable on 20 July 2023.
RESERVES AND PROVISIONS
There were no material transfers to or from reserves or provisions during the financial year other than those disclosed in the financial
statements.
ISSUE OF SHARES AND DEBENTURES
The Company has not issued any new shares or debentures during the financial year.
110 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
SHARE OPTIONS
No options have been granted by the Company to any parties during the financial year to take up unissued shares of the Company.
No shares have been issued during the financial year by virtue of the exercise of any option to take up unissued shares of the
Company. As at the end of the financial year, there were no unissued shares of the Company under options.
OTHER STATUTORY INFORMATION
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were prepared, the directors took reasonable steps:
(a) to ascertain that proper action had been taken in relation to the writing off of bad debts and the making of allowance for
doubtful debts, and had satisfied themselves that no known bad debts to be written off and that adequate allowance had been
made for doubtful debts; and
(b) to ensure that any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business including the value of
current assets as shown in the accounting records of the Group and of the Company had been written down to an amount which
the current assets might be expected so to realise.
At the date of this report, the directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(a) which would require the writing off of bad debts or render the amount of the allowance for doubtful debts in the financial
statements of the Company inadequate to any substantial extent; or
(b) which would render the values attributed to current assets in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company
misleading; or
(c) which have arisen which would render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of the Group and of
the Company misleading or inappropriate; or
(d) not otherwise dealt with in this report or financial statements which would render any amount stated in the financial statements
of the Group and of the Company misleading.
At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(a) any charge on the assets of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year which secures
the liability of any other person; and
(b) any contingent liability of the Group and of the Company which has arisen since the end of the financial year.
No contingent or other liability has become enforceable or is likely to become enforceable within the period of twelve months after
the end of the financial year which, in the opinion of the directors, will or may substantially affect the ability of the Group and of the
Company to meet their obligations as and when they fall due.
In the opinion of the directors, no item, transaction or event of a material and unusual nature has arisen in the interval between the
end of the financial year and the date of this report which is likely to affect substantially the results of operations of the Group and of
the Company for the succeeding financial year.
Directors’ Report
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
111
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
DIRECTORS
The directors of the Company in office during the financial year and during the period from the end of the financial year to the date
of this report are:
Dato’ Sri Idris Jala
Datin Ngiam Pick Ngoh, Linda
Roland Bala
Choo Tay Sian, Kenneth
Seng Yi-Ying
Lau Nai Pek
Raquel Batallones Esguerra
The directors of the subsidiaries of the Company in office during the financial year and during the period from the end of the financial
year to the date of this report are:
Dato’ Dominic Joseph Puthucheary
Roland Bala
Renuka A/P V. Indrarajah
Christiaan Johannes Folkerts
DIRECTORS’ INTERESTS
The interest in the ordinary stock units of the Company of a director at the end of the financial year according to the Register of
Directors’ Shareholdings kept by the Company under Section 59 of the Companies Act, 2016, are as follows:
Number of ordinary stock units
Balance as
at 1.1.2022 Bought Sold
Balance as
at 31.12.2022
Datin Ngiam Pick Ngoh, Linda 6,700 - - 6,700
By virtue of the director’s interest in the ordinary stock units of the Company, she is also deemed to have interest in ordinary stock
units/shares of the subsidiaries to the extent the Company has an interest.
None of the other directors in office at the end of the financial year held shares or had beneficial interest in the ordinary stock units/
shares of the Company or its related corporation during or at the beginning and end of the year.
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS
Since the end of the previous financial year, save for the consultancy services fee paid to a director of the Company during the
financial year 2022, none of the directors of the Company has received or become entitled to receive any benefit (other than the
benefit included in the aggregate amount of emoluments received or due and receivable by directors as disclosed below) by reason of
a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the director or with a firm of which he is a member, or with a company
in which he has a substantial financial interest.
Directors’ Report
112 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
DIRECTORS’ BENEFITS (CONTINUED)
The Group The Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Directors:
Fees 596 601 590 595
Remuneration 4,854 2,360 4,854 2,360
Share-based payment 660 621 660 621
Meeting attendance allowance 48 55 48 55
Estimated monetary value of benefits-in-kind
otherwise than in cash 569 587 569 587
6,727 4,224 6,721 4,218
During and at the end of the financial year, no arrangement subsisted to which the Company was a party whereby directors of the
Company might acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in, or debentures of, the Company or any other body corporate.
INDEMNITY AND INSURANCE FOR DIRECTORS, OFFICERS AND AUDITORS
The Company maintains a directors and officers liability insurance for the purposes of Section 289 of the Companies Act, 2016,
throughout the year, which provides appropriate insurance cover for the directors and officers of the Group. The amount of insurance
premium paid during the financial year amounted to RM44,540.
No indemnity was given to or insurance effected for auditors of the Company and of the Group during the financial year.
HOLDING CORPORATIONS
The directors regard GAPL Pte. Ltd. (“GAPL”) and Heineken Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. (“HAPPL”), both corporations incorporated in the
Republic of Singapore, as the immediate and intermediate holding corporations.
HAPPL is owned by Heineken N.V., a corporation incorporated in the Netherlands, which in turn is the ultimate holding corporation of
the Company.
AUDITORS’ REMUNERATION
The amount paid/payable as remuneration of the auditors for the financial year ended 31 December is as below:
The Group The Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Statutory audit fees 214 203 136 126
Other services 40 40 40 40
Directors’ Report
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
113
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
AUDITORS
The auditors, Deloitte PLT, have indicated their willingness to continue in office.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
in accordance with a resolution of the directors,
______________________________
DATO’ SRI IDRIS JALA
______________________________
ROLAND BALA
Petaling Jaya, Selangor
24 February 2023
Directors’ Report
114 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Independent Auditors’ Report
To The Members Of Heineken Malaysia Berhad (Incorporated In Malaysia)
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD, which comprise the statements of financial position
of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2022, and the statements of profit or loss and other comprehensive income,
statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the year then ended, and notes
to the financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies, as set out on page 117 to 168.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the
Company as at 31 December 2022, and of their financial performance and their cash flows for the year then ended in accordance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies
Act, 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing. Our
responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
section of our report. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our
opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice)
of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International
Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled
our other ethical responsibilities in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our audit of the financial
statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole, and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a
separate opinion on these matters.
Revenue Recognition - Accruals For Promotional Allowances and Volume Rebates
Accounting for promotional allowances and volume rebates impacts the amounts of revenue recognised during the year. The revenue
accounting policies are disclosed in Note 3 to the financial statements. Management judgement is required to estimate the value of
promotional allowances and volume rebates. This estimate is considered to be a key audit matter relevant to our audit of the financial
statements.
Our audit response
Our audit procedures included, amongst others, evaluating controls relating to management’s process for determining the value of
promotional allowances and volume rebates. In addition, we performed substantive testing and analytical procedures to test the
accuracy and completeness of the underlying calculation of the accruals. These procedures included challenging the appropriateness
of management’s assumptions and estimates, and agreeing input data, including pricing and allowance data to the underlying
agreements entered into with customers. We also compared the actual promotional discounts and rebates incurred against the
accrual made in the prior year.
We have determined that there are no key audit matters in the audit of the separate financial statements of the Company to
communicate in our auditors’ report.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
115
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Independent Auditors’ Report
To The Members Of Heineken Malaysia Berhad (Incorporated In Malaysia)
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the Chairman’s Statement,
Five-Year Financial Indicators, Analysis of Group Revenue, Management Discussion and Analysis, Properties owned by the Group and
Directors’ Report (but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and our auditors’ report thereon)
which we obtained prior to the date of this auditors’ report and the Analysis of Stockholdings, Corporate Governance Overview
Statement, Audit and Risk Management Committee Report, Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control which are expected
to be made available to us after that date.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the other information and we do not express
any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility is to read the other
information and, in doing so, consider whether the other information is materially inconsistent with the financial statements of the
Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit or otherwise appears to be materially misstated.
If, based on the work we have performed on the other information that we obtained prior to the date of this auditors’ report, we conclude
that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in this regard.
When we read the other information that are expected to be made available to us after the date of this auditors’ report, if we conclude
that there is a material misstatement therein, we are required to communicate the matter to those charged with governance.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that give
a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and
the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia. The directors are also responsible for such internal control as the directors
determine is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from
material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the directors are responsible for assessing the Group’s and
the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going
concern basis of accounting unless the directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have
no realistic alternative but to do so.
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a
whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditors’ report that includes our opinion.
Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved
standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists.
Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be
expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards on Auditing, we
exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit. We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, whether
due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient
and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is
higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the
override of internal control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the
circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s and the Company’s internal
control.
116 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Independent Auditors’ Report
To The Members Of Heineken Malaysia Berhad (Incorporated In Malaysia)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (CONTINUED)
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related
disclosures made by the directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence
obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s
or the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to
draw attention in our auditors’ report to the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or,
if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the
date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the Company to cease to continue as
a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, including
the disclosures, and whether the financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that
achieves fair presentation.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or business activities within the
Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and
performance of the group audit. We remain solely responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit
findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit.
We also provide the directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence,
and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and
where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the
financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe
these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare
circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so
would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries of which we have not
acted as auditors, are as disclosed in Note 13 to the financial statements.
Other Matters
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of the Companies Act, 2016 in
Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other person for the content of this report.
DELOITTE PLT (LLP0010145-LCA)
Chartered Accountants (AF 0080)
LAI CAN YIEW
Partner - 02179/11/2024 J
Chartered Accountant
Kuala Lumpur
24 February 2023
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
117
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Statements Of Profit Or Loss And
Other Comprehensive Income
For The Year Ended 31 December 2022
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue 2,855,065 1,979,348 1,685,611 1,203,511
Cost of sales (1,888,973) (1,379,166) (1,628,152) (1,158,862)
Gross profit 966,092 600,182 57,459 44,649
Other operating income 19,437 5,849 7,229 4,070
Distribution, marketing and selling expenses (264,151) (171,520) (1,013) (992)
Administrative expenses (121,454) (102,029) (32,821) (31,059)
Other operating expenses (3,700) (8,557) (3,666) (1,782)
Dividend income - - 398,832 227,904
Results from operating activities 596,224 323,925 426,020 242,790
Finance income 5 1,193 1,559 1,156 1,528
Finance costs 6 (2,917) (4,057) (2,744) (3,790)
Net finance costs (1,724) (2,498) (1,588) (2,262)
Profit before tax 7 594,500 321,427 424,432 240,528
Income tax expense 8 (181,676) (75,749) (1,438) (2,369)
Profit/Total comprehensive income for the
year attributable to:
Owners of the Company 412,824 245,678 422,994 238,159
Basic/Diluted earnings per ordinary stock
unit (sen) 9 136.7 81.3
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of the Financial Statements.
118 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Statements Of Financial Position
As At 31 December 2022
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Non-current Assets
Property, plant and equipment 10 505,309 388,404 472,794 360,483
Intangible assets 11 20,530 15,657 17,652 15,542
Right-of-use assets 12 16,091 18,719 13,131 14,238
Investment in subsidiaries 13 - - 14,344 14,344
Deferred tax assets 14 2,147 5,782 - -
Other receivables and prepaid expenses 15 889 1,546 11 32
Total Non-current Assets 544,966 430,108 517,932 404,639
Current Assets
Inventories 16 190,684 151,178 80,626 54,331
Current tax assets 17,982 15,155 17,982 15,155
Receivables, deposits and prepaid expenses 15 602,035 415,253 166,011 64,286
Cash and bank balances 52,554 76,479 49,147 72,787
Total Current Assets 863,255 658,065 313,766 206,559
Total Assets 1,408,221 1,088,173 831,698 611,198
Equity
Share capital 17 151,049 151,049 151,049 151,049
Reserves 337,404 244,627 196,270 93,385
Total Equity Attributable To Owners of The
Company 488,453 395,676 347,319 244,434
Non-current Liabilities
Lease liabilities 19 3,092 5,015 1,536 2,322
Deferred tax liabilities 14 34,208 32,207 35,502 33,295
Total Non-current Liabilities 37,300 37,222 37,038 35,617
Current Liabilities
Borrowings 18 170,000 160,131 170,000 160,131
Trade and other payables 20 693,387 478,051 275,751 167,057
Provision for restructuring 21 288 3,648 288 2,613
Lease liabilities 19 2,857 3,283 1,302 1,346
Current tax liabilities 15,936 10,162 - -
Total Current Liabilities 882,468 655,275 447,341 331,147
Total Liabilities 919,768 692,497 484,379 366,764
Total Equity and Liabilities 1,408,221 1,088,173 831,698 611,198
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of the Financial Statements.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
119
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Statements Of Changes In Equity
For The Year Ended 31 December 2022
Share
capital
Capital
reserve
Distributable
-Retained
earnings Total
Group Note RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
As at 1 January 2021 151,049 470 197,864 349,383
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 245,678 245,678
Dividends 22 - - (199,385) (199,385)
As at 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 151,049 470 244,157 395,676
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 412,824 412,824
Credit to equity for equity-settled share-based
payments - 177 - 177
Dividends 22 - - (320,224) (320,224)
As at 31 December 2022 151,049 647 336,757 488,453
Company
As at 1 January 2021 151,049 470 54,141 205,660
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 238,159 238,159
Dividends 22 - - (199,385) (199,385)
As at 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 151,049 470 92,915 244,434
Total comprehensive income for the year - - 422,994 422,994
Credit to equity for equity-settle share-based
payments - 115 - 115
Dividends 22 - - (320,224) (320,224)
As at 31 December 2022 151,049 585 195,685 347,319
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of the Financial Statements.
120 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Statements Of Cash Flows
For The Year Ended 31 December 2022
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) OPERATING
ACTIVITIES
Profit before tax 594,500 321,427 424,432 240,528
Adjustments for:
Depreciation of property, plant and
equipment 10 69,899 59,310 58,168 47,072
Amortisation of prepaid contractual
promotion expenses 3,209 27,299 - -
Amortisation of intangible assets 11 4,675 6,214 4,543 6,028
Inventories written down 1,664 5,486 1,462 960
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 12 4,197 5,182 2,036 2,252
Finance costs 6 2,917 4,057 2,744 3,790
Property, plant and equipment written off 10 3,117 1,700 3,114 1,698
Bad debts written off - 953 - -
Net unrealised (gain)/loss on foreign
exchange (143) 729 (156) 764
Intangible assets written off - 15 - 15
Loss /(Gain) on disposal of right-of-use assets 3 (8) (1) (8)
Gain on disposal of property, plant and
equipment (109) (818) (24) (605)
Reversal of impairment loss on trade
receivables - (1,285) - -
Reversal of provision for restructuring 21 (3,360) - (2,325) -
Finance income 5 (1,193) (1,559) (1,156) (1,528)
Dividend income from a subsidiary - - (398,832) (227,904)
Impairment loss on trade receivables 509 - - -
Operating Profit Before Working Capital
Changes 679,885 428,702 94,005 73,062
Movement in working capital:
(Increase)/Decrease in:
Receivables, deposits and prepaid expenses (189,844) (113,238) (101,704) (1,226)
Inventories (41,170) 31,598 (27,757) (2,345)
Increase in:
Trade and other payables 196,205 72,434 89,514 40,947
Cash Generated From Operations 645,076 419,496 54,058 110,438
Income tax paid (173,093) (75,568) (2,058) (6,635)
Interest paid (2,917) (4,057) (2,744) (3,790)
Net Cash From Operating Activities 469,066 339,871 49,256 100,013
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
121
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) INVESTING
ACTIVITIES
Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 10 (170,481) (98,819) (154,144) (90,942)
Acquisition of intangible assets 11 (9,548) (5,360) (6,653) (5,236)
Interest received 1,193 1,559 1,156 1,528
Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and
equipment 119 825 25 607
Dividend received - - 398,832 227,904
Net Cash (Used In)/From Investing Activities (178,717) (101,795) 239,216 133,861
CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) FINANCING
ACTIVITIES
Dividends paid 22 (320,224) (199,385) (320,224) (199,385)
Drawdown/ (Repayment) of revolving credit
and trade financing - net 9,869 (89,208) 9,869 (89,208)
Repayment of lease liabilities 29 (3,919) (4,906) (1,757) (2,061)
Net Cash Used In Financing Activities (314,274) (293,499) (312,112) (290,654)
NET DECREASE IN CASH AND BANK
BALANCES (23,925) (55,423) (23,640) (56,780)
CASH AND BANK BALANCES AT BEGINNING
OF YEAR 76,479 131,902 72,787 129,567
CASH AND BANK BALANCES AT END OF
YEAR 52,554 76,479 49,147 72,787
The accompanying Notes form an integral part of the Financial Statements.
Statements Of Cash Flows
For The Year Ended 31 December 2022
122 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
1. GENERAL INFORMATION
Heineken Malaysia Berhad is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and is listed on the Main
Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
The Company is principally engaged in the production, packaging, marketing and distribution of beverages, primarily alcoholic,
whilst the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 13.
The registered office and principal place of business of the Company is located at Sungei Way Brewery, Lot 1135, Batu 9, Jalan
Klang Lama, 46000 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia.
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been authorised by the Board of Directors for issuance on 24
February 2023.
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance with the Malaysian Financial
Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRSs”) and the requirements of the Companies
Act, 2016 in Malaysia.
Application of Amendments to MFRS
In the current financial year, the Group and the Company adopted all the Amendments to MFRSs issued by the Malaysian
Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) and effective for an annual financial period beginning on or after 1 January 2022:
Amendments to:
MFRSs Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018-2020
MFRS 16 COVID-19 Related Rent Concessions beyond 30 June 2021
MFRS 3 Reference to Conceptual Framework
MFRS 116 Property, Plant and Equipment - Proceeds before Intended Use
MFRS 137 Onerous Contracts - Cost of Fulfilling a Contract
The adoption of the above Amendments to MFRS did not result in significant changes in the accounting policies of the Group
and of the Company and had no significant effect on the financial performance or position of the Group and of the Company.
Standards and Amendments in issue but not yet effective
At the date of authorisation for issue of these financial statements, the new and revised Standards and Amendments which
were in issue but not yet effective and not early adopted by the Group and the Company are as listed below:
Effective immediately for annual periods beginning before 1 January 2023
Amendments to MFRS 4 Extension of the Temporary Exemption from Applying MFRS 9
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023
MFRS 17			 Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 17 Insurance Contracts
Amendments to MFRS 101 Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
Amendments to MFRS 101 Disclosure of Accounting Policies
Amendments to MFRS 108 Disclosure of Accounting Estimates
Amendments to MFRS 112 Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities arising from a Single Transaction
Amendments to MFRS 17 Initial Application of MFRS 9 and MFRS 17 – Comparative Information
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
123
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
2. BASIS OF PREPARATION OF THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
Standards and Amendments in issue but not yet effective (continued)
Effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024
Amendments to MFRS 16 Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
Amendments to MFRS 101 Non-current Liabilities with Covenants
Effective date deferred to a date to be announced by MASB
Amendments to MFRS 10 and MFRS 128 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture
The directors anticipate that the abovementioned Standards and Amendments will be adopted in the annual financial statements
of the Group and of the Company when they become effective and that the adoption of these Standards and Amendments will
have no material impact on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company in the period of initial application.
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
Statement of Compliance
ThefinancialstatementsoftheGroupandoftheCompanyhavebeenpreparedinaccordancewithMalaysianFinancialReporting
Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis of Accounting
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared under the historical cost convention except
as disclosed in the summary of significant accounting policies. Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the
consideration given in exchange for assets.
Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between
market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using another
valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group and the Company take into account the
characteristics of the asset or liability if market participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the
asset or liability at the measurement date. Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure purposes in these financial statements
is determined on such a basis, except for leasing transactions that are within the scope of MFRS 16 and measurements that
have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realisable value in MFRS 102 or value-in-use in MFRS 136.
In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are categorised into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to
which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair value measurement
in its entirety, which are described as follows:
• Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access
at the measurement date;
• Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability,
either directly or indirectly; and
• Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability.
The principal accounting policies are set out below:
124 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Basis of Consolidation and Subsidiaries
The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Company and entities controlled by the
Company (its subsidiaries). Control is achieved when the Company:
• has power over the investee;
• is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and
• has the ability to use its power to affect its returns.
The Company reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one
or more of the three elements of control listed above.
When the Company has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, it has power over the investee when the voting
rights are sufficient to give it the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee unilaterally. The Company
considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not the Company’s voting rights in an investee are
sufficient to give it power, including:
• the size of the Company’s holding of voting rights relative to the size and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders;
• potential voting rights held by the Company, other vote holders or other parties;
• rights arising from other contractual arrangements; and
• any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Company has, or does not have, the current ability to direct
the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders’
meetings.
Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Company obtains control over the subsidiary and ceases when the Company
loses control of the subsidiary. Specifically, income and expenses of a subsidiary acquired or disposed of during the year are
included in the consolidated statement of profit or loss and other comprehensive income from the date the Company gains
control until the date when the Company ceases to control the subsidiary.
Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owners of the Company and to the
non-controlling interest. Total comprehensive income of subsidiary is attributed to the owners of the Company and to the non-
controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interest having a deficit balance.
When necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiary to bring their accounting policies in line with
the Group’s accounting policies.
All intra-group assets and liabilities, equity income, expenses and cash flows relating to transactions between members of the
Group are eliminated in full on consolidation.
Business combinations
Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business
combination is measured at fair value, which is calculated as the sum of the acquisition‑date fair values of assets transferred by
the Group, liabilities incurred by the Group to the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interest issued by the Group in
exchange for control of the acquiree. Acquisition‑related costs are recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
For new acquisitions, the Group measures the cost of goodwill at the acquisition date as:
• the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
• the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus
• if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity interest in the acquiree; less
• the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
125
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Basis of Consolidation and Subsidiaries (continued)
Business combinations (continued)
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether it measures the non-controlling interests in the acquiree either at fair
value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets at the acquisition date.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection
with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
Non‑controlling interests in subsidiary are identified separately from the Group’s equity therein. Those interests of non‑controlling
shareholders that are present ownership interests entitling their holders to a proportionate share of net assets upon liquidation
may initially be measured at fair value or at the non‑controlling interests’ proportionate share of the fair value of the acquiree’s
identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement is made on an acquisition‑by‑acquisition basis. Other non‑controlling
interests are initially measured at fair value. Subsequent to acquisition, the carrying amount of non‑controlling interests is the
amount of those interests at initial recognition plus the non‑controlling interests’ share of subsequent changes in equity.
Changes in Group’s ownership interest in existing subsidiaries
Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control are accounted for as equity
transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group’s interests and the non-controlling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes
in their relative interest in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are
adjusted and the fair value of consideration paid or received is recognised directly in equity and attributed to owners of the
Company.
When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss and is calculated as the difference
between (i) the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii)
the previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and any non-controlling
interests. When assets of the subsidiary are carried at revalued amounts or fair values and the related cumulative gain or loss
has been recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity, the amounts previously recognised in other
comprehensive income are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the relevant assets (i.e. reclassified to profit
or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings as specified by applicable MFRSs). The fair value of any investment retained
in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is regarded as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent
accounting under MFRS 9 Financial Instruments or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an
associate or jointly controlled entity.
Subsidiaries
Investment in subsidiaries, which are eliminated on consolidation, are stated at cost less any accumulated impairment losses,
if any, in the Company’s financial statements.
Translation of Foreign Currency Transactions
Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated and recorded at the rates of exchange prevailing at the
respective dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies
are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the end of the period (i.e. the closing rates). Non-monetary items carried at fair values
that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing at the dates the fair values were determined.
Non-monetary items that are measured at their historical cost amounts continue to be translated at their respective historical
rates and are not retranslated.
126 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Translation of Foreign Currency Transactions (continued)
All exchange differences arising on settled transactions and on unsettled monetary items are recognised in profit or loss in the
period in which they arise.
Functional and Presentation Currency
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s functional currency. All financial
information is presented in RM and has been rounded to nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.
Revenue Recognition
Revenue is recognised when or as a performance obligation in the contract with customer is satisfied, i.e. when the “control” of
the goods or services underlying the particular performance obligation is transferred to the customer. A performance obligation
is a promise to transfer a distinct goods or services (or a series of distinct goods or services that are substantially the same and
that have the same pattern of transfer) to the customer that is explicitly stated in the contract and implied in the Group’s and
the Company’s customary business practices.
Revenue is measured at the amount of consideration to which the Group and the Company expect to be entitled in exchange
for transferring the promised goods or services to the customers, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties such
as sales taxes or goods and services taxes. If the amount of consideration varies due to discounts, rebates, refunds, credits,
incentives, penalties or other similar items, the Group and the Company estimate the amount of consideration to which it will
be entitled based on the expected value or the most likely outcome. If the contract with customer contains more than one
performance obligation, the amount of consideration is allocated to each performance obligation based on the relative stand-
alone selling prices of the goods or services promised in the contract.
The revenue is recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue
recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable consideration is subsequently resolved.
The control of the promised goods or services may be transferred over time or at a point in time. The control over the goods or
services is transferred over time and revenue is recognised over time if:
• the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided by the Group’s and the Company’s performance
as the Group and the Company perform;
• the Group’s and the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the customer controls as the asset is
created or enhanced; or
• the Group’s and the Company’s performance does not create an asset with an alternative use and the Group and the
Company have an enforceable right to payment for performance completed to date.
Revenue for performance obligation that is not satisfied over time is recognised at a point in time at which the customer obtains
control of the promised goods or services.
(i) Sales of Goods
Revenue is generated by the sale and delivery of products to customers. Revenue is measured based on the consideration
specified in a contract with a customer. The products are mostly own-produced finished goods from the Group’s brewing
activities, but also contain purchased goods from related companies for resale to customers. The Group and the Company
recognise revenue at a point in time when they transfer control over a product or service to a customer and satisfy
their performance obligation to a customer. Where applicable, rebates and discounts to customers are accounted as
net of revenue according to contract. The revenue is recognised to the extent that it is highly probable that a significant
reversal in the amount of cumulative revenue recognised will not occur when the uncertainty associated with the variable
consideration is subsequently resolved.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
127
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Revenue Recognition (continued)
(ii) Dividend Income
Dividend income is recognised in profit or loss on the date that the Group’s or the Company’s rights to receive payment is
established.
(iii) Interest Income
Interest income is recognised as it accrues using the effective interest method in profit or loss.
Employee Benefits
(i) Short-Term Benefits
Wages, salaries, bonuses and social security contributions are recognised as an expense in the period in which employees
of the Group and of the Company render the associated services. Short-term accumulating compensated absences such
as paid annual leave are recognised when services are rendered by employees that increase their entitlement to future
compensated absences, and short-term non-accumulating compensated absences such as sick leave are recognised
when the absences occur.
(ii) Defined Contribution Plan
The Group and the Company and their eligible employees are required by law to make monthly contributions to Employees
Provident Fund (“EPF”), a statutory defined contribution plan, at certain prescribed rates based on the employees’ salaries. The
Group’s and the Company’s contributions to EPF are disclosed separately while the employees’ contributions to EPF are included
in staff costs. Once these contributions have been paid, the Group and the Company have no further payment obligations.
(iii) Share-based payment transactions
Certain employees of the Group and of the Company are entitled to a long term incentive plan established by Heineken
N.V., ultimate holding corporation, that gives the right to Heineken N.V. shares. The grant date fair value is calculated
by deducting expected foregone dividends from the grant date during the performance period share price. The costs
of the share plans are adjusted for expected performance and forfeiture and spread evenly over the service period. The
grant date fair value of the plan granted to these employees is recognised as an employee expense in profit or loss and a
corresponding increase in amount due to ultimate holding corporation.
Any excess or shortfall in relation to the incentive plan provision is treated as a capital contribution or distribution
respectively and would be recorded directly in equity.
(iv) Termination Benefits
Termination benefits are expensed at the earlier of when the Group can no longer withdraw the offer of those benefits and
when the Group recognises costs for a restructuring. If benefits are not expected to be settled wholly within 12 months of
the end of the reporting period, then they are discounted.
Borrowing Costs
Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of qualifying assets are capitalised in the
cost of those assets until the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale. Subsequently, borrowing costs are
recognised in profit or loss in the period they are incurred. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other costs that the Group
incurred in connection with the borrowing of funds.
128 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Income Tax
Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax.
Current tax is the expected amount of income taxes payable in respect of the taxable profit for the year and is measured using
the tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date.
Deferred tax is provided for, using the “liability” method, on temporary differences at the reporting date between the tax bases
of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts in the financial statements. In principle, deferred tax liabilities are recognised
for all taxable temporary differences and deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary differences, unused
tax losses and unused tax credits to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which
the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits can be utilised. Deferred tax is not recognised
if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that affects neither the
accounting profit nor taxable profit.
The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent that it is
no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered.
Deferred tax is measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period when the asset is realised or the liability
settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting date. Deferred tax
is recognised in profit or loss except when it arises from a transaction which is recognised directly in equity, in which case the
deferred tax is also charged or credited directly in equity.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset when there is a legally enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current
tax liabilities and when they relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority the Group and the Company intend
to settle its current tax assets and liabilities on a net basis.
Leases
The Group and the Company recognise a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease commencement date. The right-of-
use asset is initially measured at cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments
made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and
remove the underlying asset or to restore the underlying asset or site on which it is located, less any lease incentives received.
The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method from the commencement date to the earlier
of the end of the useful life of the right-of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of the right-of-use
assets are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and equipment except for long term leasehold land which
the estimated useful life is determined at 61 to 95 years. If a lease transfers ownership of the underlying asset or the cost of the
right-of-use asset reflects that the Group and the Company expect to exercise a purchase option, the related right-of-use asset
is depreciated over the useful life of the underlying asset.
The lease term is determined as the non-cancellable period of a lease, together with both:
(a) periods covered by an option to extend the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain to exercise that option; and
(b) periods covered by an option to terminate the lease if the lessee is reasonably certain not to exercise that option.
The Group and the Company apply MFRS 136 to determine whether a right-of-use asset is impaired and account for any
identified impairment loss as described in “Impairment of Non-Financial Assets” policy.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of future lease payments at the commencement date, discounted
using the Group’s and the Company’s incremental borrowing rates. Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease
liability include fixed payments, any variable lease payments, amount expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee,
and exercise price under an extension option that the Group and the Company are reasonably certain to exercise.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
129
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Leases (continued)
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. It is remeasured when there is a change in
future lease payments arising from a change in rate, or if the Group or the Company changes its assessment of whether it will
exercise an extension or termination option.
Lease payments associated with short term leases and leases of low value assets are recognised on a straight-line basis as an
expense in profit or loss. Short term leases are leases with a lease term of 12 months or less. Low value assets are those assets
valued at less than RM25,000 each when purchased new.
Impairment of Non-Financial Assets
The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment and right-of-use asset are reviewed at each reporting date to determine
whether there is any indication of impairment. If such an indication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. An
impairment loss is recognised whenever the carrying amount of an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable
amount. All impairment losses are recognised in profit or loss.
Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs of disposal and value in use. In assessing value in use, the estimated
future cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of
the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset.
If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash-generating unit) is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying
amountoftheasset(orcash-generatingunit)isreducedtoitsrecoverableamount.Animpairmentlossisrecognisedimmediately
in profit or loss.
Where an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash-generating unit) is increased to the
revised estimate of its recoverable amount, but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount
that would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset (or cash-generating unit) in prior years.
A reversal of an impairment loss is recognised immediately in profit or loss.
Property, Plant and Equipment
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and any impairment losses.
Subsequent costs are included in the asset’s carrying amount or recognised as a separate asset, as appropriate, only when it is
probable that future benefits associated with the item will flow to the Group and the Company and the cost can be measured
reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. All other repair and maintenance costs are charged to profit
or loss in the year in which they are incurred.
Returnable bottles and kegs in circulation are recorded within property, plant and equipment and a corresponding liability is
recorded in respect of the obligation to repay the customers’ deposits. Deposits paid by customers for returnable items are
reflected in the consolidated statement of financial position within current liabilities.
Depreciation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each component of an item
of property, plant and equipment from the date that they are available for use.
The following annual rates based on the estimated useful lives of the various assets:
Buildings		 50 years
Plant and machinery 13 - 20 years
Movable plant 2 - 10 years
130 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Property, Plant and Equipment (continued)
Where significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful lives, the cost of the item is allocated
on a reasonable basis between the parts and each part is depreciated separately.
At each reporting date, the residual values, useful lives and depreciation method of property, plant and equipment are reviewed,
and the effects of any change in estimates are recognised prospectively.
Freehold land is not depreciated. Capital work-in-progress are not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.
Gain or loss arising from the disposal of an asset is determined as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the
carrying amount of the asset and is recognised in profit or loss.
Intangible assets
Computer software that are acquired by the Group and the Company, which have finite useful lives, are stated at cost less
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses. Capital work-in-progress is measured at cost and is not
amortised until the assets are ready for their intended use.
Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to
which it relates. All other expenditure is recognised in profit or loss as incurred.
Computer software are amortised from the date that they are available for use. Amortisation is based on the cost of an asset
less its residual value. Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life of 5
years. Amortisation methods, useful life and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting period and adjusted, if
appropriate.
Inventories
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realisable value.
The cost of inventories is calculated using weighted average method, and includes cost of raw materials, duties where applicable,
and other expenses incurred in acquiring inventories and bringing them to their existing location and condition. For finished
goods and work-in-progress, cost also includes direct labour and an appropriate proportion of production overheads based on
normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated cost of completion and
the estimated cost necessary to make the sale.
Financial Instruments
Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the Group’s statements of financial position when the Group becomes
a party to the contractual provisions of the instrument.
Financial assets and financial liabilities are initially measured at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the
acquisition or issue of financial assets and financial liabilities (other than financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value
through profit or loss) are added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial assets or financial liabilities, as appropriate,
on initial recognition. Transaction costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial assets or financial liabilities at fair
value through profit or loss are recognised immediately in profit or loss.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
131
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Financial Assets
All regular way purchases or sales of financial assets are recognised and derecognised on a trade date basis. Regular way
purchases or sales are purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of assets within the time frame established by
regulation or convention in the marketplace.
All recognised financial assets are measured subsequently in their entirety at either amortised cost or fair value, depending on
the classification of the financial assets.
Classification of financial assets
Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are measured subsequently at amortised cost:
• the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual
cash flows; and
• the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal
and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
Debt instruments that meet the following conditions are measured subsequently at fair value through other comprehensive
income (FVTOCI):
• the financial asset is held within a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows
and selling the financial assets; and
• the contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal
and interest on the principal amount outstanding.
By default, all other financial assets are measured subsequently at fair value through profit or loss (FVTPL).
Despite the foregoing, the Group may make the following irrevocable election/designation at initial recognition of a financial
asset:
• theGroupmayirrevocablyelecttopresentsubsequentchangesinfairvalueofanequityinvestmentinothercomprehensive
income if certain criteria are met; and
• the Group may irrevocably designate a debt investment that meets the amortised cost or FVTOCI criteria as measured at
FVTPL if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch.
Amortisation cost and effective interest method
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a debt instrument and of allocating interest
income over the relevant period.
For financial assets other than purchased or originated credit‑impaired financial assets (i.e. assets that are credit‑impaired on
initial recognition), the effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts (including all fees
and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and other premiums or
discounts) excluding expected credit losses, through the expected life of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter
period, to the gross carrying amount of the debt instrument on initial recognition. For purchased or originated credit‑impaired
financial assets, a credit‑adjusted effective interest rate is calculated by discounting the estimated future cash flows, including
expected credit losses, to the amortised cost of the debt instrument on initial recognition.
The amortised cost of a financial asset is the amount at which the financial asset is measured at initial recognition minus the
principal repayments, plus the cumulative amortisation using the effective interest method of any difference between that
initial amount and the maturity amount, adjusted for any loss allowance. The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is the
amortised cost of a financial asset before adjusting for any loss allowance.
132 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Financial Assets (continued)
Amortisation cost and effective interest method (continued)
Interest income is recognised using the effective interest method for debt instruments measured subsequently at amortised
cost and at FVTOCI. For financial assets other than purchased or originated credit‑impaired financial assets, interest income is
calculated by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of a financial asset, except for financial assets
that have subsequently become credit‑impaired (see below). For financial assets that have subsequently become credit‑impaired,
interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset. If, in subsequent
reporting periods, the credit risk on the credit‑impaired financial instrument improves so that the financial asset is no longer
credit‑impaired, interest income is recognised by applying the effective interest rate to the gross carrying amount of the financial
asset.
Forpurchasedororiginatedcredit‑impairedfinancialassets,theGrouprecognisesinterestincomebyapplyingthecredit‑adjusted
effective interest rate to the amortised cost of the financial asset from initial recognition. The calculation does not revert to
the gross basis even if the credit risk of the financial asset subsequently improves so that the financial asset is no longer
credit‑impaired.
Interest income is recognised in profit or loss.
Foreign exchange gains and losses
The carrying amount of financial assets that are denominated in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign currency and
translated at the spot rate at the end of each reporting period. Specifically for financial assets measured at amortised cost that
are not part of a designated hedging relationship, exchange differences are recognised in profit or loss.
Impairment of financial assets
The Group recognises a loss allowance for expected credit losses (“ECL”) on investments in debt instruments that are measured
at amortised cost, lease receivables, trade receivables and contract assets, as well as on financial guarantee contracts. The
amount of expected credit losses is updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition of
the respective financial instrument.
The Group always recognises lifetime ECL for trade receivables, contract assets and lease receivables. The expected credit losses
on these financial assets are estimated using a provision matrix based on the Group’s historical credit loss experience, adjusted
for factors that are specific to the debtors, general economic conditions and an assessment of both the current as well as the
forecast direction of conditions at the reporting date, including time value of money where appropriate.
For all other financial instruments, the Group recognises lifetime ECL when there has been a significant increase in credit
risk since initial recognition. However, if the credit risk on the financial instrument has not increased significantly since initial
recognition, the Group measures the loss allowance for that financial instrument at an amount equal to 12‑month ECL.
Lifetime ECL represents the expected credit losses that will result from all possible default events over the expected life of a
financial instrument. In contrast, 12‑month ECL represents the portion of lifetime ECL that is expected to result from default
events on a financial instrument that are possible within 12 months after the reporting date.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
133
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Financial Assets (continued)
Impairment of financial assets (continued)
(i) Significant increase in credit risk
In assessing whether the credit risk on a financial instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition, the
Group compares the risk of a default occurring on the financial instrument at the reporting date with the risk of a default
occurring on the financial instrument at the date of initial recognition. In making this assessment, the Group considers
both quantitative and qualitative information that is reasonable and supportable, including historical experience and
forward‑lookinginformationthatisavailablewithoutunduecostoreffort.Forward‑lookinginformationconsideredincludes
the future prospects of the industries in which the Group’s debtors operate, obtained from economic expert reports,
financial analysts, governmental bodies, relevant think‑tanks and other similar organisations, as well as consideration of
various external sources of actual and forecast economic information that relate to the Group’s core operations.
In particular, the following information is taken into account when assessing whether credit risk has increased significantly
since initial recognition:
• an actual or expected significant deterioration in the financial instrument’s external (if available) or internal credit
rating;
• significant deterioration in external market indicators of credit risk for a particular financial instrument, e.g. a
significant increase in the credit spread, the credit default swap prices for the debtor, or the length of time or the
extent to which the fair value of a financial asset has been less than its amortised cost;
• existing or forecast adverse changes in business, financial or economic conditions that are expected to cause a
significant decrease in the debtor’s ability to meet its debt obligations;
• an actual or expected significant deterioration in the operating results of the debtor;
• significant increases in credit risk on other financial instruments of the same debtor;
• an actual or expected significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic, or technological environment of the
debtor that results in a significant decrease in the debtor’s ability to meet its debt obligations.
Irrespective of the outcome of the above assessment, the Group presumes that the credit risk on a financial asset has
increased significantly since initial recognition when contractual payments are more than 30 days past due, unless the
Group has reasonable and supportable information that demonstrates otherwise.
Despite the foregoing, the Group assumes that the credit risk on a financial instrument has not increased significantly
since initial recognition if the financial instrument is determined to have low credit risk at the reporting date. A financial
instrument is determined to have low credit risk if:
• The financial instrument has a low risk of default,
• The debtor has a strong capacity to meet its contractual cash flow obligations in the near term, and
• Adverse changes in economic and business conditions in the longer term may, but will not necessarily, reduce the
ability of the borrower to fulfil its contractual cash flow obligations.
The Group considers a financial asset to have low credit risk when the asset has external credit rating of ‘investment grade’
in accordance with the globally understood definition or if an external rating is not available, the asset has an internal
rating of ‘performing’. Performing means that the counterparty has a strong financial position and there is no past due
amounts.
For financial guarantee contracts, the date that the Group becomes a party to the irrevocable commitment is considered
to be the date of initial recognition for the purposes of assessing the financial instrument for impairment. In assessing
whether there has been a significant increase in the credit risk since initial recognition of a financial guarantee contracts,
the Group considers the changes in the risk that the specified debtor will default on the contract.
134 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Financial Assets (continued)
Impairment of financial assets (continued)
(i) Significant increase in credit risk (continued)
The Group regularly monitors the effectiveness of the criteria used to identify whether there has been a significant
increase in credit risk and revises them as appropriate to ensure that the criteria are capable of identifying significant
increase in credit risk before the amount becomes past due.
(ii) Definition of default
The Group considers the following as constituting an event of default for internal credit risk management purposes as
historical experience indicates that financial assets that meet either of the following criteria are generally not recoverable:
• when there is a breach of financial covenants by the debtor; or
• information developed internally or obtained from external sources indicates that the debtor is unlikely to pay its
creditors, including the Group, in full (without taking into account any collateral held by the Group).
Irrespective of the above analysis, the Group considers that default has occurred when a financial asset is more than 180
days past due unless the Group has reasonable and supportable information to demonstrate that a more lagging default
criterion is more appropriate.
(iii) Credit-impaired financial assets
A financial asset is credit‑impaired when one or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash
flows of that financial asset have occurred. Evidence that a financial asset is credit‑impaired includes observable data
about the following events:
• significant financial difficulty of the issuer or the borrower;
• a breach of contract, such as a default or past due event (see (ii) above);
• the lender(s) of the borrower, for economic or contractual reasons relating to the borrower’s financial difficulty,
having granted to the borrower a concession(s) that the lender(s) would not otherwise consider;
• it is becoming probable that the borrower will enter bankruptcy or other financial reorganisation; or
• the disappearance of an active market for that financial asset because of financial difficulties.
(iv) Write-off policy
The Group writes off a financial asset when there is information indicating that the debtor is in severe financial difficulty
and there is no realistic prospect of recovery, e.g. when the debtor has been placed under liquidation or has entered into
bankruptcy proceedings, or in the case of trade receivables, when the amounts are over two years past due, whichever
occurs sooner. Financial assets written off may still be subject to enforcement activities under the Group’s recovery
procedures, taking into account legal advice where appropriate. Any recoveries made are recognised in profit or loss.
(v) Measurement and recognition of expected credit losses
The measurement of expected credit losses is a function of the probability of default, loss given default (i.e. the magnitude
of the loss if there is a default) and the exposure at default. The assessment of the probability of default and loss given
default is based on historical data adjusted by forward‑looking information as described above. As for the exposure at
default, for financial assets, this is represented by the assets’ gross carrying amount at the reporting date; for financial
guarantee contracts, the exposure includes the amount drawn down as at the reporting date, together with any additional
amounts expected to be drawn down in the future by default date determined based on historical trend, the Group’s
understanding of the specific future financing needs of the debtors, and other relevant forward‑looking information.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
135
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Financial Assets (continued)
Impairment of financial assets (continued)
(v) Measurement and recognition of expected credit losses (continued)
For financial assets, the expected credit loss is estimated as the difference between all contractual cash flows that are
due to the Group in accordance with the contract and all the cash flows that the Group expects to receive, discounted at
the original effective interest rate. For a lease receivable, the cash flows used for determining the expected credit losses is
consistent with the cash flows used in measuring the lease receivable in accordance with MFRS 16 Leases.
If the Group measures the loss allowance for a financial instrument at an amount equal to lifetime ECL in the previous
reporting period, but determines at the current reporting date that the conditions for lifetime ECL are no longer met, the
Group measures the loss allowance at an amount equal to 12‑month ECL at the current reporting date, except for assets
for which simplified approach was used.
Derecognition of financial assets
The Group derecognises a financial asset only when the contractual rights to the cash flows from the asset expire, or when it
transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another entity. If the Group
neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset,
the Group recognises its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group
retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognise the
financial asset and also recognises a collateralised borrowing for the proceeds received.
On derecognition of a financial asset measured at amortised cost, the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the
sum of the consideration received and receivable is recognised in profit or loss. In addition, on derecognition of an investment
in a debt instrument classified as at FVTOCI, the cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated in the investments revaluation
reserve is reclassified to profit or loss. In contrast, on derecognition of an investment in equity instrument which the Group has
elected on initial recognition to measure at FVTOCI, the cumulative gain or loss previously accumulated in the investments
revaluation reserve is not reclassified to profit or loss, but is transferred to retained earnings.
Financial Liabilities and Equity Instruments
Classification as debt or equity
Debt and equity instruments are classified as either financial liabilities or as equity in accordance with the substance of the
contractual arrangement.
Equity instruments
An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its
liabilities. Equity instruments issued by the Group and the Company are recognised at the proceeds received, net of direct issue
costs.
Financial liabilities
All financial liabilities are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method or at FVTPL.
However, financial liabilities that arise when a transfer of a financial asset does not qualify for derecognition or when the
continuing involvement approach applies, and financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group, are measured in accordance
with the specific accounting policies set out below.
136 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Financial Liabilities and Equity Instruments (continued)
Financial liabilities measured subsequently at amortised cost
Financial liabilities that are not (i) contingent consideration of an acquirer in a business combination, (ii) held‑for‑trading, or (iii)
designated as at FVTPL, are measured subsequently at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortised cost of a financial liability and of allocating interest
expense over the relevant period. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash payments
(including all fees and points paid or received that form an integral part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and
other premiums or discounts) through the expected life of the financial liability, or (where appropriate) a shorter period, to the
amortised cost of a financial liability.
Foreign exchange gains and losses
For financial liabilities that are denominated in a foreign currency and are measured at amortised cost at the end of each
reporting period, the foreign exchange gains and losses are determined based on the amortised cost of the instruments. These
foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss for financial liabilities that are not part of a designated
hedging relationship. For those which are designated as a hedging instrument for a hedge of foreign currency risk foreign
exchange gains and losses are recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in a separate component of equity.
The fair value of financial liabilities denominated in a foreign currency is determined in that foreign currency and translated at
the spot rate at the end of the reporting period. For financial liabilities that are measured as at FVTPL, the foreign exchange
component forms part of the fair value gains or losses and is recognised in profit or loss for financial liabilities that are not part
of a designated hedging relationship.
Derecognition of financial liabilities
The Group derecognises financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or have
expired. The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognised and the consideration paid and
payable is recognised in profit or loss.
When the Group exchanges with the existing lender one debt instrument into another one with the substantially different
terms, such exchange is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new
financial liability. Similarly, the Group accounts for substantial modification of terms of an existing liability or part of it as
an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new liability. It is assumed that the terms are
substantially different if the discounted present value of the cash flows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of
any fees received and discounted using the original effective rate is at least 10 per cent different from the discounted present
value of the remaining cash flows of the original financial liability. If the modification is not substantial, the difference between:
(1) the carrying amount of the liability before the modification; and (2) the present value of the cash flows after modification
should be recognised in profit or loss as the modification gain or loss within other gains and losses.
Derivatives Instruments
The Group enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to manage its exposure to foreign exchange rate.
Derivativesareinitiallyrecognisedatfairvalueatthedatethederivativecontractisenteredintoandaresubsequentlyremeasured
to their fair value at the end of each reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognised in profit or loss immediately unless
the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument, in which event the timing of the recognition in profit or loss
depends on the nature of the hedge relationship.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
137
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
Financial Liabilities and Equity Instruments (continued)
Derivatives Instruments (continued)
A derivative with a positive fair value is recognised as a financial asset; a derivative with a negative fair value is recognised as
a financial liability. A derivative is presented as a non-current asset or a non-current liability if the remaining maturity of the
instrument is more than 12 months and it is not expected to be realised or settled within 12 months. Other derivatives are
presented as current assets or current liabilities.
Provisions
Provisions are made when the Group and the Company have a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past
events, when it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation, and when a reliable estimate
of the amount can be made. Provisions are measured at the directors’ best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the
obligation at the reporting date, and are discounted to present value where the effect is material.
At each reporting date, the provisions are reviewed by the directors and adjusted to reflect the current best estimate. The
provisions are reversed if it is no longer probable that the Group and the Company will be required to settle the obligation.
Restructuring
A restructuring provision is recognised when the Group and the Company have developed a detailed formal plan for the
restructuring and has raised a valid expectation in those affected that it will carry out the restructuring by starting to implement
the plan or announcing its main features to those affected by it. The measurement of a restructuring provision includes only
the direct expenditures arising from the restructuring, which are those amounts that are both necessarily entailed by the
restructuring and not associated with the ongoing activities of the entity.
Operating segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from which it may earn revenues
and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components.
Operating segment results are reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker, which in this case is the Managing
Director of the Group, to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for
which discrete financial information is available.
Contingent Liabilities
A contingent liability is a possible obligation that arises from past events whose existence will be confirmed by the occurrence
or non-occurrence of one or more uncertain future events beyond the control of the Group or a present obligation that is not
recognised because it is not probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation. A contingent liability
also arises in the extremely rare case where there is a liability that cannot be recognised because it cannot be measured reliably.
Earnings per ordinary stock unit
The Group presents basic earnings per stock unit data for its ordinary shares. Basic earnings per ordinary stock unit is calculated
by dividing the profit or loss for the year attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company by the weighted average number
of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for own shares held.
Statements of Cash Flows
The Group and the Company adopt the indirect method in the preparation of the statements of cash flows.
138 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
4. CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY
(i) Critical judgements in applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies
In the process of applying the Group’s and the Company’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 3 above,
management is of the opinion that there are no instances of application of judgement which are expected to have a
significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements.
(ii) Key sources of estimation uncertainty
Management believes that there are no key assumptions made concerning the future, and other key sources of estimation
uncertainty at the end of the reporting period, that have a significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying
amounts of assets and liabilities of the Group and the Company within the next financial year except as discussed below.
Accruals for promotional discounts and volume rebates
Significant management judgment is required relative to the consideration of the Group’s ability to estimate the
promotional allowances and volume rebates, which impact revenue recognition. In making the estimates, the Group
refers to the terms agreed with the customers and relies on the historical and current sales information to determine the
accruals for promotional discounts and rebates as at the end of the reporting period.
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
The Group and the Company estimate the useful lives of property, plant and equipment based on the period over which
the assets are expected to be available for use. The estimated useful lives of property, plant and equipment are reviewed
periodically and are updated if expectations differ from previous estimate due to physical wear and tear, technical or
commercial obsolescence and legal or other limits on the use of the assets.
Recognition of deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets are recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which
the deductible temporary differences, unused tax losses and unused tax credits can be utilised. This involves judgement
regarding the future financial performance of the Group in which the deferred tax assets have been recognised.
Impairment losses of trade receivables
The Group recognises impairment loss for financial assets based on assumption about risk of default and expected
credit loss rates. The Group uses judgement in making these assumptions and selecting the inputs to the impairment
calculation, based on the Group’s past history, existing market conditions as well as forward looking estimates at the end
of each reporting period. Where the expectation is different from the original estimate, such difference will impact the
carrying value of the receivables and impairment loss in the period in which such estimate has been changed.
Allowance for obsolete and slow moving inventories
The Group and the Company review the inventory age listing on a periodic basis. This review involves comparison of the
carrying value of the aged inventory items with the respective net realisable value. The purpose is to ascertain whether
an allowance is required to be made in the financial statements for any obsolete and slow moving items. In addition, the
Group and the Company conduct physical counts on inventories on a periodic basis in order to determine whether an
allowance is required to be made.
Returnable packaging deposits
The Group collects deposits from customers on returnable packaging materials such as bottles, kegs, crates and cylinders.
Management estimates the returnable packaging materials being circulated in the market and the expected return from
customers. The estimate is based on circulation time and losses of returnable packaging materials in the market.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
139
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
4. CRITICAL JUDGEMENTS AND ESTIMATION UNCERTAINTY (CONTINUED)
(ii) Key sources of estimation uncertainty (continued)
Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities
Significant management judgement is required to determine the lease term and the incremental borrowing rate.
Management assesses whether the Group and the Company are reasonably certain to exercise such options impacts
the lease term, which as a result could affect the amount of lease liabilities recognised. The assumptions used in the
determination of the incremental borrowing rate could impact the rate used in discounting future payments, which as a
result could have an impact on the amount of lease liabilities recognised.
Contingent liabilities
Contingent liabilities are recognised when a possible obligation pending on whether some uncertain future events occurs,
or a present obligation but payment is not probable or the amount cannot be measured reliably. Significant management
estimate is required to determine likelihood of the obligations to be realised by the Group.
5. FINANCE INCOME
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Interest income received from deposits placed
with licensed banks 1,192 1,558 1,155 1,527
Interest income received from staff loans 1 1 1 1
Recognised in profit or loss 1,193 1,559 1,156 1,528
6. FINANCE COSTS
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Interest expenses of financial liabilities that are
not at fair value through profit or loss:
Revolving credit and trade financing 2,589 3,588 2,589 3,588
Lease liabilities 328 469 155 202
Recognised in profit or loss 2,917 4,057 2,744 3,790
140 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
7. PROFIT BEFORE TAX
Profit before tax is arrived at after the following:
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
After charging:
Personnel expenses (including key management
personnel):
Wages, salaries and others 107,598 97,197 35,695 29,310
Contributions to state plans 16,942 14,018 5,202 4,295
Depreciation of property, plant and equipment
(Note 10) 69,899 59,310 58,168 47,072
Amortisation of prepaid contractual promotion
expenses 3,209 27,299 - -
Amortisation of intangible assets (Note 11) 4,675 6,214 4,543 6,028
Inventories written down 1,664 5,486 1,462 960
Depreciation of right-of-use assets (Note 12) 4,197 5,182 2,036 2,252
Rental expense on buildings 7,563 4,545 299 96
Property, plant and equipment written off 3,117 1,700 3,114 1,698
Loss on disposal of right-of-use assets 3 - - -
Hire of equipment 2,238 1,229 683 579
Bad debts written off - 953 - -
Net unrealised loss on foreign exchange - 729 - 764
Auditors’ remuneration:
Statutory audit 214 203 136 126
Other services 40 40 40 40
Intangible assets written off - 15 - 15
Impairment loss on trade receivables
[Note 28.4 (a)] 509 - - -
And after crediting:
Dividend income from unquoted subsidiary - - 398,832 227,904
Net realised gain on foreign exchange 2,402 1,285 2,245 1,136
Reversal of provision for restructuring (Note 21) 3,360 - 2,325 -
Reversal of impairment loss on trade receivables
[Note 28.4 (a)] - 1,285 - -
Gain on disposal of property, plant and equipment 109 818 24 605
Gain on disposal of right-of-use assets - 8 1 8
Net unrealised gain on foreign exchange 143 - 156 -
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
141
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
8. INCOME TAX EXPENSE
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Estimated tax payable:
Current year 178,566 77,091 395 3,086
Overprovision in prior years (2,526) (949) (1,164) (884)
176,040 76,142 (769) 2,202
Deferred tax (Note 14):
Current year 4,159 (705) 2,180 158
Under/(Over)provision in prior years 1,477 312 27 9
5,636 (393) 2,207 167
181,676 75,749 1,438 2,369
The Finance Act 2021 gazetted on 31 December 2021 enacted the Prosperity Tax on companies that generate high income
during the Year of Assessment 2022 i.e. chargeable income up to first RM100 million would be taxed at 24% and the remaining
chargeable income would be taxed at an one-off rate of 33%. Accordingly, the computation of deferred tax assets and deferred
tax liabilities had been adjusted to reflect such changes in 2021.
A reconciliation of income tax expense applicable to profit before tax at the applicable statutory income tax rate to the income
tax expense at the effective income tax rate of the Group and of the Company is as follows:
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Profit before tax 594,500 321,427 424,432 240,528
Tax at statutory tax rate of 24% (2021: 24%) 142,680 77,142 101,864 57,727
Prosperity tax 43,084 - - -
Tax effects of:
Effect of change in tax rate relating to
Prosperity Tax - (1,619) - -
Expenses not deductible for tax purposes 804 863 274 214
Recognition of deferred tax arising from
reinvestment allowances (3,843) - (3,843) -
(Over)/Underprovision in prior years:
Current tax (2,526) (949) (1,164) (884)
Deferred tax 1,477 312 27 9
Tax exempt dividend - - (95,720) (54,697)
181,676 75,749 1,438 2,369
142 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
9. EARNINGS PER ORDINARY STOCK UNIT
Basic earnings per ordinary stock unit
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary stock unit at 31 December 2022 was based on the profit attributable to the
holders of ordinary stock units of RM412,824,000 (2021: RM245,678,000) and the number of ordinary stock units outstanding
of 302,098,000 (2021: 302,098,000).
Group
2022 2021
Issued ordinary stock unit (‘000) 302,098 302,098
Basic earnings per ordinary stock unit (sen) 136.7 81.3
There were no diluted earnings per ordinary stock unit for the Group as at 31 December 2022.
10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
Group
Freehold
land Buildings
Plant and
machinery
Movable
plant
Capital
work-in-
progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2021 4,037 104,046 439,000 309,558 30,471 887,112
Additions - 67 1,054 24,670 81,714 107,505
Write offs - - (1,982) (6,521) - (8,503)
Disposals - - - (9,755) - (9,755)
Reclassifications - 2,024 13,849 3,427 (19,300) -
At 31 December 2021/1
January 2022 4,037 106,137 451,921 321,379 92,885 976,359
Additions - 90 3,700 59,110 127,031 189,931
Write offs - - (815) (22,004) - (22,819)
Disposals - - (783) (719) - (1,502)
Reclassifications - 569 44,508 19,176 (64,253) -
At 31 December 2022 4,037 106,796 498,531 376,942 155,663 1,141,969
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
143
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Group
Freehold
land Buildings
Plant and
machinery
Movable
plant
Capital
work-in-
progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Accumulated
Depreciation
At 1 January 2021 - 59,333 300,319 185,544 - 545,196
Charge for the year - 4,867 17,747 36,696 - 59,310
Write offs - - (1,982) (4,821) - (6,803)
Disposals - - - (9,748) - (9,748)
At 31 December 2021/1
January 2022 - 64,200 316,084 207,671 - 587,955
Charge for the year - 3,628 16,720 49,551 - 69,899
Write offs - - (815) (18,887) - (19,702)
Disposals - - (783) (709) - (1,492)
At 31 December 2022 - 67,828 331,206 237,626 - 636,660
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2022 4,037 38,968 167,325 139,316 155,663 505,309
At 31 December 2021 4,037 41,937 135,837 113,708 92,885 388,404
Company Buildings
Plant and
machinery
Movable
plant
Capital
work-in-
progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2021 97,654 439,000 237,638 27,436 801,728
Additions 67 1,054 22,617 75,890 99,628
Write offs - (1,982) (6,339) - (8,321)
Disposals - - (7,249) - (7,249)
Reclassifications 5 13,849 - (13,854) -
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 97,726 451,921 246,667 89,472 885,786
Additions 90 3,700 49,796 120,008 173,594
Write offs - (815) (21,446) - (22,261)
Disposals - (783) (386) - (1,169)
Reclassifications 569 44,508 9,254 (54,331) -
At 31 December 2022 98,385 498,531 283,885 155,149 1,035,950
144 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
10. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (CONTINUED)
Company Buildings
Plant and
machinery
Movable
plant
Capital
work-in-
progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 January 2021 53,333 300,319 138,449 - 492,101
Charge for the year 4,199 17,747 25,126 - 47,072
Write offs - (1,982) (4,641) - (6,623)
Disposals - - (7,247) - (7,247)
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 57,532 316,084 151,687 - 525,303
Charge for the year 3,010 16,720 38,438 - 58,168
Write offs - (815) (18,332) - (19,147)
Disposals - (783) (385) - (1,168)
At 31 December 2022 60,542 331,206 171,408 - 563,156
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2022 37,843 167,325 112,477 155,149 472,794
At 31 December 2021 40,194 135,837 94,980 89,472 360,483
During the financial year, the Group and the Company acquired property, plant and equipment as follows:
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cash payments 170,481 98,819 154,144 90,942
Other payables 19,450 8,686 19,450 8,686
Total additions 189,931 107,505 173,594 99,628
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
145
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
11. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
Group
Computer
software
Capital
work-in-
progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2021 87,503 4,255 91,758
Additions 124 5,236 5,360
Write off (58) - (58)
Reclassifications 4,652 (4,652) -
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 92,221 4,839 97,060
Additions 2,989 6,559 9,548
Reclassifications 5,468 (5,468) -
At 31 December 2022 100,678 5,930 106,608
Amortisation
At 1 January 2021 75,232 - 75,232
Amortisation for the year 6,214 - 6,214
Write off (43) - (43)
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 81,403 - 81,403
Amortisation for the year 4,675 - 4,675
At 31 December 2022 86,078 - 86,078
Carrying Amounts
At 31 December 2022 14,600 5,930 20,530
At 31 December 2021 10,818 4,839 15,657
Company
Cost
At 1 January 2021 87,277 4,256 91,533
Additions - 5,236 5,236
Write off (58) - (58)
Reclassifications 4,652 (4,652) -
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 91,871 4,840 96,711
Additions 94 6,559 6,653
Reclassifications 5,468 (5,468) -
At 31 December 2022 97,433 5,931 103,364
146 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
11. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
Company
Computer
software
Capital
work-in-
progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Amortisation
At 1 January 2021 75,184 - 75,184
Amortisation for the year 6,028 - 6,028
Write off (43) - (43)
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 81,169 - 81,169
Amortisation for the year 4,543 - 4,543
At 31 December 2022 85,712 - 85,712
Carrying amounts
At 31 December 2022 11,721 5,931 17,652
At 31 December 2021 10,702 4,840 15,542
12. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS
Group
Long term
leasehold land Building
Motor
vehicles Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2021 11,426 4,520 13,851 29,797
Additions - 1,324 839 2,163
Disposals - (599) (3,017) (3,616)
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 11,426 5,245 11,673 28,344
Additions - 1,122 737 1,859
Disposals - (838) (1,959) (2,797)
At 31 December 2022 11,426 5,529 10,451 27,406
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 January 2021 510 3,013 4,377 7,900
Depreciation for the year 255 1,591 3,336 5,182
Disposals - (440) (3,017) (3,457)
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
147
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
12. RIGHT-OF-USE ASSETS (CONTINUED)
Group
Long term
leasehold land Building
Motor
vehicles Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 765 4,164 4,696 9,625
Depreciation for the year 255 1,457 2,485 4,197
Disposals - (722) (1,785) (2,507)
At 31 December 2022 1,020 4,899 5,396 11,315
Carrying Amounts
At 31 December 2022 10,406 630 5,055 16,091
At 31 December 2021 10,661 1,081 6,977 18,719
Company
Cost
At 1 January 2021 11,426 1,893 5,350 18,669
Additions - 529 515 1,044
Disposals - (599) (981) (1,580)
At 31 December 2021/ 1 January 2022 11,426 1,823 4,884 18,133
Additions - 356 737 1,093
Disposals - - (624) (624)
At 31 December 2022 11,426 2,179 4,997 18,602
Accumulated Depreciation
At 1 January 2021 510 1,257 1,298 3,065
Depreciation for the year 255 655 1,342 2,252
Disposals - (440) (982) (1,422)
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 765 1,472 1,658 3,895
Depreciation for the year 255 557 1,224 2,036
Disposals - - (460) (460)
At 31 December 2022 1,020 2,029 2,422 5,471
Carrying Amounts
At 31 December 2022 10,406 150 2,575 13,131
At 31 December 2021 10,661 351 3,226 14,238
148 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
13. INVESTMENT IN SUBSIDIARIES
Company
2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000
Unquoted shares, at cost 14,344 14,344
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Proportion of
ownership interest
and voting power
Name of entity
Country of
incorporation
2022
%
2021
% Principal activities
Heineken Marketing Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia 100 100 Marketing and distribution of beverages
primarily alcoholic in Malaysia
Ramaha Corporation (M) Sdn. Bhd.* Malaysia 100 100 Property holding and land development
Heineken East Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.* Malaysia 100 100 Dormant
* Elected to be exempted from audit under Practice Directive No.3/2017 issued by the Companies Commission of Malaysia.
14. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES)
The deferred tax amounts, determined after appropriate offsetting, are as follows:
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Deferred tax assets 2,147 5,782 - -
Deferred tax liabilities (34,208) (32,207) (35,502) (33,295)
(32,061) (26,425) (35,502) (33,295)
As mentioned in Note 8, the Finance Act 2021 gazetted on 31 December 2021 enacted the special one-time “Prosperity Tax” at
the rate of 33% on companies with chargeable income exceeding RM100 million for Year of Assessment 2022. Accordingly, the
computation of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities had been adjusted to reflect such changes in 2021.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
149
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
14. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Assets
Property, plant and equipment - 679 - -
Inventories 2,994 3,504 786 508
Receivables, deposits and prepaid expenses 490 368 - -
Trade and other payables 4,371 2,957 3,561 1,019
Unused reinvestment allowances 3,568 - 3,568 -
Lease liabilities 1,420 2,100 673 872
Tax assets 12,843 9,608 8,588 2,399
Set off of tax (10,696) (3,826) (8,588) (2,399)
2,147 5,782 - -
Liabilities
Property, plant and equipment (43,540) (34,835) (43,436) (34,835)
Right-of-use assets (1,364) (1,198) (654) (859)
Tax liabilities (44,904) (36,033) (44,090) (35,694)
Set off of tax 10,696 3,826 8,588 2,399
(34,208) (32,207) (35,502) (33,295)
Net
Property, plant and equipment (43,540) (34,156) (43,436) (34,835)
Inventories 2,994 3,504 786 508
Receivables, deposits and prepaid expenses 490 368 - -
Trade and other payables 4,371 2,957 3,561 1,019
Unused reinvestment allowances 3,568 - 3,568 -
Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities 56 902 19 13
Tax liabilities (32,061) (26,425) (35,502) (33,295)
150 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
14. DEFERRED TAX ASSETS/(LIABILITIES) (CONTINUED)
Movement in temporary differences during the year:
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At beginning of year (26,425) (26,818) (33,295) (33,128)
Recognised in profit or loss (Note 8):
Property, plant and equipment (9,384) 436 (8,601) (99)
Inventories (510) 608 278 (185)
Receivables, deposits and prepaid expenses 122 (308) - -
Trade and other payables 1,414 (1,190) 2,542 122
Unused reinvestment allowances 3,568 - 3,568 -
Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities (846) 847 6 (5)
(5,636) 393 (2,207) (167)
At end of year (32,061) (26,425) (35,502) (33,295)
15. RECEIVABLES, DEPOSITS AND PREPAID EXPENSES
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Non-current
Other receivables 56 98 11 32
Prepaid expenses 833 1,448 - -
889 1,546 11 32
Current
Trade
Trade receivables 583,836 403,523 - -
Less: Impairment losses [Note 28.4(a)] (2,041) (1,532) - -
581,795 401,991 - -
Amount due from a subsidiary - - 149,847 56,112
581,795 401,991 149,847 56,112
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
151
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
15. RECEIVABLES, DEPOSITS AND PREPAID EXPENSES (CONTINUED)
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Non-trade
Amount due from intermediate holding
corporation 2 4 - -
Amount due from related parties 1,934 765 681 355
Amount due from a subsidiary - - 4,043 4,043
Deposits 4,630 4,451 2,865 2,817
Other receivables 6,891 1,913 6,333 545
Prepaid expenses 6,783 6,129 2,242 414
20,240 13,262 16,164 8,174
602,035 415,253 166,011 64,286
(a) Amounts due from related parties, intermediate holding corporation and subsidiaries
The trade amounts due from a subsidiary is subject to normal trade terms.
The non-trade amounts due from intermediate holding corporation, related parties and a subsidiary are unsecured,
interest-free and repayable on demand.
(b) Other receivables
Included in other receivables are staff loans of the Group and of the Company amounting to RM98,000 (2021: RM257,000)
and RM32,000 (2021: RM123,000) respectively of which RM56,000 (2021: RM98,000) and RM11,000 (2021: RM32,000)
are repayable after the next 12 months for the Group and the Company respectively.
(c) Prepaid expenses
Included in prepayments of the Group are upfront payments for contracts with on-trade retailers of RM5,319,138 (2021:
RM7,163,089) of which RM833,245 (2021: RM1,448,063) are to be amortised over a period of more than 12 months but
not exceeding 36 months. The upfront payments are made to the on-trade retailers to carry out promotional activities
over the period specified in the contract. The amount is amortised to profit or loss based on actual volumes sold by the
on-trade retailers as stipulated in the contract.
152 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
16. INVENTORIES
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Raw materials 43,027 21,016 43,027 21,016
Work-in-progress 9,192 7,817 9,192 7,817
Finished goods 113,741 104,016 7,531 9,205
Packaging materials 12,450 10,083 12,450 10,083
Engineering stores and spaces 12,274 8,246 8,426 6,210
190,684 151,178 80,626 54,331
Recognised in profit or loss:
Inventories recognised as cost of sales 1,646,083 1,218,405 1,497,863 1,066,648
The Group and the Company have written down inventories by RM1,664,000 (2021: RM5,486,000) and RM1,462,000 (2021:
RM960,000) respectively to net realisable value.
17. SHARE CAPITAL
Group and Company
Number of shares Amount
2022 2021 2022 2021
(‘000) (‘000) RM’000 RM’000
Issued and fully paid
Ordinary stock units 302,098 302,098 151,049 151,049
The holders of ordinary stock units are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are entitled to one vote
per ordinary stock unit at meetings of the Company.
18. BORROWINGS
Group and Company
2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000
Current
Revolving credit and trade financing (unsecured) 170,000 160,131
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
153
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
18. BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)
Revolving credit and trade financing as at 31 December 2022 consist of the following:
Tenure
(weeks)
Interest rate
(per annum) Maturity date
Nominal value
(RM’000)
Revolving credit 7 3.14% 13 January 2023 50,000
Revolving credit 8 3.16% 26 January 2023 20,000
Revolving credit 8 3.16% 26 January 2023 60,000
Trade financing 14 2.96% 20 January 2023 40,000
Revolving credit and trade financing as at 31 December 2021 consist of the following:
Tenure
(weeks)
Interest rate
(per annum) Maturity date
Nominal value
(RM’000)
Revolving credit 9 2.05% 24 January 2022 30,000
Trade financing 6 2.08% 19 January 2022 20,000
Trade financing 4 2.08% 20 January 2022 60,000
Trade financing 8 0.30% 14 January 2022 50,000
The principal and interest are repayable in full upon maturity.
19. LEASE LIABILITIES
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Non-current 3,092 5,015 1,536 2,322
Current 2,857 3,283 1,302 1,346
5,949 8,298 2,838 3,668
Minimum lease payments:
Not later than 1 year 3,058 3,586 1,397 1,483
Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 3,195 5,294 1,590 2,456
6,253 8,880 2,987 3,939
Less: Unexpired finance charges (304) (582) (149) (271)
5,949 8,298 2,838 3,668
Present value of lease liabilities:
Not later than 1 year 2,857 3,283 1,302 1,346
Later than 1 year but not later than 5 years 3,092 5,015 1,536 2,322
5,949 8,298 2,838 3,668
154 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
19. LEASE LIABILITIES (CONTINUED)
The Group and the Company discounted the lease liabilities by using the Group’s and the Company’s incremental borrowing
rates of 3.42% - 5.72% (2021: 3.31% - 5.72%).
Duringtheyear,theGroupandtheCompanyrecognisedRM9,801,446(2021:RM5,773,818)andRM981,950(2021:RM675,339)
respectively of short-term leases and leases of low value assets on a straight-line basis as expenses.
20. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Trade
Amount due to intermediate holding corporation 11,392 11,620 686 2,278
Amount due to related parties 14,387 10,297 10,426 7,541
Trade payables 210,247 137,672 102,027 72,691
236,026 159,589 113,139 82,510
Non-trade
Amount due to intermediate holding corporation 87 520 87 520
Amount due to related parties 8,027 3,047 7,820 3,047
Amount due to a subsidiary - - 100 100
Returnable packaging deposits 35,580 31,187 - -
Other payables 117,625 45,783 112,680 41,494
Derivative financial liabilities 4 243 - 234
Accrued expenses 296,038 237,682 41,925 39,152
457,361 318,462 162,612 84,547
693,387 478,051 275,751 167,057
(a) Amount due to related parties, intermediate holding corporation and a subsidiary
The trade amount due to related parties and intermediate holding corporation are subject to normal trade terms.
The non-trade amounts due to related parties, intermediate holding corporation and a subsidiary are unsecured, interest-
free and repayable on demand.
(b) Trade payables
Trade payables are non-interest bearing and the normal trade credit terms granted to the Group and the Company range
from 90 to 150 days (2021: 90 to 150 days).
(c) Accrued expenses
Included in accrued expenses of the Group are accruals for promotional expenses of RM220,085,000 (2021:
RM175,017,000).
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
155
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
20. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (CONTINUED)
(d) Derivative financial liabilities
The Group’s and Company’s derivatives comprise solely foreign exchange forward contracts incepted to hedge its currency
exposures arising from short term borrowings in United States Dollar (“USD”). Foreign exchange forward contracts are
entered into with licensed banks. The foreign exchange forward contracts generally have a maturity period between 1 to
2 months.
Details of the Group’s and Company’s derivative financial instruments are outlined below:
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Fair value of remeasured foreign forward
exchange contracts 4 243 - 234
21. PROVISION FOR RESTRUCTURING
On 28 October 2020, Heineken N.V., ultimate holding corporation, announced a review of the effectiveness and efficiency of the
organisations at Head Office, regional offices and each of its local operations as a part of its strategic review. Subsequently on
16 December 2020, the Group and the Company announced the restructuring exercise to the employees.
The provision relates to redundancy costs incurred. The Group and the Company have completed the restructuring exercise in
the financial year 2022.
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At beginning of year 3,648 13,590 2,613 3,308
Reversal of provision (3,360) - (2,325) -
Utilisation of provision - (9,942) - (695)
At end of year 288 3,648 288 2,613
156 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
22. DIVIDENDS
Dividends recognised by the Group and the Company are:
Sen per
stock unit
Total
amount Date of payment
RM’000
31 December 2022
Interim 2022 ordinary 40.0 120,839 11 November 2022
Final 2021 ordinary 66.0 199,385 28 July 2022
Total amount 320,224
31 December 2021
Interim 2021 ordinary 15.0 45,315 18 November 2021
First and final 2020 ordinary 51.0 154,070 28 July 2021
Total amount 199,385
The Directors now recommend the declaration of a final ordinary dividend of 98 sen per stock unit under the single tier tax
system totalling RM296,056,040 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2022 which, if approved by the owners of
the Company, will be payable on 20 July 2023.
23. KEY MANAGEMENT PERSONNEL COMPENSATION
The key management personnel of the Group and of the Company include the directors of the Company and subsidiaries and
certain members of senior management of the Group and the Company. Their compensation are as follows:
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Directors:
Fees 596 601 590 595
Remuneration 4,854 2,360 4,854 2,360
Share-based payment 660 621 660 621
Meeting attendance allowance 48 55 48 55
Estimated monetary value of benefits-in-kind
otherwise than in cash 569 587 569 587
6,727 4,224 6,721 4,218
Other key management personnel:
Short term employee benefits 9,113 7,315 5,779 4,710
Share-based payment 592 537 350 334
16,432 12,076 12,850 9,262
OtherkeymanagementpersonnelcomprisepersonsotherthanthedirectorsofGroupentities,havingauthorityandresponsibility
for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group entities either directly or indirectly.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
157
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
24. OPERATING SEGMENTS
The Group’s business is focussed only in malt liquor brewing including production, packaging, marketing and distribution of
its products, principally in Malaysia. As such, only one reportable segment analysis is prepared. The Managing Director of the
Company (the chief operating decision maker) reviews internal management reports at least on a monthly basis.
Performance is measured based on segment profit, as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the
ManagingDirectoroftheCompany.Segmentprofitisusedtomeasureperformanceasmanagementbelievesthatsuchinformation
is the most relevant in evaluating the results of the segments relative to other entities that operate within this industry.
Segment assets and liabilities
Segment assets and liabilities information is neither included in the internal management reports nor provided regularly to the
Managing Director of the Company. Hence, no disclosure is made on segment assets and liabilities.
Segment capital expenditure
Segment capital expenditure is the total costs incurred during the financial year to acquire property, plant and equipment, right-
of-use assets and intangible assets.
Group
2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000
Total additions to property, plant and equipment, right-of-use assets and intangible
assets 201,338 115,028
Segment profit
Included in the measure of segment profits are:
Revenue from external customers 2,855,065 1,979,348
Depreciation and amortisation (78,771) (70,706)
Not included in the measure of segment profit but provided to the Managing Director of
the Company:
Net finance costs (1,724) (2,498)
Reconciliation of reportable segment revenue, profit and other material items.
Group
2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000
Net finance costs
Finance income 1,193 1,559
Finance costs (2,917) (4,057)
Consolidated net finance costs (1,724) (2,498)
No reconciliation is performed for reportable segment profit, revenue, depreciation and amortisation to consolidated figures as
there are no differences.
158 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
25. CAPITAL COMMITMENTS
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Capital expenditure commitments
Property, plant and equipment:
Authorised and contracted for within one year 29,420 9,011 28,806 8,501
26. CONTINGENT LIABILITY – UNSECURED
(i) On 13 April 2021, the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiary, Heineken Marketing Malaysia Sdn. Bhd (“Companies”),
had received a Writ of Summons dated 2 April 2021 and Statement of Claim dated 29 March 2021 filed by Thirteen
Wings Sdn Bhd, Ashwin Kumar Kandiah (trading under Sivam Kandiah Enterprise, Ashwin Kandiah Enterprise and Skan
Ventures), Astrike Sdn Bhd, Axcend Sdn Bhd, Turbo Booze Sdn Bhd and Hops Sdn Bhd (“Plaintiffs”) under Kuala Lumpur
High Court Civil Suit No. WA-22NCVC-221-04/2021 (“Suit”) in respect of a dispute regarding the purchase and supply of
the Company’s products. The Plaintiffs are claiming among others that the Companies had failed to honour an alleged
contract and are seeking for, among others, specific performance of an alleged contract, in the alternative, damages for
breach of contract in the liquidated sum of RM26,520,000; and various consequential orders and declarations relating to
various contract terms. The Companies had disputed the claims and filed their defence accordingly on 20 May 2021.
(ii) On 6 December 2021, the Companies received another Writ of Summons and Statement of Claim filed by the Plaintiffs
under Kuala Lumpur High Court Civil Suit No. WA-22NCVC-781-12/2021 (“Claim”). The Claim is related to the Suit filed
in April 2021 as they arose from the same series of transactions, dealings and disputes between the Plaintiffs and the
Companies. The Plaintiffs claimed that the Companies have breached the contract between the Plaintiffs and Heineken
Marketing Malaysia Sdn Bhd relating to the company’s products (“Contract”) and they are claiming, among others, the
liquidated sum of RM58,225,545. As the Claim and the Suit are inter-related, the Plaintiffs have pleaded that they will be
applying to have the Claim and the Suit consolidated and/or heard together.
The directors are of the opinion that they have a strong defence against the Suit, which is frivolous and vexatious and the Claim,
which is unwarranted, premature and vexatious. Correspondingly, the Companies had on 10 January 2022 filed their defence
and counterclaim against the Plaintiffs in respect of Plaintiffs’ breaches of the Contract and are claiming, among others, a sum
of RM36,984,914. The trial for the first suit was fixed on 27 until 31 March 2023 but was subsequently vacated until further
direction from the court. Trial for the second suit has been fixed on 18 to 20 November 2024.
27. RELATED PARTIES
Identity of related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the Group or the Company
has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control or jointly control the party or exercise significant influence over the party in
making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group or the Company and the party are subject to
common control. Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
Related parties also include key management personnel defined as those persons having authority and responsibility for
planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group either directly or indirectly. The key management personnel
include all the directors of the Group, and certain members of senior management of the Group.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
159
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
27. RELATED PARTIES (CONTINUED)
Identity of related parties (continued)
The Group has related party relationships with its holding corporations, related corporations, subsidiaries and key management
personnel.
The directors regard GAPL Pte. Ltd. (“GAPL”) and Heineken Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. (“HAPPL”), both corporations incorporated in the
Republic of Singapore, as the immediate and intermediate holding corporations.
HAPPL is owned by Heineken N.V., a corporation incorporated in the Netherlands, which in turn is the ultimate holding corporation
of the Company.
Significant related party transactions
Significant related party transactions of the Group and the Company other than those disclosed elsewhere in the financial
statements are shown below. The balances related to the below transactions are shown in Notes 15 and 20.
Group Company
2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Intermediate holding corporation
Heineken Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd.
Royalties paid and payable (41,033) (27,944) - -
Subsidiary
Heineken Marketing Malaysia Sdn. Bhd.
Dividend income - - 398,832 227,904
Sale of products - - 1,685,611 1,203,511
Management service fee received and receivable - - 54,469 41,800
Related corporations
Related corporations of Heineken N.V.
Purchase of goods (28,191) (14,269) (28,191) (14,269)
Royalties paid and payable (12,263) (6,956) - -
Marketing and technical fees paid and payable (39,642) (26,291) (36,643) (24,645)
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT
The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the Group’s ability to
continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of
the business. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital, which the Group defines as results from operating activities
divided by total equity attributable to owners of the Company. The Board of Directors also monitors the level of dividends to
owners of the Company.
The Group monitors and maintains a balanced level of total equity to ensure the Group has adequate capital to support its
future development and the payment of dividends to owners of the Company. There was no change in the Group’s approach to
capital management during the financial year.
160 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
	Under the requirements of Bursa Malaysia Practice Note 17, the Company is required to maintain a consolidated shareholders’
equity equal to or not less than 25 percent of the share capital and such shareholders’ equity is not less than RM40 million. The
Company has complied with this requirement.
28.1 Significant Accounting Policies
Details of the significant accounting policies and methods adopted (including the criteria for recognition, the basis of
measurement and the bases for recognition of income and expenses) for each class of financial asset, financial liability
and equity instrument are disclosed in Note 3.
28.2 Categories of Financial Instruments
2022 2021
Group RM’000 RM’000
Financial assets
At amortised cost:
Receivables and deposits 595,308 409,222
Cash and bank balances 52,554 76,479
Financial liabilities
At fair value:
Trade and other payables - derivative financial liabilities 4 243
At amortised cost:
Trade and other payables - others 693,383 477,808
Provision for restructuring 288 3,648
Borrowings 170,000 160,131
Lease liabilities 5,949 8,298
Company
Financial assets
At amortised cost:
Receivables and deposits 163,780 63,904
Cash and bank balances 49,147 72,787
Financial liabilities
At fair value:
Trade and other payables - derivative financial liabilities - 234
At amortised cost:
Trade and other payables - others 275,751 166,823
Provision for restructuring 288 2,613
Borrowings 170,000 160,131
Lease liabilities 2,838 3,668
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
161
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.3 Financial Risk Management
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its use of financial instruments:
• Credit risk
• Market risk
• Liquidity risk
28.4 Credit Risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss to the Group if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails to meet
its contractual obligations. The Group’s exposure to credit risk arises principally from its trade receivables. The Company’s
exposure to credit risk arises principally from trade amount subsidiaries and advances to subsidiaries.
(a) Receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Credit
evaluations are performed on all customers requiring credit over a certain amount. The Group requires collateral to
be pledged by most of its customers to cover a percentage of the credit limit granted to them.
New customers are subject to the credit evaluation process and existing customers’ risk profiles are reviewed
regularly with a view to setting appropriate terms of trade and credit limits. Where appropriate, further transactions
are suspended and legal actions are taken to attempt recoveries and mitigate losses. Financial guarantees from
certain customers may be obtained.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk from receivables is represented by the
carrying amounts in the statement of financial position.
The Group has taken reasonable steps to ensure that receivables that are neither past due nor impaired are stated
at their realisable values. Due to the nature of the industry, a significant portion of these receivables are regular
customers that have been transacting with the Group. The Group uses ageing analysis to monitor credit quality of
the receivables. Any receivables having significant balances past due, which are deemed to have higher credit risk,
are monitored individually.
The Group has credit policies in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an ongoing basis. Under these
policies all customers requiring credit are reviewed and new customers are analysed individually for creditworthiness
beforepaymentanddeliverytermsandconditionsareoffered.Thisreviewcanincludeexternalratings,whereavailable,
and in some cases bank references. Credit limits are determined for each customer and are reviewed regularly.
The Group has a policy in place in respect of compliance with Anti-Money Laundering Laws. The Group considers it
important to know with whom business is done and from whom payments are received.
The Group establishes allowances on trade receivables using an expected credit losses model. These allowances
cover specific loss components that relate to individual exposures, and a collective loss component established
for groups of similar customers. The collective loss allowance is determined based on historical data of payment
statistics and updated periodically to incorporate forward looking information.
At the end of the reporting period, the Group has a concentration of credit risk in the form of trade debtors from 3
(2021: 3) main customers, representing approximately 44% (2021: 38%) of the Group’s trade receivables.
162 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.4 Credit Risk (continued)
(a) Receivables (continued)
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral (continued)
The carrying amounts of collateral for trade receivables as at the end of reporting period were:
Group
Carrying amounts
2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000
Type of collateral
Bank guarantees 63,770 61,970
Properties charged 51,067 51,067
Quoted shares pledged 1,554 1,554
116,391 114,591
Impairment losses
The Group applies the MFRS 9 simplified approach to measuring expected credit losses (“ECL”) which uses a lifetime
expected loss allowance for all trade receivables. To measure the expected credit losses, trade receivables have been
grouped based on shared credit risk characteristics and the days past due.
In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group manages its debtors and takes appropriate actions (including
but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue balances. Generally, trade receivables will pay within 60 days.
The Group uses an allowance matrix to measure ECLs of trade receivables for all segments. Consistent with the debt
recovery process, invoices which are past due more than 180 days will be considered as credit impaired. The Group
writes off a trade receivable when there is information indicating that the debtor is in severe financial difficulty and
there is no realistic prospect of recovery.
The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade receivables as at the
end of the reporting period which are grouped together as they are expected to have similar risk nature:
Trade receivables - days past due
2022
Not past
due
1 - 30
days
31 - 180
days
More than
180 days Total
Group RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Expected credit loss rate 0% 0% 0% 47%
Estimated total gross carrying
amount at default 553,125 21,875 4,494 4,342 583,836
Lifetime ECL (2,041) (2,041)
581,795
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
163
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.4 Credit Risk (continued)
(a) Receivables (continued)
Impairment losses (continued)
Trade receivables - days past due
2021
Not past
due
1 - 30
days
31 - 180
days
More than
180 days Total
Group RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Expected credit loss rate 0% 0% 0% 100%
Estimated total gross carrying
amount at default 395,752 4,694 1,545 1,532 403,523
Lifetime ECL - - - (1,532) (1,532)
401,991
The movements in the allowance for impairment losses of receivables during the financial year were:
Group
2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000
At beginning of year 1,532 2,817
Impairment loss recognised (Note 7) 509 -
Reversal of impairment loss (Note 7) - (1,285)
At end of year 2,041 1,532
The allowance account in respect of trade receivables is used to record impairment losses. Unless the Group is
satisfied that recovery of the amount is possible, the amount considered irrecoverable is written off against the
receivable directly.
(b) Amount due from subsidiary, intermediate holding corporation and related parties
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group and the Company undertake trade and non-trade transactions with the intermediate holding corporation
and related parties. The Company also provides unsecured advances to subsidiaries. The Group and the Company
monitor their results regularly.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the end of the reporting period, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts
in the statement of financial position.
Advances are only provided to subsidiaries which are wholly owned by the Company.
Impairment losses
As at the end of the reporting period, there was no indication that the intercompany balances are not recoverable.
164 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.5 Market Risk
Market risk is the risk that changes in market prices, such as foreign exchange rates and interest rates that will affect the
Group’s financial position or cash flows.
(a) Foreign currency risk
The Group is exposed to foreign currency risk through normal trading activities on sales and purchases that are
denominated in currency other than the respective functional currencies of Group entities. The currencies giving rise
to this risk are primarily U.S. Dollar (“USD”), Singapore Dollar (“SGD”), Euro Dollar (“EURO”) and Great Britain Pound
(“GBP”).
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group uses forward exchange contracts to hedge its foreign currency risk. The outstanding forward exchange
contracts as at the end of reporting period are disclosed in Note 20 (d).
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Group’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the respective functional currencies of the
Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the reporting period was:
Denominated in
Group USD SGD EURO GBP
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2022
Trade payables (3,055) (7,986) (17,842) -
2021
Other receivables - - - 581
Trade payables (2,175) (9,183) (15,887) -
Borrowings (50,131) - - -
Gross exposure (52,306) (9,183) (15,887) 581
Less: Borrowing hedged using forward
contracts 50,149 - - -
Net exposure (2,157) (9,183) (15,887) 581
A foreign currency risk arising from Group’s operations is not material, sensitivity analysis is not presented.
(b) Interest rate risk
The Group’s fixed rate borrowings are exposed to a risk of change in their fair values due to changes in interest rates.
Short term receivables and payables are not significantly exposed to interest rate risk.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
165
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.5 Market Risk (continued)
(b) Interest rate risk (continued)
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group does not have a formal policy in place for managing the risk arising from interest rate. The fluctuation of
interest rate is however monitored closely by the Group.
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group’s and of the Company’s significant interest-bearing financial instruments,
based on carrying amounts as at the end of reporting period was:
Group and Company
2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000
Fixed rate instruments
Borrowings 170,000 160,131
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss,
and the Group does not designate derivatives as hedging instruments under a fair value hedge accounting model.
Therefore, a change in interest rates at the end of reporting period would not affect profit or loss.
28.6 Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group’s
exposure to liquidity risk arises principally from its trade and other payables and borrowings.
The Group maintains a level of cash equivalents and bank facilities deemed adequate by the management to ensure, as
far as possible, that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when they fall due. It is not expected that the cash
flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significant earlier, on at significant different amounts.
166 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.6 Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis
The table below summaries the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end of the
reporting period based on undiscounted contractual payments:
Group
Carrying
amount
Contractual
interest rate
Contractual
cash flows
Under
1 year
Between
1 and 2
years
Between
2 and 5
years
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
As at 31 December 2022
Borrowings
- Revolving credit and trade
financing 170,000 2.96% to 3.16% 170,510 170,510 - -
Trade and other payables 693,387 - 693,387 693,387 - -
Provision for restructuring 288 - 288 288 - -
Lease liabilities 5,949 3.42% to 5.72% 6,253 3,058 2,289 906
869,624 870,438 867,243 2,289 906
As at 31 December 2021
Borrowings
- Revolving credit and trade
financing 160,131 0.30% to 2.08% 160,407 160,407 - -
Trade and other payables 478,051 - 478,051 478,051 - -
Provision for restructuring 3,648 - 3,648 3,648 - -
Lease liabilities 8,298 3.31% to 5.72% 8,880 3,586 2,366 2,928
650,128 650,986 645,692 2,366 2,928
Company
As at 31 December 2022
Borrowings
- Revolving credit and trade
financing 170,000 2.96% to 3.16% 170,510 170,510 - -
Trade and other payables 275,751 - 275,751 275,751 - -
Provision for restructuring 288 - 288 288 - -
Lease liabilities 2,838 3.42% to 5.72% 2,987 1,397 1,052 538
448,877 449,536 447,946 1,052 538
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
167
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Notes To The Financial Statements
28. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CAPITAL RISK MANAGEMENT (CONTINUED)
28.6 Liquidity risk (continued)
Maturity analysis (continued)
The table below summaries the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial liabilities as at the end of the
reporting period based on undiscounted contractual payments: (continued)
Company
Carrying
amount
Contractual
interest rate
Contractual
cash flows
Under
1 year
Between
1 and 2
years
Between
2 and 5
years
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
As at 31 December 2021
Borrowings
- Revolving credit and trade
financing 160,131 0.30% to 2.08% 160,407 160,407 - -
Trade and other payables 167,057 - 167,057 167,057 - -
Provision for restructuring 2,613 - 2,613 2,613 - -
Lease liabilities 3,668 3.31% to 5.72% 3,939 1,483 1,066 1,390
333,469 334,016 331,560 1,066 1,390
28.7 Fair values
The carrying amounts of cash and bank balances, short term receivables and payables, short term borrowings and lease
liabilities reasonably approximate their fair values due to the relatively short term nature of these financial instruments
or exposed to floating interest rates.
The fair value of the Group’s foreign exchange forward contracts at the end of the reporting period as disclosed in Note
20(d) is determined by reference to the differences between the contract rates and quoted forward exchange rates of
contract with similar quantum and maturity profile at the end of the reporting period. The fair value is categorised as
Level 2 in the fair value hierarchy and classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss.
29. RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES
The table below details the reconciliation of the opening and closing amounts in the statements of financial position for each
liability for which cash flows have been, or would be, classified as financing activities in the statements of cash flows:
Cash Flows
Note
As at
1.1.2022
Non-cash
changes
Addition Drawdown Repayment
As at
31.12.2022
Group RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Borrowings 18 160,131 - 1,040,000 (1,030,131) 170,000
Lease liabilities 19 8,298 1,570 - (3,919) 5,949
168 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Notes To The Financial Statements
29. RECONCILIATION OF LIABILITIES ARISING FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES (CONTINUED)
The table below details the reconciliation of the opening and closing amounts in the statements of financial position for each
liability for which cash flows have been, or would be, classified as financing activities in the statements of cash flows: (continued)
Cash Flows
Note
As at
1.1.2022
Non-cash
changes
Addition Drawdown Repayment
As at
31.12.2022
Company RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Borrowings 18 160,131 - 1,040,000 (1,030,131) 170,000
Lease liabilities 19 3,668 927 - (1,757) 2,838
Cash Flows
Note
As at
1.1.2021
Non-cash
changes
Addition Drawdown Repayment
As at
31.12.2021
Group RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Borrowings 18 249,208 131 1,793,000 (1,882,208) 160,131
Lease liabilities 19 11,208 1,996 - (4,906) 8,298
Company
Borrowings 18 249,208 131 1,793,000 (1,882,208) 160,131
Lease liabilities 19 4,763 966 - (2,061) 3,668
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
169
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Statement By Directors
Declaration By The Officer Primarily Responsible
For The Financial Management Of The Company
The directors of HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD state that, in their opinion, the accompanying financial statements are drawn up
in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of
the Companies Act, 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as
at 31 December 2022 and of the financial performance and the cash flows of the Group and of the Company for the year ended on
that date.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors
in accordance with a resolution of the directors,
_____________________________________
DATO’ SRI IDRIS JALA
_____________________________________
ROLAND BALA
Petaling Jaya, Selangor
24 February 2023
I, CHRISTIAAN JOHANNES FOLKERTS, the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of HEINEKEN MALAYSIA
BERHAD, do solemnly and sincerely declare that the accompanying financial statements are, in my opinion, correct and I make this
solemn declaration conscientiously believing the same to be true, and by virtue of the provisions of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
____________________________________
CHRISTIAAN JOHANNES FOLKERTS
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the abovenamed CHRISTIAAN JOHANNES FOLKERTS at PETALING JAYA, SELANGOR this
24th day of February 2023.
Before me,
PESURUHJAYA SUMPAH MALAYSIA
GUNALAN
No. B459
1.1.2022 - 31.12.2024
NO. 13 (TINGKAT 1), JALAN 52/10, PJ NEW TOWN, 46200 PETALING JAYA, SELANGOR
COMMISSIONER FOR OATHS
170 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Other Information
PROPERTIES OWNED BY THE GROUP
Address
Land Area
(acres) Existing Use Tenure
Approximate
Age of
Building
(years)
Audited
Net Carrying
Amount as of
31 December
2022
RM’000
Date of Acquisition/
Revaluation*
Lot 1135, Batu 9
Jalan Klang Lama
46000 Petaling Jaya
Selangor
20.84 Office building
& factory
Leasehold
expiring
23 September
2063
56 46,536 30 September 1984*
120, Air Keroh
Industrial Estate
75450 Melaka
1.07 Office building
& store
Leasehold
expiring
13 January
2080
40 242 30 September 1984*
Lot 123, Semambu
Industrial Site
25350 Kuantan
Pahang
0.52 Office building
& store
Leasehold
expiring
5 March 2046
40 174 30 September 1984*
Lot 1136, Batu 9
Jalan Klang Lama
46000 Petaling Jaya
Selangor
2.88 Storage Freehold Not applicable 4,037 31 December 1991
50,989
* The revaluation of properties was carried out primarily for the purpose of bonus issue in 1984.
UTILISATION OF PROCEEDS
There was no corporate proposal undertaken by Heineken Malaysia Berhad to raise proceeds during the financial year ended
31 December 2022.
MATERIAL CONTRACTS
There were no material contracts (not being contracts entered into in the ordinary course of business) entered into by Heineken
Malaysia Berhad and/or its subsidiaries involving the interest of Directors and major shareholders, either still subsisting at the end of
the financial year ended 31 December 2022 or entered into since the end of the previous financial year.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST/CONVICTION OF OFFENCES/SANCTIONS/PENALTIES
None of the members of the Board and the Management Team has any:
• family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of Heineken Malaysia Berhad.
• conflict of interest in any business arrangement involving Heineken Malaysia Berhad.
• convictions for any offences, other than traffic offences, within the past 5 years.
• public sanction or penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
171
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Analysis Of Stockholdings
As of 10 March 2023
Share Capital : RM151,049,000
Number of Issued Shares : 302,098,000 ordinary stock units
Class of Shares : Ordinary stock unit
Voting Rights : One vote per ordinary stock unit
Size of Holdings No. of Stockholders % No. of Stock Units %
1 – 99 1,049 8.70 7,349 0.00
100 – 1,000 5,789 48.01 3,486,811 1.16
1,001 – 10,000 4,075 33.80 15,462,811 5.12
10,001 – 100,000 971 8.05 27,865,504 9.22
100,001 – 15,104,899 173 1.43 101,205,625 33.50
15,104,900 and above 1 0.01 154,069,900 51.00
TOTAL 12,058 100.00 302,098,000 100.00
SUBSTANTIAL STOCKHOLDERS AS PER REGISTER OF SUBSTANTIAL STOCKHOLDERS
Name Direct Indirect
No. of Stock Units % No. of Stock Units %
GAPL Pte Ltd 154,069,900 51.00 - -
DIRECTORS’ INTEREST
According to the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings, save for the following Director, none of the other Directors (including the spouses
or children of the Directors who themselves are not Directors of the Company) holding office as of 10 March 2023 had any interest in
the ordinary stock units of the Company or its related corporations:
Name Direct Indirect
No. of Stock Units % No. of Stock Units %
Datin Ngiam Pick Ngoh, Linda 6,700 negligible - -
30 LARGEST STOCKHOLDERS AS PER RECORD OF DEPOSITORS
Name No. of Stock Units %
1. GAPL Pte Ltd 154,069,900 51.00
2. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
- Great Eastern Life Assurance (Malaysia) Berhad (PAR 1)
7,315,280 2.42
3. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- JPMSE Lux for Stichting Depositary APG Emerging Markets Equity Pool
6,225,200 2.06
4. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- The Bank of New York Mellon for Virtus KAR International Small-Mid Cap Fund
4,210,900 1.39
5. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
- Deutsche Trustees Malaysia Berhad for Hong Leong Value Fund
3,882,600 1.29
6.	UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- Exempt AN for UOB Kay Hian Pte Ltd (A/C Clients)
3,879,439 1.28
172 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
Name No. of Stock Units %
7. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
- Exempt AN for AIA Bhd
2,318,100 0.77
8. Tai Tak Estates Sdn Bhd 2,156,000 0.71
9. Key Development Sdn Berhad 2,037,000 0.67
10. ChinChoo Investment Sdn Berhad 1,865,000 0.62
11. CIMB Group Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- Exempt AN for DBS Bank Ltd (SFS)
1,839,800 0.61
12. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
- PAMB for Prulink Equity Fund
1,717,600 0.57
13. Ho Han Seng 1,600,000 0.53
14. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- SSBT Fund KG33 for Invesco EQV Asia Pacific Equity Fund
1,532,400 0.51
15. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- BBH (Lux) SCA for Fidelity Funds Asean
1,403,500 0.46
16. Kam Loong Mining Sdn Bhd 1,320,000 0.44
17. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
- Deutsche Trustees Malaysia Berhad for Hong Leong Balanced Fund
1,300,000 0.43
18. Gan Teng Siew Realty Sdn Berhad 1,277,000 0.42
19. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- The Bank of New York Mellon for Virtus KAR Emerging Markets Small-CAP Fund
1,234,600 0.41
20. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
- Great Eastern Life Assurance (Malaysia) Berhad (PAR 3)
1,191,000 0.39
21. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- SSBT Fund DU5J for Caisse De Depot ET Placement DU Quebec
1,166,800 0.39
22. HLB Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- Tan Eng Chin Holdings (Pte.) Limited (CUST.SIN 40555)
1,150,000 0.38
23. Hong Leong Assurance Berhad
- As Beneficial Owner (Life PAR)
1,141,400 0.38
24. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- Exempt An for State Street Bank & Trust Company (West CLT OD67)
1,126,600 0.37
25. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
- Great Eastern Life Assurance (Malaysia) Berhad (PAR 1 ACB Fund)
1,105,600 0.37
26. Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- UBS AG
1,096,265 0.36
27. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- JPMSE Lux for JPMorgan Funds
1,068,300 0.35
28. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- The Bank of New York Mellon for Florida Retirement System
1,017,800 0.34
29. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
- Prudential Assurance Malaysia Berhad for Prulink Strategic Fund
991,400 0.33
30. Cartaban Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
- SSBT Fund KG67 for Invesco EQV International Small Company Fund
982,600 0.33
TOTAL 213,222,084 70.58
30 LARGEST STOCKHOLDERS AS PER RECORD OF DEPOSITORS (CONTINUED)
Analysis Of Stockholdings
As of 10 March 2023
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
173
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
174 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
175
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
176 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
GRI Content Index
The GRI content index ensures reported ESG information is traceable and increases the transparency of information covered in this
report. This content index helps stakeholders navigate the disclosures and information that the Group has reported.
GRI Standards Disclosures Reference
General Disclosures
GRI 2: General Disclosures
2021
2-1 Organisational details 3, 36
2-2 Entities included in the organisation’s sustainability reporting 36
2-3 Reporting period, frequency and contact point 36
2-5 External assurance 36, 174
2-6 Activities, value chain and other business relationships 3, 14-15, 26-34
2-9 Governance structure and composition 41
2-10 Nomination and selection of the highest governance body 91
2-11 Chair of the highest governance body 90-91
2-12 Role of the highest governance body in overseeing the management of
topics
42, 90
2-13 Delegation of responsibility for managing impacts 42, 90
2-14 Role of highest governance body in sustainability reporting 42
2-15 Conflicts of interest 89-101, 170
2-16 Communication of critical concerns 89, 106
2-17 Collective knowledge of the highest governance body 76
2-18 Evaluation of the performance of the highest governance body 92
2-19 Remuneration policies 93-94
2-20 Process to determine remuneration 93-94
2-22 Statement on sustainable development strategy 4-6
2-28 Membership associations 44
2-29 Approach to stakeholder engagement 43-44
Material Topics
GRI 3: Material Topics
2021
3-1 Process to determine material topics 45
3-2 List of material topics 46
Economic Performance
GRI 201: Economic
Performance
201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 16
201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 127
Ethical Business Conduct
GRI 2: General Disclosures
2021
2-23 Policy commitments 49-50
2-24 Embedding policy commitments 49-51
2-25 Processes to remediate negative impacts 50-51
2-26 Mechanisms for seeking advice and raising concerns 50-51
GRI 3: Material Topics
2021
3-3 Management of material topics 49-51
GRI 205: Anti-corruption
2016
205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and
procedures
50
GRI 206: Anti-competitive
Behavior 2016
206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly
practices
50
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
177
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
GRI Content Index
GRI Standards Disclosures Reference
Regulatory Compliance
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 51
Risk Management
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 53-55
Data Privacy and Cybersecurity
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 55
GRI 418: Customer Privacy
2016
418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and
losses of customer data
55
Climate Resilience & Energy Efficiency
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 54-58
GRI 201: Economic
Performance 2016
201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate
change
66, 98
GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 57-58
302-3 Energy intensity 57
302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 57
GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 56
305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 56
305-4 GHG emissions intensity 55-56
305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 55-56
Waste and Effluent Management
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 58-59, 61
GRI 306: Waste 2020 306-2 Management of significant waste-related impacts 58
306-3 Waste generated 59
306-4 Waste diverted from disposal 59
Water Stewardship
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 59-64
GRI 203: Indirect Economic
Impacts 2016
203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 63-64
203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 64-65
GRI 303: Water and
Effluents 2018
303-2 Management of water discharge-related impacts 61
303-4 Water discharge 61
303-5 Water consumption 60-61
Resource Use
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 58-59
GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 59
Diversity
GRI 2: General Disclosures 2-7 Employees 74
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 70-72
GRI 405: Diversity and
Equal Opportunity 2016
405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 71
GRI 406: Non-
discrimination 2016
406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 72
178 Who
We Are
Our Business
Model
Performance
Review
GRI Content Index
GRI Standards Disclosures Reference
Employee Health, Safety & Wellbeing
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 72-73
GRI 403: Occupational
Health and Safety 2018
403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 72
403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 52
403-3 Occupational health services 73
403-4 Worker participation, consultation and communication on occupational
health and safety
73
403-5 Worker training on occupational health and safety 73
403-9 Work-related injuries 73
Human Rights & Labour Standards
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 74-75
GRI 2: General Disclosures
2021
2-27 Compliance with laws and regulations 75
2-30 Collective bargaining agreements 75
GRI 401: Employment 2016 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 74
Supply Chain Management
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 75
GRI 204: Procurement
Practices 2016
204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 75
Human Capital Development
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 75-76
GRI 404: Training and
Education 2016
404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance
programs
76
Community Investment & Development
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 77-79
GRI 413: Local
Communities 2016
413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments
and development programmes
77
Product Safety, Quality & Hygiene
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 80
Responsible Marketing & Consumption
GRI 3: Material Topics 2021 3-3 Management of material topics 80-83
GRI 417: Marketing and
Labelling 2016
417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service
information and labelling
80
417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 80
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
179
HEINEKEN MALAYSIA BERHAD
Annual REPORT 2022
ESG
Review
How We Are
Governed
Our Numbers &
Other Information
Group Directory
REGIONAL SALES OFFICES
Heineken Marketing Malaysia Sdn Bhd
BUTTERWORTH
No. 8 & 9 Lorong Perusahaan Maju 11
Taman Perusahaan Pelangi
13600 Seberang Prai
Butterworth, Malaysia
Tel : +603 7861 4688
IPOH
1A, Jalan Perniagaan Sengat 2
31350 Ipoh
Perak, Malaysia
Tel : +603 7861 4688
KUANTAN
Lot 123, Jalan Industri Semambu 8,
Kawasan Perindustrian Semambu,
25350 Kuantan
Pahang, Malaysia
Tel : +603 7861 4688
MENTAKAB
No. 10, Jalan Dagang 3,
Taman Perindustrian Temerloh,
28400 Mentakab
Pahang, Malaysia
Tel : +603 7861 4688
KLANG VALLEY
Sungei Way Brewery, Lot 1135
Batu 9, Jalan Klang Lama
46000 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
Tel : 1800-88-6633 / +603 7861 4688
Fax : +603 7861 4567
MALACCA
No. 120, Jalan Usaha 10
Ayer Keroh Industrial Estate
75450 Malacca, Malaysia
Tel : +603 7861 4688
JOHOR BAHRU
No. 22 (Lot 1569) Jalan Dewani
Off Jalan Tampoi
Kawasan Perindustrian Temenggong
81100 Johor Bahru Johor, Malaysia
Tel : +603 7861 4688
KUCHING
No.14, Lorong Evergreen 2A,
RH Park Commercial, Batu 9½
Jalan Penrissen
93250 Kuching
Sarawak, Malaysia
Tel : +603 7861 4688
SIBU
Lot 2983, Block 19
Lorong Then Kung Suk 4
96000 Sibu
Sarawak, Malaysia
Tel : +608 4231 147
BINTULU
Lot 999, Block 26, Kemena Land District,
Kidurong Light Industrial Estate,
97000 Bintulu,
Sarawak,
Malaysia.
Tel : +608 634 8819
MIRI
Lot 1448, Block 17 KBLD
Eastwood Valley
Industrial Park Phase 1
98000 Miri
Sarawak, Malaysia
Tel : +608 541 1898
Fax : +608 541 1897
KOTA KINABALU
Building No. 19B, Lot 21
Sedco Light Industrial Estate
Jalan Kilang, Kolombong
88450 Kota Kinabalu
Sabah, Malaysia
Tel : +603 7861 4688
SANDAKAN
Lot 32-1F, Jalan Dataran BU 4
Utama Zone 3 Commersil, Batu 6
90000 Sandakan
Sabah, Malaysia
Tel : +608 927 1214 / 210 968
Fax : +608 927 4082
TAWAU
TB 9988, Lot 4A & 5A,
Perdana Square, Mile 3.5,
Jalan Apas,
91000 Tawau
Sabah, Malaysia
Tel : +608 9912 066
CORPORATE OFFICE
Heineken Malaysia Berhad
Sungei Way Brewery, Lot 1135
Batu 9, Jalan Klang Lama
46000 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
Tel : +603 7861 4688
Fax : +603 7861 4567
This page is intentionally left blank
Corporate
Information
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Dato’ Sri Idris Jala
Chairman, Independent
Non-Executive Director
Roland Bala
Managing Director
Non-Independent
Executive Director
Lau Nai Pek
Senior Independent
Non-Executive Director
Datin Ngiam Pick Ngoh, Linda
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Seng Yi-Ying
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
Choo Tay Sian, Kenneth
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
Raquel Batallones Esguerra
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
COMPANY SECRETARY
Ng Sow Hoong
MAICSA 7027552
SSM PC No. 202008000593
Tel : +603 7861 4571
Email : rachel.ng@heineken.com
REGISTERED OFFICE
Sungei Way Brewery, Lot 1135
Batu 9, Jalan Klang Lama
46000 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
Tel : +603 7861 4688
Fax : +603 7861 4567
Email : my1-generalenquiry@
heineken.com
Website : www.heinekenmalaysia.com
SHARE REGISTRAR
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services
Sdn Bhd
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite
Avenue 3, Bangsar South
No. 8 Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel : +603 2783 9299
Fax : +603 2783 9222
Email : is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com
AUDITORS
Deloitte PLT (AF0080)
Chartered Accountants
Level 16, Menara LGB
1 Jalan Wan Kadir
Taman Tun Dr Ismail
60000 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Tel : +603 7610 8888
Fax : +603 7726 8986
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Citibank Berhad
BNP Paribas Malaysia Berhad
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Listed on the Main Market of Bursa
Malaysia since 1965
Stock name : HEIM
Stock number : 3255
www.heinekenmalaysia.com
Heineken Malaysia Berhad 196401000020 (5350-X)
Sungei Way Brewery, Lot 1135
Batu 9, Jalan Klang Lama
46000 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia
Tel : +603 7861 4688
Fax : +603 7861 4567
