Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
58
GROUP FINANCIAL
HIGHLIGHTS
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue 2,423,774 2,681,563 2,118,949 2,426,936 2,915,570
Profit before tax from continuing operations 39,933 78,295 133,668 96,904 179,444
Tax expense (12,467) (17,693) (24,661) (35,881) (25,444)
Profit from continuing operations 27,466 60,602 109,007 61,023 154,000
Profit from discontinued operations,
net of tax - - (88,423) 137,519 -
Profit for the year 27,466 60,602 20,584 198,542 154,000
Minority interests (9,690) (17,351) (15,171) (24,633) (8,955)
Profit attributable to equity holders of the
Company 17,776 43,251 5,413 173,909 145,045
Issued share capital (RM’000) 377,501 527,571 530,665 535,623 535,902
Shareholders’ fund (RM’000) 819,950 1,094,312 1,070,859 1,254,314 1,364,416
Net assets per share (sen) * 149 109 106 123 134
Basic earnings per share (sen) ** 3.23 4.51 0.54a 17.08a 14.22a
Gross dividends (%) 5.50 5.72 1.92 3.81 5.71
* Based on number of shares (’000) 550,285 1,004,095 1,010,282 1,019,653 1,020,210
** Based on weighted average
number of shares (’000) 550,285 958,710 1,007,587 1,018,156 1,019,923
Note:
a. As disclosed in Note 23 to the Financial Statements.
Shareholders’ Fund (RM’Million)
Revenue (RM’Million)
2018 2019 2020 2021
2,424
2,682
2,119
2,427
2022
2,916
2018 2019 2020 2021
820
1,094
1,071
1,254
2022
1,364
Proﬁt Before Tax (RM’Million)
Basic Earnings Per Share (Sen)
2018 2019 2020 2021
3.23
4.51
0.54
17.08
2022
14.22
2018 2019 2020 2021
40
78
134
97
2022
179
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 59
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“the Company”) strives to ensure that
good corporate governance is embraced in the conduct of the businesses and affairs of the Company, its
subsidiaries and joint ventures (“the Group”) as it is the Board’s fundamental responsibility to protect and
enhance long-term shareholder value and the financial performance of the Group, whilst taking into account
the interest of all stakeholders.
The Board recognises that the practice of good corporate governance, by being ethical, accountable and
transparent, is vital for the sustainability of the Group. The Board makes adjustments as may be appropriate
with the ultimate objective of continuously enhancing the business processes, stakeholder value and
increasing the confidence of the investors and customers.
The Board has been guided by the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG 2021”) in its
corporate governance practices. Whilst ensuring compliance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main
Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) and the Companies Act 2016, the Board always keep
abreast with the developments in industry practices and the requirements by other relevant regulations to
uphold the highest level of corporate governance throughout the Group.
This statement provides an overview of the corporate governance practices of the Company in respect of
financial year ended 31 December 2022 and to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report of the
Company (“CG Report”) which is available on the Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my. The CG Report
discloses the Company’s application of each practice set out in the MCCG 2021.
This overview statement describes the approaches that the Company has taken with respect to the 3 key
principles of the MCCG 2021 as follows:
A. Board Leadership and Effectiveness
B. Effective Audit and Risk Management
C. Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
I. Board Responsibilities
Roles and Responsibilities of the Board
The Board plays a role in providing stewardship and control of the Group’s business and affairs on behalf
of shareholders with due consideration on the impact of the Group’s activities on its stakeholders. The
Board is responsible for the oversight and overall management of the Group by providing guidance and
direction to the management with regards to the sustainability, strategic planning, risk management,
succession planning, financial and operations to meet the expectations and obligations to the shareholders
and various stakeholders.
Amongst the key responsibilities of the Board are as follows:
• Review and approve short and medium terms strategic plans
• Monitor the progress of the Group’s businesses to evaluate whether the businesses are properly
managed to achieve its targeted returns and sustainability
• Establish goals for management and monitor the achievement of these goals
• Identify principal business risks faced by the Group and ensure the implementation of appropriate
internal controls and mitigating measures to address the risks
• Review the adequacy of the internal control systems
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
60
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
• Review succession and human resource plans
• Consider management’s recommendations on key issues including investments, acquisitions, funding
and significant capital expenditure
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the Group to the Executive Deputy Chairman cum
Managing Director who further cascades the delegation to the management team. Both the Executive
Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director and management team remain accountable to the Board for
the authority delegated to them and brief the Board on the operational progress and financial results on
a quarterly basis.
Significant matters reserved for the consideration of the Board include the following:
• Approval of financial statements including accounting policies of the Group
• Declaration of dividends
• Approval of annual budget
• Approval for the appointment and remuneration of Directors and Senior Management staff
• Proposed corporate exercise
• Borrowings from financial institutions
• Acquisition and disposal of assets
• New investments such as joint venture
As for the succession planning, the Board is responsible in reviewing candidates for the appointment
of Director and key management positions. The Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director
updates the Board annually and from time to time on the details of the programmes for management
development such as coaching, leadership and technical training. The Board also reviews the remuneration
of the Directors and key Senior Management to ensure that their remuneration packages are sufficiently
attractive to attract and retain the talents.
Separation of positions of the Chairman and Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director
The Board Charter provides clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Executive
Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director to ensure that there is a balance of power and authority, such
that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision-making.
Subsequent to the demise of the late Tun Arshad bin Ayub, who was the Non-Independent Non-Executive
Chairman, Datuk Oh Chong Peng, who is an Independent Non-Executive Director, was appointed
as Chairman of the Board on 18 August 2022. He is responsible for leading and ensuring the Board
effectiveness and compliance with corporate governance. He acts as a facilitator at Board meetings and
general meetings to ensure that the meetings are carried out smoothly according to their agenda.
Mr Teh Wee Chye is the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director of the Company and leads the
day-to-day management of the Group. He, together with the support of the management team, formulate
business strategies and plans to achieve the Group’s vision and missions, targeted growth, turnover and
profitability to meet the stakeholders’ expectation. He is responsible for implementing the policies and
decisions of the Board and coordinating the implementation of business and corporate strategies.
The Chairman and Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director have regular dialogues over all
operational matters. Between Board meetings, the Chairman maintains an informal link between the
Board and the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director, expects to be kept informed by
the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director on all important matters and is available to the
Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director to provide counsel and advice where appropriate.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 61
Board Meetings and Time Commitment
The Board meets at least 6 times annually with quarterly meeting being held to review amongst other
matters the business progress report and financial results. Board meetings for the ensuing financial year
are scheduled prior to the commencement of that year to enable the Board and management to plan
their schedule ahead. Additional meetings are convened in between scheduled meetings when Board’s
decision is required for urgent and important proposals or matters. Where appropriate, the Board’s
decision may be made via Circular Resolution in between scheduled meetings. Decisions of the Board
are made unanimously or by consensus.
For the Board to deliberate effectively on agenda of the meetings, relevant meeting papers will be furnished
to the Directors in advance of each meeting. This allows the Directors sufficient time to peruse the papers
and have productive discussion and make informed decision at the meeting.
All deliberations and decisions made by the Board are properly recorded by the Company Secretary by
way of minutes of the meetings. Minutes of proceedings and resolutions passed at each Board and Board
Committees meetings are kept in the minutes book at the registered office of the Company.
In the event of a potential conflict of interest, the Director in such position will make a declaration to that
effect as soon as practicable at the Board meeting. The Director concerned will then abstain from any
decision-making process in which he has an interest in.
The Board is satisfied with the level of time commitment given by all the Directors towards fulfilling their
duties and responsibilities as Directors of the Company. This is reflected by their full attendances at the
Board and various Board Committees meetings held during the year as set out in the table below:
Name of Directors Board
Audit & Risk
Management
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Non-Independent
Teh Wee Chye 6/6 - - 4/4
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 6/6 - 2/2 4/4
Azhari Arshad 6/6 - - -
Lim Pang Boon 6/6 - - -
Independent
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 6/6 5/5 2/2 4/4
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 6/6 5/5 2/2 -
Quah Poh Keat 6/6 5/5 - -
Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti
Ideris
6/6 - 2/2 -
Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil 6/6 1/1 - -
All the Directors have complied with the requirement to attend at least 50% of the Board meetings held in
the financial year pursuant to the Listing Requirements.
Besides attending Board and Board Committees meetings, as their commitment in discharging their
duties and responsibilities, some Directors had also attended offsite meetings with relevant authorities
and discussion meetings with management.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
62
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
In addition, all the Directors of the Company do not hold directorships at more than five public listed
companies as prescribed in paragraph 15.06 of the Listing Requirements and thus, able to commit
sufficient time to the Company. For notification to the Companies Commission of Malaysia as well as
monitoring purpose, the Directors are required to notify the Company on any changes in their other
directorship of public companies or subsidiaries of public companies.
Access to Advice and Information
In order for the Board to effectively discharge its duties and responsibilities, the Directors are provided
with full, complete and unrestricted access to timely and accurate information. All Board and Committee
members are provided with the agenda and reports relevant to the business of the meeting in advance so
that the Directors have sufficient time to prepare and deliberate on the issues prior to the meeting.
Senior Management members are also invited to attend Board meetings to provide the Board with their
views and explanations on certain agenda items tabled to the Board and to furnish their clarification on
issues that may be raised by Directors.
In addition, the Directors may request for independent advice from the relevant professionals for the
discharge of their duties, at the Company’s expense.
Qualified and Competent Company Secretary
In furtherance of their duties, the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary who satisfied the qualifications as prescribed under Sections 235(2) and 241 of the Companies
Act 2016. The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board meeting procedures are adhered
to and that applicable laws, rules and regulations are complied with. The Board is updated and advised
by the Company Secretary from time to time on new statutes and directives issued by the regulatory
authorities.
The Company Secretary organises and attends all the Board and Board Committees meetings as well as
the General Meetings and ensures accurate records of the proceedings and decisions of the meetings
are made and properly kept.
The Company Secretary also notifies the Directors on each closed period for dealing in the Company’s
listed securities, based on the targeted dates of announcements of the Group’s quarterly results and in
accordance with the period defined in Chapter 14 of the Listing Requirements, before the commencement
of each closed period as prior notice of the closed period. The Directors are also being advised on the
procedure for dealing in the Company’s listed securities during the closed period to aid them in complying
with the Listing Requirements.
The Company Secretary always keeps abreast of the evolving regulatory changes and developments in
corporate governance through continuous training as she plays an important role in advising the Board
on updates relating to new statutory and relevant regulatory requirements.
Directors’ Continuing Development
The Directors of the Company have continued to attend and participate in various programmes which
they have individually or collectively considered as relevant for them to keep abreast with the changes in
regulations and trends in the business practices, environment and markets.
From time to time, the Board will be updated on the companies and securities legislations and other
relevant rules and regulations at the Board and Board Committees meetings, in order to acquaint them
with the latest developments in these areas. Beside this, the Directors also receive regular briefings
and updates from the management on the Group’s businesses, operations, risk management, internal
controls, corporate governance and finance.
In addition, the Company Secretary also receives regular updates on training programmes from Bursa
Securities and various organisations which will be circulated to the Directors for their consideration.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 63
The Company Secretary facilitates the participation of the Directors in the external training programmes
and keeps record of the trainings attended by all the Directors.
For the year under review, the Directors had attended various appropriate seminars, conferences, workshop
and courses covering audit, corporate governance, information technology, economy, environmental
sustainability, equities and leadership of the following topics:
• Audit Oversight Board’s Conversation with Audit Committees
• MIA Virtual Conference Series: Women of Substance Symposium 2021
• Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (“TCFD”) 101: Getting started with climate-
related financial reporting
• KPMG Board Leadership Center Exclusive: Insights into TCFD and Sustainable Finance
• MAICSA Annual Conference 2022
• Invitation to the Securities Commission Malaysia’s Audit Oversight Board Conversation with Audit
Committees
• ESG Corporate Summit “Driving Sustainability and Sustainable Transformation”
• Digital Leadership for Sustainable Business in Industry 4.0
• Investment Opportunities in a Post COVID-19 Pandemic World
• Corporate Governance and Growth
• 2022 International SPAC Summit – Kuala Lumpur Edition
• Advocacy Session for Directors and Senior Management of Main Market Listed Issuers
• Adaptive Leadership: Leading for Personal and Organisational Renewal (Practice of Reality
Improvement)
• Code of Conduct
Board Charter
The roles and functions of the Board are clearly defined in the Board Charter which regulates how business
is to be conducted by the Board in accordance with the principles of good Corporate Governance. The
Board Charter was last revised in 2022 to reflect the changes in the composition of the Board and Board
Committees. The Board Charter is available on the Company’s website.
Code of Conduct
The Company’s Code of Conduct (“Code”) is in force across the Group and all employees must comply
with it. Disciplinary action may be taken against employees who are found guilty for non-compliance with
the Code. The Code sets out the ethical standards of conduct that all employees are expected to comply
with in their dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors, the wider
community and the environment.
Every employee must display and behave in a manner which is consistent with the Group’s philosophy
and core values. The following Code of Conduct must be adhered to at all times by all employees within
the Group:
a. Demonstrating commitment
b. Living the core values of the Group
c. Avoiding conflict of interest
d. Preventing bribery and corruption
e. Practising confidentiality and data protection
f. Communicating externally and internally with ethics and within authority
g. Protecting company assets and resources
h. Giving equal opportunity, non-discrimination and fair employment
i. Ensuring safety and protecting the environment
j. Prohibiting insider trading
k. Complying with Antitrust and Competition Laws
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
64
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
The Code is subject to change and review as and when it is deemed necessary by the Company. The
Code was last revised in 2022 to enhance the policy with new clauses, definitions and disclosure form.
As personal commitment to the Code, each employee of the Group is required to make a declaration that
he/she has been furnished a copy of the Code, has read and understood the Code, accepted to comply
with the Code and understood that any breach of the Code may result in disciplinary action being taken
against him/her. The Code is available on the Company’s website.
Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment
In line with good practice of corporate governance in the conduct of business and affairs of the Group and
as part of the measures to avoid conflict of interest and prevention of bribery and corruption in compliance
with Section 17A(5) of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 (“MACC Act”), the Group has
adopted the Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment (“Policy and Guidelines”) on 6 July 2020.
The Policy and Guidelines apply to the Board of Directors, officers and employees, including contractual
employees, consultants, agents and person associated with the Group (“Associated Persons”).
The Group requires its Associated Persons to abide by the Policy and Guidelines to avoid conflict of
interest or the appearance of conflict of interest for either party in on-going or potential business dealing
between the Group and external parties as a gift can be seen as a bribe that may tarnish the Group’s
reputation or be in violation of anti-bribery and corruption laws.
The Policy and Guidelines were published on the Internal Newsletter for the attention of all the existing
employees as well as notified to the suppliers and customers via letter or email. All new recruits will also
be briefed on the Policy and Guidelines during the orientation.
For enhancement, the Policy and Guidelines were revised in 2022 with new clauses, definitions and
declaration form.
The Policy and Guidelines are also published on the Company’s website.
Whistle Blowing Policy
The Company has a Whistle Blowing Policy in place. The objectives of the Standard Operating Procedures
& Policy (“SOPP”) on Whistle Blowing Policy are as follows:
a. To instill the highest level of corporate governance in the Group;
b. To encourage and enable all employees to raise genuine concerns within the Group rather than
overlooking a problem. Employees are reminded to conduct the business at the highest ethical and
legal standards; and
c. To set a procedure for all employees to give information on non-compliances to the Code of Conduct,
regardless of his or her position, to an independent party to investigate the allegations and take the
appropriate actions.
A Whistle Blowing Policy for external parties is published on the Company’s website.
All employees or any person who has dealings with the Group may report any suspected fraud,
misconduct or any integrity concerns to Datuk Oh Chong Peng, Independent Non-Executive Chairman of
the Company, via the email address at whistleblowing@mflour.com.my.
Sustainability Management
The Board together with the Management are committed and responsible towards the governance of
sustainability in the Group including setting the sustainability strategies, priorities and targets. Detailed
information on the Group’s approaches towards addressing sustainability risks and opportunities are
provided in the Sustainability Report on pages 25 to 57 of this Annual Report.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 65
II. Board Composition
Composition and Balance of the Board
There are currently 9 Directors on the Board comprising 2 Executive Directors and a strong team of
7 Non-Executive Directors of whom 5 are Independent Directors. The size and composition of the Board
provides for a diversity of views, the desired level of objectivity and independence in Board deliberations
and decision-making.
The Directors of the Company are persons of high integrity and calibre who come from diverse backgrounds
with expertise and skills in banking, finance, accounting, manufacturing, retailing, property development,
public services, education and legal.
The present Board composition complies with paragraph 15.02 of the Listing Requirements which require
a minimum of 2 directors or 1/3 of the Board to be independent directors, whichever is the higher.
The Board diversity shall be considered from a number of aspects, including but not limited to gender,
age, cultural and educational background, professional experience in varying stages of business
development and internationally, personal characteristics, skills and knowledge. Currently, the Board
comprises amongst others, diverse professional experience, ethnicity, age and gender diversity with
2 women Directors on the Board which represent 20% of the Board.
The size and composition of the Board are reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee via the
Performance Evaluation. The Board is satisfied with the current composition in terms of size, skills and
experience, diversity of age, gender and background which has ensured well-balanced views to facilitate
effective decision making.
As the Company practices equal opportunity and non-discrimination in any form, the selection criteria for
appointment of Director continued to be based on merit, calibre, skill and knowledge which are relevant
to the Group. A brief profile of each Director of the Company can be found on pages 5 to 12 of this Annual
Report.
Appointment and Re-election of Directors
The procedures for appointments to the Board are formal and transparent. On 25 May 2022, the Company
adopted a Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy (“Policy”) which serves as a guide to the Nomination Committee
and the Board in their review and assessment of candidates for appointment onto the Board as well as
Directors who are seeking for re-election. The Policy also sets out the fit and proper criteria for the
appointment and re-election of Directors. The Policy is to ensure that each of the Directors possesses the
character, integrity, relevant range of skills, knowledge, experience, competence and time commitment to
discharge his/her role and responsibilities as a Director.
The Nomination Committee shall assess each candidate for new appointment as Director based on the fit
and proper criteria as spelt out in the Policy before recommending to the Board for approval.
For the position of independent non-executive director, the Nomination Committee also evaluates the
candidate’s calibre, credibility and necessary skill and experience to bring an independent judgement
and view to matters under consideration. Upon performing the requisite assessment by the Nomination
Committee, the new nomination of Director will be recommended to the Board for approval.
As for the appointment of Key Senior Management of the Group, it is based on merit and with due regards
for diversity in skills, experience, age and gender.
The Constitution of the Company provides that all Directors shall hold office only until the next Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”) subsequent to their appointment and shall then be eligible for re-election.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
66
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
In respect of the retirement by rotation of Directors, the Constitution provides that at least 1/3 or the
nearest to 1/3 of the Directors for the time being are subject to retirement by rotation at each AGM and
that all Directors are subject to retirement by rotation at least once in every 3 years. The Director who is
subject to retirement at the AGM, shall be eligible for re-election.
A Director who is due for re-election at the AGM will first be assessed by the Nomination Committee on
his performance and contribution, who will then submit its recommendation to the Board for deliberation
and endorsement. Thereafter, shareholders’ approval will be sought for the re-election.
Information of the Director standing for re-election such as his personal profile, attendance of meetings
and shareholdings are available in this Annual Report for the shareholders to make an informed decision.
Independence of Directors
The Independent Non-Executive Directors are not involved in the day-to-day management of the Company
and not full-time salaried employees. They contribute independent views to matters under consideration
and provide wide and unfettered perspective on issues. They also bring to the Board integrity and a
strong sense of ethics as well as ensuring effective check and balance in the functioning of the Board.
Currently, the Board Charter provides that there shall be no fixed term of office for an Independent
Director as the Board believes that continued contribution by long serving Directors provides more
benefit to the Company and the Group as a whole. Their considerable knowledge of the Company’s
culture and businesses would facilitate them to discharge their duties and role as Independent Directors
more effectively. However, each Independent Director shall be subject to the Independent Director’s
Self-Assessment for Annual Declaration of Independence and the annual Individual Director Self/Peer
Evaluation to ensure that each of them continues to fulfill the definition of independence as set out in the
Listing Requirements.
Based on both the results of the Independent Director’s Self-Assessment for Annual Declaration of
Independence and annual Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation, the Nomination Committee and the
Board were satisfied that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company had continued
to be independent-minded and demonstrate conduct and behaviour that are essential indicators of
independence.
The Nomination Committee and Board also concluded that the length of service of all the Independent
Directors on the Board do not in any way interfere with their exercise of independent judgement and
ability to act in the best interests of the Group and they had continued to possess the following qualities:
• They are respectable personalities in society. Hence, their contributions, views and insights are always
taken seriously and respected by the management;
• They have the ability to analyse issues, challenge viewpoints of the management with intelligent
questioning and debate rigorously in the decision-making process; and
• They remain capable of exercising unbiased, objective and independent view, advice and judgement
in the decision-making process.
Board Committees
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Board Committees which are necessary to facilitate
efficient decision-making to assist the Board in the execution of its duties, power and authorities. The
Committees assist the Board in its duties by preparing and reviewing in more detail matters falling within
the competence of the Board. The functions and terms of reference of all the Board Committees are
clearly defined in the Board Charter and are available on the Company’s website. The Chairman of the
various committees will report to the Board on the outcome of the respective Committee meetings and
such reports are incorporated in the minutes of the Board meeting.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 67
The Board has 3 permanent committees namely, Audit & Risk Management Committee, Nomination
Committee and Remuneration Committee. The Board retains full responsibility for the direction and
control of the Company and the Group.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee shall comprise exclusively of non-executive directors, a majority of whom
must be independent. The Committee currently consists of 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors and
1 Non-Independent Non-Executive Director as follows:
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain (Chairman) Independent Non-Executive Director
Datuk Oh Chong Peng Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris Independent Non-Executive Director
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are as follows:
a. To review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the
Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary and to recommend Directors to
Committees of the Board;
b. To be responsible for identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board
vacancies as and when they arise as well as put in place plans for succession, in particular, of the
Chairman and the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director;
c. To review the required mix of skills and experience and other qualities and competencies which
Non-Executive Directors should bring to the Board and to assess the effectiveness of the Board,
Committees of the Board and contributions of Directors of the Board;
d. To review the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and to ensure at least 1/3 of
the Board is comprised of Independent Directors in compliance with the Listing Requirements;
e. To recommend to the Board for the continuation (or not) in service of an Executive Director as an
Executive or Non-Executive Director;
f. To recommend Directors who are retiring by rotation to be put forward for re-election; and
g. To recommend to the Board the employment of the services of such advisers as it deems necessary
to fulfill its responsibilities.
The Nomination Committee had conducted the Performance Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees
and Individual Director for year 2022 via questionnaires which were completed by each Director
on a confidential basis. The questionnaires comprised a Board and Board Committees Performance
Evaluation, an Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation and an Independent Director’s Self-Assessment
for Annual Declaration of Independence. The effectiveness of the Board was assessed in the areas of
composition, operations, roles and responsibilities, addressing the Company’s material sustainability
risks and opportunities and performance of the Chairman.
In the evaluation of each Board Committee, its effectiveness was assessed in terms of its composition,
level of assistance to the Board, fulfilment of the roles by each member of the Committee and effectiveness
of its Chairman.
Meanwhile, the individual Director was assessed based on his/her contribution to interaction, quality
of input, understanding of his/her role and fit and proper criteria to ensure that each of the Directors
possesses the character, integrity, relevant range of skills, knowledge, experience, competence and time
commitment to discharge his/her role and responsibilities as a Director.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
68
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
Results of the assessments and areas which required improvement were compiled and reviewed by the
Nomination Committee. For the overall results of the assessments, the Board and Board Committees had
achieved the strong ratings.
Having been satisfied with the results of the assessments, the Nomination Committee had recommended
to the Board that:
• The Board and Board Committees had been able to discharge their duties and responsibilities
professionally and effectively.
• Each of the Directors continued to perform, contribute and devote sufficient time in fulfilling his/her
role and responsibility towards an effective Board.
• All the Independent Directors complied with the definition of Independent Director as defined in the
Listing Requirements.
• All the Independent Directors had remained objective and independent in expressing their views and
in exercising their decision-making irrespective of their length of service.
• Shareholders’ approval be sought at the forthcoming AGM for the re-election of Datuk Oh Chong
Peng, Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain, Mr Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon and Dato’ Maznah
binti Abdul Jalil who are retiring by rotation and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election.
III. Remuneration
Remuneration Policies for Directors and Senior Management
The remuneration framework for executive directors and senior management has an underlying objective
of attracting and retaining directors and senior management needed to run the Company successfully.
The Company has in place a remuneration policy which linked the remuneration package of the Executive
Directors and Senior Management to the corporate and individual performance. The remuneration
package of the Executive Directors and Senior Management comprises the basic salary, performance
incentive and other benefits as are laid down by the Company’s rules and regulations from time to time.
Their remuneration packages are periodically reviewed to keep abreast with the changes in the market
and industry as well as to motivate and retain the talents to pursue the long term goals of the Group.
The policy to determine the remuneration of Directors is provided in the Board Charter. The Non-Executive
Directors are paid Directors’ fees, Board Committees’ fixed allowance and meeting allowance for each
Board and Committee meeting they attend. In addition, the Company reimburses reasonable expenses
incurred by the Directors in the course of discharging their duties.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee shall comprise mainly of non-executive directors. The Committee currently
consists of 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors, 1 Non-Independent Non-Executive Director and
1 Executive Director as follows:
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon (Chairman) Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Datuk Oh Chong Peng Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Teh Wee Chye Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director
Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Maznah bin Abdul Jalil Independent Non-Executive Director
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 69
The terms of reference of the Committee are as follows:
a. To determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the
Company’s or Group’s Chief Executive and other Senior Management staff of the Company or Group;
b. To determine and recommend to the Board any performance related pay schemes for the Company
or Group;
c. To determine the policy for and scope of service agreements for the executive directors, termination
payments and compensation commitments;
d. To oversee any major changes in employee remuneration and benefit structures throughout the
Company or Group;
e. To produce an annual report of the Committee’s remuneration policy for Board members which will
form part of the Company/Group’s annual report and accounts; and
f. To recommend to the Board the appointment of the services of such advisers or consultants as it
deems necessary to fulfill its responsibilities.
The Committee reviews and recommends for the Board’s consideration the Directors’ fees, Board
Committees’ fixed allowance and meeting allowance. In reviewing and recommending the Directors’ fees,
the Committee ensures that the level of remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors commensurate with
their scope of responsibilities and contributions to the effective functioning of the Group. The Committee
also reviews and recommends the yearly salary increment and performance incentives of the Senior
Management for the Board’s approval.
Executive Director will abstain from deliberations and voting decisions in respect of his remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration will be a matter to be decided by the Board as a whole with
the Director concerned abstaining from deliberations and voting decisions in respect of his individual
remuneration. The Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors are subject to yearly approval by
the shareholders at the AGM.
Details of the Directors’ remuneration paid or payable or otherwise made to all Directors of the Company
in respect of financial year 2022 are disclosed in the CG Report.
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. Audit & Risk Management Committee
The composition, duties and responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Management Committee together with its
report are presented on pages 75 to 78 of this Annual Report.
II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Group has a sound system of internal control which covers not only financial controls but also
operational, compliance and risk management. The system of internal control provides reasonable but
not absolute assurance against material misstatements, losses and fraud.
The Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control as set out on pages 79 to 83 of this Annual
Report provides an overview of the state of internal controls within the Group.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
70
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
PRINCIPLE C: 
INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL
RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
I. Engagement with Stakeholders
Financial Reporting
The Directors take responsibility for presenting a balanced and objective assessment of the Group’s
financial performance and prospects primarily through the quarterly and annual financial announcements
of results. In addition, the Chairman’s Statement and Management Discussion and Analysis are also
contained in this Annual Report for the shareholders.
The Group’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with the requirements of the applicable
approved accounting standards in Malaysia and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016. Efforts
are made to ensure that in presenting the financial statements, the appropriate accounting policies,
consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates are being used.
Corporate Disclosure
The Company is mindful of the importance to disseminate information to shareholders and investors in
a prompt and timely manner in order for informed decision to be made. As such, the Board has always
stressed for all material information to be announced immediately upon available. This is not only for
compliance with the Listing Requirements but also to avoid insider trading.
Communication with Stakeholders
The timely release of quarterly financial results, the issuance of the Company’s Annual Reports and Circular/
Statement to Shareholders as well as announcements to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and Press
Releases on material information and corporate proposals are the principal channels for dissemination of
information to its investors, stakeholders and the public generally.
The Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my provides quick access to information on the Group. The
information available on the website of the Company includes, amongst others, the Corporate Profile,
Directors’ Profile, Financial Results, Annual Reports, Announcements released to Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad, Research Reports, Constitution of the Company, Board Charter, Terms of Reference of
Board Committees, Corporate Governance Statement, Minutes of General Meetings, Code of Conduct,
Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment, Whistle Blowing Policy, dividend information, corporate
news, operations and products of the Group.
From time to time, the designated Senior Management also has dialogues with fund managers, research
analysts and media on the strategies, performance and prospects of the Group.
In addition, information was also provided to shareholders and/or investors in the replies to their enquiries
via the email address at ir@mflour.com.my.
As there may be instances where investors and shareholders may prefer to express their concerns to
an independent director, the Board has appointed the Chairman, Datuk Oh Chong Peng, as the Senior
Independent Non-Executive Director to whom concerns may be directed. At all times, investors and
shareholders may contact the Company Secretary for information on the Group.
The Group continues to engage with each of its stakeholders such as shareholders, investors, regulators,
customers, suppliers, employees and other communities through a variety of approaches to address their
concerns and maintain an open communication. The summary of the engagement platforms with the
various stakeholders is provided in the Sustainability Report on page 34 of this Annual Report.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 71
II. Conduct of General Meetings
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective communication with the shareholders
and the general public. All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company’s General Meetings and
to participate in the proceedings.
In line with best corporate governance practice, the Notice of AGM is issued to the shareholders 28 days
prior to the meeting to provide them sufficient time to prepare, participate and make informed voting
decision at the AGM.
The Company had successfully conducted its virtual AGM on 25 May 2022 through live streaming and
online remote voting using Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities.
The conduct of the virtual General Meeting was in compliance with the Constitution of the Company
which allows General Meeting to be held using any technology or electronic means.
In view of the attendance limitation of public gatherings for safe distancing to prevent the spread of
COVID-19 pandemic and taking into consideration the well-being of shareholders and all participants,
only the Chairman, the Board, Chief Financial Officer, Company Secretary and other essential persons
were allowed to be physically present at the broadcast venue while the meeting participants participated
in the AGM remotely.
As an effort to encourage engagement with the shareholders, questions in relation to the agenda items,
business and performance of the Company may be emailed to the Company by the shareholders prior to
the General Meeting at any time from the day of notice of General Meeting and up to 48 hours before the
meeting. On the day of the meeting, every opportunity was given to the shareholders to ask questions and
seek clarification during the live webcast by posing questions through the messaging window facility of
the Virtual Meeting Portal which was opened concurrently with the Virtual Meeting Portal an hour before
the commencement of the meeting.
Questions posed by shareholders were read out during the “Questions and Answers” session and the
Chairman, Managing Director or Chief Financial Officer had responded to all the relevant questions raised
and provided clarification accordingly. As such, the shareholders had experienced real time interaction
with the Board during the General Meeting.
During the AGM, the Managing Director and Senior Management had also presented the overview of the
financial performance of the Group, business outlook and reasons of the higher price of flour and poultry.
In accordance with the Listing Requirements, all the resolutions set out in the notice of the AGM were
voted by poll. All the shareholders who participated in the AGM remotely had voted on all the resolutions
using the RPEV facilities. An independent scrutineer for the electronic poll voting process was appointed
to verify all the votes. Upon verifying the votes, the scrutineer announced the voting results which were
displayed on the screen. The poll results were subsequently announced to Bursa Securities on the same
day.
The full minutes of the AGM detailing the meeting proceedings, including issues and concerns raised by
the shareholders together with the responses of the Company, were published on the Company’s website
for the information and benefit of all the shareholders of the Company no later than 30 business days after
the conclusion of the General Meeting.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
72
Additional Compliance Information
The following information is provided in compliance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market
Listing Requirements.
1. Utilisation of Proceeds Raised from Corporate Proposals
(a) Disposal of 49% equity interest pursuant to strategic partnership with Tyson International Holding
Company (“Tyson”)
On 31 May 2021, the share purchase agreement (“SPA”) entered into between the Company and
Tyson for the disposal of 49% equity interest in Dindings Tyson Sdn Bhd (“DTSB”), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, to Tyson for a total disposal consideration of up to RM420,000,000 to
be satisfied wholly by cash, in conjunction with the proposed strategic partnership with Tyson, was
completed.
The disposal consideration is to be received in 3 tranches - Initial Consideration, First Earnout
Consideration and Second Earnout Consideration. The Initial Consideration has been received in
2021 whilst the First Earnout Consideration and the Second Earnout Consideration will be calculated
and paid, subject to conditions being met, based on the audited financial statements of DTSB Group
for the financial years ended/ending 2022 and 2023 respectively.
Based on the Profit Guarantee Account, the EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation
and amortisation) of DTSB Group for the financial year ended 31 December 2021 was less than
RM54 million and as such Tyson was entitled to the Profit Guarantee Payment of RM15 million. On
16 August 2022, the Company remitted the Profit Guarantee Payment of RM15 million to Tyson.
The net Initial Consideration proceeds were RM169.944 million after deducting the Profit Guarantee
Payment of RM15 million.
The summary of the utilisation of Initial Consideration proceeds is as follows:-
Description of
Utilisation of Proceeds
Initial
Consideration
Proceeds
(RM’000)
Actual
Utilisation
(RM’000)
Balance of Initial
Consideration
Proceeds
Unutilised as at
31 March 2023
(RM’000)
Expected Time
Frame for
Utilisation of
Proceeds (from
date of receipt of
the proceeds)
Repayment of bank
borrowings
170,944 170,944 - Within 6 months
Estimated expenses in
relation to the Strategic
Partnership
14,000 # 14,060 - Within 1 month
Total 184,944 185,004 -
Profit Guarantee
Payment
(15,000) -
Net Total 169,944 -
# The additional expenses incurred were paid from working capital.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 73
(b) Rights Issue
The Company has on 28 January 2019 completed its Rights Issue of Redeemable Convertible
Unsecured Loan Stocks (“RCULS”) and Rights Issue of Shares with free Warrants and Bonus Shares
(collectively referred to as the “Rights Issue”). Pursuant to the Rights Issue, 165,084,641 RCULS at
100% of its nominal value of RM1.00 and 220,113,744 Rights Shares of RM0.50 each were issued
and cash proceeds of RM275,141,513 were raised.
The summary of the utilisation of Rights Issue proceeds is as follows:-
Description of
Utilisation of Proceeds
Rights Issue
Proceeds
(RM’000)
Actual
Utilisation
(RM’000)
Balance of
Rights Issue
Proceeds
Unutilised as at
31 March 2023
(RM’000)
Expected Time
Frame for
Utilisation of
Proceeds (from
date of receipt of
the proceeds)
Capital expenditure and
repayment of revolving
credit loans drawn
to finance the capital
expenditure
216,761 216,761 - @ Within 3 years
Repayment of revolving
credit loans drawn to
finance working capital
requirement
54,798 54,798 - Within 1 year
Estimated expenses for
the Rights Issue
3,583 # 3,954 - Within 1 month
Total 275,142 275,513 -
@ The time frame for the utilisation of proceeds has been extended for another 1 year from
28 January 2021 until 28 January 2022.
# The additional expenses incurred were paid from working capital.
The proceeds to be raised from the exercise of the 137,570,667 Warrants issued pursuant to the
Rights Issue at the exercise price of the Warrants of RM0.68 each are dependent on the total number
of Warrants exercised during the tenure of the Warrants. Such proceeds, if and when the Warrants are
exercised, will be used for working capital purposes.
Up to 31 March 2023, cash proceeds of RM604,364 were raised from the exercise of 888,770 Warrants.
As at 31 March 2023, 136,678,397 Warrants remained unexercised whilst 109,025,104 RCULS
remained unconverted.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
74
Additional Compliance Information (cont’d)
2. Audit and Non-Audit Fees
The amount of audit fees and non-audit fees paid or payable to the Company’s external auditors, KPMG
PLT and a firm affiliated to KPMG PLT by the Group and the Company for financial year 2022 are as
follows:
Group
(RM’000)
Company
(RM’000)
Audit Fees 363 130
Non-Audit Fees 933 884
Total 1,296 1,014
3. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’
and major shareholders’ interests either subsisting as at 31 December 2022 or entered into since the end
of the previous financial year except for the related party transactions disclosed in Note 29 to the financial
statements on page 181 and 182 of this Annual Report.
4. Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
The Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature are disclosed in Note 29 to the
financial statements on page 181 and 182 of this Annual Report.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 75
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“the Company”) is pleased to present the
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 2022.
Composition
Chairman: Quah Poh Keat
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Members: Datuk Oh Chong Peng
(Independent Non-Executive Chairman)
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
The Audit & Risk Management Committee (“the Committee”) comprises 4 members, all of whom are
Independent Non-Executive Directors. This meets the requirements of paragraph 15.09(1)(a) and (b) of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”).
Chairman of the Committee, Mr Quah Poh Keat is a Fellow of the Malaysian Institute of Taxation (“MIT”) and
the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (“FCCA”) and a member of the MIA, the MICPA and the
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (“CIMA”) whilst Datuk Oh Chong Peng, is a Fellow of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (“ICAEW”) as well as a member of the Malaysian
Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“MICPA”) and the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”). Hence,
the Company complies with paragraph 15.09(1)(c)(i) of the Listing Requirements.
The Nomination Committee assesses the performance of the Committee and its members through an annual
Board Committee evaluation as well as reviews the terms of office of the members of the Committee. The
Nomination Committee is satisfied that the Committee and its members have discharged their duties and
responsibilities in accordance with its Terms of Reference and has supported the Board well in reviewing the
financial statements, internal control and risk management.
Meetings
During the year, the Committee held 5 meetings and the details of the attendance of each member of the
Committee are as follows:
Members Attendance
Quah Poh Keat 5/5
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 5/5
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 5/5
Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil 1/1
At the request of the Committee, the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director and Chief Financial
Officer had attended the meetings to advise, clarify and address matters discussed at the meetings.
The Internal Audit and Risk Management Function had attended the quarterly meetings of the Committee to
report on the internal audit plan and internal audit and risk management reports.
During the year, the representatives of the external auditors had also attended the meetings of the Committee
to present their Audit Plan, Audit Status and the annual audit report on the audit of financial statements.
Audit & Risk Management
Committee Report
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
76
The Company Secretary of the Company is the Secretary of the Committee. The Secretary maintains minutes
of the proceedings of the meetings of the Committee.
Terms of Reference
The Committee is governed by its terms of reference which describe its composition, authority, duties and
responsibilities. The Terms of Reference is available on the Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my.
Summary of the Work of the Committee
The work carried out by the Committee in the discharge of its duties and responsibilities in line with its Terms
of Reference during the financial year ended 31 December 2022 were as follows:
a. Financial Reporting
i. Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results and announcements before recommending them
to the Board for approval.
ii. Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”)
and of the Company prior to submission to the Board for approval.
iii. Reviewed the impact of the changes to the accounting policies and adoption of new accounting
standards and treatments used in the financial statements.
b. Internal Audit
i. The Internal Audit and Risk Management Function presented the comprehensive internal audit plan
which had been undertaken to evaluate and identify the companies and operational auditable areas
to be audited within the Group. The Committee reviewed the annual internal audit plan to ensure
adequate scope and coverage of the activities of the Group.
Subsequently, the Committee reviewed the progress status of the internal audit plan presented by the
Internal Audit and Risk Management Function at its quarterly meeting.
ii. Reviewed the internal audit and risk management reports submitted and presented by the Internal
Audit and Risk Management Function at the quarterly meeting of the Committee. The Committee
appraised the adequacy of actions and remedial measures taken by the management in resolving
audit issues reported and recommended further improvement measures.
iii. In view of the need to improve the quality of the internal audit to support the expansion and growth
of the businesses of the Group and the challenges in recruiting suitable and competent staff for
the in-house internal audit function, based on the recommendation of an Evaluation Committee, the
Committee had approved that Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng Governance Sdn Bhd be engaged to provide
the outsourced internal audit and risk management function.
c. External Audit
i. Reviewed with the external auditors, KPMG PLT, on their Audit Plan prior to commencement of the
audit. The Engagement Partner of KPMG PLT presented the Audit Plan and Strategy for the Group for
financial year 2022 which entailed the engagement team, audit scope, audit timeline and audit focus
areas.
ii. Reviewed the proposed fees for the statutory audit, review of the Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control and review of Group Reporting Package and Audit Working Papers of component
auditors. The proposed fees were then recommended by the Committee to the Board for approval.
Audit & Risk Management
Committee Report (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 77
iii. Discussed and reviewed the Group’s financial statements with the external auditors including issues
and findings noted in the course of the audit.
iv. The external auditors had provided their written assurance that they were independent of the Group
and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice)
of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board
for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International
Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”) and they had fulfilled the other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
The external auditors had also implemented a number of firm-wide ethics and independence systems
to monitor compliance with their policies in relation to independence and ethics.
Besides the written assurance from the external auditors on their independence, input from the
Company personnel, who had substantial contact with the external auditors throughout the year, on
the quality of service provided, independence, objectivity and professional skepticism of the external
auditors via questionnaires was obtained for the Committee’s annual evaluation of the external
auditors. Subsequently, the Committee conducted an assessment on the performance, technical
competency, suitability and independence of the external auditors throughout the conduct of their
audit engagement and being satisfied with the suitability and independence of the external auditors,
the Committee recommended to the Board for approval on the re-appointment of the external auditors
at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
d. Risk Management
i. Reviewed the Audit & Risk Management Committee Report before recommending it for approval by
the Board for inclusion in the Annual Report.
ii. Reviewed the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”) which was prepared
by the Committee, being the delegated committee of the Board responsible for the preparation of the
SORMIC.
Upon the review by the external auditors, who were engaged to provide an independent limited
assurance on the SORMIC, the Committee recommended the SORMIC to the Board for adoption and
disclosure in the Annual Report.
The Committee authorised the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director of the Company
and the Chief Financial Officer to sign the Letter of Representation in respect of the Board’s SORMIC,
for and on behalf of the Committee.
iii. Reviewed and approved the revised and updated Risk Scorecard 2022, which was derived based
on the input from the respective business leaders within the Group, to identify new risks, and re-
assess existing risks and their impact and likelihood ratings so that they remain relevant in the current
environment and provide a mechanism for adequate reporting to the Committee.
Internal Audit Function
The Group outsourced its internal audit and risk management function to an independent professional
company, Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng Governance Sdn Bhd, which operates independently from the operating
units. The Internal Audit and Risk Management Function (“IARMF”) undertook the internal audit functions
based on the risk-based audit plans that were reviewed and approved by the Committee.
The purpose, authority and responsibility of the IARMF as well as the nature of the assurance and consultancy
activities provided by the function are articulated in the Internal Audit Charter.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
78
The IARMF reported directly to the Committee who reviewed and approved the IARMF’s annual audit plan,
financial budget and human resource requirements to ensure that the function was adequately resourced with
competent and proficient internal auditors.
During the year, the IARMF conducted various internal audit engagements in accordance with the risk-based
audit plan which covered the review of adequacy of risks management, operational controls, compliance with
law and regulations, quality of assets, management efficiency and level of customer services amongst others.
The IARMF reported internal control deficiencies to the appropriate level of management when identified
and recommendations were duly acted by the management. Significant matters were reported directly to the
Committee and Senior Management.
The total costs incurred for maintaining the IARMF for year 2022 were approximately RM151,138.
Audit & Risk Management
Committee Report (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 79
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“MFM”) is pleased to present the Statement
on Risk Management and Internal Control in accordance with paragraph 15.26(b) of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements.
Board Responsibility
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing a sound risk management framework and internal
control system. The Board’s responsibilities include:-
• Determine the Group’s level of risk tolerance and actively identify, assess and monitor key business risks
to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets;
• Committed to articulating, implementing and reviewing the Group’s internal control system; and
• Periodic testing of the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control procedures and processes to
ensure that the system is viable and robust.
The internal control systems are designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure and can only
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Internal Control
Risk Management
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process and risk management plan in place to identify, evaluate
and manage significant risks faced by the Group.
During the year and up to the date of approval of this statement, discussions were conducted at different
levels of management to identify and address risks identified in the Group. The assessment of significant
risks and the execution of relevant mitigating action plans are part of the operational activities of the Group.
Risk Management is an integral part of our business operations and this process goes through a review by the
Board. As part of the process, the key business risks are identified by the respective operations of the Group.
The impact and likelihood of occurrence of these risks are then evaluated and documented. Based on the
results of the above evaluation, these risks are categorised into 4 ratings: Low, Medium, High and Extreme.
Appropriate action plans and control measures are put in place to mitigate these risks.
Risk Management Framework
The Group has in place a formal risk management process to identify, evaluate, mitigate, monitor and review
risks impacting the Group. Objectives would be broadly organisation-wide taking into consideration a variety
of risks (i.e. strategic, operational, compliance & reporting risks) as well as more narrowly defined business
units, function or departmental risks (i.e. sales, credit control, accounts receivable, purchasing, accounts
payable, production planning, quality control, human resource, etc.). Once those scopes had been defined,
the possible risks deemed likely to occur would be rated in terms of their impact or severity and likelihood or
probability. The result can be compiled into a “risk profile” detailing the risk score which each business unit,
function or department is contributing to the overall risk score.
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
80
Internal Audit and Risk Management Function will carry out a yearly review of the risk scorecards and update
them accordingly together with the management of respective business units.
Any significant risk that requires the Board’s attention will be highlighted via a Flash Report. Key risks
highlighted in the Flash Report will be used by internal audit in developing internal audit plan.
Control Structure
• The Board meets regularly to monitor and review the overall performance of the Group, to consider the
findings and recommendations of committees and senior management and to consider and approve
measures to be taken and changes in policies and procedures necessary to address risks and to enhance
the system of internal control.
• An independent Internal Audit and Risk Management Function reports directly to the Audit & Risk
Management Committee. Internal audit plans are reviewed and approved by the Audit & Risk Management
Committee and the plans are to monitor compliance with and adequacy of the Group’s system of internal
control and to provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control including
policies and procedures. Follow-up reviews on the previous audit reports were carried out to ensure that
appropriate actions have been implemented to address control weaknesses highlighted.
• The Group has in place an organisation structure with proper segregation of duties and reporting
procedures and authorisation limits and all heads of business units and departments are accountable for
ensuring the effective implementation of established policies and procedures.
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 81
• The Group has in place a management reporting mechanism whereby financial information is generated
and reviewed by management and the Board on a regular basis. Performance and results are monitored on
a monthly basis against the results of corresponding period of prior year, with major variances explained
and appropriate action taken or plans put in place.
• The Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director meets with the senior management regularly
to review and resolve key operational, financial, personnel and other key management issues, including
issues of risks and internal controls. Significant issues are highlighted and discussed at Board meetings.
• The Credit Committee meets regularly to conduct credit reviews, monitor receivables, progress of legal
cases and formulates credit procedures and policies.
• The training and development programs are established to enhance and improve employee competencies
and proficiencies. This is implemented through a combination of on-the-job training and classroom
training courses.
• The Group Code of Conduct is established to set out the ethical standards to all employees in their
dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors, the wider community
and the environment.
• The Whistle Blowing policy is in place with the objective of providing all stakeholders a mechanism to
raise genuine concerns on unethical behaviour or any misconduct.
Significant Risk Factors relating to MFM Group
a. Business risks
The Group is principally involved in activities within the food manufacturing and livestock industries.
As such, the Group is susceptible to business risks in these industries which include but not limited to
demand and competition in the food manufacturing and livestock market, supply of labour and increase
in the cost of labour and raw material prices. We continuously seek to limit these risks through amongst
others, careful planning of supplies and prudent management of our business.
b. Availability and cost of raw materials
Raw materials i.e. wheat, corn and soybean meal contribute to a significant proportion of our total cost
of production. These materials are commodities and their availability and prices are dependent on market
conditions. Any increase in raw material prices will inevitably affect the Group’s profitability and results of
operations. Further, if there is a shortage of these materials, we may find it difficult to obtain the amount
of materials required at prices that are commercially acceptable. We have taken relevant steps to hedge
our exposure to these price fluctuations by entering into futures contracts. In addition, we have good
business relationships with our long term major suppliers and where possible, source our supplies from
a variety of suppliers.
c. Government policies & regulations including price controls & subsidies
The price of general-purpose flour in Malaysia is largely regulated and controlled by the Government vide
the Price Control Act 1946. Thus, our financial performance depends to a certain extent on Government’s
policies in respect of the flour industry, such as the level of price ceilings and flour subsidy, which are
beyond our control. With effect from 1 March 2016, the wheat flour subsidy for 25kg bag flour had been
removed by the Government whilst the 1kg general purpose flour subsidy has remained unchanged
based on the subsidy rationalisation program.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
82
d. Bio-Security
In combating bio-security risks, the Group will continue to keep abreast with the latest development
and work closely with authorities and subject matter experts. People and livestock will continue to be
exposed to diseases and viruses, and possibly mutated strains in the future. Nevertheless, management
will continue to embrace robust risk management practices to cushion the negative financial impact.
Disease and Virus
Livestock is vulnerable to diseases and viruses, changes in weather conditions and the environment.
Adverse situations such as these will also affect the demand for feeds. The Group has embarked upon
bio-security installations and HACCP (Hazard Analysis & Critical Control Points) certification, FSSC 22000,
HALAL, MS 1514: 2009 (Good Manufacturing Practice for Food), ISO 9001, ISO 22000 and MyGAP
Certifications. In essence, HACCP is a management system in which food safety is addressed through
the analysis and control of biological, chemical, and physical hazards from raw material production,
procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product.
COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic has developed rapidly in 2020, with a significant number of cases. Measures
taken by the government to contain the virus have affected economic activities. We have taken a number
of measures to monitor and mitigate the effects of COVID-19, such as safety and health measures for our
people (e.g. social distancing, working from home and others) and securing the supply of materials that
are essential to our production process.
As we operate in the food industry (an essential service), we expect demand for our products to continue.
We will continue our operations in the best and safest way possible without jeopardising the health of our
people.
e. Foreign exchange fluctuations
All of raw materials i.e. wheat, corn and soybean meal are imported, whereby the purchase prices are
largely denominated in US Dollar (“USD”). As such, we have taken sufficient steps to hedge our financial
exposure to foreign currency fluctuations by entering into forward contracts. However, there can be
no assurance that any significant changes in exchange rate fluctuations or foreign exchange control
regulations will not have any adverse impact upon the Group’s business.
Review of this Statement by External Auditors
The external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control in accordance
with Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3, Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control Included in the Annual Report issued by the Malaysian
Institute of Accountants (“MIA”) for inclusion in the annual report of the Group for the financial year ended
31 December 2022 and reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention that cause them to
believe that the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, in all material respects, has not been
prepared in accordance with the disclosures required by paragraphs 41 and 42 of the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, or is factually inaccurate.
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 83
AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to consider whether the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the
Group’s risk management and internal control system including the assessment and opinion by the Board
of Directors and Management thereon. The External Auditors are also not required to consider whether the
processes described to deal with material internal control aspects of any significant problems disclosed in the
annual report will, in fact, remedy the problems.
Additionally, they are not required to perform any procedures by way of audit, review or verification of the
underlying records or other sources from which the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control was
extracted.
Conclusion
Based on the processes set out above, the Board is of the view that the Group’s system of risk management
and internal control are adequate and effective to safeguard the shareholders’ investment and the Group’s
assets and has received assurance from both the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director and
Chief Financial Officer in this respect. Nevertheless, the Board and Management are committed towards
operating a sound system of internal control and the internal control systems will continue to be reviewed,
added or updated in line with the changes in the operating environment.
The Group’s system of internal control applies to Malayan Flour Mills Berhad, its subsidiaries and joint venture
company, Dindings Tyson Sdn Bhd only. Other joint venture and associate are excluded because the Group
does not have full management and control over them. However, the Group’s interests in its material joint
venture and associate are served through representations on the Board of Directors of the respective joint
venture and associated company.
Statement made in accordance with the resolution of the Directors dated 30 March 2023.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
Directors’ Report
Balance Sheets
Income Statements
Statements of Comprehensive Income
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
Statement of Changes in Equity
Statements of Cash Flows
Notes to the Financial Statements
Statement by Directors
Statutory Declaration
Independent Auditors’ Report
REPORTS & FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
86
96
100
184
87
98
101
185
186
94
99
105
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
86
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
For the Audited Financial Statements
In respect of the preparation of the audited financial statements, the Directors are required by the Companies
Act 2016 to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Group and the Company and their results, and cash flows for that year.
In preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2022, the Directors have:
• Used appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• Made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
• Stated whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept and which disclose with
reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that
the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2016. They also have a general responsibility for
taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company to prevent and detect fraud
and other irregularities.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 87
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 December 2022
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and
of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2022.
Principal activities
The Company is principally engaged in the business of milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grain and
other allied products, whilst the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 7 to the financial
statements. There has been no significant change in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
Subsidiaries
The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
Results
				 Group Company
				RM’000 RM’000
Profit for the year attributable to:
Owners of the Company				 145,045 124,272
Non-controlling interests 8,955 -
				154,000 124,272
Reserves and provisions
There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year under review
except as disclosed in the financial statements.
Dividends
Since the end of the previous financial year, the Company paid:
(i) an interim single tier dividend of 2.00 sen per ordinary share totalling approximately RM20,398,000 in
respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2021 on 25 March 2022; and
(ii) an interim single tier dividend of 1.50 sen per ordinary share totalling approximately RM15,302,000 in
respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2022 on 23 September 2022.
On 24 February 2023, the Directors declared a second interim single tier dividend of 1.50 sen per ordinary
share totalling approximately RM15,315,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2022, which
was paid on 24 March 2023.
The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year under review.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
88
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 December 2022 (cont’d)
Directors of the Company
Directors who served during the financial year until the date of this report are:
Tun Arshad bin Ayub (Demised on 14 June 2022)
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Teh Wee Chye
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
Azhari Arshad
Quah Poh Keat
Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris
Lim Pang Boon
Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil
List of Directors of subsidiaries
Pursuant to Section 253 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the list of Directors of the subsidiaries during
the financial year until the date of this report is as follows:
Tun Arshad bin Ayub (Demised on 14 June 2022)
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Teh Wee Chye
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
Azhari Arshad
Lim Pang Boon
Le Cong Anh
Chua Kiat Hwa
Tan Keng Seng
Hideki Oya
Huynh Duc Chinh
Pham Ngoc Tien
Tran Quoc Hoang
Khng Poh Leng, Douglas
Ryuichiro Yasuda
Yoshito Manda (Appointed on 22 February 2023)
Shigeharu Kato (Ceased on 22 February 2023)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 89
Directors’ interests
The interests and deemed interests in the ordinary shares, redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks
(“RCULS”) and warrants of the Company and of its related corporations (other than wholly-owned subsidiaries)
of those who were Directors at financial year end (including the interests of the spouses or children of the
Directors who themselves are not Directors of the Company) as recorded in the Register of Directors’
Shareholdings are as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
								 At			 At
								 1.1.2022 Acquired Disposed 31.12.2022
Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Direct interest
Teh Wee Chye 120,023,411 3,741,500 - 123,764,911
Datuk Oh Chong Peng			 23,087 - - 23,087
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 8,250 - - 8,250
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon		 7,078,500 - - 7,078,500
Lim Pang Boon				 488,585 - - 488,585
Azhari Arshad				 510,000 30,000 - 540,000
Deemed interest
Teh Wee Chye
- own 63,954,360 - - 63,954,360
- others*					 63,000 - - 63,000
Azhari Arshad 15,729,800 15,510,000 - 31,239,800
Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’
Dr Aini binti Ideris*			 - 34,000 - 34,000
Deemed interest of Teh Wee Chye
in subsidiary companies
Muda Fibre Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd.		 7,000,001 - - 7,000,001
Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd.			 10,200,000 - - 10,200,000
Interest in capital contribution denominated in
Vietnamese Dong (VND)
								 At			 At
								 1.1.2022 Acquired Disposed 31.12.2022
								 VND’000 VND’000 VND’000 VND’000
Vimaflour Ltd. 345,961,284 - - 345,961,284
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
90
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 December 2022 (cont’d)
Directors’ interests (cont’d)
Number of RCULS
								 At			 At
								 1.1.2022 Acquired Disposed 31.12.2022
Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Direct interest
Teh Wee Chye 35,659,395 2,000,000 - 37,659,395
Datuk Oh Chong Peng			 2,000 - - 2,000
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 1,500 - - 1,500
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon		 1,287,000 - - 1,287,000
Lim Pang Boon				 66,120 - - 66,120
Deemed interest
Teh Wee Chye				 11,628,065 - - 11,628,065
Azhari Arshad				 50,000 - - 50,000
Number of Warrants
								 At			 At
								 1.1.2022 Acquired Disposed 31.12.2022
Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Direct interest
Teh Wee Chye 25,975,944 1,225,000 - 27,200,944
Datuk Oh Chong Peng			 4,387 - - 4,387
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 1,250 - - 1,250
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon		 1,072,500 - - 1,072,500
Azhari Arshad				 62,500 - - 62,500
Deemed interest
Teh Wee Chye 9,690,052 - - 9,690,052
* Deemed to have interests through spouse and children pursuant to the Section 59(11)(c) of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia.
By virtue of his interest in the shares of the Company, Mr. Teh Wee Chye is also deemed interested in the
shares of the subsidiaries during the financial year to the extent that Malayan Flour Mills Berhad has an
interest.
None of the other Directors holding office at 31 December 2022 had any interests in the ordinary shares,
RCULS and warrants of the Company and of its related corporations during the financial year.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 91
Directors’ benefits
Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled
to receive any benefits (other than those shown below) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a
related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in
which the Director has a substantial financial interest.
The Directors’ benefits paid to or receivable by Directors in respect of the financial year ended
31 December 2022 are as follows:
					From
				 From the subsidiary
				 Company companies
				RM’000 RM’000
Directors of the Company:
Fees 960 -
Remuneration 8,906 513
Estimated monetary value of any other benefits 93 -
9,959 513
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling
Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.
Issue of shares
During the financial year, the issued and fully paid-up share capital of the Company increased from
RM535,623,000 to RM535,902,000 by way of:
(i) issuance of 556,880 new ordinary shares amounting to RM279,000 pursuant to the conversion of
278,440 RCULS; and
(ii) issuance of 50 new ordinary shares amounting to RM41 pursuant to the exercise of warrants.
The new ordinary shares issued rank pari passu in all respect with the existing shares of the Company.
There were no other changes in the issued and paid-up capital of the Company during the financial year.
Options granted over unissued shares
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
Indemnity and insurance costs
During the financial year, the amount of insurance premium effected for all Directors and officers of the
Company was RM19,132.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
92
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 December 2022 (cont’d)
Other statutory information
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable
steps to ascertain that:
(i) all known bad debts have been written off and adequate provision made for doubtful debts, and
(ii) any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business have been
written down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.
At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) that would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts
in the Group and in the Company inadequate to any substantial extent, or
(ii) that would render the value attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company misleading, or
(iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of
the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate, or
(iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements that would render any amount stated
in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(i) any charge on the assets of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the financial
year and which secures the liabilities of any other person, or
(ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the
financial year.
No contingent liability or other liability of any company in the Group has become enforceable, or is likely
to become enforceable within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the
opinion of the Directors, will or may substantially affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to meet
their obligations as and when they fall due.
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial performance of the Group and of the Company for the financial
year ended 31 December 2022 have not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a
material and unusual nature nor has any such item, transaction or event occurred in the interval between the
end of that financial year and the date of this report.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 93
Auditors
The auditors, KPMG PLT, have indicated their willingness to accept re-appointment.
The auditors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company during the year are RM234,000 and RM130,000
respectively.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Director
Teh Wee Chye
Director
30 March 2023
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
94
Balance Sheets
at 31 December 2022
		Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 3 444,476 436,379 245,469 251,796
Right-of-use assets 4 19,028 21,747 15,675 17,729
Intangible assets 5 566 341 351 92
Investment properties 6 4,883 4,941 4,612 4,670
Investments in subsidiaries 7 - - 141,348 171,919
Investments in joint ventures 8 693,598 629,217 647,382 647,382
Investment in an associate 9 1,061 1,052 - -
Deferred tax assets 10 5,771 6,730 - -
Other receivables 11 71,065 182,217 71,065 182,217
Total non-current assets 1,240,448 1,282,624 1,125,902 1,275,805
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives 11 572,297 381,590 355,564 148,130
Prepayments 7,393 1,661 5,649 1,229
Inventories 12 627,831 494,000 202,887 144,651
Current tax assets 5,932 3,612 2,291 -
Fixed deposits 13 157,219 320,452 - -
Cash and cash equivalents 14 86,710 214,077 32,715 79,363
1,457,382 1,415,392 599,106 373,373
Asset classified as held for sale 15 33,597 33,597 33,597 33,597
Total current assets 1,490,979 1,448,989 632,703 406,970
Total assets		 2,731,427 2,731,613 1,758,605 1,682,775
Equity
Share capital 535,902 535,623 535,902 535,623
RCULS - Equity 78,694 78,179 78,694 78,179
Reserves 749,820 640,512 409,842 321,270
Total equity attributable to
owners of the Company 16 1,364,416 1,254,314 1,024,438 935,072
Non-controlling interests 7 101,677 96,242 - -
Total equity 1,466,093 1,350,556 1,024,438 935,072
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 95
The notes set out on pages 105 to 183 are an integral part of these financial statements.
		Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 10 10,538 5,879 10,534 5,875
RCULS - Liabilities 16 2,126 7,310 2,126 7,310
Loans and borrowings 17 120,711 166,949 85,000 119,000
Lease liabilities 11,353 13,499 10,555 12,354
Total non-current liabilities 144,728 193,637 108,215 144,539
RCULS - Liabilities 16 5,026 4,657 5,026 4,657
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives 18 125,304 127,046 51,141 158,183
Loans and borrowings 17 984,981 1,045,163 568,037 439,054
Lease liabilities		 2,070 1,551 1,748 1,265
Current tax liabilities 3,225 9,003 - 5
Total current liabilities 1,120,606 1,187,420 625,952 603,164
Total liabilities		 1,265,334 1,381,057 734,167 747,703
Total equity and liabilities		 2,731,427 2,731,613 1,758,605 1,682,775
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
96
Income Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2022
		Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Continuing operations
Revenue 19 2,915,570 2,426,936 678,546 503,627
Cost of goods sold (2,674,172) (2,140,976) (601,462) (429,711)
Gross profit 241,398 285,960 77,084 73,916
Other income 17,263 19,923 126,663 120,442
Distribution expenses (89,880) (83,016) (45,023) (40,773)
Administrative expenses (29,110) (35,635) (19,026) (25,892)
Net gain/(loss) on impairment of
financial instruments 1,494 (1,318) (156) (646)
Other expenses (15,961) (2,662) (264) (4,586)
Results from operating activities 125,204 183,252 139,278 122,461
Interest expense (41,768) (20,817) (21,199) (16,340)
Interest income 17,186 29,634 2,134 9,893
Net finance (costs)/income (24,582) 8,817 (19,065) (6,447)
Results from operating activities of
continuing operations after net
finance (costs)/income 100,622 192,069 120,213 116,014
Write back/(Fair value loss) on
remeasurement of contingent
consideration receivable 21 8,819 (77,867) 8,819 (77,867)
Provision for profit guarantee payment 21 - (15,000) - (15,000)
Share of profit/(loss) of equity
accounted joint ventures, net of tax 8 70,020 (2,282) - -
Share of loss of equity accounted
associate, net of tax			 (17) (16) - -
Profit before tax 179,444 96,904 129,032 23,147
Tax expense 20 (25,444) (35,881) (4,760) (4,590)
Profit from continuing operations		 154,000 61,023 124,272 18,557
Discontinued operations
Profit from discontinued operations,
net of tax 22 - 137,519 - -
Profit for the year 21 154,000 198,542 124,272 18,557
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 97
The notes set out on pages 105 to 183 are an integral part of these financial statements.
		Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company
- from continuing operations 145,045 36,390 124,272 18,557
- from discontinued operations - 137,519 - -
Owners of the Company 145,045 173,909 124,272 18,557
Non-controlling interests 8,955 24,633 - -
Profit for the year 154,000 198,542 124,272 18,557
Basic earnings per ordinary
share (sen)
from continuing operations 23 14.22 3.57
from discontinued operations 23 - 13.51
from continuing operations (adjusted)* 23 13.36 12.70
Diluted earnings per ordinary
share (sen)
from continuing operations 23 10.67 2.71
from discontinued operations 23 - 10.01
from continuing operations (adjusted)* 23 10.03 9.47
* The adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share exclude the write back on remeasurement of contingent
consideration receivable of RM8,819,000 (2021: fair value loss on remeasurement of contingent
consideration receivable of RM77,867,000 and provision for profit guarantee payment of RM15,000,000).
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
98
		Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Profit for the year 154,000 198,542 124,272 18,557
Other comprehensive income for the year,
net of tax
Item that is or may be reclassified
subsequently to the income statement
Foreign currency translation
differences for foreign operations 1,190 22,838 - -
Total comprehensive income for the year 155,190 221,380 124,272 18,557
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company
- from continuing operations		 145,008 55,573 124,272 18,557
- from discontinued operations - 137,519 - -
145,008 193,092 124,272 18,557
Non-controlling interests			
10,182 28,288 - -
Total comprehensive income for the year 155,190 221,380 124,272 18,557
Statements of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2022
The notes set out on pages 105 to 183 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 99
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2022
			 Attributable to owners of the Company
		 		 Non-distributable		 Distributable
							
Other				 Non-
				 Share RCULS - Warrant capital Translation Retained		
controlling Total
Group		 Note capital Equity reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
				RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At 1 January 2021		 530,665 82,479 17,884 40,883 (53,590) 452,538 1,070,859 94,048 1,164,907
Foreign currency translation
differences for foreign
operations		 - - - - 19,183 - 19,183 3,655 22,838
Profit for the year		 - - - - - 173,909 173,909 24,633 198,542
Total comprehensive income
for the year		 - - - - 19,183 173,909 193,092 28,288 221,380
Retained earnings reinvested
as capital contribution in
a subsidiary		- - - 52,182 - (52,182) - - -
Conversion of RCULS 16 4,245 (4,300) - - - - (55) - (55)
Exercise of warrants 16 713 - (114) - - - 599 - 599
Dividends to owners of the
Company		 24 - - - - - (10,181) (10,181) - (10,181)
Dividends to non-controlling
interests		 7 - - - - - - - (26,094) (26,094)
At 31 December 2021		 535,623 78,179 17,770 93,065 (34,407) 564,084 1,254,314 96,242 1,350,556
				 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16
			 Attributable to owners of the Company
		 		 Non-distributable		 Distributable
							
Other				 Non-
				 Share RCULS - Warrant capital Translation Retained		
controlling Total
Group		 Note capital Equity reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
				RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At 1 January 2022		 535,623 78,179 17,770 93,065 (34,407) 564,084 1,254,314 96,242 1,350,556
Foreign currency translation
differences for foreign
operations		 - - - - (37) - (37) 1,227 1,190
Profit for the year		 - - - - - 145,045 145,045 8,955 154,000
Total comprehensive
(expense)/income
for the year		 - - - - (37) 145,045 145,008 10,182 155,190
Conversion of RCULS 16 279 515 - - - - 794 - 794
Exercise of warrants 16 * - ** - - - *** - ***
Dividends to owners of the
Company		 24 - - - - - (35,700) (35,700) (4,747) (40,447)
At 31 December 2022		 535,902 78,694 17,770 93,065 (34,444) 673,429 1,364,416 101,677 1,466,093
				 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16
* Denotes increase in share capital by RM41.
** Denotes reduction in warrant reserve by RM7.
*** Denotes exercise of warrants amounting to RM34.
The notes set out on pages 105 to 183 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
100
Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2022
Non-distributable Distributable
		 Share RCULS - Warrant Retained Total
Company Note capital Equity reserve earnings equity
		RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At 1 January 2021 530,665 82,479 17,884 295,124 926,152
Profit and total comprehensive
income for the year
Profit for the year		 - - - 18,557 18,557
Other comprehensive income
for the year		 - - - - -
Total comprehensive income
for the year		 - - - 18,557 18,557
Conversion of RCULS 16 4,245 (4,300) - - (55)
Exercise of warrants 16 713 - (114) - 599
Dividends to owners of the Company 24 - - - (10,181) (10,181)
At 31 December 2021/
1 January 2022 535,623 78,179 17,770 303,500 935,072
Profit and total comprehensive
income for the year
Profit for the year		 - - - 124,272 124,272
Other comprehensive income
for the year		 - - - - -
Total comprehensive income
for the year		 - - - 124,272 124,272
Conversion of RCULS 16 279 515 - - 794
Exercise of warrants 16 * - ** - ***
Dividends to owners of the Company 24 - - - (35,700) (35,700)
At 31 December 2022 535,902 78,694 17,770 392,072 1,024,438
		 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16
* Denotes increase in share capital by RM41.
** Denotes reduction in warrant reserve by RM7.
*** Denotes exercise of warrants amounting to RM34.
The notes set out on pages 105 to 183 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 101
Statements of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December 2022
		Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit before tax from:
- continuing operations 179,444 96,904 129,032 23,147
- discontinued operations		 - 133,272 - -
179,444 230,176 129,032 23,147
Adjustments for:
Amortisation of intangible assets 5 257 902 165 220
Depreciation of investment properties 6 58 56 58 56
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment 3 39,372 47,923 20,147 16,897
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 4 2,881 3,075 2,168 1,975
(Write back)/Fair value loss on
remeasurement of contingent
consideration receivable 21 (8,819) 77,867 (8,819) 77,867
Provision for profit guarantee
payment				 21 - 15,000 - 15,000
Dividend income (4) (7) (112,296) (93,781)
Net gain on disposal of property,
plant and equipment			 (218) (230) (218) (205)
Loss on liquidation of subsidiaries		 35 - 88 -
Gain on deconsolidation of
subsidiaries			 22 - (174,264) - (8,335)
Gain on lease modification (196) (134) (196) (134)
Interest expense 41,768 25,238 21,199 16,340
Interest income (17,186) (20,896) (2,134) (9,893)
Impairment of subsidiaries		 - - - 76
Net (gain)/loss on impairment of
financial assets (1,494) 791 156 646
Property, plant and equipment
written off 295 691 58 361
Share of (profit)/loss of equity
accounted joint ventures, net of tax 8 (70,020) 2,282 - -
Share of loss of equity accounted
associate, net of tax			 17 16 - -
Net unrealised loss/(gain) on
foreign exchange 4,860 128 3,348 (359)
Operating profit before changes
in working capital			 171,050 208,614 52,756 39,878
Changes in working capital:
Trade and other receivables,
prepayments and other
financial assets (75,010) (98,913) (91,841) (130,184)
Inventories (130,849) (192,735) (58,236) (89,750)
Biological assets				 - (365) - -
Trade and other payables and
other financial liabilities		 6,560 (47,454) (4,550) (27,271)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
102
Statements of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December 2022 (cont’d)
		Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cash used in operations (28,249) (130,853) (101,871) (207,327)
Interest paid (40,058) (24,322) (19,489) (15,424)
Interest received 17,186 20,896 2,134 9,893
Net income tax paid (28,244) (39,788) (2,647) (3,957)
Net cash used in operating activities (79,365) (174,067) (121,873) (216,815)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of intangible assets 5 (257) (53) (204) (35)
Acquisition of property, plant and
equipment 3 (50,000) (46,606) (14,098) (14,017)
Dividend received 4 7 34,575 93,781
Decrease/(Increase) in fixed deposits		 163,233 (84,484) - -
Proceeds from deconsolidation of
subsidiaries, net of cash and cash
equivalents disposed of 22 - 134,237 - 184,944
Proceeds from disposal of property,
plant and equipment			 218 424 218 346
Net cash from investing activities 113,198 3,525 20,491 265,019
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid to non-controlling
interests 7 (20,572) (10,269) - -
Dividends paid to owners of the
Company				 24 (35,700) (10,181) (35,700) (10,181)
(Repayment of)/Proceeds from loans
and borrowings, net (102,790) 225,281 97,149 14,066
RCULS coupon payment 16 (5,481) (5,593) (5,481) (5,593)
Payment of lease liabilities (1,545) (2,190) (1,234) (1,547)
Exercise of the warrants 16 - 599 - 599
Net cash (used in)/from financing
activities (166,088) 197,647 54,734 (2,656)
Net (decrease)/increase in cash
and cash equivalents			 (132,255) 27,105 (46,648) 45,548
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on
cash held					 4,888 18,313 - -
Cash and cash equivalents
at 1 January 14 214,077 168,659 79,363 33,815
Cash and cash equivalents
at 31 December 14 86,710 214,077 32,715 79,363
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 103
Cash outflows for leases as a lessee
		Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Included in net cash from
operating activities
Payment relating to short-term leases 21 385 423 270 7
Payment relating to leases of
low-value assets			 21 67 87 63 61
Payment relating to variable lease
payments not included in the
measurement of lease liabilities 21 1,785 2,756 843 445
Interest paid in relation to lease
liabilities					 558 343 460 235
Included in net cash from
financing activities
Payment of lease liabilities 1,545 2,190 1,234 1,547
Total cash outflows for leases 4,340 5,799 2,870 2,295
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents included in the statements of cash flows comprise the following balance sheets
amounts:
		Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
								 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Deposits placed with licensed banks 14 30,033 118,361 434 2,727
Cash and bank balances 14 56,677 89,585 32,281 70,505
Liquid investment			 14 - 6,131 - 6,131
86,710 214,077 32,715 79,363
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
104
The notes set out on pages 105 to 183 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Statements of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December 2022 (cont’d)
Reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities
		Net					
At 31 Net				
		
changes Changes				
December Changes					
At from arising from Acquisition		 Foreign 2021/ from Acquisition		 Foreign At 31
1 January financing deconsolidation of new Derecognition exchange 1 January financing of new Derecognition exchange December
2021 cash flows of subsidiaries lease of lease movement 2022 cash flows lease of lease movement 2022
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Unsecured
bankers’
acceptances/
Unsecured
revolving
credits 885,298 240,903 (150,570) - - 18,483 994,114 (56,045) - - (3,630) 934,439
Unsecured term
loans 274,278 (15,622) (40,658) - - - 217,998 (46,745) - - - 171,253
Lease liabilities 5,595 (2,190) (461) 14,446 (2,186) (154) 15,050 (1,545) 23 (105) - 13,423
Total liabilities
from financing
activities 1,165,171 223,091 (191,689) 14,446 (2,186) 18,329 1,227,162 (104,335) 23 (105) (3,630) 1,119,115
Company
Unsecured
bankers’
acceptances/
Unsecured
revolving
credits 369,764 33,266 - - - 2,024 405,054 131,149 - - (2,166) 534,037
Unsecured term
loans 2,200 (19,200) 170,000 - - - 153,000 (34,000) - - - 119,000
Lease liabilities 3,821 (1,547) - 13,531 (2,186) - 13,619 (1,234) 23 (105) - 12,303
Total liabilities
from financing
activities 375,785 12,519 170,000 13,531 (2,186) 2,024 571,673 95,915 23 (105) (2,166) 665,340
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 105
Notes to the
Financial Statements
Malayan Flour Mills Berhad is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and
is listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The address of its registered office, which
is also its principal place of business is as follows:
Registered office and principal place of business
Suite 28.01, Level 28
Menara Citibank
165 Jalan Ampang
50450 Kuala Lumpur
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the financial year ended
31 December 2022 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group” and
individually referred to as “Group entities”) and the Group’s interest in an associate and joint ventures.
The Company is principally engaged in the business of milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grain and
other allied products, whilst the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 7 to the financial
statements.
These financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 30 March 2023.
1. Basis of preparation
(a) Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The following are accounting standards, interpretations and amendments that have been issued
by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) but have not been adopted by the
Group and the Company:
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2023
• MFRS 17, Insurance Contracts
• Amendments to MFRS 17, Insurance Contracts – Initial application of MFRS 17 and
MFRS 9 – Comparative Information
• Amendments to MFRS 101, Presentation of Financial Statements – Disclosures of
Accounting Policies
• Amendments to MFRS 108, Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and
Errors – Definition of Accounting Estimates
• Amendments to MFRS 112, Income Taxes – Deferred Tax related to Assets and Liabilities
arising from a Single Transaction
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
106
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
1. Basis of preparation (cont’d)
(a) Statement of compliance (cont’d)
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2024
• Amendment to MFRS 16, Leases – Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
• Amendment to MFRS 101, Presentation of Financial Statements – Non-current Liabilities
with Covenants and Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
after a date yet to be confirmed
• Amendments to MFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128, Investments
in Associates and Joint Ventures – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and
its Associate or Joint Venture
The Group and the Company plan to apply the abovementioned accounting standards,
interpretations and amendments:
• from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2023 for the accounting standard and
amendments that are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023,
except for MFRS 17 and amendments to MFRS 17 which are not applicable to the Group
and the Company.
• from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2024 for the amendments that are effective
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024.
The initial application of the abovementioned accounting standards, interpretations or
amendments is not expected to have any material financial impact to the current period and
prior period financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
(b) Basis of measurement
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis other than as disclosed
in Note 2.
(c) Functional and presentation currency
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s
functional currency. All financial information is presented in RM and has been rounded to the
nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.
(d) Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with MFRSs requires management to
make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies
and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ
from these estimates.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 107
1. Basis of preparation (cont’d)
(d) Use of estimates and judgements (cont’d)
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods
affected.
There are no significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying
accounting policies that have significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial
statements other than those disclosed in the following notes:
(i) Note 4 - extension options and incremental borrowing rate in relation to leases
(ii) Note 8 - investments in joint ventures
(iii) Note 11.1 - contingent consideration receivable from a joint venturer
(iv) Note 26 - measurement of expected credit loss (“ECL”)
2. Significant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these
financial statements and have been applied consistently by Group entities, unless otherwise stated.
(a) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities, including structured entities, controlled by the Company. The
financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements
from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its
involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over
the entity. Potential voting rights are considered when assessing control only when such
rights are substantive. The Group also considers it has de facto power over an investee
when, despite not having the majority of voting rights, it has the current ability to direct the
activities of the investee that significantly affect the investee’s return.
Investments in subsidiaries are measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The
cost of investments includes transaction costs.
(ii) Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method from the acquisition
date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
108
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(a) Basis of consolidation (cont’d)
(ii) Business combinations (cont’d)
For new acquisitions, the Group measures the cost of goodwill at the acquisition date as:
• the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
• the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus
• if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity
interest in the acquiree; less
• the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired
and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the
income statements.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether it measures the non-controlling
interests in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s
identifiable net assets at the acquisition date.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities,
that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
(iii) Acquisitions of non-controlling interests
The Group accounts for all changes in its ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not
result in a loss of control as equity transactions between the Group and its non-controlling
interest holders. Any difference between the Group’s share of net assets before and after
the change, and any consideration received or paid, is adjusted to or against Group
reserves.
(iv) Associates
Associates are entities, including unincorporated entities, in which the Group has significant
influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Investments in associates are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements
using the equity method less any impairment losses. The cost of the investments includes
transaction costs. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of
profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associates, after adjustments if any,
to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant
influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the carrying amount
of that interest including any long-term investments is reduced to zero, and the recognition
of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or
has made payments on behalf of the associate.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 109
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(a) Basis of consolidation (cont’d)
(iv) Associates (cont’d)
When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any retained
interest in the former associate at the date when significant influence is lost is measured
at fair value and this amount is regarded as the initial carrying amount of a financial asset.
The difference between the fair value of any retained interest plus proceeds from the
interest disposed of and the carrying amount of the investment at the date when equity
method is discontinued is recognised in the income statements.
When the Group’s interest in an associate decrease but does not result in a loss of
significant influence, any retained interest is not re-measured. Any gain or loss arising
from the decrease in interest is recognised in the income statements. Any gains or losses
previously recognised in other comprehensive income are also reclassified proportionately
to the income statements if that gain or loss would be required to be reclassified to the
income statements on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities.
Investment in an associate is measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
impairment losses. The cost of investments includes transaction costs.
(v) Joint arrangements
Joint arrangements are arrangements of which the Group has joint control, established by
contracts requiring unanimous consent for decisions about the activities that significantly
affect the arrangements’ returns.
Joint arrangements are classified and accounted for as follows:
• A joint arrangement is classified as “joint operation” when the Group or the Company
has rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to an arrangement.
The Group and the Company account for each of its share of the assets, liabilities
and transactions, including its share of those held or incurred jointly with the other
investors, in relation to the joint operation.
• A joint arrangement is classified as “joint venture” when the Group or the Company
has rights only to the net assets of the arrangement. The Group accounts for its
interest in the joint venture using the equity method.
Investments in joint ventures are measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less
any impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution.
The cost of investment includes transaction costs.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
110
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(a) Basis of consolidation (cont’d)
(vi) Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period, being the equity in a subsidiary
not attributable directly or indirectly to the equity holders of the Company, are presented
in the consolidated balance sheet and statement of changes in equity within equity,
separately from equity attributable to the owners of the Company. Non-controlling interests
in the results of the Group is presented in the consolidated income statements and other
comprehensive income as an allocation of the profit or loss and the comprehensive income
for the year between non-controlling interests and the owners of the Company.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the
non-controlling interests even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a
deficit balance.
(vii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising
from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial
statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with an equity accounted associate and joint
ventures are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the
investees. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only
to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
(b) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of
Group entities at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the end of the reporting
period are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated
at the end of the reporting date, except for those that are measured at fair value which are
retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value
was determined.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income
statements, except for differences arising on the retranslation of equity instruments
where they are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income or a financial
instrument designated as a cash flow hedge, which are recognised in other comprehensive
income.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 111
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(b) Foreign currency (cont’d)
(i) Foreign currency transactions (cont’d)
In the consolidated financial statements, when settlement of a monetary item receivable
from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely to occur in the
foreseeable future, foreign exchange gains and losses arising from such a monetary item
are considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised
in other comprehensive income, and are presented in the foreign currency translation
reserve (“FCTR”) in equity.
(ii) Operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”)
The assets and liabilities of operations denominated in functional currencies other than
RM, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated
to RM at exchange rates at the end of the reporting period, except for goodwill and fair
value adjustments arising from business combinations before 1 January 2012 (the date
when the Group first adopted MFRS) which are treated as assets and liabilities of the
Company. The income and expenses of foreign operations, excluding foreign operations
in hyperinflationary economies, are translated to RM at exchange rates at the dates of the
transactions.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and
accumulated in the FCTR in equity. However, if the operation is a non-wholly owned
subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate share of the translation difference is allocated
to the non-controlling interests. When a foreign operation is disposed of such that control,
significant influence or joint control is lost, the cumulative amount in the FCTR related to
that foreign operation is reclassified to the income statements as part of the gain or loss
on disposal.
When the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a
foreign operation, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to
non-controlling interests. When the Group disposes of only part of its investments in
an associate or joint venture that includes a foreign operation while retaining significant
influence or joint control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified
to the income statements.
(c) Financial instruments
(i) Recognition and initial measurement
A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the balance sheets when, and only
when, the Group or the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the
instrument.
A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without significant financing component)
or a financial liability is initially measured at fair value plus or minus, for an item not at fair
value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition
or issuance. A trade receivable without a significant financing component is initially
measured at the transaction price.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
112
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(c) Financial instruments (cont’d)
(i) Recognition and initial measurement (cont’d)
An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract where the host
contract is not a financial asset, and accounted for separately if, and only if, the derivative
is not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the
host contract is not measured at fair value through profit or loss. The host contract, in the
event an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in accordance
with policy applicable to the nature of the host contract.
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement
Financial assets
Categories of financial assets are determined on initial recognition and are not reclassified
subsequent to their initial recognition unless the Group or the Company changes its
business model for managing financial assets in which case all affected financial assets
are reclassified on the first day of the first reporting period following the change of the
business model.
(a) Amortised cost
Amortised cost category comprises financial assets that are held within a business
model whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows and
its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The
financial assets are not designated as fair value through profit or loss. Subsequent
to initial recognition, these financial assets are measured at amortised cost using
the effective interest method. The amortised cost is reduced by impairment losses.
Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognised
in the income statements. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognised in the
income statements.
Interest income is recognised by applying effective interest rate to the gross
carrying amount except for credit impaired financial assets (see Note 2(k)(i)) where
the effective interest rate is applied to the amortised cost.
(b) Fair value through profit or loss
All financial assets not measured at amortised cost or fair value through other
comprehensive income as described above are measured at fair value through
profit or loss. This includes derivative financial assets (except for a derivative that
is a designated and effective hedging instrument). On initial recognition, the Group
or the Company may irrevocably designate a financial asset that otherwise meets
the requirements to be measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other
comprehensive income as at fair value through profit or loss if doing so eliminates
or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that would otherwise arise.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 113
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(c) Financial instruments (cont’d)
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (cont’d)
Financial assets (cont’d)
(b) Fair value through profit or loss (cont’d)
Financial assets categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently
measured at their fair value. Net gains or losses, including any interest or dividend
income, are recognised in the income statements.
All financial assets, except for those measured at fair value through profit or loss and equity
investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, are subject to
impairment assessment (see Note 2(k)(i)).
Financial liabilities
The categories of financial liabilities at initial recognition are as follows:
(a) Fair value through profit or loss
Fair value through profit or loss category comprises financial liabilities that are
derivatives (except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee contract or a
designated and effective hedging instrument), contingent consideration in a
business combination and financial liabilities that are specifically designated into
this category upon initial recognition.
On initial recognition, the Group or the Company may irrevocably designate a
financial liability that otherwise meets the requirements to be measured at amortised
cost as at fair value through profit or loss:
(a) if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that
would otherwise arise;
(b) a group of financial liabilities or assets and financial liabilities is managed
and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a
documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about
the group is provided internally on that basis to the Group’s key management
personnel; or
(c) if a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives and the host is not
a financial asset in the scope of MFRS 9, where the embedded derivative
significantly modifies the cash flows and separation is not prohibited.
Financial liabilities categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently
measured at their fair value with gains or losses, including any interest expense are
recognised in the income statements.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
114
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(c) Financial instruments (cont’d)
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (cont’d)
Financial liabilities (cont’d)
(a) Fair value through profit or loss (cont’d)
For financial liabilities where it is designated as fair value through profit or loss upon
initial recognition, the Group and the Company recognise the amount of change
in fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to change in credit risk in
the other comprehensive income and remaining amount of the change in fair value
in the income statements, unless the treatment of the effects of changes in the
liability’s credit risk would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch.
(b) Amortised cost
Other financial liabilities not categorised as fair value through profit or loss are
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the
income statements. Any gains or losses on derecognition are also recognised in the
income statements.
(iii) Derecognition
A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the contractual rights
to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or transferred, or control of the asset
is not retained or substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial
asset are transferred to another party. On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference
between the carrying amount of the financial asset and the sum of consideration received
(including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed) is recognised in the
income statements.
A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation
specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires. A financial liability is also
derecognised when its terms are modified and the cash flows of the modified liability are
substantially different, in which case, a new financial liability based on modified terms is
recognised at fair value. On derecognition of a financial liability, the difference between the
carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and
the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is
recognised in the income statements.
(iv) Offsetting
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the
balance sheets when, and only when, the Group or the Company currently has a legally
enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis
or to realise the asset and liability simultaneously.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 115
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(d) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Recognition and measurement
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset
and any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for
its intended use, and the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the
site on which they are located. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes the
cost of materials and direct labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are capitalised
in accordance with the accounting policy on borrowing costs. Cost may also include
transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency
purchases of property, plant and equipment.
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful
lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and
equipment.
The gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined
by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and
equipment and is recognised net within “other income” and “other expenses” respectively,
in the income statements.
(ii) Subsequent costs
The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is
recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic
benefits embodied within the component will flow to the Group or the Company, and
its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced component is
derecognised to the income statements. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property,
plant and equipment are recognised in the income statements as incurred.
(iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components
of individual assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from
the remainder of that asset, then that component is depreciated separately.
Depreciation is recognised in the income statements on a straight-line basis over the
estimated useful lives of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment
from the date that they are available for use. Freehold land is not depreciated. Capital
work-in-progress are not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows:
• buildings and jetty 10, 20 and 50 years
• plant, machinery, fixtures and equipment 4 - 20 years
• motor vehicles 5 - 10 years
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of the
reporting period and adjusted as appropriate.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
116
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(e) Leases
(i) Definition of a lease
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys a right to control the use of an
identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a
contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group and the
Company assess whether:
• the contract involves the use of an identified asset – this may be specified explicitly
or implicitly, and should be physically distinct or represent substantially all of the
capacity of a physically distinct asset. If the supplier has a substantive substitution
right, then the asset is not identified;
• the customer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from
use of the asset throughout the period of use; and
• the customer has the right to direct the use of the asset. The customer has this right
when it has the decision-making rights that are most relevant to changing how and
for what purpose the asset is used. In rare cases where the decision about how and
for what purpose the asset is used is predetermined, the customer has the right to
direct the use of the asset if either the customer has the right to operate the asset;
or the customer designed the asset in a way that predetermines how and for what
purpose it will be used.
At inception or on reassessment of a contract that contains a lease component, the Group
and the Company allocate the consideration in the contract to each lease and non-lease
component on the basis of their relative stand-alone prices. However, for leases of land
and buildings in which the Group and the Company are lessees, they have elected not
to separate non-lease components and will instead account for the lease and non-lease
components as a single lease component.
(ii) Recognition and initial measurement
(a) As a lessee
The Group and the Company recognise a right-of-use asset and a lease liability
at the lease commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at
cost, which comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease
payments made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs
incurred and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset
or to restore the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease
incentives received.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments
that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate
implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the respective
Group entities’ incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the Group entities use their
incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 117
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(e) Leases (cont’d)
(ii) Recognition and initial measurement (cont’d)
(a) As a lessee (cont’d)
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise:
• fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments less any incentives
receivable;
• variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured
using the index or rate as at the commencement date;
• amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee;
• the exercise price under a purchase option that the Group and the Company
are reasonably certain to exercise; and
• penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Group and the Company
are reasonably certain not to terminate early.
The Group and the Company exclude variable lease payments that linked to future
performance or usage of the underlying asset from the lease liability. Instead, these
payments are recognised in the income statements in the period in which the
performance or use occurs.
The Group and the Company have elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and
lease liabilities for short-term leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less
and leases of low-value assets. The Group and the Company recognise the lease
payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over
the lease term.
(b) As a lessor
When the Group and the Company act as a lessor, they determine at lease inception
whether each lease is a finance lease or an operating lease.
To classify each lease, the Group and the Company make an overall assessment
of whether the lease transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental
to ownership of the underlying asset. If this is the case, then the lease is a finance
lease; if not, then it is an operating lease.
If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group and the
Company apply MFRS 15 to allocate the consideration in the contract based on the
stand-alone selling prices.
When the Company is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the
head lease and the sublease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a
sublease with reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease, not
with reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to which
the Company applies the exemption described above, then it classifies the sublease
as an operating lease.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
118
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(e) Leases (cont’d)
(iii) Subsequent measurement
(a) As a lessee
The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method
from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-
of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use
assets are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and equipment.
In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if
any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability.
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
It is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a
change in an index or rate, if there is a revision of in-substance fixed lease payments,
if there is a change in the Group’s and the Company’s estimate of the amount
expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee, or if the Group and
the Company change their assessment of whether they will exercise a purchase,
extension or termination option.
When the lease liability is remeasured, a corresponding adjustment is made to the
carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in the income statements if
the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero.
(b) As a lessor
The Group and the Company recognise lease payments received under operating
leases as income on a straight-line basis over the lease term as part of “other
income”.
(f) Intangible assets
(i) Computer software
Computer software acquired by the Group and the Company is stated at cost less any
accumulated amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The cost capitalised includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition
of the software licenses and any other development costs directly attributable to the
preparation of the computer software for its intended use.
(ii) Subsequent expenditure
Subsequent expenditure on computer software is capitalised only when it increases the
future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other
expenditure is recognised in the income statements as incurred.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 119
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(f) Intangible assets (cont’d)
(iii) Amortisation
Amortisation of computer software is recognised in the income statements on a straight-
line basis over its estimated useful lives from the date that it is available for use.
The estimated useful life of computer software is 4 years.
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each
reporting period and adjusted, if appropriate.
(g) Investment properties
Investment properties carried at cost
Investment properties are properties which are owned or right-of-use asset held under a lease
contract to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary
course of business, use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative
purposes. Investment properties initially and subsequently measured at cost are accounted for
similarly to property, plant and equipment.
(h) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories
is calculated using the weighted average cost formula, and includes expenditure incurred in
acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing
them to their existing location and condition. In the case of work-in-progress and finished goods,
cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the
estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
(i) Asset held for sale
Non-current assets that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale or distribution to
owners rather than through continuing use, are classified as held for sale.
Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets are remeasured in accordance with
the Group’s accounting policies. Thereafter generally the assets are measured at the lower of
their carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal.
(j) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, balances and deposits with banks and highly
liquid investments which have insignificant risk of changes in fair value with original maturities of
three months or less, and are used by the Group and the Company in the management of their
short-term commitments.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
120
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(k) Impairment
(i) Financial assets
The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses
on financial assets measured at amortised cost. Expected credit losses are a
probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.
The Group and the Company measure loss allowances for trade receivables at an amount
equal to lifetime expected credit loss.
When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly
since initial recognition and when estimating expected credit loss, the Group and the
Company consider reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available
without undue cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information
and analysis, based on the Group’s historical experience and informed credit assessment
and including forward-looking information, where available.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible
default events over the expected life of the asset, while 12-month expected credit losses
are the portion of expected credit losses that result from default events that are possible
within the 12 months after the reporting date. The maximum period considered when
estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period over which the
Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.
The Group and the Company estimate the expected credit losses on trade receivables
using a provision matrix with reference to historical credit loss experience.
An impairment loss in respect of financial assets measured at amortised cost is recognised
in the income statements and the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use
of an allowance account.
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets
carried at amortised cost is credit-impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one
or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the
financial asset have occurred.
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or fully) to
the extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when
the Group or the Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources
of income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the
write-off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement
activities in order to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s procedures for recovery
of amounts due.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 121
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(k) Impairment (cont’d)
(ii) Other assets
The carrying amounts of other assets (except for deferred tax assets, inventories and
non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale) are reviewed at the end
of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of impairment. If any
such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group
of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of
the cash inflows of other assets or cash-generating units.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in
use and its fair value less costs of disposal. In assessing value in use, the estimated future
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset
or cash-generating unit.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its related
cash-generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statements. Impairment losses recognised
in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any
goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit (group of cash-generating units) and then
to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the cash-generating unit (groups of
cash-generating units) on a pro rata basis.
Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at the end of each reporting
period for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment
loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the
recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. An impairment loss is
reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no
impairment loss had been recognised. Reversals of impairment losses are credited to the
income statements in the financial year in which the reversals are recognised.
(l) Equity instruments
Instruments classified as equity are measured at cost on initial recognition and are not remeasured
subsequently.
(i) Issue expenses
Costs directly attributable to the issue of instruments classified as equity are recognised
as a deduction from equity.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
122
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(l) Equity instruments (cont’d)
(ii) Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
(m) Compound financial instruments
A compound financial instrument is a non-derivative financial instrument that contains both a
liability and an equity component.
Compound financial instruments issued by the Group comprise convertible notes that can be
converted to share capital at the option of the holder, when the number of shares to be issued
does not vary with changes in their fair value.
The proceeds are first allocated to the liability component, determined based on the fair value of
a similar liability that does not have a conversion feature or similar associated equity component.
The residual amount is allocated as the equity component. Any directly attributable transaction
costs are allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to their initial carrying
amounts.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of a compound financial instrument
is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The equity component of a
compound financial instrument is not remeasured subsequent to initial recognition.
Interest and losses and gains relating to the financial liability are recognised in the income
statements. On conversion, the financial liability is reclassified to equity; no gain or loss is
recognised on conversion.  
(n) Employee benefits
(i) Short-term employee benefits
Short-term employee benefit obligations in respect of salaries, annual bonuses, paid
annual leave and sick leave are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as
the related service is provided.
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus
or profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay
this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can
be estimated reliably.
(ii) State plans
The Group’s contributions to statutory pension funds are charged to the income statements
in the financial year to which they relate. Once the contributions have been paid, the
Company has no further payment obligations.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 123
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(o) Revenue and other income
(i) Revenue
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer
in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected
on behalf of third parties. The Group or the Company recognises revenue when (or as) it
transfers control over a product or service to customer. An asset is transferred when (or
as) the customer obtains control of the asset.
The Group or the Company transfers control of a good or service at a point in time unless
one of the following over time criteria is met:
(a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the
Group or the Company performs;
(b) the Group’s or the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the
customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced; or
(c) the Group’s or the Company’s performance does not create an asset with an
alternative use and the Group or the Company has an enforceable right to payment
for performance completed to date.
(ii) Rental income
Rental income from investment property is recognised in the income statements on a
straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Rental income from sub-leased property is
recognised as “other income”.
(iii) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised in the income statements on the date that the Group’s or
the Company’s right to receive payment is established.
(iv) Interest income
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method in the
income statements.
(p) Borrowing costs
General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or
production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of
time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets,
until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when
expenditure for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that
are necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation
of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to
prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in the income statements in the period in which they
are incurred.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
124
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(q) Income tax
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are
recognised in the income statements except to the extent that it relates to items recognised
directly in equity or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year,
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, and any
adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous financial years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and their tax bases. Deferred
tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of goodwill,
the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination
and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profits or loss. Deferred tax is measured at the
tax rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences when they reverse, based
on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current
tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the
same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and
assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits
will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are
reviewed at the end of each reporting period and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Unutilised reinvestment allowance, being tax incentives that is not a tax base of an asset, is
recognised as a deferred tax asset to the extent that it is probable that the future taxable profits
will be available against the unutilised tax incentive can be utilised.
(r) Discontinued operations
A discontinued operation is a component of the Group’s business that represents a separate
major line of business or geographical area of operations that has been disposed of or is held for
sale or distribution, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively with a view to resale. Classification as
a discontinued operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation meets the criteria to be
classified as held for sale, if earlier. When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation,
the comparative income statement and other comprehensive income is re-presented as if the
operation had been discontinued from the start of the comparative period.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 125
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(s) Earnings per ordinary share
The Group presents basic earnings per share data for its ordinary shares (“EPS”).
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders
and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held,
for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which comprise redeemable convertible
unsecured loan stock (“RCULS”) and warrants.
(t) Operating segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from
which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate
to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. Operating segment results are
reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker, to make decisions about resources
to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for which discrete financial
information is available.
(u) Contingencies
Contingent liabilities
Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount
cannot be estimated reliably, the obligation is not recognised in the balance sheets and is
disclosed as a contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is
remote. Possible obligations, whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or
non-occurrence of one or more future events, are also disclosed as contingent liabilities unless
the probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote.
(v) Fair value measurements
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is
determined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in
an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The measurement
assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the
principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market.
For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s
ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling
it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
126
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Significant accounting policies (cont’d)
(v) Fair value measurements (cont’d)
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses observable market data
as far as possible. Fair value is categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on
the input used in the valuation technique as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the
Group can access at the measurement date.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the
asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is,
unobservable inputs).
The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the
event or change in circumstances that caused the transfers.
3. Property, plant and equipment
				
Plant,				
			Buildings machinery,		 Capital		
			 and fixtures and Motor work-in-
Group Note Land jetty equipment vehicles progress Total
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2021 31,682 781,393 798,482 50,482 106,987 1,769,026
Additions 758 548 6,628 189 45,094 53,217
Disposals - - (2,309) (2,992) - (5,301)
Write-off		 - (435) (28,067) (81) - (28,583)
Transfers - 26,295 23,690 - (49,985) -
Transfer to intangible assets 5 - - (917) - - (917)
Transfer to asset held for sale 15 - - - - (33,597) (33,597)
Deconsolidation of
subsidiaries 22 (32,440) (452,149) (429,359) (26,089) (19,835) (959,872)
Effect of movements in
exchange rates - 3,490 4,263 237 118 8,108
At 31 December 2021/
1 January 2022 - 359,142 372,411 21,746 48,782 802,081
Additions - 4,108 9,513 492 35,887 50,000
Disposals - - (275) (900) - (1,175)
Write-off - (430) (248) - (41) (719)
Transfers - (16) 46,970 - (46,954) -
Transfer to intangible assets 5 - - (212) - - (212)
Reclassifications - - - - (3,946) (3,946)
Effect of movements in
exchange rates - 1,358 2,296 196 443 4,293
At 31 December 2022		 - 364,162 430,455 21,534 34,171 850,322
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 127
3. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)
				
Plant,				
			Buildings machinery,		 Capital		
			 and fixtures and Motor work-in-
Group Note Land jetty equipment vehicles progress Total
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Depreciation and
impairment loss
At 1 January 2021
Accumulated depreciation		 - 200,675 438,704 38,769 - 678,148
Accumulated impairment
loss		 - 3 597 - - 600
		 - 200,678 439,301 38,769 - 678,748
Depreciation for the year		 - 14,661 31,369 1,893 - 47,923
Disposals		 - - (2,163) (2,944) - (5,107)
Write-off		 - (159) (27,653) (80) - (27,892)
Transfer to intangible assets 5 - - (842) - - (842)
Deconsolidation of
subsidiaries 22 - (105,448) (205,293) (20,248) - (330,989)
Effect of movements in
exchange rates		 - 1,529 1,999 333 - 3,861
At 31 December 2021/
1 January 2022
Accumulated depreciation		 - 111,261 236,718 17,723 - 365,702
Depreciation for the year		 - 9,233 28,891 1,248 - 39,372
Disposals		 - - (275) (900) - (1,175)
Write-off		 - (194) (230) - - (424)
Transfer to intangible assets 5 - - 8 - - 8
Effect of movements in
exchange rates		 - 662 1,569 132 - 2,363
At 31 December 2022
Accumulated depreciation		 - 120,962 266,681 18,203 - 405,846
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2021		 31,682 580,715 359,181 11,713 106,987 1,090,278
At 31 December 2021/
1 January 2022		 - 247,881 135,693 4,023 48,782 436,379
At 31 December 2022		 - 243,200 163,774 3,331 34,171 444,476
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
128
3. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)
			
Plant,				
			machinery,		 Capital		
		 Buildings fixtures and Motor work-in-
Company Note and jetty equipment vehicles progress Total
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2021		 209,030 210,888 12,367 51,615 483,900
Additions		 161 3,799 1 10,882 14,843
Disposals		 - (2,165) (2,729) - (4,894)
Write-off		 - (27,095) (81) - (27,176)
Transfers		 36,802 13,259 - (50,061) -
At 31 December 2021/
1 January 2022		 245,993 198,686 9,558 12,436 466,673
Additions		 97 8,412 459 5,130 14,098
Disposals		 - (275) (900) - (1,175)
Write-off		 - (180) - (41) (221)
Transfers		 - 17,350 - (17,350) -
Transfer to intangible assets 5 - (212) - - (212)
At 31 December 2022		 246,090 223,781 9,117 175 479,163
Depreciation
At 1 January 2021		 65,204 152,939 11,405 - 229,548
Depreciation for the year		 4,908 11,688 301 - 16,897
Disposals		 - (2,024) (2,729) - (4,753)
Write-off		 - (26,735) (80) - (26,815)
At 31 December 2021/
1 January 2022		 70,112 135,868 8,897 - 214,877
Depreciation for the year		 4,910 14,902 335 - 20,147
Disposals		 - (275) (900) - (1,175)
Write-off		 - (163) - - (163)
Transfer to intangible assets 5 - 8 - - 8
At 31 December 2022		 75,022 150,340 8,332 - 233,694
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2021		 143,826 57,949 962 51,615 254,352
At 31 December 2021/
1 January 2022		 175,881 62,818 661 12,436 251,796
At 31 December 2022		 171,068 73,441 785 175 245,469
3.1 Borrowing costs
Included in additions of the Group are borrowing costs capitalised at 2.50% - 4.03% (2021:
2.50%) per annum amounting to RM97,000 (2021: RM93,000).
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 129
4. Right-of-use assets
					 Note Leasehold land Buildings Total
						 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
At 1 January 2021			 25,042 5,378 30,420
Additions				 232 14,214 14,446
Depreciation for the year		 (659) (2,416) (3,075)
Derecognition			 - (2,052) (2,052)
Deconsolidation of subsidiaries 22 (17,677) (441) (18,118)
Effect of movements in exchange rates		 126 - 126
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022		 7,064 14,683 21,747
Additions				 - 23 23
Depreciation for the year		 (496) (2,385) (2,881)
Lease modification			 - 91 91
Effect of movements in exchange rates		 48 - 48
At 31 December 2022		 6,616 12,412 19,028
Company
At 1 January 2021			 4,578 3,647 8,225
Additions				 - 13,531 13,531
Depreciation for the year		 (147) (1,828) (1,975)
Derecognition			 - (2,052) (2,052)
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022		 4,431 13,298 17,729
Additions				 - 23 23
Depreciation for the year		 (134) (2,034) (2,168)
Lease modification			 - 91 91
At 31 December 2022		 4,297 11,378 15,675
The Group and the Company lease buildings for its office space, warehouse and staff quarters that
typically run for a period of one to five years, with an option to renew the lease after that date.
4.1 Extension options
Some leases of office space, warehouse and staff quarters contain extension options exercisable
by the Group and the Company. Where applicable, the Group and the Company seek to include
extension options in new leases to provide operational flexibility. The extension options held
are exercisable only by the Group and the Company and not by the lessors. The Group and
the Company assess at lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the
extension options. The Group and the Company reassess whether it is reasonably certain to
exercise the options if there is a significant event or significant change in circumstances within
its control.
As at 31 December 2022, the Group and the Company have included all potential future cash
flows of exercising the extension options in the lease liabilities.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
130
4. Right-of-use assets (cont’d)
4.2 Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to lease
The Group and the Company assess at lease commencement by applying significant judgement
whether it is reasonably certain to exercise the extension options. Group entities consider all
facts and circumstances including their past practice and any cost that will be incurred to change
the asset if an option to extend is not taken, to help them determine the lease term.
The Group and the Company also applied judgement and assumptions in determining the
incremental borrowing rate of the respective leases. Group entities first determine the closest
available borrowing rates before using significant judgement to determine the adjustments
required to reflect the term, security, value or economic environment of the respective leases.
5. Intangible assets
Note Computer software
		 Group Company
						 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2021			 14,941 6,172
Additions				 53 35
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 3 917 -
Write-off				 (538) (25)
Deconsolidation of subsidiaries		 (6,475) -
Effect of movements in exchange rates		 147 -
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022		 9,045 6,182
Additions				 257 204
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 3 212 212
Write-off				 (401) (401)
Effect of movements in exchange rates		 52 -
At 31 December 2022		 9,165 6,197
Amortisation
At 1 January 2021			 11,285 5,895
Amortisation for the year		 902 220
Write-off				 (538) (25)
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 3 842 -
Deconsolidation of subsidiaries		 (3,920) -
Effect of movements in exchange rates		 133 -
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022		 8,704 6,090
Amortisation for the year		 257 165
Write-off				 (401) (401)
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 3 (8) (8)
Effect of movements in exchange rates		 47 -
At 31 December 2022		 8,599 5,846
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 131
5. Intangible assets (cont’d)
Note Computer software
		 Group Company
						 RM’000 RM’000
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2021					 3,656 277
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022			 341 92
At 31 December 2022				 566 351
5.1 Intangible assets
Intangible assets principally comprise expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition
of software licences and any other development costs directly attributable to the preparation of
the computer software for its intended use.
5.2 Amortisation
The amortisation is allocated to the income statements (administrative expenses) on a
straight-line basis over the intangible assets’ estimated useful lives.
6. Investment properties
Freehold
Group land Buildings Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2021/31 December 2021/
1 January 2022/31 December 2022 3,943 2,836 6,779
Depreciation
At 1 January 2021 - 1,782 1,782
Depreciation for the year - 56 56
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 - 1,838 1,838
Depreciation for the year - 58 58
At 31 December 2022 - 1,896 1,896
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2021 3,943 1,054 4,997
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 3,943 998 4,941
At 31 December 2022 3,943 940 4,883
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
132
6. Investment properties (cont’d)
Freehold
Company land Buildings Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2021/31 December 2021/
1 January 2022/31 December 2022 3,672 2,836 6,508
Depreciation
At 1 January 2021 - 1,782 1,782
Depreciation for the year - 56 56
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 - 1,838 1,838
Depreciation for the year - 58 58
At 31 December 2022 - 1,896 1,896
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2021 3,672 1,054 4,726
At 31 December 2021/1 January 2022 3,672 998 4,670
At 31 December 2022 3,672 940 4,612
The following are recognised in the income statements in respect of investment properties:
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM’000 RM’000
Lease income				458 466
Direct operating expenses:
- income generating investment properties			 53 53
Fair value information
Fair value of investment properties are categorised as follows:
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Level 3
Freehold land and buildings		 124,335 123,485 119,475 118,855
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 133
6. Investment properties (cont’d)
Fair value information (cont’d)
Level 3 fair value
The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of fair values within
Level 3, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.
Description of valuation
technique and inputs used
Significant unobservable
inputs
Inter-relationship between
significant unobservable
inputs and fair value
measurements
Comparison method of
valuation which entails
comparing the property with
similar properties that were
sold recently and those that
are currently offered for sale in
the vicinity.
Recent transactions of similar
properties at or near reporting
period with similar land usage,
land size and location.
The estimated fair value
would increase/(decrease) if
recent transactions of similar
properties at or near reporting
period with similar land usage
and land size were higher/
(lower).
Valuation processes applied by the Group for Level 3 fair value
The fair value of investment properties is estimated by the Directors using the comparison method. The
comparison method entails critical analysis of recent evidences of values of comparable properties in
the neighbourhood and making adjustment for differences in location, size and shape of land, age and
condition of building, tenure, title restrictions if any and other relevant characteristics.
7. Investments in subsidiaries
		Company
				2022 2021
					RM’000 RM’000
At cost
Unquoted shares				141,800 174,021
Less: Accumulated impairment losses			 (452) (2,102)
					141,348 171,919
During the financial year ended 31 December 2022, the decrease in investments in subsidiaries is
mainly due to:
(i) Net investments in subsidiaries of RM6,794,000 are in member’s voluntary liquidation; and
(ii) Net capital repayment of RM24,000,000 made by a subsidiary of the Company by way of
offsetting against the amount due to a subsidiary.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
134
7. Investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Effective
ownership
interest
Name of subsidiary Principal place of
business/Country
of incorporation
Principal activities 2022
%
2021
%
Dindings Soya &
Multifeeds Sdn. Berhad
Malaysia Manufacture and sale of animal
feeds and sale of related raw
materials
100 100
Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Trading in corn, soybean meal
and other feed ingredients
51 51
Vimaflour Ltd.* Vietnam Milling and selling wheat flour
together with its allied products
70 70
MFM International Ltd. # British Virgin
Islands
Investment holding 100 100
MFM Property Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Investment holding 100 100
MFM Feedmill Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Dormant 100 100
Semakin Dinamik
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia Dormant 100 100
MFM LTD. Malaysia Dormant 100 100
Muda Fibre
Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia Dormant 60 60
Dindings Broiler Breeder
Farm Sdn. Bhd.^
Malaysia Dormant (in member’s voluntary
liquidation)
100 100
Syarikat Pengangkutan
Lumut Sdn. Bhd.^
Malaysia Dormant (in member’s voluntary
liquidation)
100 100
Dindings Grand Parent
Farm Sdn. Bhd.^
Malaysia Dormant (in member’s voluntary
liquidation)
100 100
AVIOTA Sdn. Bhd.^ Malaysia Dormant (in member’s voluntary
liquidation)
100 100
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 135
7. Investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows: (cont’d)
Effective
ownership
interest
Name of subsidiary Principal place of
business/Country
of incorporation
Principal activities 2022
%
2021
%
Subsidiary of MFM
International Ltd.
Mekong Flour Mills Ltd.* Vietnam Milling and selling wheat flour
together with its allied products
100 100
* Audited by other member firms of KPMG International.
# Not audited by member firms of KPMG PLT.
^ These subsidiaries are in member’s voluntary liquidation.
7.1 Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries
The subsidiaries’ information are aggregated based on their operating segment. The Group’s
subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (“NCI”) are as follows:
				
Other
			 Subsidiaries subsidiaries
			 with with
			 material immaterial
			 NCI* NCI Total
			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2022
Carrying amount of NCI			 96,882 4,795 101,677
Comprehensive income/(expense) allocated to NCI 10,186 (4) 10,182
2021
Carrying amount of NCI			 91,287 4,955 96,242
Comprehensive income/(expense) allocated to NCI 28,292 (4) 28,288
* Subsidiaries with material NCI consist of Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. and Vimaflour Ltd..
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
136
7. Investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)
7.1 Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (cont’d)
		 Subsidiaries with
		 material NCI*
				2022 2021
				RM’000 RM’000
Summarised financial information before
intra-group elimination
As at 31 December
Non-current assets 104,935 85,973
Current assets 687,532 739,277
Non-current liabilities (8,278) (14,578)
Current liabilities (471,421) (525,304)
Net assets 312,768 285,368
Year ended 31 December
Revenue 1,708,015 1,484,467
Profit for the year 38,021 89,580
Total comprehensive income 42,109 101,763
Cash flows from operating activities 5,067 4,799
Cash flows used in investing activities (29,726) (66,989)
Cash flows from financing activities 26,767 37,158
Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 2,108 (25,032)
Dividends paid to NCI 4,747 10,269
Dividends payable to NCI - 15,825
4,747 26,094
* Subsidiaries with material NCI consist of Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. and Vimaflour Ltd..
8. Investments in joint ventures
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At cost
Unquoted shares		 656,057 656,057 647,382 647,382
Share of post-acquisition reserves		 37,541 (26,840) - -
			 693,598 629,217 647,382 647,382
Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to impairment assessment of investments
in joint ventures
The Company applied significant judgements and assumptions in performing impairment testing
which require management to estimate the recoverable amount of the investments in joint ventures
and to provide impairment loss when required. The Company considered the joint ventures’ cash flow
projections in determining the recoverable amount of the investments in joint ventures.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 137
8. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)
Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to impairment assessment of investments
in joint ventures (cont’d)
The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of the fair value and the
significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation calculation.
Description of valuation
technique and inputs used
Level 3 fair value
significant
unobservable inputs
Inter-relationship between
significant unobservable
inputs and fair value
measurements
The valuation method
considers the discounting of
future cash flows expected to
be generated.
• Pre-tax discount rate of
15% (2021: ranging from
11% to 14%).
• Terminal growth rate of 1%
(2021: ranging from 0% to
3%).
• The estimated fair value
would increase/decrease
if the discount rate were
lower/higher.
• The estimated fair value
would increase/decrease
if the terminal growth rate
were higher/lower.
The joint ventures, all of which are incorporated in Malaysia except as disclosed otherwise, comprise:
Percentage of
ownership
Name of joint venture Principal place
of business/
Country of
incorporation
Principal activities 2022
%
2021
%
Dindings Tyson Sdn. Bhd.
(“DTSB”) #
Malaysia Investment holding 51 51
Subsidiaries of DTSB
Dindings Poultry
Development Centre
Sdn. Bhd. #
Malaysia Breeding and sale of day-old
chicks, poultry grow-out farm,
purchase and contract farming
activities and manufacture and
sale of animal feeds and sale of
related raw materials
51 51
Dindings Poultry Processing
Sdn. Bhd. #
Malaysia Processing and sale of poultry
products
51 51
Dindings Foods Sdn. Bhd. # Malaysia Dormant 51 51
PT Bungasari Flour Mills
Indonesia (“BFMI”) *
Indonesia Milling and selling of wheat flour
together with its allied products
30 30
# Although the Group has majority voting rights in DTSB, there are substantive rights shared
with the other shareholder pursuant to the shareholders’ agreement. Accordingly, DTSB and its
subsidiaries are classified as joint ventures of the Group.
* Not audited by member firms of KPMG PLT.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
138
8. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)
The following table summarises the financial information of the joint ventures, as adjusted for any
differences in accounting policies. The table also reconciles the summarised financial information to
the carrying amount of the Group’s interest in the joint ventures, which is accounted for using the equity
method.
DTSB BFMI Total
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Summarised financial
information
As at 31 December
Non-current assets 895,685 734,880 774,905 847,386 1,670,590 1,582,266
Current assets 437,365 305,978 872,985 813,326 1,310,350 1,119,304
Non-current liabilities (15,208) (32,383) (99,597) (157,670) (114,805) (190,053)
Current liabilities (268,175) (248,364) (1,002,162) (914,738) (1,270,337) (1,163,102)
Net assets 1,049,667 760,111 546,131 588,304 1,595,798 1,348,415
Year ended 31 December
Revenue 1,109,578 733,360 1,815,020 1,653,411 2,924,598 2,386,771
Profit/(Loss) for the year 151,045 (44,450) (23,376) 27,280 127,669 (17,170)
Reconciliation of net
assets to carrying
amount as at
31 December
Group’s share of net assets 464,690 387,657 163,839 176,491 628,529 564,148
Goodwill 65,069 65,069 - - 65,069 65,069
Carrying amount in the
balance sheet 529,759 452,726 163,839 176,491 693,598 629,217
Group’s share of results
for year ended
31 December
Group’s share of profit/
(loss) from continuing
operations 77,033 (10,466) (7,013) 8,184 70,020 (2,282)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 139
8. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)
Contingent liabilities
PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia (“BFMI”)
Corporate guarantee
The Company has provided proportionate corporate guarantees of up to USD15.0 million (2021:
USD15.0 million) for financing facilities granted by financial institutions to the joint venturer, BFMI. As at
31 December 2022, the outstanding loans proportionately amounted to USD7.6 million (2021: USD11.4
million).
Litigations
The Tax Court proceedings for the assessment of overclaimed value-added tax (“VAT”) for the year
2017 which was released in June 2022 was not in favour of BFMI. The Group’s 30% share of the
potential liabilities is RM6.1 million for the year 2017. Based on the advice of its tax consultant who
is of the view that there are sufficient grounds to challenge this VAT year 2017, BFMI has filed for a
judicial review at the Supreme Court to overturn the results of the Tax Court. On 22 December 2022, the
Supreme Court issued decrees in favour of BFMI in respect of the VAT for year 2017 assessment for the
month of April, May and August; on 26 January 2023 for the month of March, June, July, September,
November and December and on 28 February 2023 for the month of February. Tax period for the month
of January and October are still under the Supreme Court review and the results are expected to be in
consistent with the concluded months.
The Directors concur with the view that no additional provision is required in the financial statements
for the potential tax liabilities of VAT year 2017.
Dindings Poultry Development Centre Sdn. Bhd. (“DPDC”)
Litigations
On 5 August 2022, DPDC received a Notice of Proposed Decision issued by the Malaysia Competition
Commission (“MyCC”) pursuant to Section 36 of the Competition Act 2010 (“the Act”) (“Proposed
Decision”). The Proposed Decision is premised primarily on the allegation that DPDC had engaged in
agreements and/or concerted practices to fix the quantum of poultry feed price which is in breach of
Section 4(1) read together with Sections 4(2)(a) and 4(3) of the Act.
DPDC strongly denies the allegation of the aforesaid infringement which is without merit and intends to
defend such unfounded allegation vigorously. DPDC has appointed external legal counsel to represent
it and will submit written representations within the specified period and make an oral representation
before MyCC. However, in the event of any findings contrary, MyCC has proposed a financial penalty
equivalent to 10% based on the relevant turnover and based on MyCC’s calculations for the alleged
period which amounts to RM70 million. DPDC denies that it is liable for the said penalty and refutes
the basis of the calculation applied by MyCC. DPDC submitted its written submission to MyCC on 31
January 2023 rebutting the allegation of the aforesaid infringement.
The legal counsel is of the view that the Proposed Decision does not give rise to an obligation to pay
MyCC the sum of the proposed penalty. Based on the advice from the legal counsel, the Directors
concur with the view that no provision is required in the financial statements at this juncture.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
140
9. Investment in an associate
		Group
				2022 2021
				RM’000 RM’000
At cost
Unquoted shares 1,120 1,120
Share of post-acquisition reserves (59) (68)
1,061 1,052
Details of the associate are as follows:
Effective
ownership
interest
Name of entity Principal place of
business/Country
of incorporation
Nature
of the
relationship
2022
%
2021
%
Freeman Properties Holding Ltd.
(Held through MFM Property Sdn. Bhd.)
Cambodia Investment 49 49
10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Property, plant and
equipment - - (26,444) (23,200) (26,444) (23,200)
Right-of-use assets - - (3,646) (4,255) (3,646) (4,255)
Lease liabilities 2,953 3,269 - - 2,953 3,269
RCULS 1,716 2,872 - - 1,716 2,872
Provisions 3,353 3,142 - - 3,353 3,142
Reinvestment allowances 5,493 7,399 - - 5,493 7,399
Unabsorbed capital
allowances 9,350 8,200 - - 9,350 8,200
Tax loss carry-forwards 1,719 3,809 - - 1,719 3,809
Others 739 - - (385) 739 (385)
Tax assets/(liabilities) 25,323 28,691 (30,090) (27,840) (4,767) 851
Set off of tax (19,552) (21,961) 19,552 21,961 - -
Net tax assets/(liabilities) 5,771 6,730 (10,538) (5,879) (4,767) 851
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 141
10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)
Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)
Assets Liabilities Net
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Company
Property, plant and
equipment - - (20,621) (17,564) (20,621) (17,564)
Right-of-use assets - - (3,646) (4,255) (3,646) (4,255)
Lease liabilities 2,953 3,269 - - 2,953 3,269
RCULS 1,716 2,872 - - 1,716 2,872
Provisions 3,008 2,471 - - 3,008 2,471
Reinvestment allowances 5,493 7,399 - - 5,493 7,399
Others 563 - - (67) 563 (67)
Tax assets/(liabilities) 13,733 16,011 (24,267) (21,886) (10,534) (5,875)
Set off of tax (13,733) (16,011) 13,733 16,011 - -
Net tax liabilities - - (10,534) (5,875) (10,534) (5,875)
Movement in temporary differences during the year
		Recognised				Recognised
		 in the Recognised			 in the Recognised
		 income directly in		 At income directly in
At statements equity Deconsolidation 31.12.2021/ statements equity At
1.1.2021 (Note 20) (Note 16) of subsidiaries 1.1.2022 (Note 20) (Note 16) 31.12.2022
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Property, plant
and equipment (78,216) 1,186 - 53,830 (23,200) (3,244) - (26,444)
Right-of-use
assets (2,693) (2,225) - 663 (4,255) 609 - (3,646)
Lease liabilities 1,018 3,052 - (801) 3,269 (316) - 2,953
RCULS 4,637 (1,782) 17 - 2,872 (906) (250) 1,716
Provisions 8,905 (2) - (5,761) 3,142 211 - 3,353
Reinvestment
allowances 9,914 (2,515) - - 7,399 (1,906) - 5,493
Unabsorbed
capital
allowances 54,148 3,691 - (49,639) 8,200 1,150 - 9,350
Tax loss
carry-forwards 17,686 4,849 - (18,726) 3,809 (2,090) - 1,719
Others (263) 46 - (168) (385) 1,124 - 739
15,136 6,300 17 (20,602) 851 (5,368) (250) (4,767)
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
142
10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)
Movement in temporary differences during the year (cont’d)
		Recognised				Recognised
		 in the Recognised			 in the Recognised
		 income directly in		 At income directly in
At statements equity Deconsolidation 31.12.2021/ statements equity At
1.1.2021 (Note 20) (Note 16) of subsidiaries 1.1.2022 (Note 20) (Note 16) 31.12.2022
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Company
Property, plant
and equipment (19,988) 2,424 - - (17,564) (3,057) - (20,621)
Right-of-use
assets (1,974) (2,281) - - (4,255) 609 - (3,646)
Lease liabilities 917 2,352 - - 3,269 (316) - 2,953
RCULS 4,637 (1,782) 17 - 2,872 (906) (250) 1,716
Provisions 2,973 (502) - - 2,471 537 - 3,008
Reinvestment
allowances 9,914 (2,515) - - 7,399 (1,906) - 5,493
Others 186 (253) - - (67) 630 - 563
(3,335) (2,557) 17 - (5,875) (4,409) (250) (10,534)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items (stated at gross):
		Group
				2022 2021
				RM’000 RM’000
Unabsorbed capital allowances 1,431 1,432
Tax loss carry-forwards 24,925 5,650
Other deductible temporary differences 351 351
26,707 7,433
The abovementioned deferred tax assets do not expire under the current tax legislation except for the
unutilised tax losses. Pursuant to the Finance Act 2021, the abovementioned tax loss carry-forwards
can only be carried forward up to 10 consecutive Years of Assessment.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that
sufficient future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise the benefits there
from.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 143
11. Trade and other receivables, including derivatives
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Non-current
Other receivables
- contingent consideration
receivable 11.1 71,065 182,217 71,065 182,217
Current
Trade receivables from
contracts with customers		 428,348 363,082 104,806 80,669
Amounts due from subsidiaries 11.2 - - 116,477 56,670
Other receivables 11.3 9,547 12,107 2,708 5,494
Contingent consideration
receivable 11.1 119,971 - 119,971 -
Amounts due from joint ventures 11.4 10,601 4,001 10,601 3,918
Deposits		 3,817 1,657 1,001 1,379
Derivatives at fair value through
profit or loss:
- future and option contracts		 13 743 - -
		 572,297 381,590 355,564 148,130
		 643,362 563,807 426,629 330,347
11.1 Contingent consideration receivable
This is the fair value of the contingent consideration receivable from a joint venturer, Tyson
International Holding Company pursuant to the disposal of 49% equity interest in Dindings Tyson
Sdn. Bhd. which is subject to the achievability of certain financial targets.
The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of the fair value and
the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation calculation.
Description of
valuation technique
and inputs used
Level 3 fair value
significant
unobservable inputs
Inter-relationship between
significant unobservable
inputs and fair value
measurement
The valuation method
considers the estimated
consideration receivable
from the joint venturer based
on the achievability of certain
financial targets.
Discount rate of 4% (2021:
3%) derived based on the
counterparty’s credit risk
adjusted with a reasonable
risk premium.
The estimated fair value
would increase/ decrease
if the discount rate were
lower/higher.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
144
11. Trade and other receivables, including derivatives (cont’d)
11.2 Amounts due from subsidiaries
The amounts due from subsidiaries are unsecured, repayable on demand and subject to interest
ranging from 1.97% - 4.00% (2021: 1.84% - 4.00%) per annum.
11.3 Other receivables
Included in other receivables of the Group are advances paid to suppliers of RM4,644,000
(2021: RM3,546,000) and interest receivable from the deposits placed with licensed banks of
RM2,522,000 (2021: RM5,984,000).
11.4 Amounts due from joint ventures
The amounts due from joint ventures are unsecured, repayable on demand and interest free.
12. Inventories
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Raw materials		 570,295 449,602 181,575 128,037
Finished goods		 32,548 24,125 13,844 10,596
Consumables		24,988 20,273 7,468 6,018
			 627,831 494,000 202,887 144,651
Recognised in the income statements:
Inventories recognised as cost of
goods sold
- Continuing operations		 2,535,562 2,019,125 531,836 368,800
- Discontinued operations		 - 216,162 - -
13. Fixed deposits
		Group
				2022 2021
				RM’000 RM’000
Fixed deposits placed with licensed banks with
maturity of more than 3 months				 157,219 320,452
Fixed deposits represent time deposits at banks with maturity of more than 3 months to less than
12 months.
Included in fixed deposits are deposits received from customers amounting to RM14,980,000 (2021:
RM13,710,000) which are subject to restriction in use in accordance with agreements with customers.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 145
14. Cash and cash equivalents
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Deposits placed with licensed
banks		 30,033 118,361 434 2,727
Cash and bank balances		 56,677 89,585 32,281 70,505
Liquid investment 14.1 - 6,131 - 6,131
		 86,710 214,077 32,715 79,363
14.1 Liquid investment
The liquid investment represented an investment in a money market fund which had insignificant
risk of change in fair value.
15. Asset classified as held for sale
Certain plant and equipment previously classified as property, plant and equipment was presented as
an asset held for sale following the commitment of the Company’s plan to sell the asset during the year.
Efforts to sell the plant and equipment have commenced, and a sale is expected in financial year 2023.
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM’000 RM’000
Asset classified as held for sale
Plant and equipment				 33,597 33,597
The carrying value of the asset held for sale is the same as its carrying value before it was being
reclassified from property, plant and equipment.
16. Capital and reserves
Share capital
Group and Company
			 Number		Number
		 Amount of shares Amount of shares
		 2022 2022 2021 2021
								 RM’000 ’000 RM’000 ’000
Issued and fully paid shares with no
par value:
Ordinary shares
At 1 January			 535,623 1,019,653 530,665 1,010,282
Conversion of RCULS		 279 557 4,245 8,490
Exercise of warrants		 * * 713 881
At 31 December			 535,902 1,020,210 535,623 1,019,653
* Denotes 50 ordinary shares amounting to RM41.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
146
16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)
Ordinary shares
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are
entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
Redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks (“RCULS”)
		 Group and Company
				2022 2021
				RM’000 RM’000
RCULS - Equity portion				 78,694 78,179
RCULS - Liability portion
Non-current					 2,126 7,310
Current						 5,026 4,657
								 7,152 11,967
								 85,846 90,146
On 28 January 2019, the Renounceable Rights Issue of RM165,084,641 in nominal value of 5-year
5% RCULS at 100% of its nominal value of RM1.00 on the basis of three (3) RCULS for every ten (10)
existing ordinary shares, together with 82,542,291 Bonus Shares A on the basis of one (1) Bonus Share
A for every two (2) RCULS subscribed and 82,542,291 Free Warrants A on the basis of one (1) Free
Warrant A for every two (2) RCULS subscribed has been completed following the listings and quotation
on the Main Market of Bursa Securities.
The salient features of the RCULS are as follows:
(i) The coupon rate for the RCULS is 5% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears prior to
conversion of the RCULS;
(ii) The conversion price for the RCULS has been fixed at RM0.50 each (“Conversion Price”) with
the conversion ratio of 2 ordinary shares for every RCULS with a nominal value of RM1.00
surrendered;
(iii) The new ordinary shares to be issued upon conversion of the RCULS will, upon allotment and
issue, rank equally in all respects with the then existing ordinary shares, except that they shall
not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and any other distributions of which the
entitlement date is before the date of allotment of the new ordinary shares;
(iv) The RCULS holder is entitled to exercise the right of conversion from date of issuance up to
24 January 2024 (“Maturity Date”);
(v) The Company may redeem the outstanding RCULS (if not earlier converted) in full on the Maturity
Date in cash at 100% of its nominal value plus all accrued coupon of such RCULS up to the
Maturity Date subject to an irrevocable prior written notice is being served no less than 30 days
or such other period as mutually agreed before the Maturity Date; and
(vi) All outstanding RCULS which have not been earlier converted or redeemed on the Maturity Date,
shall be mandatorily converted into fully paid new ordinary shares at the Conversion Price on the
Maturity Date.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 147
16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)
Redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks (“RCULS”) (cont’d)
Group and Company
			 Equity Liability
			 component component Total
									 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
As at 1 January 2021			 82,479 19,321 101,800
Conversion of RCULS to share capital*		 (4,317) 72 (4,245)
RCULS coupon payment			 - (5,593) (5,593)
Interest expense on RCULS			 - 916 916
RCULS liabilities reduction arising from conversion
of RCULS to share capital			 - (2,749) (2,749)
Deferred tax effect (Note 10):
- on conversion				 17 - 17
As at 31 December 2021/1 January 2022		 78,179 11,967 90,146
Conversion of RCULS to share capital#		 (259) (20) (279)
RCULS coupon payment			 - (5,481) (5,481)
Interest expense on RCULS			 - 1,710 1,710
RCULS liabilities reduction arising from conversion
of RCULS to share capital			 1,024 (1,024) -
Deferred tax effect (Note 10):
- on conversion				 (250) - (250)
As at 31 December 2022			 78,694 7,152 85,846
* In the previous financial year, 8,490,308 new ordinary shares amounting to RM4,245,000 were
issued resulting from the conversion of 4,245,154 units of RCULS at the conversion price of
RM0.50 each.
# During the financial year, 556,880 new ordinary shares amounting to RM279,000 were issued
resulting from the conversion of 278,440 units of RCULS at the conversion price of RM0.50 each.
As at 31 December 2022, 109,405,587 RCULS remained unconverted.
Warrant reserve
Group and Company
			 Number of		 Number of
		 Amount warrants Amount warrants
		 2022 2022 2021 2021
								 RM’000 ’000 RM’000 ’000
At 1 January				 17,770 136,689 17,884 137,570
Exercised during the year		 * * (114) (881)
At 31 December			 17,770 136,689 17,770 136,689
* Denotes 50 warrants amounting to RM7.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
148
16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)
Warrant reserve (cont’d)
On 28 January 2019, 137,570,667 warrants were issued pursuant to the Rights Issue of Rights Shares
and RCULS (“Rights Issue”).
The warrant reserve comprises the fair value of the free detachable warrants arising from the Rights
Issue. The warrants are constituted by the deed poll dated 3 December 2018 (“Deed Poll”). The salient
features of the warrants are as follows:
(i) Each warrant entitles the warrant holder to subscribe for one (1) new ordinary share in the Company
at the exercise price of RM0.68 during the 5-year period expiring on 23 January 2024 (“Exercise
Period”), subject to further adjustments in accordance with provisions of the Deed Poll;
(ii) At the expiry of the Exercise Period, any warrants which have not been exercised shall automatically
lapse and cease to be valid for any purpose; and
(iii) The new ordinary shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will, upon allotment and issue,
rank equally in all respects with the then existing ordinary shares, except that they shall not be
entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and any other distributions of which the entitlement
date is before the date of allotment of the new ordinary shares.
In the previous financial year, 881,000 warrants were exercised at RM0.68 each amounting to
RM599,000. This resulted in the issuance of 881,000 new ordinary shares and a transfer of warrant
reserve of RM114,000 to share capital. The total increase arising from the warrants exercised amounted
to RM713,000.
During the financial year, 50 warrants were exercised at RM0.68 each amounting to RM34. This resulted
in the issuance of 50 new ordinary shares and a transfer of warrant reserve of RM7 to share capital. The
total increase arising from the warrants exercised amounted to RM41.
As at 31 December 2022, 136,688,317 warrants remained unexercised.
Other capital reserve
Other capital reserve comprises the amount transferred from retained earnings being the profit
reinvested as capital contribution by subsidiaries.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the
financial statements of foreign operations.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 149
17. Loans and borrowings
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
								 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Non-current
Unsecured term loans		 120,711 166,949 85,000 119,000
Current
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/Unsecured
revolving credits			 934,439 994,114 534,037 405,054
Unsecured term loans		 50,542 51,049 34,000 34,000
						 984,981 1,045,163 568,037 439,054
Total loans and borrowings		 1,105,692 1,212,112 653,037 558,054
18. Trade and other payables, including derivatives
Group Company
					 Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
						 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Trade payables		49,933 32,172 9,185 4,675
Amounts due to subsidiaries 18.1 - - 11,188 118,320
Amounts due to joint ventures 18.2 1,874 9,084 - -
Other payables and accruals 18.3 63,582 67,885 24,671 33,902
Dividend payable to
non-controlling interests		 - 15,825 - -
Derivatives at fair value
through profit or loss:
- future and option contracts		 44 4 44 4
- foreign currency forward
contracts		 9,871 2,076 6,053 1,282
				 125,304 127,046 51,141 158,183
18.1 Amounts due to subsidiaries
The amounts due to subsidiaries are unsecured, repayable on demand and interest free, except
for RM365,000 (2021: RM88,381,000) which is subject to interest at 4% (2021: 4%) per annum.
18.2 Amounts due to joint ventures
The amounts due to joint ventures are unsecured, repayable on demand and interest free.
18.3 Other payables and accruals
Included in other payables and accruals of the Group and of the Company are deposits
from customers of RM21,653,000 (2021: RM18,029,000) and RM214,000 (2021: RM225,000)
respectively.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
150
19. Revenue
Continuing Discontinued Total
operations operations
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Revenue from contracts
with customers		 2,915,570 2,426,936 - 352,518 2,915,570 2,779,454
Company
Revenue from contracts
with customers		 678,546 503,627 - - 678,546 503,627
Revenue is recognised when the Group or the Company transfers control of a good to the customers,
net of rebates and/or incentives. The Group or the Company allows returns for quality issues and
compensation for weight loss exceeding the normal threshold, if any. The performance obligation is
satisfied at a point in time and the customers are required to pay within the agreed credit terms, ranging
between 0 to 90 days.
20. Tax expense
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Income tax expense on continuing
operations				25,444 35,881 4,760 4,590
Income tax benefit on discontinued
operations				 - (4,247) - -
Share of tax of equity accounted
joint ventures			 (25,554) (13,437) - -
Total income tax (credit)/expense		 (110) 18,197 4,760 4,590
Recognised in the income statements
Current tax expense
- current year			 21,304 39,299 1,588 3,412
- prior year				 (1,228) (1,365) (1,237) (1,379)
Total current tax expense		 20,076 37,934 351 2,033
Deferred tax expense/(benefit)
Origination and reversal of temporary
differences				 4,577 (3,990) 3,697 4,686
Under/(Over) provision in prior year		 791 (2,310) 712 (2,129)
Total deferred tax expense/(benefit)		 5,368 (6,300) 4,409 2,557
Share of tax of equity accounted joint
ventures				 (25,554) (13,437) - -
Total tax (credit)/expense		 (110) 18,197 4,760 4,590
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 151
20. Tax expense (cont’d)
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Reconciliation of tax expense
Profit for the year		 154,000 198,542 124,272 18,557
Total tax (credit)/expense		 (110) 18,197 4,760 4,590
Profit before tax		 153,890 216,739 129,032 23,147
Tax at Malaysian tax rate of 24%		 36,934 52,017 30,968 5,555
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdiction (6,395) (10,861) - -
Difference in effective tax rate in
equity accounted joint ventures		 166 142 - -
Non-deductible expenses		 3,621 27,651 2,855 27,012
Non-taxable income		 (3,552) (42,663) (23,428) (24,508)
Difference in effective tax rate for
foreign source income		 (4,934) - (4,934) -
Recognition of deferred tax assets		 (42,101) (4,949) - -
Deferred tax assets not recognised		 16,812 350 - -
Others		 (224) 185 (176) 39
		 327 21,872 5,285 8,098
Over provision in prior year		 (437) (3,675) (525) (3,508)
		 (110) 18,197 4,760 4,590
Income tax recognised directly in equity
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
RCULS
- Deferred tax 10 250 (17) 250 (17)
21. Profit for the year
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Operating profit is arrived at
after charging/(crediting):
Auditors’ remuneration:
- Audit fees:
KPMG PLT		 234 274 130 120
Overseas affiliates of KPMG PLT		 129 118 - -
Other auditors		 75 12 7 -
- Non-audit fees:
KPMG PLT		 39 107 39 107
Local affiliates of KPMG PLT		 894 148 845 55
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
152
21. Profit for the year (cont’d)
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Material expenses/(income):
Gain on deconsolidation of
subsidiaries 22 - (174,264) - (8,335)
Amortisation of intangible assets 5 257 902 165 220
Depreciation of investment
properties 6 58 56 58 56
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment 3 39,372 47,923 20,147 16,897
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 4 2,881 3,075 2,168 1,975
Dividend income from subsidiaries
(unquoted)		 - - (112,292) (93,774)
Insurance recoveries		 (187) (464) (157) (280)
Interest income of financial assets
calculated using the effective
interest method that are:
- at amortised cost:
- deposits placed with licensed
banks		 (16,606) (20,055) (687) (60)
- debtors		 (382) (520) (79) (32)
- subsidiaries		 - - (1,170) (9,480)
- joint ventures		 (11) - (11) -
- discontinued operations		 - (8,939) - -
- at fair value through profit or
loss (“FVTPL”):
- liquid investment		 (187) (321) (187) (321)
Interest expense of financial
liabilities that are not at FVTPL:
- recognised in the income
statements:
- unsecured bankers’
acceptances/unsecured
revolving credits		 32,593 16,005 12,175 8,109
- unsecured term loans		 6,907 7,974 5,203 3,415
- subsidiaries		 - - 1,651 3,665
- RCULS		 1,710 916 1,710 916
- lease liabilities		 558 343 460 235
- discontinued operations		 - 8,939 - -
Net fair value loss on biological
assets		 - 3,794 - -
Net loss/(gain) on future and
option contracts:
- realised		 3,742 7,683 230 1,211
- unrealised		 770 (2,262) 40 (332)
Net loss/(gain) on foreign
exchange:
- realised		 14,359 (2,267) (920) 2,353
- unrealised		 4,860 128 3,348 (359)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 153
21. Profit for the year (cont’d)
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Material expenses/(income):
(cont’d)
(Write back)/Fair value loss on
remeasurement of contingent
consideration receivable		 (8,819) 77,867 (8,819) 77,867
Provision for profit guarantee
payment		 - 15,000 - 15,000
Personnel expense (including
key management personnel):
- Contributions to Employees
Provident Fund		 7,545 9,328 5,179 5,060
- Wages, salaries and others		 72,679 93,241 45,999 43,031
Expenses/(Income) arising
from leases:
Expenses relating to short-term
leases		 385 423 270 7
Expenses relating to leases of
low-value assets		 67 87 63 61
Expenses relating to variable
lease payments not included in
the measurement of lease
liabilities		
1,785 2,756 843 445
Income from subleasing
right-of-use assets (excluding
subleasing of investment
properties)		 - - (1,155) (1,128)
Net (gain)/loss on impairment
of financial instruments:
Financial assets at amortised cost		 (1,494) 791 156 646
22. Discontinued operations arising from deconsolidation of subsidiaries
On 10 February 2021, the Company entered into a conditional share purchase agreement (“SPA”) with
Tyson International Holding Company (“Tyson”) for the proposed disposal of 49% equity interest in
Dindings Tyson Sdn. Bhd. (“DTSB”). The total consideration for this proposed disposal is to be satisfied
by cash, payable in three tranches subject to the achievability of certain financial targets.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
154
22. Discontinued operations arising from deconsolidation of subsidiaries
(cont’d)
On 31 May 2021, the SPA’s Conditions Precedent had been fulfilled and a total cash consideration
of RM445,028,000 was determined for the disposal of 49% equity interest in DTSB with a gain on
deconsolidation of subsidiaries amounting to RM174,264,000. An initial total consideration of
RM184,944,000 was received in the previous financial year. As at 31 December 2022, the fair value
of the remaining balance of the two tranches of RM191,036,000 (2021: RM182,217,000) is accounted
for as a contingent consideration receivable (Note 11), which is subject to the achievability of certain
financial targets. A write back of contingent consideration receivable of RM8,819,000 (2021: a fair value
loss of RM77,867,000) was recognised in the current financial year.
DTSB ceased to be a subsidiary of the Company. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities and the results
of DTSB Group have been deconsolidated from that date. Arising from thereon, the retained interest of
51% equity interest in DTSB has been accounted for as an investment in joint venture (Note 8).
In the previous financial year, profit attributable to the discontinued operations up to 31 May 2021 was
as follows:
								 Group
								 1.1.2021 to
							 Note 31.5.2021
								 RM’000
Revenue			 19 352,518
Cost of goods sold		 (341,253)
Gross profit				 11,265
Operating expenses		 (39,625)
Net gain on impairment of financial instruments		 527
Results from operating activities		(27,833)
Interest expense			 (13,360)
Interest income			 201
Net finance costs			 (13,159)
Results from operating activities after net finance costs		(40,992)
Gain on deconsolidation of subsidiaries		 174,264
Profit before tax			 133,272
Tax expense			 20 4,247
Profit for the year		137,519
The profit from discontinued operations of RM137,519,000 was attributable entirely to the owners of
the Company.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 155
22. Discontinued operations arising from deconsolidation of subsidiaries
(cont’d)
Group
2021
RM’000
Cash flows from deconsolidation of subsidiaries
Net cash generated from operating activities 3,947
Net cash used in investing activities (5,753)
Net cash generated from financing activities 35,020
Effect on cash flows 33,214
Effect of deconsolidation on the financial position of the Group
Note 2021
		RM’000
Property, plant and equipment 3 628,883
Right-of-use assets		 20,883
Intangible assets 5 2,555
Deferred tax assets 10 20,602
Trade and other receivables		 95,649
Prepayments		3,038
Inventories		137,208
Biological assets		 48,951
Cash and cash equivalents		 50,707
Lease liabilities		 (3,380)
Loans and borrowings		 (191,228)
Trade and other payables, including derivatives		 (79,913)
Net assets		733,955
Gain on deconsolidation of subsidiaries		 174,264
		908,219
Disposal consideration for disposed interest		 445,028
Contingent consideration receivable		 (260,084)
Proceeds received by the Group and the Company		 184,944
Less: Cash and cash equivalents disposed of		 (50,707)
Net cash inflow		 134,237
Gain on deconsolidation of subsidiaries
2021
RM’000
Discontinued operations
Attributable to gain on disposed interest 85,389
Attributable to gain on retained interest as a joint venture 88,875
174,264
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
156
23. Earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share was based on the profit attributable to ordinary
shareholders of the Company and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding,
calculated as follows:
		Group
				2022 2021
				RM’000 RM’000
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company from:
- continuing operations				 145,045 36,390
- discontinued operations				 - 137,519
				145,045 173,909
				’000 ’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December		 1,019,923 1,018,156
				Sen Sen
From continuing operations				 14.22 3.57
From discontinued operations				 - 13.51
Basic earnings per ordinary share				 14.22 17.08
Basic earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (adjusted)
		Group
				2022 2021
				RM’000 RM’000
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company from:
- continuing operations				 145,045 36,390
(Write back)/Fair value loss on remeasurement of contingent
consideration receivable				 (8,819) 77,867
Provision for profit guarantee payment			 - 15,000
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company
- continuing operations (adjusted)				 136,226 129,257
				’000 ’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December		 1,019,923 1,018,156
				Sen Sen
Basic earnings per ordinary share
- continuing operations (adjusted)				 13.36 12.70
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 157
23. Earnings per ordinary share (cont’d)
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share was based on profit attributable to ordinary
shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would have been in issue upon
the full conversion of all outstanding RCULS and exercise of all outstanding warrants, calculated as
follows:
		Group
				2022 2021
				RM’000 RM’000
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company from:
- continuing operations				 145,045 36,390
Interest expense on RCULS, net of tax			 1,710 916
				146,755 37,306
- discontinued operations				 - 137,519
				146,755 174,825
				’000 ’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December (basic)		 1,019,923 1,018,156
Potential dilution arising from outstanding RCULS			 218,811 219,368
Potential dilution arising from outstanding warrants			 136,688 136,688
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December (diluted) 1,375,422 1,374,212
				Sen Sen
From continuing operations				 10.67 2.71
From discontinued operations				 - 10.01
Diluted earnings per ordinary share				 10.67 12.72
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
158
23. Earnings per ordinary share (cont’d)
Diluted earnings per ordinary share from continuing operations (adjusted)
		Group
				2022 2021
				RM’000 RM’000
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company from:
- continuing operations				 145,045 36,390
Interest expense on RCULS, net of tax			 1,710 916
				146,755 37,306
(Write back)/Fair value loss on remeasurement of contingent
consideration receivable				 (8,819) 77,867
Provision for profit guarantee payment			 - 15,000
				137,936 130,173
				’000 ’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December (diluted) 1,375,422 1,374,212
				Sen Sen
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
- continuing operations (adjusted)				 10.03 9.47
24. Dividends
Dividends recognised by the Company are:
				 Sen Total		
				 per share amount Date of payment
					 RM’000
2022
Interim 2021 ordinary 2.00 20,398 25 March 2022
Interim 2022 ordinary 1.50 15,302 23 September 2022
					 35,700
2021
Interim 2020 ordinary 1.00 10,181 26 March 2021
On 24 February 2023, the Directors declared a second interim dividend of 1.50 sen per ordinary share
totalling approximately RM15,315,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2022, which
was paid on 24 March 2023.
The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year under review.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 159
25. Operating segments
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s business and geographical segments.
For each business and geographical segments, the Group’s chief operating decision maker reviews
internal management report on a regular basis.
The Group’s operations comprise the following main business segments:
• Flour and grain trading Milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grain and other
		 allied products
• Poultry integration Manufacture and sale of animal feeds, processing and sale of
		 poultry products, poultry grow-out farm, breeding and sale of
		 day-old-chicks and contract farming activities
• Others Manufacture and sale of aqua feeds, remeasurement of contigent
		 consideration receivable and provision for profit guarantee
		 payment
Performance is measured based on segment profit before tax, interest, depreciation and amortisation,
as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s chief operating
decision maker. Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such
information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities
that operate within these industries.
The total of segment asset is measured based on all assets of a segment, as included in the internal
management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s chief operating decision maker. Segment total
asset is used to measure the return of assets of each segment.
Flour and grain
trading Poultry integration Others Consolidated
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Business
segments
Revenue from
external
customers 2,843,606 2,369,227 - - 71,964 57,709 2,915,570 2,426,936
Inter-segment
revenue 24,885 19,320 - - - - 24,885 19,320
Total segment
revenue 2,868,491 2,388,547 - - 71,964 57,709 2,940,455 2,446,256
Results from
operating
activities 127,724 187,001 - - (2,520) (3,749) 125,204 183,252
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
160
25. Operating segments (cont’d)
Flour and grain		
trading Poultry integration Others Consolidated
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Interest
expense (40,064) (19,240) - - (1,704) (1,577) (41,768) (20,817)
Interest income 17,186 29,634 - - - - 17,186 29,634
Write back/(Fair
value loss)
arising on
remeasurement
of contingent
consideration
receivable - - - - 8,819 (77,867) 8,819 (77,867)
Provision for
profit
guarantee
payment - - - - - (15,000) - (15,000)
Share of (loss)/
profit of equity
accounted
joint ventures,
net of tax (7,013) 8,184 77,033 (10,466) - - 70,020 (2,282)
Share of loss
of equity
accounted
associate,
net of tax (17) (16) - - - - (17) (16)
Profit/(Loss)
before tax 97,816 205,563 77,033 (10,466) 4,595 (98,193) 179,444 96,904
Depreciation
and
amortisation (38,511) (31,375) - - (4,057) (3,690) (42,568) (35,065)
Tax (expense)/
credit (26,047) (36,489) - - 603 608 (25,444) (35,881)
Insurance
recoveries 187 403 - - - - 187 403
Non-cash
expense
other than
depreciation
and
amortisation (6,364) 325 - - 70 (72) (6,294) 253
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 161
25. Operating segments (cont’d)
Flour and grain
trading Poultry integration Others Consolidated
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Capital
expenditure (48,897) (41,079) - - (1,360) (6,618) (50,257) (47,697)
Segment assets 1,924,322 1,993,318 - - 112,446 108,026 2,036,768 2,101,344
Investments in
joint ventures 163,839 176,491 529,759 452,726 - - 693,598 629,217
Investment in
an associate - - - - 1,061 1,052 1,061 1,052
Total segments
assets 2,088,161 2,169,809 529,759 452,726 113,507 109,078 2,731,427 2,731,613
Geographical segments
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on geographical
location of customers. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
Malaysia Vietnam Consolidated
2022 2021 2022 2021 2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue from external
customers
- Continuing operations 1,638,770 1,321,240 1,276,800 1,105,696 2,915,570 2,426,936
- Discontinued operations - 352,518 - - - 352,518
Non-current assets 1,112,346 1,174,893 128,102 107,731 1,240,448 1,282,624
Major customers
There were no customers with revenue equal to or more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue for the
financial year ended 31 December 2022 (2021: Nil).
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
162
26. Financial instruments
26.1 Categories of financial instruments
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows:
(a) Fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”)
- Mandatorily required by MFRS 9
(b) Amortised cost (“AC”)
			 Carrying		Mandatorily
2022		 Note amount AC at FVTPL
			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Financial assets
Group
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives		 11 643,362 452,313 191,049
Fixed deposits		 13 157,219 157,219 -
Cash and cash equivalents		 14 86,710 86,710 -
			 887,291 696,242 191,049
Company
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives		 11 426,629 235,593 191,036
Cash and cash equivalents		 14 32,715 32,715 -
			 459,344 268,308 191,036
Financial liabilities
Group
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives		 18 (125,304) (115,389) (9,915)
Loans and borrowings		 17 (1,105,692) (1,105,692) -
RCULS - Liabilities		 16 (7,152) (7,152) -
			 (1,238,148) (1,228,233) (9,915)
Company
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives		 18 (51,141) (45,044) (6,097)
Loans and borrowings		 17 (653,037) (653,037) -
RCULS - Liabilities		 16 (7,152) (7,152) -
			 (711,330) (705,233) (6,097)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 163
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.1 Categories of financial instruments (cont’d)
			 Carrying		Mandatorily
2021		 Note amount AC at FVTPL
			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Financial assets
Group
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives		 11 563,807 380,847 182,960
Fixed deposits		 13 320,452 320,452 -
Cash and cash equivalents		 14 214,077 207,946 6,131
			
1,098,336 909,245 189,091
Company
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives		 11 330,347 148,130 182,217
Cash and cash equivalents		 14 79,363 73,232 6,131
			 409,710 221,362 188,348
Financial liabilities
Group
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives		 18 (127,046) (124,966) (2,080)
Loans and borrowings		 17 (1,212,112) (1,212,112) -
RCULS - Liabilities		 18 (11,967) (11,967) -
			 (1,351,125) (1,349,045) (2,080)
Company
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives		 17 (158,183) (156,897) (1,286)
Loans and borrowings		 16 (558,054) (558,054) -
RCULS - Liabilities		 15 (11,967) (11,967) -
			 (728,204) (726,918) (1,286)
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
164
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.2 Net gains and losses arising from financial instruments
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Net (losses)/gains on:
Financial assets/(liabilities) at
FVTPL:
Mandatorily required by MFRS 9
- foreign currency forward
contracts		 (7,796) 4,693 (4,771) 2,766
- future and option contracts (4,512) (5,421) (271) (879)
- other receivables		 8,819 (77,867) 8,819 (77,867)
- liquid investments		 187 321 187 321
Financial assets at amortised cost 18,493 28,722 1,791 8,926
Financial liabilities measured at
amortised cost		 (53,968) (36,389) (18,395) (20,866)
		 (38,777) (85,941) (12,640) (87,599)
26.3 Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to credit, interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risks from its
financial instruments.
26.4 Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails
to meet its contractual obligations. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to credit risk arise
principally from their receivables from customers. There are no significant changes as compared
to prior periods.
Trade receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an
ongoing basis. Credit risk is addressed by the Credit Committee that sets policies, approves credit
evaluations and institutes mitigating actions. New customers are subject to credit evaluation
process and existing customers’ risk profiles are reviewed regularly with a view to setting
appropriate terms of trade and credit limits. Where appropriate, further sales are suspended and
legal actions are taken to attempt recoveries and mitigate losses.
At each reporting date, the Group or the Company assesses whether any of the trade receivables
are credit impaired.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 165
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Trade receivables (cont’d)
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk (cont’d)
The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partially or
fully) when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group or
the Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could
generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. Nevertheless, trade
receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.
There are no significant changes as compared to previous year.
Exposure to credit risk and credit quality
At the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from trade receivables is
represented by their carrying amounts in the balance sheets.
The Group and the Company receive financial guarantees given by banks, shareholders or
directors of customers in managing exposure to credit risks.
Concentration of credit risk
The exposure of credit risk for trade receivables at the balance sheet date by geographic region
was:
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Malaysia		 298,930 255,654 104,806 80,669
Vietnam		
129,418 107,428 - -
		 428,348 363,082 104,806 80,669
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group and the Company manage its debtors
and takes appropriate actions (including but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue
balances. Generally, trade receivables will pay within the credit terms of 90 days. The Group’s
and the Company’s debt recovery process are as follows:
(a) Above 30 days past due after credit term, the Group or the Company will start to initiate a
structured debt recovery process which is monitored by the sales management team; and
(b) Above 180 days past due after credit term, the Group or the Company will commence a
legal proceeding against the customer.
The Group and the Company use an allowance matrix to measure ECLs of trade receivables for
all segments. Invoices which are past due 90 days will be considered as credit impaired.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
166
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Trade receivables (cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)
Loss rates are calculated using a ‘roll rate’ method based on the probability of a receivable
progressing through successive stages of delinquency to 90 days past due.
Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experience over the past three years. The Group and
the Company also consider differences between (a) economic conditions during the period over
which the historic data has been collected, (b) current conditions and (c) the Group’s view of
economic conditions over the expected lives of the receivables. Nevertheless, the Group and
the Company believe that these factors are immaterial for the purpose of impairment calculation
for the year.
The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade
receivables which are grouped together as they are expected to have similar risk nature.
Group Company
Gross			Gross
carrying Loss Net carrying Loss Net
amount allowances balance amount allowances balance
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2022
Not past due 427,407 (337) 427,070 104,499 (255) 104,244
Credit impaired
More than 90 days
past due 1,647 (369) 1,278 903 (341) 562
Individually impaired 649 (649) - 144 (144) -
429,703 (1,355) 428,348 105,546 (740) 104,806
2021
Not past due 362,701 (517) 362,184 80,719 (302) 80,417
Credit impaired
More than 90 days
past due 823 (172) 651 371 (119) 252
Individually impaired 2,441 (2,194) 247 197 (197) -
365,965 (2,883) 363,082 81,287 (618) 80,669
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 167
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Trade receivables (cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)
The movements in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year
are shown below.
Group Company
Trade receivables Trade receivables
Lifetime Credit		 Lifetime Credit
ECL impaired Total ECL impaired Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Balance at 1 January 2021 830 10,787 11,617 209 780 989
Amounts written off - (497) (497) - (502) (502)
Net remeasurement of
loss allowance (305) 1,096 791 93 38 131
Deconsolidation of
subsidiaries (8) (9,020) (9,028) - - -
Balance at
31 December 2021/
1 January 2022 517 2,366 2,883 302 316 618
Amounts written off - (34) (34) - (34) (34)
Net remeasurement of
loss allowance (180) (1,314) (1,494) (47) 203 156
Balance as at
31 December 2022 337 1,018 1,355 255 485 740
As at 31 December 2022, RM34,000 (2021: RM497,000 and RM502,000) of trade receivables for
the Group and for the Company were written off but they are still subject to enforcement activity.
Other receivables
Credit risk on other receivables are mainly arising from the contingent consideration receivable
from a joint venturer which is subject to the achievability of certain financial targets (Note 11.1).
At the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is presented by their carrying
amounts in the balance sheets.
During the financial year, the Group and the Company recognised a write back of RM8,819,000
(2021: fair value loss of RM77,867,000) on remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable.
Fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents
The fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. At
the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the balance sheets.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
168
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)
Fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents (cont’d)
These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. Consequently, the Group and the
Company are of the view that the loss allowance is not material and hence, it is not provided for.
Financial guarantees to banks
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured financial guarantees to financial institutions in respect of
financing facilities granted to its joint venturer, BFMI. The Company monitors on an ongoing
basis the results of the joint venturer and repayments made by the joint venturer.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
The Company has provided proportionate financial guarantees totalling up to USD15 million
(2021: USD15 million) in respect of financing facilities granted to its joint venturer.
As at 31 December 2022, the maximum exposure to credit risk amounted to USD7.6 million
(2021: USD11.4 million) representing the share of the outstanding banking facilities of the joint
venturer as at the end of the reporting period.
Financial guarantee to joint venturer
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
At the balance sheet date, there was no indication that the joint venturer would default on
repayment. The Company is of the view that the loss allowance is not material and hence, it is
not provided for.
The Company provides bank guarantee to its joint venturer pursuant to the disposal of 49%
equity interest in DTSB (Note 22) amounting to RM13,741,947 (2021: RM28,741,947) in respect
of the post-completion adjustment, breach of warranties and profit guarantee as stipulated in
the share purchase agreement entered with the joint venturer. In the previous financial year, the
Company recognised a provision of RM15,000,000 in relation to the profit guarantee (Note 21).
Intercompany advances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors the
results of the subsidiaries regularly.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
At the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the balance sheet.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 169
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Intercompany advances (cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
Generally, the Company considers advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company
assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial position
deteriorates significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of the
subsidiaries’ advances when they are payable, the Company considers the advances to be in
default when the subsidiaries are not able to pay when demanded. The Company considers a
subsidiary’s advance to be credit impaired when:
• The subsidiary is unlikely to repay its advance to the Company in full;
• The subsidiary’s advance is overdue for more than 365 days; and
• The subsidiary is continuously loss-making and is having a deficit shareholders’ fund.
The Company determines the probability of default for these advances individually using internal
information available. The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk
and ECLs for subsidiaries’ advances.
			 Gross Impairment
			carrying loss Net
Company			 amount allowances balance
			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2022
Low credit risk			 116,477 - 116,477
Credit impaired			 710 (710) -
			 117,187 (710) 116,477
2021
Low credit risk			 56,670 - 56,670
Credit impaired			 907 (907) -
			 57,577 (907) 56,670
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of subsidiaries’ advances during the
year is as follows:
Company					 Lifetime ECL
					RM’000
Balance at 1 January 2021					 392
Net remeasurement of loss allowance				 515
Balance at 31 December 2021/1 January 2022				 907
Derecognition upon liquidation of subsidiaries				 (197)
Balance at 31 December 2022					 710
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
170
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.5 Interest rate risk
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk relate primarily to their borrowings
and deposits with licensed banks.
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group’s and the Company’s bank borrowings and interest-bearing deposits are both subject
to interest based on fixed and floating rates. Market interest rates movements are monitored with
the view of ensuring the most competitive rates are secured and where appropriate, borrowing
arrangements are restructured or reduced.
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group’s and the Company’s significant interest-bearing financial
instruments, based on the carrying amounts at the balance sheet date are as follows:
Group Company
Note 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Fixed rate instruments
Amounts due from
subsidiaries 11 - - 116,477 56,670
Fixed deposits 13 157,219 320,452 - -
Deposits placed with
licensed banks 14 30,033 118,361 434 2,727
Liquid investment 14 - 6,131 - 6,131
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/Unsecured
revolving credits 17 (934,439) (994,114) (534,037) (405,054)
Lease liabilities		 (13,423) (15,050) (12,303) (13,619)
RCULS - Liabilities 16 (7,152) (11,967) (7,152) (11,967)
Amounts due to
subsidiaries 18 - - (11,188) (118,320)
		 (767,762) (576,187) (447,769) (483,432)
Floating rate
instruments
Unsecured term loans 17 (171,253) (217,998) (119,000) (153,000)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 171
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.5 Interest rate risk (cont’d)
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
(a) Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value
through profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the balance sheet date would
not affect the income statements.
(b) Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments
A change of 50 basis points (“bp”) in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would
have increased/(decreased) equity and post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown
below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates,
remained constant.
Profit or loss
		 50 bp 50 bp 50 bp 50 bp
		 increase decrease increase decrease
		 2022 2022 2021 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Floating rate instruments (651) 651 (828) 828
Company
Floating rate instruments (452) 452 (581) 581
26.6 Foreign currency risk
The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and
borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies
of the Group entities. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar
(“USD”) and Vietnamese Dong (“VND”).
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group and the Company monitor their exposure to foreign currency movements closely and
where appropriate, the Group and the Company have used foreign currency forward contracts
to hedge some of their foreign currency risk.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
172
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.6 Foreign currency risk (cont’d)
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the
functional currency of the Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts at the balance sheet
date was:
Denominated in
Note USD VND EUR
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
2022
Balances recognised in the balance sheet
Unsecured term loans 17 (5,382) - (7,611)
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/
Unsecured revolving credits 17 (398,733) (116,447) (239)
		 (404,115) (116,447) (7,850)
Forecast transactions
Forecast purchases		 (502,776) - -
Forward exchange contract on forecast
purchases		
492,905 - -
		(9,871) - -
		 (413,986) (116,447) (7,850)
2021
Balances recognised in the balance sheet
Unsecured term loans 17 (14,578) - -
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/
Unsecured revolving credits 17 (661,029) (76,311) -
		(675,607) (76,311) -
Forecast transactions
Forecast purchases		 (300,725) - -
Forward exchange contract on forecast
purchases		
298,649 - -
		(2,076) - -
		(677,683) (76,311) -
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 173
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.6 Foreign currency risk (cont’d)
Exposure to foreign currency risk (cont’d)
Denominated in USD
Note 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000
Company
Balance recognised in the balance sheet
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/Unsecured
revolving credits 17 (189,140) (187,456)
Forecast transactions
Forecast purchases		 (342,608) (205,612)
Forward exchange contract on forecast purchases		 336,555 204,330
		 (6,053) (1,282)
		 (195,193) (188,738)
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
A 5 percent (2021: 5 percent) strengthening/(weakening) of RM against the following currencies
at the balance sheet date would have increased/(decreased) equity and post-tax profit or loss by
the amounts shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest
rates, remained constant.
		 Profit or loss
2022 2021
RM’000 RM’000
Group
USD 3,374 14,324
VND 4,425 2,900
EUR 298 -
Company
USD 5,602 641
26.7 Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet its financial
obligations as they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises
principally from its various payables, loans and borrowings and lease liabilities.
The Group and the Company monitor and maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and
bank facilities deemed adequate by the management to ensure, as far as possible, that they will
have sufficient liquidity to meet their liabilities when they fall due.
It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly
earlier, or at significantly different amounts.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
174
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)
Maturity analysis
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial
liabilities at the balance sheet date based on undiscounted contractual payments:
		Contractual
Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 More than
Group amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years
RM’000 % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2022
Non-derivative
financial liabilities
Trade and other
payables 115,389 - 115,389 115,389 - - -
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/
Unsecured
revolving credits 934,439 2.78 - 8.00 947,226 947,226 - - -
Unsecured term
loans 171,253 4.03 - 6.40 179,840 57,797 51,341 70,702 -
Lease liabilities 13,423 3.50 - 8.50 15,346 2,525 1,984 5,828 5,009
RCULS liabilities 7,152 5.10 8,205 5,470 2,735 - -
Financial
guarantees - - 47,106 47,106 - - -
Derivative financial
liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts
(gross settled):
Outflow 9,871 - 502,776 502,776 - - -
Inflow - - (492,905) (492,905) - - -
Future and option
contracts (gross
settled):
Outflow 44 - - - - - -
Inflow - - 44 44 - - -
1,251,571		 1,323,027 1,185,428 56,060 76,530 5,009
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 175
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)
Maturity analysis (cont’d)
		Contractual
Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 More than
Group amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years
RM’000 % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2021
Non-derivative
financial liabilities
Trade and other
payables 124,966 - 124,966 124,966 - - -
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/
Unsecured
revolving credits 994,114 0.60 - 3.49 999,880 999,880 - - -
Unsecured term
loans 217,998 2.50 - 3.53 235,132 57,687 59,031 118,414 -
Lease liabilities 15,050 3.50 - 8.50 17,550 2,122 2,518 6,075 6,835
RCULS liabilities 11,967 5.10 13,710 5,484 5,484 2,742 -
Financial
guarantees - - 61,247 61,247 - - -
Derivative financial
liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts
(gross settled):
Outflow 2,076 - 300,725 300,725 - - -
Inflow - - (298,649) (298,649) - - -
Future and option
contracts (gross
settled):
Outflow 4 - 806 806 - - -
Inflow - - (802) (802) - - -
1,366,175		 1,454,565 1,253,466 67,033 127,231 6,835
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
176
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)
Maturity analysis (cont’d)
		Contractual
Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 More than
Company amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years
RM’000 % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2022
Non-derivative
financial liabilities
Trade and other
payables 44,679 - 44,679 44,679 - - -
Amounts due to
subsidiaries 365 4.00 380 380 - - -
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/
Unsecured
revolving credits 534,037 2.78 - 6.20 540,018 540,018 - - -
Unsecured term
loans 119,000 4.67 129,428 38,961 37,383 53,084 -
Lease liabilities 12,303 3.50 - 5.00 14,084 2,144 1,582 5,075 5,283
RCULS liabilities 7,152 5.10 8,205 5,470 2,735 - -
Financial guarantees - - 47,106 47,106 - - -
Derivative financial
liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts
(gross settled):
Outflow 6,053		
342,608 342,608 - - -
Inflow -		 (336,555) (336,555) - - -
Future and option
contracts
(gross settled):
Outflow 44		 - - - - -
Inflow -		 44 44 - - -
723,633		 789,997 684,855 41,700 58,159 5,283
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 177
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)
Maturity analysis (cont’d)
		Contractual
Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 More than
Company amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years
RM’000 % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2021
Non-derivative
financial liabilities
Trade and other
payables 68,516 - 68,516 68,516 - - -
Amounts due to
subsidiaries 88,381 4.00 91,916 91,916 - - -
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/
Unsecured
revolving credits 405,054 0.60 - 3.49 406,637 406,637 - - -
Unsecured term
loans 153,000 3.53 165,833 38,950 37,750 89,133 -
Lease liabilities 13,619 3.50 - 5.00 15,877 1,720 2,134 5,188 6,835
RCULS liabilities 11,967 5.10 13,710 5,484 5,484 2,742 -
Financial
guarantees - - 61,247 61,247 - - -
Derivative financial
liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts
(gross settled):
Outflow 1,282 - 205,612 205,612 - - -
Inflow - - (204,330) (204,330) - - -
Future and option
contracts
(gross settled):
Outflow 4 - 806 806 - - -
Inflow - - (802) (802) - - -
741,823		 825,022 675,756 45,368 97,063 6,835
26.8 Fair value information
The carrying amounts of fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents, short-term receivables,
payables and short-term borrowings reasonably approximate their fair values due to the relatively
short-term nature of these financial instruments.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
178
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.8 Fair value information (cont’d)
The tables below analyse other instruments at fair value.
					Not
Carried at			 carried at
fair value			 fair value Total fair Carrying
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 3 value amount
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
2022
Financial assets
Contingent
consideration
receivable - - 191,036 191,036 - 191,036 191,036
Future and option
contracts 13 - - 13 - 13 13
13 - 191,036 191,049 - 191,049 191,049
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts - (9,871) - (9,871) - (9,871) (9,871)
Future and option
contracts (44) - - (44) - (44) (44)
Unsecured term
loans (non-current) - - - - (120,711) (120,711) (120,711)
(44) (9,871) - (9,915) (120,711) (130,626) (130,626)
2021
Financial assets
Contingent
consideration
receivable - - 182,217 182,217 - 182,217 182,217
Future and option
contracts 743 - - 743 - 743 743
Liquid investment 6,131 - - 6,131 - 6,131 6,131
6,874 - 182,217 189,091 - 189,091 189,091
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts - (2,076) - (2,076) - (2,076) (2,076)
Future and option
contracts (4) - - (4) - (4) (4)
Unsecured term
loans (non-current) - - - - (166,949) (166,949) (166,949)
(4) (2,076) - (2,080) (166,949) (169,029) (169,029)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 179
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.8 Fair value information (cont’d)
					Not
Carried at			 carried at
fair value			 fair value Total fair Carrying
Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 3 value amount
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Company
2022
Financial assets
Contingent
consideration
receivable - - 191,036 191,036 - 191,036 191,036
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts - (6,053) - (6,053) - (6,053) (6,053)
Future and option
contracts (44) - - (44) - (44) (44)
Unsecured term
loans (non-current) - - - - (85,000) (85,000) (85,000)
(44) (6,053) - (6,097) (85,000) (91,097) (91,097)
2021
Financial assets
Contingent
consideration
receivable - - 182,217 182,217 - 182,217 182,217
Liquid investment 6,131 - - 6,131 - 6,131 6,131
6,131 - 182,217 188,348 - 188,348 188,348
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts - (1,282) - (1,282) - (1,282) (1,282)
Future and option
contracts (4) - - (4) - (4) (4)
Unsecured term
loans (non-current) - - - - (119,000) (119,000) (119,000)
(4) (1,282) - (1,286) (119,000) (120,286) (120,286)
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
180
26. Financial instruments (cont’d)
26.8 Fair value information (cont’d)
Level 2 fair value
Derivatives
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between
the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the
contract using a risk-free interest rate (based on government bonds).
Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values
There has been no transfer between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values during the financial year
(2021: no transfer in either direction).
Fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value
Level 3 fair value
Level 3 fair value not carried at fair value comprises long-term term loans where their fair values
approximate their carrying amounts. The fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows
using a rate based on the current market rate of borrowing of the respective Group entities at
the reporting date.
27. Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence
and to sustain future development of the business. The Directors monitor and are determined to maintain
an optimal debt-to-equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory requirements.
The debt-to-equity ratios at 31 December 2022 and 31 December 2021 were as follows:
Group
Note 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000
Total borrowings 17 1,105,692 1,212,112
Lease liabilities		 13,423 15,050
Less:
Fixed deposits 13 (157,219) (320,452)
Cash and cash equivalents 14 (86,710) (214,077)
Net debt		 875,186 692,633
Total equity		 1,466,093 1,350,556
Debt-to-equity ratio		 0.60 0.51
There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 181
28. Capital and other commitments
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Property, plant and equipment
Contracted but not provided for
- Continuing operations		 22,419 8,801 943 7,941
Joint ventures
- Share of commitment of joint ventures 24,467 7,543 - -
29. Related parties
Identity of related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the
Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control or jointly control the party or exercise significant
influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group
and the parties are subject to common control. Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
Related parties also include key management personnel defined as those persons having authority
and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group either directly or
indirectly. Key management personnel include all the Directors of the Group.
The Group has related party relationships with its subsidiaries, joint ventures, associate and key
management personnel.
Significant related party transactions
Related party transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business under negotiated
terms. The significant related party transactions of the Group and of the Company other than as
disclosed elsewhere in the financial statements, are shown below. The balances related to the below
transactions are shown in Notes 11 and 18.
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
A. Subsidiaries
Sales of goods		 - - 10,970 18,496
Purchases of goods		 - - (407) -
Dividend income		 - - 112,292 93,774
Consultancy fees income		 - - 1,324 1,251
Management fees income		 - - 540 4,106
MIS fees income		 - - 356 2,281
Rental of premises		 - - 2 102
Rental of furniture and fittings		 - - 42 88
Rental of equipment		 - - 2,430 3,803
Interest income		 - - 1,170 9,480
Interest expense		 - - (1,651) (3,665)
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
182
29. Related parties (cont’d)
Significant related party transactions (cont’d)
Group Company
		 2022 2021 2022 2021
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
B. Joint ventures
Sales of goods		 70,023 36,381 29,815 15,626
Purchases of goods		 (91,627) (47,467) - -
Management fees income		 10,094 4,977 10,094 4,977
MIS fees income		 5,552 2,153 5,552 2,153
Rental of premises		 242 141 242 141
Rental of furniture and fittings		 111 65 111 65
Rental of equipment		 4,387 2,439 4,387 2,439
Interest income		 11 - 11 -
C. Key management personnel
Directors of the Company:
- Fees		 960 1,056 960 1,056
- Remuneration		 9,419 7,392 8,906 7,047
- Other short-term employee
benefits (including estimated
monetary value of benefits-
in-kind)		 93 87 93 87
		10,472 8,535 9,959 8,190
Directors of the Group entities:
- Remuneration		
685 673 - -
- Other short-term employee
benefits (including estimated
monetary value of benefits-
in-kind)		
130 101 - -
		
815 774 - -
Total short-term employee
benefits		11,287 9,309 9,959 8,190
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 183
30. Comparative figures
The following comparative figures have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation:
		As
As previously
restated stated
RM’000 RM’000
Group
2021
Balance sheet
Fixed deposits 340,452 -
Cash and cash equivalents 214,077 534,529
2021
Statement of cash flows		
Cash flows from investing activities		
Increase in fixed deposits (84,484) -
Net cash from investing activities 3,525 88,009
Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 27,105 111,589
Cash and cash equivalents at 1 January 168,659 404,627
Cash and cash equivalents at 31 December 214,077 534,529
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
184
Statement by Directors
pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 94 to 183 are drawn up in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and
the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial
position of the Group and of the Company as of 31 December 2022 and of their financial performance and
cash flows for the financial year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Director
Teh Wee Chye
Director
30 March 2023
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 185
Statutory Declaration
pursuant to Section 251(1)(b) of the Companies Act 2016
I, Yau Tee Peng, the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 94 to 183 are, to the best of
my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the declaration
to be true, and by virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above named Yau Tee Peng, MIA CA15344, at Kuala Lumpur in the
Federal Territory on 30 March 2023.
Yau Tee Peng
Before me:
Alizahwati Binti Atan (W811)
Commissioner for Oaths
Kuala Lumpur
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
186
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad, which comprise the balance sheets
as at 31 December 2022 of the Group and of the Company, and the income statements, statements of
comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and
of the Company for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of
significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 94 to 183.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2022, and of their financial performance and their cash flows
for the year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our auditors’ report. We believe that the
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional
Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including
International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities
in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole,
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
(i) Valuation of investments in a joint venture
Refer to Note 1(d) – Use of estimates and judgements, Note 2(k)(ii) - Significant accounting policies:
Impairment - Other assets and Note 8 – Investments in joint ventures.
The key audit matter
As at 31 December 2022, the carrying amount of investment in a joint venture, PT Bungasari Flour Mills
Indonesia (“BFMI”) of RM163,839,000 was lower than the Company’s initial cost of investment. Hence,
there was an indication of impairment which requires management to estimate the recoverable amount of
the investment in the joint venture.
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 187
Key Audit Matters (cont’d)
(i) Valuation of investments in a joint venture (cont’d)
The key audit matter (cont’d)
We identified the valuation of investment in a joint venture as a key audit matter because of its significance
to the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and because assessing the key impairment
assumptions involves significant judgement which requires significant involvement of our more experienced
audit engagement team members.
How the matter was addressed in our audit
We performed the following audit procedures, among others:
• We assessed the Group’s and the Company’s assessment on indicators of impairment in investment
in a joint venture;
• We compared the joint venture’s cash flow projections to its approved business plan and previous
cash flow projections to actual results to assess the reliability of the Group’s forecasting process;
• We assessed and challenged the reasonableness of the key assumptions used in the cash flow
projections by comparing them to externally derived data as well as our own assessments which
takes into account historical trends and other corroborative evidence available; and
• We assessed whether the Group and the Company had adequately provided impairment on the
investment in a joint venture.
(ii) Valuation of contingent considerations receivable
Refer to Note 1(d) – Use of estimate and judgement, Note 2(a)(v) - Significant accounting policies - Joint
arrangements, Note 8 – Investments in joint ventures and Note 11 – Trade and other receivables, including
derivatives.
The key audit matter
On 31 May 2021, the Company had completed the disposal of 49% equity interest in Dindings Tyson
Sdn. Bhd. (“DTSB”) for a total cash consideration of RM445,028,000, with a gain on deconsolidation of
subsidiaries amounting to RM174,264,000.
The total consideration for this proposed disposal is to be satisfied by cash, payable in three tranches
subject to the achievability of certain financial targets. An initial total consideration of RM184,944,000 was
received in the previous financial year. As at 31 December 2022, the fair value of the remaining balance of
the two tranches of RM191,036,000 is accounted for as a contingent consideration receivable (Note 11),
which is subject to the achievability of certain financial targets.
We identified the valuation of contingent consideration receivable as a key audit matter because of the
significant remaining balance of the contingent consideration receivable at fair value which is subject to
the achievability of certain financial targets and this involves significant judgement in assessing the key
assumptions.
This requires significant involvement of our more experienced audit engagement team members.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
188
Key Audit Matters (cont’d)
(ii) Valuation of contingent considerations receivable (cont’d)
How the matter was addressed in our audit
We performed the following audit procedures, among others:
• We assessed the appropriateness of the valuation technique and assessed the profit projection’s
assumptions in determining the fair value of the contingent consideration receivable;
• We compared DTSB’s cash flow projections to its approved business plan and previous cash flow
projections to actual results to assess the reliability of the Group’s forecasting process;
• We assessed and challenged the reasonableness of the key assumptions used in the cash flow
projections of DTSB by comparing them to externally derived data as well as our own assessments,
including historical trends and other corroborative evidence available; and
• We assessed the adequacy of the disclosure in the financial statements.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the annual report
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility
is to read the annual report and, in doing so, consider whether the annual report is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
there is a material misstatement of the annual report, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to
report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and
of the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards,
International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The
Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for
assessing the ability of the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the
Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 189
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and
International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
of the internal control of the Group and of the Company.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
and related disclosures made by the Directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If
we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to
the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up
to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the
Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that gives a true and fair view.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely
responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
190
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter
should not be communicated in our auditors’ report because the adverse consequences of doing so would
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries
of which we have not acted as auditors are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
Other Matter
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of
the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other
person for the content of this report.
KPMG PLT Chong Dee Shiang
LLP0010081-LCA & AF 0758 Approval Number: 02782/09/2024 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Petaling Jaya
30 March 2023
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 191
Analysis of Shareholdings
as at 31 March 2023
Share Capital - RM536,290,248.70
Class and Number of Issued Shares - 1,020,981,145 ordinary shares
12,969 shareholders
Voting rights: One vote for one share
Size of Holdings
No. of
Shareholders
% of
Shareholders
No. of
Issued Shares
% of
Issued
Shares
Less than 100 1,610 12.41 19,469 0.00
100 to 1,000 1,510 11.64 891,630 0.09
1,001 to 10,000 5,709 44.02 30,712,286 3.00
10,001 to 100,000 3,561 27.46 114,412,637 11.21
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 577 4.45 728,969,252 71.40
5% and above of issued shares 2 0.02 145,975,871 14.30
12,969 100.00 1,020,981,145 100.00
Thirty (30) Largest Shareholders No. of Shares
Percentage
Holding (%)
1. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
[Exempt An for Credit Suisse (SG BR-TST-ASING)]
79,200,000 7.76
2. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
66,775,871 6.54
3. Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd 44,412,076 4.35
4. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
40,210,539 3.94
5. Astar Commercial Limited 39,294,750 3.85
6. Duangmanee Liewphairatana 33,380,875 3.27
7. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Zalaraz Sdn Bhd)
31,239,800 3.06
8. Yong Kok Yian 31,034,372 3.04
9. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Exempt An for Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. Ltd)
30,269,600 2.96
10. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd for Wise Bright Investment Limited)
28,879,719 2.83
11. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for the Estate of Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
24,871,170 2.44
12. Amble Volume Sdn Bhd 22,621,500 2.22
13. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Essence Lane Sdn Bhd)
18,428,263 1.80
14. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for the Estate of Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
17,681,750 1.73
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
192
Analysis of Shareholdings
as at 31 March 2023 (cont’d)
Thirty (30) Largest Shareholders No. of Shares
Percentage
Holding (%)
15. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Urusharta Jamaah Sdn Bhd)
15,100,000 1.48
16. Teh Wee Chye 12,983,376 1.27
17. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Amble Volume Sdn Bhd for Rise Glory Investment Limited)
11,794,313 1.16
18. HSBC Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(HSBC (M) Trustee Berhad for Manulife Investment Shariah
Progress Fund)
11,730,700 1.15
19. Yeoh Yew Choo 10,689,100 1.05
20. CIMB Islamic Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(MIDF Amanah Asset Management Berhad for Perbadanan
Pembangunan Pertanian Negeri Perak)
10,379,230 1.02
21. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
[Employees Provident Fund Board (Pheim)]
8,840,400 0.87
22. Maybank Securities Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(CMY Incubator Sdn Bhd)
7,443,700 0.73
23. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon)
6,996,000 0.69
24. Maybank Securities Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(One IFC Residence Sdn Bhd)
6,485,200 0.64
25. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Chung Keat Ann)
6,000,000 0.59
26. Sim Seng Huat Timber Industries Sdn Bhd 6,000,000 0.59
27. Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd 5,884,242 0.58
28. Lim Choo Hong 5,877,000 0.58
29. Su Ming Keat 5,400,200 0.53
30. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Beng Khim)
5,307,400 0.52
Substantial Shareholders
Name
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
No. of Shares % No. of Shares %
Teh Wee Chye 123,764,911 12.12 64,017,360(1) 6.27
Duangmanee Liewphairatana 33,380,875 3.27 45,526,097(2) 4.46
The Estate of Tun Arshad bin Ayub 42,552,920 4.17 31,239,800(3) 3.06
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 193
Directors’ Interests in the Company and its Related Corporations
Name
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
No. of Shares % No. of Shares %
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 23,087 0.00 - -
Teh Wee Chye 123,764,911 12.12 64,017,360(1) 6.27
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 8,250 0.00 - -
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 7,078,500 0.69 - -
Azhari Arshad 565,000 0.06 31,239,800(3) 3.06
Lim Pang Boon 488,585 0.05 - -
Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’
Dr Aini binti Ideris
- - 34,000(4) 0.00
Director, Teh Wee Chye is deemed to have interests in all the shares held by the Company in its related
corporations by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in the Company.
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd, Suai Timber
Products Sdn Bhd, Essence Lane Sdn Bhd and shareholdings of his spouse.
(2) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd and Suai
Timber Products Sdn Bhd.
(3) Deemed interested through Zalaraz Sdn Bhd.
(4) Deemed interested through shareholding of her child.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
194
Analysis of RCULS Holdings
as at 31 March 2023
Unconverted RCULS - 109,025,104
Conversion Price - RM0.50
Maturity Date - 24 January 2024
Size of Holdings
No. of
RCULS
Holders
% of
RCULS
Holders
No. of
RCULS
% of
RCULS
Less than 100 24 2.42 858 0.00
100 to 1,000 173 17.44 108,889 0.10
1,001 to 10,000 588 59.28 2,284,396 2.10
10,001 to 100,000 172 17.34 5,069,577 4.65
100,001 to less than 5% of RCULS 29 2.92 29,960,616 27.48
5% and above of RCULS 6 0.60 71,600,768 65.67
992 100.00 109,025,104 100.00
Thirty (30) Largest RCULS Holders No. of RCULS
Percentage
Holding (%)
1. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
20,421,078 18.73
2. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
[Exempt An for Credit Suisse (SG BR-TST-ASING)]
14,400,000 13.21
3. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
12,141,067 11.14
4. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for the Estate of Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
9,419,200 8.64
5. Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd 8,074,923 7.41
6. Astar Commercial Limited 7,144,500 6.55
7. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd for Wise Bright Investment Limited)
5,250,858 4.82
8. Amble Volume Sdn Bhd 4,113,000 3.77
9. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for the Estate of Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
3,562,500 3.27
10. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Essence Lane Sdn Bhd)
3,350,593 3.07
11. Teh Wee Chye 3,087,500 2.83
12. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Teh Wee Chye)
2,000,000 1.83
13. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Amble Volume Sdn Bhd for Rise Glory Investment Limited)
1,815,442 1.67
14. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon)
1,272,000 1.17
15. Chew Hem Poo @ Choy Nean Chin 1,103,000 1.01
16. Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd 721,958 0.66
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 195
Thirty (30) Largest RCULS Holders No. of RCULS
Percentage
Holding (%)
17. Emmel Sendirian Berhad 473,700 0.43
18. Allison Foo May Ling 450,000 0.41
19. Lim Gaik Bway @ Lim Chiew Ah 302,700 0.28
20. Eu Mui @ Ee Soo Mei 280,000 0.26
21. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(AmFraser Securities Pte Ltd for Tan Jin Chwee & Co Pte Ltd)
266,400 0.24
22. Leow Yan Seong @ Liew Pin 192,900 0.18
23. Thye Nam Loong Shipping Sdn Bhd 172,446 0.16
24. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
[Exempt An for UOB Kay Hian Pte Ltd (A/C Clients)]
160,800 0.15
25. Tan Ah Kow @ Tan Chee Lin 149,900 0.14
26. Toh Kok Huat 143,550 0.13
27. Lee Ying Fong 140,000 0.13
28. Adikem Sdn Bhd 131,100 0.12
29. Toh Kok Lim 129,000 0.12
30. Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd 128,539 0.12
Directors’ Interests in the Company
Name
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
No. of RCULS % No. of RCULS %
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 2,000 0.00 - -
Teh Wee Chye 37,659,395 34.54 11,628,065(1) 10.67
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 1,500 0.00 - -
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 1,287,000 1.18 - -
Lim Pang Boon 66,120 0.06 - -
Azhari Arshad - - 50,000(2) 0.05
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd, Suai Timber
Products Sdn Bhd and Essence Lane Sdn Bhd.
(2) Deemed interested through Zalaraz Sdn Bhd.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
196
Analysis of Warrant Holdings
as at 31 March 2023
Unexercised Warrants - 136,678,397
Exercise Price - RM0.68
Expiry Date - 23 January 2024
Size of Holdings
No. of
Warrant
Holders
% of
Warrant
Holders
No. of
Warrants
% of
Warrants
Less than 100 161 9.01 7,016 0.01
100 to 1,000 380 21.28 208,638 0.15
1,001 to 10,000 784 43.90 3,076,180 2.25
10,001 to 100,000 345 19.31 12,150,101 8.89
100,001 to less than 5% of Warrants 113 6.33 86,908,368 63.59
5% and above of Warrants 3 0.17 34,328,094 25.11
1,786 100.00 136,678,397 100.00
Thirty (30) Largest Warrant Holders
No. of
Warrants
Percentage
Holding (%)
1. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
12,210,539 8.93
2. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
[Exempt An for Credit Suisse (SG BR-TST-ASING)]
12,000,000 8.78
3. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
10,117,555 7.40
4. Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd 6,729,102 4.92
5. Astar Commercial Limited 5,953,750 4.36
6. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd for Wise Bright Investment Limited)
4,375,715 3.20
7. Yeoh Yew Choo 3,846,200 2.81
8. Teh Wee Chye 3,639,725 2.66
9. Amble Volume Sdn Bhd 3,427,500 2.51
10. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Chin Chee Keong)
3,394,500 2.48
11. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Kong Kok Choy)
3,200,000 2.34
12. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Looi Boon Han)
3,191,000 2.33
13. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Essence Lane Sdn Bhd)
2,792,160 2.04
14. Maybank Securities Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Ho Yock Main)
2,333,500 1.71
15. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for the Estate of Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
2,237,000 1.64
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 197
Thirty (30) Largest Warrant Holders
No. of
Warrants
Percentage
Holding (%)
16. HLB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Tey Hock Seng)
2,027,000 1.48
17. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Swee Heng)
1,792,100 1.31
18. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
[Pledged Securities Account for Ting Kuok Ley @ David Kuok Leh Ting
(Kuching)]
1,610,000 1.18
19. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Amble Volume Sdn Bhd for Rise Glory Investment Limited)
1,512,868 1.11
20. Law Ah Nai @ Law Chin Cheow 1.373,400 1.00
21. Lim Boon Ngee 1,306,000 0.96
22. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teo Chin Loong)
1,284,100 0.94
23. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Teh Wee Chye)
1,225,000 0.90
24. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Cheang Wai Kett)
1,200,400 0.88
25. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon)
1,060,000 0.78
26. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Gan Kong Hiok)
1,002,500 0.73
27. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Lim Gim Leong)
903,800 0.66
28. Ching Wooi Kong 825,000 0.60
29. Tiong Wei Lee 786,900 0.58
30. Lim Lai Chuan 750,000 0.55
Directors’ Interests in the Company
Name
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
No. of Warrants % No. of Warrants %
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 4,387 0.00 - -
Teh Wee Chye 27,200,944 19.90 9,690,052 (1) 7.09
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 1,250 0.00 - -
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 1,072,500 0.78 - -
Azhari Arshad 62,500 0.05 - -
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd, Suai Timber
Products Sdn Bhd and Essence Lane Sdn Bhd.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
198
Description, Location & Size Existing Use
Approximate
Age of
Building
(Year)
Date/Year
of last
Revaluation/
Acquisition
Net Book
Value At
31-12-22
RM
Freehold land with shop houses
GRN 116112 Lot 3618 Section 4
GRN 116113 Lot 3619 Section 4
Town of Butterworth
District of Seberang Perai Utara
Penang
Total: 1.44 acres
Shoplot 62 9 Sept 1996 2,846,000
Freehold land with residential building
GRN 29231
Lot 449 Section 67
District of Kuala Lumpur
Federal Territory
Total: 1.00 acre
Commercial
land and
building
83 4 Dec 1996 1,562,000
Freehold land
Lots 5326, 5327 and part of
Lots 5331 & 5332
District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 9.00 acres
Vacant land - 1981 72,000
Leasehold land with buildings
Lots 4902 (expiring on 11-12-2061)
5337 (expiring on 25-4-2075)
5466 & 5336 (expiring on 22-11-2090)
PT 4333 HSD 28222/PT 4334 HSD 28223
(expiring on 25-4-2075)
Mukim of Lumut, District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 61.43 acres
Office and
factory
40-56 6 Oct 1998 17,678,000
Freehold land with shop house
Grant No. 36370, Lot No. 12256
Mukim of Pulai
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 0.04 acre
Shoplot 43 1991 133,000
Leasehold land with buildings
HSD 238626, Lot PTD 119736
(expiring on 28-2-2051)
Mukim of Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 10.1 acres
Office and
factory
30 3 Feb 1995 47,709,000
List of Properties
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 199
Description, Location & Size Existing Use
Approximate
Age of
Building
(Year)
Date/Year
of last
Revaluation/
Acquisition
Net Book
Value At
31-12-22
RM
Leasehold land with building
PN 25155 Lot 7114
(expiring on 22-7-2096)
Mukim of Batu Berendam
District of Melaka Tengah
Melaka Darul Azim
Total: 0.13 acre
Shoplot 25 1997 310,000
Freehold land with building
HS(D) 212786 PTB 18284
Bandar Johor Bahru
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 0.13 acre
Factory 23 1999 392,000
Leasehold land
HS(D) 503714 PTD 209638
(expiring on 2-4-2072)
Mukim of Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 4.57 acres
Vacant land - 2011 2,614,000
Leasehold land with buildings
HSD 30844 PT 13524
(expiring on 20-10-2075)
Mukim of Lumut
District of Manjung
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 23 acres
Factory 10 2020 95,589,000
Freehold land with house
GRN 160946 Lot 45520
Mukim of Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 0.04 acre
Residential
house
31 2017 139,000
Freehold land
Grant 1784, Lot 12653
Mukim of Sitiawan
District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 17 acres
Vacant land - 1997 271,000
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
200
Description, Location & Size Existing Use
Approximate
Age of
Building
(Year)
Date/Year
of last
Revaluation/
Acquisition
Net Book
Value At
31-12-22
RM
Freehold land
GM 10137, Lot 23464
Mukim of Bagan Serai
District of Kerian
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 2.12 acres
Vacant land - 1990 1
Land Use Rights with buildings
(expiring on 31-8-2024)
Cai Lan, Quang Ninh Province
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Total: 17.30 acres
Office and
factory
25 1994 26,992,000
Land Use Rights with buildings
(expiring on 30-6-2048)
Phu My Industrial Zone I
Tan Thanh District
Baria - Vungtau Province
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Total: 17.29 acres
Office and
factory
20 2000 15,915,000
List of Properties (cont’d)
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 201
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Sixty-Third Annual General Meeting (“63rd AGM”) of Malayan Flour
Mills Berhad will be conducted on a virtual basis from its Broadcast Venue at Suite 25.01, Level 25, Menara
Citibank, 165 Jalan Ampang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur on Tuesday, 16 May 2023 at 10.00 a.m. for the following
purposes:-
Ordinary Business
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended
31 December 2022 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors
thereon. [Please refer to Explanatory Notes].
2. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation in accordance with
Clause 132 of the Constitution of the Company and being eligible, offer
themselves for re-election:
(i) Datuk Oh Chong Peng (Ordinary Resolution 1)
(ii) Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain (Ordinary Resolution 2)
(iii) Mr Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon (Ordinary Resolution 3)
(iv) Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil (Ordinary Resolution 4)
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees amounting to RM264,000 per
annum for the Non-Executive Chairman and RM132,000 per annum for
each of the Non-Executive Directors in respect of the financial year ended
31 December 2022. (Ordinary Resolution 5)
4. To approve an amount of up to RM350,000 as benefits payable to the
Non-Executive Directors for the period from the conclusion of the 63rd AGM
until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company. (Ordinary Resolution 6)
5. To re-appoint Messrs KPMG PLT as Auditors of the Company for the
financial year ending 31 December 2023 and to authorise the Directors to
fix their remuneration. (Ordinary Resolution 7)
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
202
Notice of Annual General Meeting (cont’d)
Special Business
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modifications, the following
resolutions:-
6. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections
75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016
“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016 and approval from the relevant
authorities, where such approval is necessary, full authority be and is hereby
given to the Directors pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act
2016 to issue and allot shares in the Company at any time and upon such
terms and conditions and for such purposes as the Directors may, in their
absolute discretion deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares
issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed 10% of the total number
of issued shares of the Company for the time being and that the Directors
be and are also empowered to obtain the approval for the listing of and
quotation for the additional shares so issued on Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad and that such authority shall continue in force until the conclusion
of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.” (Ordinary Resolution 8)
7. Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back
“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016, the provisions of the Constitution
of the Company, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
Main Market Listing Requirements and the approvals of all relevant
governmental and/or regulatory authorities, the Company be and is hereby
authorised, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to purchase such amount
of ordinary shares in the Company (“Proposed Share Buy-back”) as may
be determined by the Directors of the Company from time to time through
Bursa Securities upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem
fit and expedient in the interest of the Company provided that the aggregate
number of shares purchased pursuant to this resolution does not exceed
10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company as at the point
of purchase and that an amount not exceeding the Company’s retained
profits at the time of the purchase(s) will be allocated by the Company for
the Proposed Share Buy-back;
THAT the authority conferred by this resolution will be effective immediately
and shall continue in force until: -
(a) the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company following
the general meeting at which such resolution was passed at which time
it shall lapse unless by ordinary resolution passed at that meeting, the
authority is renewed, either conditionally or subject to conditions; or
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 203
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next annual general meeting
after that date is required by law to be held; or
(c) revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by shareholders in a
general meeting,
whichever occurs first;
AND THAT authority be and is hereby given unconditionally and generally
to the Directors of the Company to take all such steps as are necessary
or expedient (including without limitation, the opening and maintaining
of central depository account(s) under the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act, 1991, and the entering into of all other agreements,
arrangements and guarantee with any party or parties) to implement,
finalise and give full effect to the aforesaid purchase with full powers to
assent to any conditions, modifications, revaluations, variations and/or
amendments (if any) as may be imposed by the relevant authorities and with
the fullest power to do all such acts and things thereafter (including without
limitation, the cancellation or retention as treasury shares of all or any part
of the repurchased shares) in accordance with the Companies Act 2016, the
provisions of the Constitution of the Company and the requirements and/or
guidelines of the Bursa Securities and all other relevant governmental and/
or regulatory authorities and to do all such things as the said Directors may
deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company.” (Ordinary Resolution 9)
8. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given in
accordance with the Companies Act 2016.
By Order of the Board
Mah Wai Mun
MAICSA 7009729
SSM PC No. 202008000785
Company Secretary
Kuala Lumpur
17 April 2023
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
204
Notice of Annual General Meeting (cont’d)
Notes:-
1. The 63rd AGM will be conducted on a virtual basis via live streaming and online remote voting using Remote Participation
and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) at
https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my.
2. Please read and follow the procedures as set out in the Administrative Guide in order to register, participate and vote
remotely via the RPEV facilities.
3. The Broadcast Venue of the AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which
requires the Chairman of the Meeting to be present at the main venue. Members WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the AGM in
person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the meeting.
4. A member entitled to participate and vote remotely at the AGM is entitled to appoint not more than 2 proxies to participate and to
vote in his/her stead. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
5. Where a member appoints 2 proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her holding to
be represented by each proxy.
6. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act,
1991, it may appoint at least 1 proxy but not more than 2 proxies in respect of each securities account it holds which is credited
with ordinary shares of the Company.
7. Notwithstanding the above, an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial
owners in 1 securities account (“Omnibus Account”), may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account held.
8. The instrument appointing a proxy must be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if
the appointer is a corporation, either under its common seal or the hand of the attorney duly authorised.
9. Proxy Form shall not be treated as valid unless the posted Proxy Form is received or the Proxy Form is deposited at the office of
the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo
Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan or lodged electronically via “Boardroom Smart Investor Portal” at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment
thereof. Proxy Form transmitted by fax or email will not be accepted. The Company will not accept any photocopies of the Proxy
Form in place of the original signed copy.
10. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to participate in this 63rd AGM, the Company shall be requesting
Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd in accordance with Clause 82 of the Constitution of the Company and Section 34(1) of the
Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991 to issue a Record of Depositors as at 9 May 2023. Only a depositor whose name
appears on such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate and vote at the said AGM or appoint proxies to participate and
vote on his/her behalf.
11. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“Bursa Securities Listing
Requirements”), all resolutions set out in the Notice of the 63rd AGM will be put to vote on a poll.
Explanatory Notes on Ordinary Business
Item 1 of the Agenda: To receive the Audited Financial Statements
This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1) of the Companies Act 2016 does not require a formal
approval of the shareholders and hence, is not put forward for voting.
Ordinary Resolutions 1, 2, 3 and 4: Re-election of Directors
Datuk Oh Chong Peng, Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain, Mr Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon and Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil are
standing for re-election as Directors of the Company and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election at the 63rd AGM.
The Board had through the Nomination Committee carried out assessment on the Directors who are standing for re-election and satisfied
that they met the criteria as prescribed by Paragraph 2.20A of the Bursa Securities Listing Requirements on character, experience,
integrity, competence and time to effectively discharge their role as Directors.
Ordinary Resolutions 5 and 6: Directors’ Fees and Other Benefits
Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016 provides amongst others, that the fees and any benefits payable to the Directors of a listed
company shall be approved at a general meeting.
In this respect, the Board wishes to seek the shareholders’ approval for the following payments to Non-Executive Directors at the 63rd
AGM:-
Resolution 5: Payment of Directors’ fees amounting to RM264,000 per annum for the Non-Executive Chairman and RM132,000 per
annum for each of the Non-Executive Directors in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2022; and
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 205
Resolution 6: Payment of benefits payable to the Non-Executive Directors which have been reviewed by the Remuneration Committee
and Board of Directors of the Company for the period from the conclusion of the 63rd AGM until the conclusion of the next AGM of the
Company.
The benefits payable to the Non-Executive Directors comprise Board Committees’ fixed allowance, meeting allowances and benefits-in-
kind. In determining the estimated total amount of the benefits payable, the Board has considered various factors including the number
of scheduled and special meetings for the Board and Board Committees as well as the number of Non-Executive Directors involved in
these meetings.
Resolutions 5 and 6, if passed, will facilitate the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits as and when required. The Board is of the view
that the Non-Executive Directors should be paid such fees and benefits upon them discharging their responsibilities and rendering their
services to the Company.
Ordinary Resolution 7: Re-appointment of Auditors
The Audit & Risk Management Committee and the Board had, on 30 March 2023, considered the re-appointment of Messrs KPMG PLT
as Auditors of the Company. The Audit & Risk Management Committee and the Board collectively agreed and are satisfied that Messrs
KPMG PLT meets the relevant criteria prescribed by Paragraph 15.21 of the Bursa Securities Listing Requirements.
Explanatory Notes on Special Business
Ordinary Resolution 8: Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares
The proposed Resolution 8 is for the purpose of seeking a renewal of the general mandate (“General Mandate”) and if passed, will
empower the Directors of the Company pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016, to issue and allot new shares in the
Company from time to time provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the General Mandate does not exceed 10%
of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being. The General Mandate, unless revoked or varied by the Company
in general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
The General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities, including but not limited to further
placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment project(s), working capital and/or acquisition(s) and any share issuance for
acquisition involving equity deal which requires the Company to allot and issue new shares, which is only to be undertaken if the Directors
consider it to be in the best interest of the Company.
As at the date of this Notice, no new share in the Company was issued pursuant to the General Mandate granted to the Directors at the
62nd AGM of the Company held on 25 May 2022.
Ordinary Resolution 9: Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back
The proposed Resolution 9, if passed, will empower the Directors to purchase the Company’s shares of up to a maximum of 10% of the
total number of issued shares of the Company by utilising the funds allocated out of the retained profits of the Company. This authority,
unless revoked or varied at a general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
206
Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections 75
and 76 of the Companies Act 2016
The renewal of this general mandate (“General Mandate”) will empower the Directors of the Company pursuant
to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016, to issue and allot new shares in the Company from time to
time provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the General Mandate does not exceed
10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being. The General Mandate, unless
revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company.
The General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities, including
but not limited to further placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment project(s), working
capital and/or acquisition(s) and any share issuance for acquisition involving equity deal which requires the
Company to allot and issue new shares, which is only to be undertaken if the Directors consider it to be in
the best interest of the Company.
As at the date of this Notice, no new share in the Company was issued pursuant to the General Mandate
granted to the Directors at the 62nd AGM of the Company held on 25 May 2022.
Statement Accompanying Notice
of Annual General Meeting
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Main Market Listing Requirements
MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD
Registration No. 196101000210 (4260-M)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
PROXY FORM
I/We _________________________________________NRIC No./Passport No./Company No_________________
			 (full name in block letters)
of______________________________________________________________________________________________
					 (full address)
being a member/members of MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD hereby appoint:-
Full Name (In Block) NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholding
No. of Shares %
Address
* and/or
Full Name (In Block) NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholding
No. of Shares %
Address
or failing him/her, the *CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as my/our proxy to attend and vote for me/us on my/our
behalf at the Sixty-Third Annual General Meeting (“63rd AGM”) of the Company which will be conducted on a
virtual basis from its Broadcast Venue at Suite 25.01, Level 25, Menara Citibank, 165 Jalan Ampang, 50450
Kuala Lumpur on Tuesday, 16 May 2023 at 10.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof.
My/our proxy is to vote on a poll as indicated below:
(Please indicate with a “x” or “√” in the boxes provided how you wish your vote to be cast. If you do not do so, the proxy
will vote or abstain from voting at his discretion).
No. Resolutions For Against
1.
2.
3.
4.
Re-election of the following Directors who retire by rotation in accordance
with Clause 132 of the Constitution of the Company:-
a. Datuk Oh Chong Peng
b. Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
c. Mr Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
d. Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil
5. Payment of Directors’ fees
6. Payment of benefits payable to the Directors
7. Re-appointment of Messrs KPMG PLT as Auditors of the Company
8. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections 75 and
76 of the Companies Act 2016
9. Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back
* Strike out whichever not applicable
Dated this ______________ day of _____________________, 2023
____________________________________
Signature/Common Seal of Shareholder
Notes:-
1. The 63rd AGM will be conducted on a virtual basis via live streaming and online remote voting using Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”)
facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) at https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my.
2. Please read and follow the procedures as set out in the Administrative Guide in order to register, participate and vote remotely via the RPEV facilities.
3. The Broadcast Venue of the AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires the Chairman of the
Meeting to be present at the main venue. Members WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the AGM in person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the meeting.
4. A member entitled to participate and vote remotely at the AGM is entitled to appoint not more than 2 proxies to participate and to vote in his/her stead.
A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
5. Where a member appoints 2 proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her holding to be represented by each proxy.
6. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, it may appoint at
least 1 proxy but not more than 2 proxies in respect of each securities account it holds which is credited with ordinary shares of the Company.
7. Notwithstanding the above, an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in 1 securities
account (“Omnibus Account”), may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account held.
8. The instrument appointing a proxy must be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointer is a
corporation, either under its common seal or the hand of the attorney duly authorised.
9. Proxy Form shall not be treated as valid unless the posted Proxy Form is received or the Proxy Form is deposited at the office of the Company’s
Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling
Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan or lodged electronically via “Boardroom Smart Investor Portal” at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not less than
48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof. Proxy Form transmitted by fax or email will not be accepted.
The Company will not accept any photocopies of the Proxy Form in place of the original signed copy.
10. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to participate in this 63rd AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn Bhd in accordance with Clause 82 of the Constitution of the Company and Section 34(1) of the Securities Industry (Central Depositories)
Act, 1991 to issue a Record of Depositors as at 9 May 2023. Only a depositor whose name appears on such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to
participate and vote at the said AGM or appoint proxies to participate and vote on his/her behalf.
11. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements, all resolutions set out in the Notice of the 63rd AGM
will be put to vote on a poll.
!
CDS Account No. No. of Shares Held
Share Registrar
BOARDROOM SHARE Registrars SDN BHD
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Fold this flap for sealing
1st fold here
2nd fold here
AFFIX
STAMP
HERE
