Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
84
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue 2,681,563 2,118,949 2,426,936 2,915,570 3,148,901
Profit before tax from continuing operations 78,295 133,668 96,904 179,444 31,962
Tax expense (17,693) (24,661) (35,881) (25,444) (26,677)
Profit from continuing operations 60,602 109,007 61,023 154,000 5,285
Profit from discontinued operations,
net of tax - (88,423) 137,519 - -
Profit for the year 60,602 20,584 198,542 154,000 5,285
Minority interests (17,351) (15,171) (24,633) (8,955) (11,966)
Profit/(Loss) attributable to equity
holders of the Company 43,251 5,413 173,909 145,045 (6,681)
Issued share capital (RM’000) 527,571 530,665 535,623 535,902 537,262
Shareholders’ fund (RM’000) 1,094,312 1,070,859 1,254,314 1,364,416 1,341,954
Net assets per share (sen) * 109 106 123 134 131
Basic earnings/(loss) per share (sen) ** 4.51 0.54 17.08 14.22a (0.65)a
Gross dividends (%) 5.72 1.92 3.81 5.71 6.31
* Based on number of shares (’000) 1,004,095 1,010,282 1,019,653 1,020,210 1,022,893
** Based on weighted average
number of shares (’000) 958,710 1,007,587 1,018,156 1,019,923 1,021,580
Note:
a. As disclosed in Note 22 to the Financial Statements.
GROUP FINANCIAL
HIGHLIGHTS
Revenue (RM’Million)
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
2,682
2,119
2,427
2,916
3,149
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Shareholders' Fund (RM’Million)
1,094
1,071
1,254
1,364
1,342
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
Proﬁt Before Tax (RM’Million)
78
134
97
179
32
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023
4.51
0.54
17.08
14.22
(0.65)
Basic Earnings Per Share (Sen)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
85
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“the Company”) strives to ensure that
good corporate governance is embraced in the conduct of the businesses and affairs of the Company, its
subsidiaries and joint ventures (“the Group”) as it is the Board’s fundamental responsibility to protect and
enhance long-term shareholder value and the financial performance of the Group, whilst taking into account
the interest of all stakeholders.
The Board recognises that the practice of good corporate governance, by being ethical, accountable and
transparent, is vital for the sustainability of the Group. The Board makes adjustments as may be appropriate
with the ultimate objective of continuously enhancing the business processes, stakeholder value and
increasing the confidence of the investors and customers.
The Board has been guided by the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2021 (“MCCG 2021”) in its
corporate governance practices. Whilst ensuring compliance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main
Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) and the Companies Act 2016, the Board always keep
abreast with the developments in industry practices and the requirements by other relevant regulations to
uphold the highest level of corporate governance throughout the Group.
This statement provides an overview of the corporate governance practices of the Company in respect of
financial year ended 31 December 2023 and to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report of the
Company (“CG Report”) which is available on the Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my. The CG Report
discloses the Company’s application of each practice set out in the MCCG 2021.
This overview statement describes the approaches that the Company has taken with respect to the 3 key
principles of the MCCG 2021 as follows:
A. Board Leadership and Effectiveness
B. Effective Audit and Risk Management
C. Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
I. Board Responsibilities
Roles and Responsibilities of the Board
The Board plays a role in providing stewardship and control of the Group’s business and affairs on behalf
of shareholders with due consideration on the impact of the Group’s activities on its stakeholders. The
Board is responsible for the oversight and overall management of the Group by providing guidance and
direction to the management with regards to the sustainability, strategic planning, risk management,
succession planning, financial and operations to meet the expectations and obligations to the shareholders
and various stakeholders.
Amongst the key responsibilities of the Board are as follows:
• Review and approve short and medium terms strategic plans
• Monitor the progress of the Group’s businesses to evaluate whether the businesses are properly
managed to achieve its targeted returns and sustainability
• Establish goals for management and monitor the achievement of these goals
• Identify principal business risks faced by the Group and ensure the implementation of appropriate
internal controls and mitigating measures to address the risks
• Review the adequacy of the internal control systems
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
86
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
• Review succession and human resource plans
• Consider management’s recommendations on key issues including investments, acquisitions, funding
and significant capital expenditure
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the Group to the Executive Deputy Chairman cum
Managing Director who further cascades the delegation to the management team. Both the Executive
Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director and management team remain accountable to the Board
for the authority delegated to them and brief the Board on the general business environment, financial
performance, operational progress, business outlook and action plans of the Company, the operating
subsidiaries and joint ventures of the Company on a quarterly basis.
Significant matters reserved for the consideration of the Board include the following:
• Approval of financial statements including accounting policies of the Group
• Declaration of dividends
• Approval of annual budget
• Approval for the appointment and remuneration of Directors and Senior Management staff
• Proposed corporate exercise
• Borrowings from financial institutions
• Acquisition and disposal of assets
• New investments such as joint venture
As for the succession planning, the Board is responsible in reviewing candidates for the appointment of
Director and key management positions. The Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director updates
the Board from time to time on the details of the programmes for management development such as
coaching, leadership and technical training. The Board also reviews the remuneration of the Directors and
key Senior Management to ensure that their remuneration packages are sufficiently attractive to attract
and retain the talents.
Separation of positions of the Chairman and Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director
The Board Charter provides clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Executive
Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director to ensure that there is a balance of power and authority, such
that no one individual has unfettered powers of decision-making.
Datuk Oh Chong Peng, who is a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, is the Chairman of the Board.
He is responsible for leading and ensuring the Board effectiveness and compliance with corporate
governance. He acts as a facilitator at Board meetings and general meetings to ensure that the meetings
are carried out smoothly according to their agenda.
Mr Teh Wee Chye is the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director of the Company and leads the
day-to-day management of the Group. He, together with the support of the management team, formulate
business strategies and plans to achieve the Group’s vision and missions, targeted growth, turnover and
profitability to meet the stakeholders’ expectation. He is responsible for implementing the policies and
decisions of the Board and coordinating the implementation of business and corporate strategies.
The Chairman and Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director have regular dialogues over all
operational matters. Between Board meetings, the Chairman maintains an informal link between the
Board and the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director, expects to be kept informed by
the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director on all important matters and is available to the
Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director to provide counsel and advice where appropriate.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
87
Board Meetings and Time Commitment
The Board meets at least 6 times annually with quarterly meeting being held to review amongst other
matters the business progress report and financial results. Board meetings for the ensuing financial year
are scheduled prior to the commencement of that year to enable the Board and management to plan
their schedule ahead. Additional meetings are convened in between scheduled meetings when Board’s
decision is required for urgent and important proposals or matters. Where appropriate, the Board’s
decision may be made via Circular Resolution in between scheduled meetings. Decisions of the Board
are made unanimously or by consensus.
For the Board to deliberate effectively on agenda of the meetings, relevant meeting papers will be furnished
to the Directors in advance of each meeting. This allows the Directors sufficient time to peruse the papers
and have productive discussion and make informed decision at the meeting.
All deliberations and decisions made by the Board are properly recorded by the Company Secretary by
way of minutes of the meetings. Minutes of proceedings and resolutions passed at each Board and Board
Committees meetings are kept in the minutes book at the registered office of the Company.
In the event of a potential conflict of interest, the Director in such position will make a declaration to that
effect as soon as practicable at the Board meeting. The Director concerned will then abstain from any
decision-making process in which he has an interest in.
The Board is satisfied with the level of time commitment given by all the Directors towards fulfilling their
duties and responsibilities as Directors of the Company. This is reflected by their full attendances at the
Board and various Board Committees meetings held during the year as set out in the table below:
Name of Directors Board
Audit & Risk
Management
Committee
Nomination
Committee
Remuneration
Committee
Non-Independent
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 6/6 5/5 1/1* 4/4
Teh Wee Chye 6/6 - - 2/2*
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 6/6 3/3* 1/1 -
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 6/6 - 1/1* 4/4
Azhari Arshad 6/6 - - -
Lim Pang Boon 6/6 - - -
Independent
Quah Poh Keat 6/6 5/5 0/0# -
Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti
Ideris
6/6 - 1/1 4/4
Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil 6/6 5/5 - 4/4
* Resigned as member of the Committee effective from 31 May 2023
# Appointed as member of the Committee effective from 31 May 2023
All the Directors have complied with the requirement to attend at least 50% of the Board meetings held in
the financial year pursuant to the Listing Requirements.
Besides attending Board and Board Committees meetings, as their commitment in discharging their
duties and responsibilities, some Directors had also attended offsite meetings with relevant authorities
and discussion meetings with management.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
88
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
In addition, all the Directors of the Company do not hold directorships at more than five public listed
companies as prescribed in paragraph 15.06 of the Listing Requirements and thus, able to commit
sufficient time to the Company. For notification to the Companies Commission of Malaysia as well as
monitoring purpose, the Directors are required to notify the Company on any changes in their other
directorship of public companies or subsidiaries of public companies.
Access to Advice and Information
In order for the Board to effectively discharge its duties and responsibilities, the Directors are provided
with full, complete and unrestricted access to timely and accurate information. All Board and Board
Committee members are provided with the agenda and reports relevant to the business of the meeting
in advance so that the Directors have sufficient time to prepare and deliberate on the issues prior to the
meeting.
Senior Management members are also invited to attend Board meetings to provide the Board with their
views and explanations on certain agenda items tabled to the Board and to furnish their clarification on
issues that may be raised by Directors.
In addition, the Directors may request for independent advice from the relevant professionals for the
discharge of their duties, at the Company’s expense.
Qualified and Competent Company Secretary
In furtherance of their duties, the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary who satisfied the qualifications as prescribed under Sections 235(2) and 241 of the Companies
Act 2016. The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board meeting procedures are adhered
to and that applicable laws, rules and regulations are complied with. The Board is updated and advised
by the Company Secretary from time to time on new statutes and directives issued by the regulatory
authorities.
The Company Secretary organises and attends all the Board and Board Committees meetings as well as
the General Meetings and ensures accurate records of the proceedings and decisions of the meetings
are made and properly kept.
The Company Secretary also notifies the Directors on each closed period for dealing in the Company’s
listed securities, based on the targeted dates of announcements of the Group’s quarterly results and in
accordance with the period defined in Chapter 14 of the Listing Requirements, before the commencement
of each closed period as prior notice of the closed period. The Directors are also being advised on the
procedure for dealing in the Company’s listed securities during the closed period to aid them in complying
with the Listing Requirements.
The Company Secretary always keeps abreast of the evolving regulatory changes and developments in
corporate governance through continuous training as she plays an important role in advising the Board
on updates relating to new statutory and relevant regulatory requirements.
Directors’ Continuing Development
The Directors of the Company have continued to attend and participate in various programmes which
they have individually or collectively considered as relevant for them to keep abreast with the changes in
regulations and trends in the business practices, environment and markets.
From time to time, the Board will be updated on the companies and securities legislations and other
relevant rules and regulations at the Board and Board Committees meetings, in order to acquaint them
with the latest developments in these areas. Beside this, the Directors also receive regular briefings
and updates from the management on the Group’s businesses, operations, risk management, internal
controls, sustainability initiatives, corporate governance and finance as well as global and local business
environment.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
89
In addition, the Company Secretary also receives regular updates on training programmes from Bursa
Securities and various organisations which will be circulated to the Directors for their consideration.
The Company Secretary facilitates the participation of the Directors in the external training programmes
and keeps record of the trainings attended by all the Directors.
For the year under review, the Directors had attended various appropriate seminars, conferences, workshop
and courses covering leadership, corporate governance, economy, environmental sustainability, grains,
poultry and agriculture of the following topics:
• Leadership Conference
• Mandatory Accreditation Programme Part II: Leading for Impact
• Soyabean Meal Workshop
• International Conference on Tropical Agriculture
• Suite Talk – Inside Stories of Sustainability Champions
• Congress of the World Veterinary Poultry Association
• Bursa: Conflict of Interest (“COI”) and Governance of COI
Board Charter
The roles and functions of the Board are clearly defined in the Board Charter which regulates how business
is to be conducted by the Board in accordance with the principles of good Corporate Governance. The
Board Charter was last revised in 2023 to reflect the changes in the composition of the Independent and
Non-Independent Directors in the Board, changes in Board Committees and set a limit on the tenure of
an Independent Director to not more than a cumulative period of 12 years. The Board Charter is available
on the Company’s website.
Code of Conduct
The Company’s Code of Conduct (“Code”) is in force across the Group and all employees must comply
with it. Disciplinary action may be taken against employees who are found guilty for non-compliance with
the Code. The Code sets out the ethical standards of conduct that all employees are expected to comply
with in their dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors, the wider
community and the environment.
Every employee must display and behave in a manner which is consistent with the Group’s philosophy
and core values. The following Code of Conduct must be adhered to at all times by all employees within
the Group:
a. Demonstrating commitment
b. Living the core values of the Group
c. Avoiding conflict of interest
d. Preventing bribery and corruption
e. Practising confidentiality and data protection
f. Communicating externally and internally with ethics and within authority
g. Protecting company assets and resources
h. Giving equal opportunity, non-discrimination and fair employment
i. Ensuring safety and protecting the environment
j. Prohibiting insider trading
k. Complying with Antitrust and Competition Laws
The Code is subject to change and review as and when it is deemed necessary by the Company. The
Code was last revised in 2022 to enhance the policy with new clauses, definitions and disclosure form.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
90
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
As personal commitment to the Code, each employee of the Group is required to make a declaration that
he/she has been furnished a copy of the Code, has read and understood the Code, accepted to comply
with the Code and understood that any breach of the Code may result in disciplinary action being taken
against him/her. The Code is available on the Company’s website.
Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment
In line with good practice of corporate governance in the conduct of business and affairs of the Group and
as part of the measures to avoid conflict of interest and prevention of bribery and corruption in compliance
with Section 17A(5) of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 (“MACC Act”), the Group has
adopted the Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment (“Policy and Guidelines”) on 6 July 2020.
The Policy and Guidelines apply to the Board of Directors, officers and employees, including contractual
employees, consultants, agents and person associated with the Group (“Associated Persons”).
The Group requires its Associated Persons to abide by the Policy and Guidelines to avoid conflict of
interest or the appearance of conflict of interest for either party in on-going or potential business dealing
between the Group and external parties as a gift can be seen as a bribe that may tarnish the Group’s
reputation or be in violation of anti-bribery and corruption laws.
The Policy and Guidelines were published on the Internal Newsletter for the attention of all the existing
employees as well as notified to the suppliers and customers via letter or email. All new recruits will also
be briefed on the Policy and Guidelines during the onboarding programme.
For enhancement, the Policy and Guidelines were revised in 2022 with new clauses, definitions and
declaration form.
The Policy and Guidelines are also published on the Company’s website.
Whistle Blowing Policy
The Company has a Whistle Blowing Policy in place. The objectives of the Standard Operating Procedures
& Policy (“SOPP”) on Whistle Blowing Policy are as follows:
a. To instill the highest level of corporate governance in the Group;
b. To encourage and enable all employees to raise genuine concerns within the Group rather than
overlooking a problem. Employees are reminded to conduct the business at the highest ethical and
legal standards; and
c. To set a procedure for all employees to give information on non-compliances to the Code of Conduct,
regardless of his or her position, to an independent party to investigate the allegations and take the
appropriate actions.
A Whistle Blowing Policy for external parties is published on the Company’s website.
All employees or any person who has dealings with the Group may report any suspected fraud,
misconduct or any integrity concerns to Mr Quah Poh Keat, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
of the Company, via the email address at whistleblowing@mflour.com.my.
Sustainability Management
The Board together with the Management are committed and responsible towards the governance of
sustainability in the Group including setting the sustainability strategies, priorities and targets. Detailed
information on the Group’s approaches towards addressing sustainability risks and opportunities are
provided in the Sustainability Report on pages 28 to 83 of this Annual Report.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
91
II. Board Composition
Composition and Balance of the Board
There are currently 9 Directors on the Board comprising 2 Executive Directors and 7 Non-Executive
Directors of whom 3 are Independent Directors. The size and composition of the Board provides for a
diversity of views, the desired level of objectivity and independence in Board deliberations and decision-
making.
The Directors of the Company are persons of high integrity and calibre who come from diverse backgrounds
with expertise and skills in banking, finance, accounting, manufacturing, retailing, property development,
public services, education and legal.
The present Board composition complies with paragraph 15.02 of the Listing Requirements which require
a minimum of 2 directors or 1/3 of the Board to be independent directors, whichever is the higher.
The Board diversity shall be considered from a number of aspects, including but not limited to gender,
age, cultural and educational background, professional experience in varying stages of business
development and internationally, personal characteristics, skills and knowledge. Currently, the Board
comprises amongst others, diverse professional experience, ethnicity, age and gender diversity with
2 women Directors on the Board which represent 20% of the Board.
The size and composition of the Board are reviewed annually by the Nomination Committee via the
Performance Evaluation. The Board is satisfied with the current composition in terms of size, skills and
experience, diversity of age, gender and background which has ensured well-balanced views to facilitate
effective decision making.
As the Company practices equal opportunity and non-discrimination in any form, the selection criteria for
appointment of Director continued to be based on merit, calibre, skill and knowledge which are relevant
to the Group. A brief profile of each Director of the Company can be found on pages 5 to 13 of this Annual
Report.
Appointment and Re-election of Directors
The procedures for appointments to the Board are formal and transparent. The Company has a Directors’
Fit and Proper Policy (“Policy”) which serves as a guide to the Nomination Committee and the Board
in their review and assessment of candidates for appointment onto the Board as well as Directors who
are seeking for re-election. The Policy also sets out the fit and proper criteria for the appointment and
re-election of Directors. The Policy is to ensure that each of the Directors possesses the character,
integrity, relevant range of skills, knowledge, experience, competence and time commitment to discharge
his/her role and responsibilities as a Director.
The Nomination Committee shall assess each candidate for new appointment as Director based on the fit
and proper criteria as spelt out in the Policy before recommending to the Board for approval.
For the position of independent non-executive director, the Nomination Committee also evaluates the
candidate’s calibre, credibility and necessary skill and experience to bring an independent judgement
and view to matters under consideration. Upon performing the requisite assessment by the Nomination
Committee, the new nomination of Director will be recommended to the Board for approval.
As for the appointment of Key Senior Management of the Group, it is based on merit and with due regards
for diversity in skills, experience, age and gender.
The Constitution of the Company provides that all Directors shall hold office only until the next Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”) subsequent to their appointment and shall then be eligible for re-election.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
92
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
In respect of the retirement by rotation of Directors, the Constitution provides that at least 1/3 or the
nearest to 1/3 of the Directors for the time being are subject to retirement by rotation at each AGM and
that all Directors are subject to retirement by rotation at least once in every 3 years. The Director who is
subject to retirement at the AGM, shall be eligible for re-election.
A Director who is due for re-election at the AGM will first be assessed by the Nomination Committee on
his performance and contribution, who will then submit its recommendation to the Board for deliberation
and endorsement. Thereafter, shareholders’ approval will be sought for the re-election.
Information of the Director standing for re-election such as his personal profile, attendance of meetings
and shareholdings are available in this Annual Report for the shareholders to make an informed decision.
Independence of Directors
The Independent Non-Executive Directors are not involved in the day-to-day management of the Company
and not full-time salaried employees. They contribute independent views to matters under consideration
and provide wide and unfettered perspective on issues. They also bring to the Board integrity and a
strong sense of ethics as well as ensuring effective check and balance in the functioning of the Board.
In line with the amended Listing Requirements, the Board Charter provides that the tenure of an
Independent Director shall not be more than a cumulative period of 12 years. Consequently, two long
serving Independent Directors impacted by this limitation, Datuk Oh Chong Peng and Dato’ Seri Zainal
Abidin bin Mahamad Zain, were redesignated as Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors of the
Company effective from 31 May 2023.
Each Independent Director shall be subject to the Independent Director’s Self-Assessment for Annual
Declaration of Independence and the annual Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation to ensure that each
of them continues to fulfill the definition of independence as set out in the Listing Requirements.
Based on both the results of the Independent Director’s Self-Assessment for Annual Declaration of
Independence and annual Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation, the Nomination Committee and the
Board were satisfied that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company had continued
to be independent-minded and demonstrate conduct and behaviour that are essential indicators of
independence.
Board Committees
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Board Committees which are necessary to facilitate
efficient decision-making to assist the Board in the execution of its duties, power and authorities. The
Committees assist the Board in its duties by preparing and reviewing in more detail matters falling within
the competence of the Board. The functions and terms of reference of all the Board Committees are
clearly defined in the Board Charter and are available on the Company’s website. The Chairman of the
various committees will report to the Board on the outcome of the respective Committee meetings and
such reports are incorporated in the minutes of the Board meeting.
The Board has 3 permanent committees namely, Audit & Risk Management Committee, Nomination
Committee and Remuneration Committee. The Board retains full responsibility for the direction and
control of the Company and the Group.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee shall comprise exclusively of non-executive directors, a majority of whom
must be independent. The Committee currently consists of 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors and
1 Non-Independent Non-Executive Director as follows:
Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris (Chairman) Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Quah Poh Keat Independent Non-Executive Director
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
93
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are as follows:
a. To review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the
Board with regard to any adjustments that are deemed necessary and to recommend Directors to
Committees of the Board;
b. To be responsible for identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board
vacancies as and when they arise as well as put in place plans for succession, in particular, of the
Chairman and the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director;
c. To review the required mix of skills and experience and other qualities and competencies which
Non-Executive Directors should bring to the Board and to assess the effectiveness of the Board,
Committees of the Board and contributions of Directors of the Board;
d. To review the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and to ensure at least 1/3 of
the Board is comprised of Independent Directors in compliance with the Listing Requirements;
e. To recommend to the Board for the continuation (or not) in service of an Executive Director as an
Executive or Non-Executive Director;
f. To recommend Directors who are retiring by rotation to be put forward for re-election; and
g. To recommend to the Board the employment of the services of such advisers as it deems necessary
to fulfill its responsibilities.
The Nomination Committee had conducted the Performance Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees
and Individual Director for year 2023 via questionnaires which were completed by each Director
on a confidential basis. The questionnaires comprised a Board and Board Committees Performance
Evaluation, an Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation and an Independent Director’s Self-Assessment
for Annual Declaration of Independence. The effectiveness of the Board was assessed in the areas of
composition, operations, roles and responsibilities, addressing the Company’s material sustainability
risks and opportunities and performance of the Chairman.
In the evaluation of each Board Committee, its effectiveness was assessed in terms of its composition,
level of assistance to the Board, fulfilment of the roles by each member of the Committee and effectiveness
of its Chairman.
Meanwhile, the individual Director was assessed based on his/her contribution to interaction, quality
of input, understanding of his/her role and fit and proper criteria to ensure that each of the Directors
possesses the character, integrity, relevant range of skills, knowledge, experience, competence and time
commitment to discharge his/her role and responsibilities as a Director.
Results of the assessments and areas which required improvement were compiled and reviewed by the
Nomination Committee. For the overall results of the assessments, the Board and Board Committees had
achieved the strong ratings.
Having been satisfied with the results of the assessments, the Nomination Committee had recommended
to the Board that:
• The Board and Board Committees had been able to discharge their duties and responsibilities
professionally and effectively.
• Each of the Directors continued to perform, contribute and devote sufficient time in fulfilling his/her
role and responsibility towards an effective Board.
• All the Independent Directors complied with the definition of Independent Director as defined in the
Listing Requirements.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
94
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
• All the Independent Directors had remained objective and independent in expressing their views and
in exercising their decision-making.
• Shareholders’ approval be sought at the forthcoming AGM for the re-election of Mr Quah Poh Keat,
Datin Paduka Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris and Mr Lim Pang Boon who are retiring by rotation and being
eligible, have offered themselves for re-election.
III. Remuneration
Remuneration Policies for Directors and Senior Management
The remuneration framework for executive directors and senior management has an underlying objective
of attracting and retaining directors and senior management needed to run the Company successfully.
The Company has in place a remuneration policy which linked the remuneration package of the Executive
Directors and Senior Management to the corporate and individual performance. The remuneration
package of the Executive Directors and Senior Management comprises the basic salary, performance
incentive and other benefits as are laid down by the Company’s rules and regulations from time to time.
Their remuneration packages are periodically reviewed to keep abreast with the changes in the market
and industry as well as to motivate and retain the talents to pursue the long-term goals of the Group.
The policy to determine the remuneration of Directors is provided in the Board Charter. The Non-Executive
Directors are paid Directors’ fees, Board Committees’ fixed allowance and meeting allowance for each
Board and Board Committee meeting they attend. In addition, the Company reimburses reasonable
expenses incurred by the Directors in the course of discharging their duties.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee shall comprise mainly of non-executive directors. The Committee currently
consists of 2 Independent Non-Executive Directors and 2 Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors as
follows:
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon (Chairman) Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Datuk Oh Chong Peng Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman
Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Maznah bin Abdul Jalil Independent Non-Executive Director
The terms of reference of the Committee are as follows:
a. To determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the
Company’s or Group’s Chief Executive and other Senior Management staff of the Company or Group;
b. To determine and recommend to the Board any performance related pay schemes for the Company
or Group;
c. To determine the policy for and scope of service agreements for the executive directors, termination
payments and compensation commitments;
d. To oversee any major changes in employee remuneration and benefit structures throughout the
Company or Group;
e. To produce an annual report of the Committee’s remuneration policy for Board members which will
form part of the Company/Group’s annual report and accounts; and
f. To recommend to the Board the appointment of the services of such advisers or consultants as it
deems necessary to fulfill its responsibilities.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
95
The Committee reviews and recommends for the Board’s consideration the Directors’ fees, Board
Committees’ fixed allowance and meeting allowance. In reviewing and recommending the Directors’ fees,
the Committee ensures that the level of remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors commensurate with
their scope of responsibilities and contributions to the effective functioning of the Group. The Committee
also reviews and recommends the yearly salary increment and performance incentives of the Senior
Management for the Board’s approval.
Executive Director will abstain from deliberations and voting decisions in respect of his remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration will be a matter to be decided by the Board as a whole with
the Director concerned abstaining from deliberations and voting decisions in respect of his individual
remuneration. The Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors are subject to yearly approval by
the shareholders at the AGM.
Details of the Directors’ remuneration paid or payable or otherwise made to all Directors of the Company
in respect of financial year 2023 are disclosed in the CG Report.
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. Audit & Risk Management Committee
The composition, duties and responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Management Committee together with its
report are presented on pages 101 to 104 of this Annual Report.
II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Group has a sound system of internal control which covers not only financial controls but also
operational, compliance and risk management. The system of internal control provides reasonable but
not absolute assurance against material misstatements, losses and fraud.
The Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control as set out on pages 105 to 109 of this Annual
Report provides an overview of the state of internal controls within the Group.
PRINCIPLE C: 
INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL
RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
I. Engagement with Stakeholders
Financial Reporting
The Directors take responsibility for presenting a balanced and objective assessment of the Group’s
financial performance and prospects primarily through the quarterly and annual financial announcements
of results. In addition, the Chairman’s Statement and Management Discussion and Analysis are also
contained in this Annual Report as important source of information for shareholders, analysts and investors
to review the Group’s financial and business performance.
The Group’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with the requirements of the applicable
approved accounting standards in Malaysia and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016. Efforts
are made to ensure that in presenting the financial statements, the appropriate accounting policies,
consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates are being used.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
96
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
Corporate Disclosure
The Company is mindful of the importance to disseminate information to shareholders and investors in
a prompt and timely manner in order for informed decision to be made. As such, the Board has always
stressed for all material information to be announced immediately upon available. This is not only for
compliance with the Listing Requirements but also to avoid insider trading.
Communication with Stakeholders
The timely release of quarterly financial results, the issuance of the Company’s Annual Reports and
Circular/Statement to Shareholders as well as the announcements to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
and Press Releases on quarterly financial announcements, material information and corporate proposals
are the principal channels for dissemination of information to its investors, stakeholders and the public
generally.
The Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my provides quick access to information on the Group. The
information available on the website of the Company includes, amongst others, the Corporate Profile,
Directors’ Profile, Financial Results, Annual Reports, Announcements released to Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad, Research Reports, Constitution of the Company, Board Charter, Terms of Reference
of Board Committees, Corporate Governance Overview Statement, Corporate Governance Report,
Sustainability Report, Minutes of General Meetings, Code of Conduct, Policy and Guidelines on Gifts
and Entertainment, Whistle Blowing Policy, Policy and Guidelines on Antitrust, Directors’ Fit and Proper
Policy, Human Rights and Labour Standard Policy, dividend information, corporate news, operations and
products of the Group.
From time to time, the designated Senior Management also has dialogues with fund managers, research
analysts and media on the strategies, performance and prospects of the Group.
In addition, information was also provided to shareholders and/or investors in the replies to their enquiries
via the email address at ir@mflour.com.my.
As there may be instances where investors and shareholders may prefer to express their concerns to
an independent director, the Board had appointed Mr Quah Poh Keat as the Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director to whom concerns may be directed. At all times, investors and shareholders may
contact the Company Secretary for information on the Group.
The Group continues to engage with each of its stakeholders such as shareholders, investors, regulators,
customers, suppliers, employees and other communities through a variety of approaches to address their
concerns and maintain an open communication. The summary of the engagement platforms with the
various stakeholders is provided in the Sustainability Report on page 34 of this Annual Report.
II. Conduct of General Meetings
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective communication with the shareholders
and the general public. All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company’s General Meetings and
to participate in the proceedings.
In line with best corporate governance practice, the Notice of AGM is issued to the shareholders 28 days
prior to the meeting to provide them sufficient time to prepare, participate and make informed voting
decision at the AGM.
The Company had successfully conducted its virtual AGM on 16 May 2023 through live streaming and
online remote voting using Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
97
The conduct of the virtual General Meeting was in compliance with the Constitution of the Company
which allows General Meeting to be held using any technology or electronic means.
As precautionary measure to prevent the spread of COVID-19 pandemic and taking into consideration
the well-being of shareholders and all participants, only the Chairman, the Board, Chief Financial Officer,
Company Secretary and other essential persons were allowed to be physically present at the broadcast
venue while the meeting participants participated in the AGM remotely.
As an effort to encourage engagement with the shareholders, questions in relation to the agenda items,
business and performance of the Company may be emailed to the Company by the shareholders prior to
the General Meeting at any time from the day of notice of General Meeting and up to 48 hours before the
meeting. On the day of the meeting, every opportunity was given to the shareholders to ask questions and
seek clarification during the live webcast by posing questions through the messaging window facility of
the Virtual Meeting Portal which was opened concurrently with the Virtual Meeting Portal an hour before
the commencement of the meeting.
Questions posed by shareholders were read out during the “Questions and Answers” session and the
Chairman, Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director or Chief Financial Officer had responded
to all the relevant questions raised and provided clarification accordingly. As such, the shareholders had
experienced real time interaction with the Board during the General Meeting.
During the AGM, the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director had also presented the overview
of the financial performance of the Group and business outlook.
In accordance with the Listing Requirements, all the resolutions set out in the notice of the AGM were
voted by poll. All the shareholders who participated in the AGM remotely had voted on all the resolutions
using the RPEV facilities. An independent scrutineer for the electronic poll voting process was appointed
to verify all the votes. Upon verifying the votes, the scrutineer announced the voting results which were
displayed on the screen. The poll results were subsequently announced to Bursa Securities on the same
day.
The full minutes of the AGM detailing the meeting proceedings, including issues and concerns raised by
the shareholders together with the responses of the Company, were published on the Company’s website
for the information and benefit of all the shareholders of the Company no later than 30 business days after
the conclusion of the General Meeting.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
98
Additional Compliance Information
The following information is provided in compliance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market
Listing Requirements.
1. Utilisation of Proceeds Raised from Corporate Proposals
(a) Disposal of 49% equity interest pursuant to strategic partnership with Tyson International Holding
Company (“Tyson”).
On 31 May 2021, the share purchase agreement (“SPA”) entered into between the Company and
Tyson for the disposal of 49% equity interest in Dindings Tyson Sdn Bhd (“DTSB”), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of the Company, to Tyson for a total disposal consideration of up to RM420,000,000 to
be satisfied wholly by cash, in conjunction with the proposed strategic partnership with Tyson, was
completed.
The disposal consideration is to be received in 3 tranches - Initial Consideration, First Earnout
Consideration and Second Earnout Consideration. The Initial Consideration and the First Earnout
Consideration have been received in 2021 and 2023 respectively. The Second Earnout Consideration
will be assessed, subject to conditions being met, based on the financial targets of DTSB Group for
the financial year ended (“FYE”) 2023.
Based on the Profit Guarantee Account, the EBITDA (earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and
amortisation) of DTSB Group for the FYE 2021 was less than RM54 million and as such Tyson was
entitled to the Profit Guarantee Payment of RM15 million. On 16 August 2022, the Company remitted
the Profit Guarantee Payment of RM15 million to Tyson. The net Initial Consideration proceeds were
RM169.944 million after deducting the Profit Guarantee Payment of RM15 million.
The summary of the utilisation of Initial Consideration proceeds is as follows:-
Description of
Utilisation of Proceeds
Initial
Consideration
Proceeds
(RM’000)
Actual
Utilisation
(RM’000)
Balance of Initial
Consideration
Proceeds
Unutilised as at
31 March 2024
(RM’000)
Expected Time
Frame for
Utilisation of
Proceeds (from
date of receipt of
the proceeds)
Repayment of bank
borrowings
170,944 170,944 - Within 6 months
Estimated expenses in
relation to the Strategic
Partnership
14,000 # 14,060 - Within 1 month
Total 184,944 185,004 -
Profit Guarantee
Payment
(15,000)
Net Total 169,944
# The additional expenses incurred were paid from working capital.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
99
For FYE 2022, DTSB Group’s EBITDA was greater than the targeted EBITDA of RM141 million but the
net Debt was higher than the targeted net Debt of RM44 million. As such, the First Earnout Consideration
was adjusted to RM119.971 million and received on 13 December 2023, which was lower than the
estimated First Earnout Consideration of RM140 million.
The summary of the utilisation of First Earnout Consideration proceeds is as follows:-
Description of
Utilisation of Proceeds
First Earnout
Consideration
Proceeds
(RM’000)
Actual
Utilisation
(RM’000)
Balance of
First Earnout
Consideration
Proceeds
Unutilised as at
31 March 2024
(RM’000)
Expected Time
Frame for
Utilisation of
Proceeds (from
date of receipt of
the proceeds)
Repayment of bank
borrowings
119,971 119,971 - Within 6 months
Total 119,971 119,971 -
(b) Rights Issue
The Company has on 28 January 2019 completed its Rights Issue of Redeemable Convertible
Unsecured Loan Stocks (“RCULS”) and Rights Issue of Shares with free Warrants and Bonus Shares
(collectively referred to as the “Rights Issue”). Pursuant to the Rights Issue, 165,084,641 RCULS at
100% of its nominal value of RM1.00 and 220,113,744 Rights Shares of RM0.50 each were issued
and cash proceeds of RM275,141,513 were raised.
The summary of the utilisation of Rights Issue proceeds is as follows:-
Description of
Utilisation of Proceeds
Rights Issue
Proceeds
(RM’000)
Actual
Utilisation
(RM’000)
Balance of
Rights Issue
Proceeds
Unutilised as at
31 March 2024
(RM’000)
Expected Time
Frame for
Utilisation of
Proceeds (from
date of receipt of
the proceeds)
Capital expenditure and
repayment of revolving
credit loans drawn
to finance the capital
expenditure
216,761 216,761 - @ Within 3 years
Repayment of revolving
credit loans drawn to
finance working capital
requirement
54,798 54,798 - Within 1 year
Estimated expenses for
the Rights Issue
3,583 # 3,954 - Within 1 month
Total 275,142 275,513 -
@ The time frame for the utilisation of proceeds has been extended for another 1 year from
28 January 2021 until 28 January 2022.
# The additional expenses incurred were paid from working capital.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
100
The proceeds to be raised from the exercise of the 137,570,667 Warrants issued pursuant to the
Rights Issue at the exercise price of the Warrants of RM0.68 each are dependent on the total number
of Warrants exercised during the tenure of the Warrants. Such proceeds, if and when the Warrants are
exercised, will be used for working capital purposes.
Up to the Warrants’ expiry date of 23 January 2024, cash proceeds of RM690,256 were raised from
the exercise of 1,015,082 Warrants. Upon expiry date, the total number of Warrants which remained
unexercised was 136,555,585 and has automatically lapsed.
Upon RCULS’s maturity date of 24 January 2024, a total of 216,110,328 new ordinary shares were
issued and allotted arising from the full conversion of RM108,055,164 nominal value of RCULS at the
conversion price of RM0.50 each.
2. Audit and Non-Audit Fees
The amount of audit fees and non-audit fees paid or payable to the Company’s external auditors, KPMG
PLT, member firms of KPMG International Limited and local affiliates of KPMG PLT by the Group and the
Company for financial year 2023 are as follows:
Group
(RM’000)
Company
(RM’000)
Audit Fees 413 130
Non-Audit Fees 126 104
Total 539 234
3. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’
and major shareholders’ interests either subsisting as at 31 December 2023 or entered into since the end
of the previous financial year except for the related party transactions disclosed in Note 28 to the financial
statements on pages 189 and 190 of this Annual Report.
4. Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
The Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature are disclosed in Note 28 to the
financial statements on page 189 of this Annual Report.
Additional Compliance Information (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
101
Audit & Risk Management
Committee Report
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“the Company”) is pleased to present the
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 2023.
Composition
Chairman: Quah Poh Keat
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Members: Datuk Oh Chong Peng
(Non-Independent Non-Executive Chairman)
		
Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
The Audit & Risk Management Committee (“the Committee”) comprises 3 members, a majority of whom are
Independent Non-Executive Directors. This meets the requirements of paragraph 15.09(1)(a) and (b) of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”).
Chairman of the Committee, Mr Quah Poh Keat is a Fellow of the Malaysian Institute of Taxation (“MIT”) and
the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (“FCCA”) and a member of the MIA, the MICPA and the
Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (“CIMA”) whilst Datuk Oh Chong Peng, is a Fellow of the
Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales (“ICAEW”) as well as a member of the Malaysian
Institute of Certified Public Accountants (“MICPA”) and the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”). Hence,
the Company complies with paragraph 15.09(1)(c)(i) of the Listing Requirements.
The Nomination Committee assesses the performance of the Committee and its members through an annual
Board Committee evaluation as well as reviews the terms of office of the members of the Committee. The
Nomination Committee is satisfied that the Committee and its members have discharged their duties and
responsibilities in accordance with its Terms of Reference and has supported the Board well in reviewing the
financial statements, internal control and risk management.
Meetings
During the year, the Committee held 5 meetings and the details of the attendance of each member of the
Committee are as follows:
Members Attendance
Quah Poh Keat 5/5
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 5/5
Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil 5/5
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 3/3*
* Resigned as member of the Committee effective from 31 May 2023
At the request of the Committee, the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director and Chief Financial
Officer had attended the meetings to advise, clarify and address matters discussed at the meetings.
The Internal Audit and Risk Management Function had attended the quarterly meetings of the Committee to
report on the internal audit plan and internal audit and risk management reports.
During the year, the representatives of the external auditors had also attended the meetings of the Committee
to present their Audit Plan, Audit Status and the annual audit report on the audit of financial statements.
The Company Secretary of the Company is the Secretary of the Committee. The Secretary maintains minutes
of the proceedings of the meetings of the Committee.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
102
Terms of Reference
The Committee is governed by its terms of reference which describe its composition, authority, duties and
responsibilities. The Terms of Reference is available on the Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my.
Summary of the Work of the Committee
The work carried out by the Committee in the discharge of its duties and responsibilities in line with its Terms
of Reference during the financial year ended 31 December 2023 were as follows:
a. Financial Reporting
i. Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results and announcements before recommending them
to the Board for approval.
ii. Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”)
and of the Company prior to submission to the Board for approval.
iii. Reviewed the impact of the changes to the accounting policies and adoption of new accounting
standards and treatments used in the financial statements.
b. Internal Audit
i. The Internal Audit and Risk Management Function presented the comprehensive internal audit plan
which had been undertaken to evaluate and identify the companies and operational auditable areas
to be audited within the Group. The Committee reviewed the annual internal audit plan to ensure
adequate scope and coverage of the activities of the Group.
Subsequently, the Committee reviewed the progress status of the internal audit plan presented by the
Internal Audit and Risk Management Function at its quarterly meeting.
ii. Reviewed the internal audit and risk management reports submitted and presented by the Internal
Audit and Risk Management Function at the quarterly meeting of the Committee. The Committee
appraised the adequacy of actions and remedial measures taken by the management in resolving
audit issues reported and recommended further improvement measures.
c. External Audit
i. Reviewed with the external auditors, KPMG PLT, on their Audit Plan prior to commencement of the
audit. The Engagement Partner of KPMG PLT presented the Audit Plan for the Group for financial year
2023 which entailed the engagement team, audit scope, audit timeline and audit focus areas.
ii. Reviewed the proposed fees for the statutory audit, review of the Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control and review of Group Reporting Package and Audit Working Papers of component
auditors. The proposed fees were then recommended by the Committee to the Board for approval.
iii. Discussed and reviewed the Group’s financial statements with the external auditors including issues
and findings noted in the course of the audit.
iv. Reviewed and approved the non-assurance services to be performed by KPMG PLT which were
separate from the statutory audit of financial statements and required pre-approval from Those
Charged with Governance. The non-assurance services were mainly the corporate tax advisory for
tax compliance related matters.
Audit & Risk Management
Committee Report (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
103
v. The external auditors had provided their written assurance that they were independent of the Group
and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice)
of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board
for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International
Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”) and they had fulfilled the other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
The external auditors had also implemented a number of firm-wide ethics and independence systems
to monitor compliance with their policies in relation to independence and ethics.
Besides the written assurance from the external auditors on their independence, input from the
Company personnel, who had substantial contact with the external auditors throughout the year, on
the quality of service provided, independence, objectivity and professional skepticism of the external
auditors via questionnaires was obtained for the Committee’s annual evaluation of the external
auditors. Subsequently, the Committee conducted an assessment on the performance, technical
competency, suitability and independence of the external auditors throughout the conduct of their
audit engagement and being satisfied with the suitability and independence of the external auditors,
the Committee recommended to the Board for approval on the re-appointment of the external auditors
at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
d. Risk Management
i. Reviewed the Audit & Risk Management Committee Report before recommending it for approval by
the Board for inclusion in the Annual Report.
ii. Reviewed the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”) which was prepared
by the Committee, being the delegated committee of the Board responsible for the preparation of the
SORMIC.
Upon the review by the external auditors, who were engaged to provide an independent limited
assurance on the SORMIC, the Committee recommended the SORMIC to the Board for adoption and
disclosure in the Annual Report.
The Committee authorised the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director of the Company
and the Chief Financial Officer to sign the Letter of Representation in respect of the Board’s SORMIC,
for and on behalf of the Committee.
Internal Audit Function
The Group outsourced its internal audit and risk management function to an independent professional
company, Baker Tilly Monteiro Heng Governance Sdn Bhd, which operates independently from the operating
units. The Internal Audit and Risk Management Function (“IARMF”) undertook the internal audit functions
based on the risk-based audit plans that were reviewed and approved by the Committee.
The purpose, authority and responsibility of the IARMF as well as the nature of the assurance and consultancy
activities provided by the function are articulated in the Internal Audit Charter.
The IARMF reported directly to the Committee who reviewed and approved the IARMF’s annual audit plan,
financial budget and human resource requirements to ensure that the function was adequately resourced with
competent and proficient internal auditors.
During the year, the IARMF conducted various internal audit engagements in accordance with the risk-based
internal audit plan to assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control systems.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
104
On a quarterly basis, the results of the internal audit reviews and recommendations for improvement were
presented at the Audit & Risk Management Committee Meetings, and subsequently reported to the Board.
In addition, the status of the implementation of corrective actions to address control weaknesses is also
followed up by the IARMF to ensure that these actions have been satisfactorily implemented.
The total costs incurred for maintaining the IARMF for year 2023 were approximately RM206,118.
Audit & Risk Management
Committee Report (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
105
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“MFM”) is pleased to present this
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control in accordance with paragraph 15.26(b) of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements.
Board Responsibility
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing a sound risk management framework and internal
control system. The Board’s responsibilities include:-
• Determine the Group’s level of risk tolerance and actively identify, assess and monitor key business risks
to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets;
• Committed to articulating, implementing and reviewing the Group’s internal control system; and
• Periodic testing of the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control procedures and processes to
ensure that the system is viable and robust.
The internal control systems are designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure and can only
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Internal Control
Risk Management
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process and risk management plan in place to identify, evaluate
and manage significant risks faced by the Group.
During the year and up to the date of approval of this statement, discussions were conducted at different
levels of management to identify and address risks identified in the Group. The assessment of significant
risks and the execution of relevant mitigating action plans are part of the operational activities of the Group.
Risk Management is an integral part of our business operations and this process goes through a review by the
Board. As part of the process, the key business risks are identified by the respective operations of the Group.
The impact and likelihood of occurrence of these risks are then evaluated and documented. Based on the
results of the above evaluation, these risks are categorised into 4 ratings: Low, Medium, High and Extreme.
Appropriate action plans and control measures are put in place to mitigate these risks.
Risk Management Framework
The Group has in place a formal risk management process to identify, evaluate, mitigate, monitor and review
risks impacting the Group. Objectives would be broadly organisation-wide taking into consideration a variety
of risks (i.e. strategic, operational, compliance & reporting risks) as well as more narrowly defined business
units, function or departmental risks (i.e. sales, credit control, accounts receivable, purchasing, accounts
payable, production planning, quality control, human resource, etc.). Once those scopes had been defined,
the possible risks deemed likely to occur would be rated in terms of their impact or severity and likelihood or
probability. The result can be compiled into a “risk profile” detailing the risk score which each business unit,
function or department is contributing to the overall risk score.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
106
Internal Audit and Risk Management Function will carry out a yearly review of the risk scorecards and update
them accordingly together with the management of respective business units.
Any significant risk that requires the Board’s attention will be highlighted via a Flash Report. Key risks
highlighted in the Flash Report will be used by internal audit in developing internal audit plan.
Control Structure
• The Board meets regularly to monitor and review the overall performance of the Group, to consider the
findings and recommendations of committees and senior management and to consider and approve
measures to be taken and changes in policies and procedures necessary to address risks and to enhance
the system of internal control.
• An independent Internal Audit and Risk Management Function reports directly to the Audit & Risk
Management Committee. Internal audit plans are reviewed and approved by the Audit & Risk Management
Committee and the plans are to monitor compliance with and adequacy of the Group’s system of internal
control and to provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control including
policies and procedures. Follow-up reviews on the previous audit reports were carried out to ensure that
appropriate actions have been implemented to address control weaknesses highlighted.
• The Group has in place an organisation structure with proper segregation of duties and reporting
procedures and authorisation limits and all heads of business units and departments are accountable for
ensuring the effective implementation of established policies and procedures.
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
107
• The Group has in place a management reporting mechanism whereby financial information is generated
and reviewed by management and the Board on a regular basis. Performance and results are monitored on
a monthly basis against the results of corresponding period of prior year, with major variances explained
and appropriate action taken or plans put in place.
• The Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director meets with the senior management regularly
to review and resolve key operational, financial, personnel and other key management issues, including
issues of risks and internal controls. Significant issues are highlighted and discussed at Board meetings.
• The Credit Committee meets regularly to conduct credit reviews, monitor receivables, progress of legal
cases and formulates credit procedures and policies.
• The training and development programs are established to enhance and improve employee competencies
and proficiencies. This is implemented through a combination of on-the-job training and classroom
training courses.
• The Group Code of Conduct is established to set out the ethical standards to all employees in their
dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors, the wider community
and the environment.
• The Group has adopted the Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment as part of its measures to
avoid conflict of interest and prevention of bribery and corruption in compliance with Section 17A of the
Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009.
• The Whistle Blowing policy is in place with the objective of providing all stakeholders a mechanism to
raise genuine concerns on unethical behaviour or any misconduct.
• The Group has the Policy and Guidelines on Antitrust (“the Policy”) in place to comply with all applicable
antitrust and competition laws wherever it does business with. As any violation of the antitrust laws can
have serious consequences to the Group, it is the responsibility of every employee of the Group to fully
comply with the Policy.
Significant Risk Factors relating to MFM Group
a. Business risks
The Group is principally involved in activities within the food manufacturing and livestock industries.
As such, the Group is susceptible to business risks in these industries which include but not limited to
demand and competition in the food manufacturing and livestock market, supply of labour and increase
in the cost of labour and raw material prices. We continuously seek to limit these risks through amongst
others, careful planning of supplies and prudent management of our business.
b. Availability and cost of raw materials
Raw materials i.e. wheat, corn and soybean meal contribute to a significant proportion of our total cost
of production. These materials are commodities and their availability and prices are dependent on market
conditions. Any increase in raw material prices will inevitably affect the Group’s profitability and results of
operations. Further, if there is a shortage of these materials, we may find it difficult to obtain the amount
of materials required at prices that are commercially acceptable. We have taken relevant steps to hedge
our exposure to these price fluctuations by entering into futures contracts. In addition, we have good
business relationships with our long term major suppliers and where possible, source our supplies from
a variety of suppliers.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
108
c. Biosecurity
In combating biosecurity risks, the Group will continue to keep abreast with the latest development
and work closely with authorities and subject matter experts. People and livestock will continue to be
exposed to diseases and viruses, and possibly mutated strains in the future. Nevertheless, management
will continue to embrace robust risk management practices to cushion the negative financial impact.
Disease and Virus
Livestock is vulnerable to diseases and viruses, changes in weather conditions and the environment.
Adverse situations such as these will also affect the demand for feeds. The Group has strict biosecurity
measures in place at its hatchery facilities and poultry farms, closed house system at the poultry farms
and structured vaccination programs with pharmaceutical companies for disease prevention and control.
These, lower the risk of bird mortality, ensure undisrupted operations for food security as well as protect
the environment and the health of the workers.
COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic has developed rapidly in 2020, with a significant number of cases. Measures
taken by the government to contain the virus have affected economic activities. We have taken a number
of measures to monitor and mitigate the effects of COVID-19, such as safety and health measures for our
people (e.g. social distancing, working from home and others) and securing the supply of materials that
are essential to our production process.
As we operate in the food industry (an essential service), we expect demand for our products to continue.
We will continue our operations in the best and safest way possible without jeopardising the health of our
people.
d. Food Safety & Quality
Ensuring safe and nutritious food products are crucial for the Group to meet the relevant food standards,
consumer expectations, its branding and reputation. As its commitment to food safety and quality, the
Group has obtained the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (“HACCP”) certification, Food Safety
System Certification (“FSSC”) 22000, HALAL certification, MS 1514: 2009 (Good Manufacturing Practice
for Food), ISO 9001 (Quality Management System), ISO 22000 (Food Safety Management System),
Malaysian Good Agricultural Practices Certification Scheme (“myGAP”) and MeSTI (Food Safety is
Responsibility of the Industry) certification. With all these certifications and food management systems,
food safety and quality are addressed through the analysis and control of biological, chemical, and
physical hazards from raw material production, procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution
and consumption of the finished products.
e. Foreign exchange fluctuations
The Group is exposed to foreign exchange risk on sales, purchases of raw materials and borrowings that
are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of the Group entities. The
currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar (“USD”) and Vietnamese Dong (“VND”).
As such, we have taken sufficient steps to monitor closely our exposure to the foreign currency movements
and where appropriate, hedge our financial exposure to the foreign currency fluctuations by entering into
forward contracts. However, there can be no assurance that any significant changes in exchange rate
fluctuations or foreign exchange control regulations will not have any adverse impact upon the Group’s
business.
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
109
Review of this Statement by External Auditors
The external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control in accordance
with Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3, Guidance for Auditors on Engagements to Report on the
Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control Included in the Annual Report issued by the Malaysian
Institute of Accountants (“MIA”) for inclusion in the annual report of the Group for the financial year ended
31 December 2023 and reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention that cause them to
believe that this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, in all material respects, has not been
prepared in accordance with the disclosures required by paragraphs 41 and 42 of the Statement on Risk
Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, or is factually inaccurate.
AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to consider whether this Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the
Group’s risk management and internal control system including the assessment and opinion by the Board
of Directors and Management thereon. The External Auditors are also not required to consider whether the
processes described to deal with material internal control aspects of any significant problems disclosed in the
annual report will, in fact, remedy the problems.
Additionally, they are not required to perform any procedures by way of audit, review or verification of the
underlying records or other sources from which this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control was
extracted.
Conclusion
Based on the processes set out above, the Board is of the view that the Group’s system of risk management
and internal control are adequate and effective to safeguard the shareholders’ investment and the Group’s
assets and has received assurance from both the Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director and
Chief Financial Officer in this respect. Nevertheless, the Board and Management are committed towards
operating a sound system of internal control and the internal control systems will continue to be reviewed,
added or updated in line with the changes in the operating environment.
The Group’s system of internal control applies to Malayan Flour Mills Berhad, its subsidiaries and joint venture
company, Dindings Tyson Sdn Bhd and its subsidiaries only. Joint venture company, PT Bungasari Flour Mills
Indonesia, is excluded as it has its own internal audit function while an associate is excluded because it has
ceased its operation. However, the Group’s interests in its material joint venture and associate are served
through representations on the Board of Directors of the respective joint venture and associated company.
Statement made in accordance with the resolution of the Directors dated 4 April 2024.
112 Directors’ Responsibility Statement
113 Directors’ Report
120 Balance Sheets
122 Income Statements
124 Statements of Comprehensive Income
125 Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
126 Statement of Changes in Equity
127 Statements of Cash Flows
131 Notes to the Financial Statements
191 Statement by Directors
192 Statutory Declaration
193 Independent Auditors’ Report
REPORTS &
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
112
In respect of the preparation of the audited financial statements, the Directors are required by the Companies
Act 2016 to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Group and the Company and their results, and cash flows for that year.
In preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2023, the Directors have:
• Used appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• Made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
• Stated whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept and which disclose with
reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that
the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2016. They also have a general responsibility for
taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company to prevent and detect fraud
and other irregularities.
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
For the Audited Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
113
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 December 2023
The Directors hereby submit their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and of the Company
for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
Principal activities
The Company is principally engaged in the business of milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grain and
other allied products, whilst the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 7 to the financial
statements. There has been no significant change in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
Subsidiaries
The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
Results
				 Group Company
				RM’000 RM’000
Profit/(Loss) for the year attributable to:
Owners of the Company				 (6,681) (70,444)
Non-controlling interests 11,966 -
				 5,285 (70,444)
Reserves and provisions
There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year under review
except as disclosed in the financial statements.
Dividends
Since the end of the previous financial year, the Company paid:
(i) an interim single tier dividend of 1.50 sen per ordinary share totalling approximately RM15,315,000 in
respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2022 on 24 March 2023; and
(ii) an interim single tier dividend of 1.50 sen per ordinary share totalling approximately RM15,338,000 in
respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023 on 29 September 2023.
On 29 February 2024, the Directors declared a second interim single tier dividend of 1.50 sen per ordinary
share totalling approximately RM18,587,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023, which
was paid on 29 March 2024.
The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year under review.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
114
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 December 2023 (cont’d)
Directors of the Company
Directors who served during the financial year until the date of this report are:
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Teh Wee Chye
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
Azhari Arshad
Quah Poh Keat
Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris
Lim Pang Boon
Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil
List of Directors of subsidiaries
Pursuant to Section 253 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the list of Directors of the subsidiaries during
the financial year until the date of this report is as follows:
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Teh Wee Chye
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
Azhari Arshad
Lim Pang Boon
Le Cong Anh
Pham Ngoc Tien
Tran Quoc Hoang
Huynh Duc Chinh
Hideki Oya
Chua Kiat Hwa
Khng Poh Leng, Douglas
Tan Keng Seng
Shota Takahashi (Appointed on 1 April 2024)
Takuya Mori (Appointed on 1 April 2024)
Ryuichiro Yasuda (Ceased on 31 March 2024)
Yoshito Manda (Ceased on 31 March 2024)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
115
Directors’ interests
The interests and deemed interests in the ordinary shares, redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks
(“RCULS”) and warrants of the Company and of its related corporations (other than wholly-owned subsidiaries)
of those who were Directors at financial year end (including the interests of the spouses or children of the
Directors who themselves are not Directors of the Company) as recorded in the Register of Directors’
Shareholdings are as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
								 At			 At
								 1.1.2023 Acquired Disposed 31.12.2023
Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Direct interest
Teh Wee Chye 123,764,911 - - 123,764,911
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 23,087 - - 23,087
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 8,250 - - 8,250
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 7,078,500 - - 7,078,500
Lim Pang Boon 488,585 - - 488,585
Azhari Arshad 540,000 60,000 - 600,000
Deemed interest
Teh Wee Chye
- own						63,954,360 - - 63,954,360
- others*					 63,000 - - 63,000
Azhari Arshad 31,239,800 - - 31,239,800
Datin Paduka Setia Dato’
Dr Aini binti Ideris*			 34,000 - - 34,000
Deemed interest of Teh Wee Chye
in subsidiary companies
Muda Fibre Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. 7,000,001 - - 7,000,001
Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. 10,200,000 - - 10,200,000
Interest in capital contribution denominated in
Vietnamese Dong (VND)
								 At			 At
								 1.1.2023 Acquired Disposed 31.12.2023
								 VND’000 VND’000 VND’000 VND’000
Vimaflour Ltd. 345,961,284 - - 345,961,284
 
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
116
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 December 2023 (cont’d)
Directors’ interests (cont’d)
Number of RCULS
								 At			 At
								 1.1.2023 Acquired Disposed 31.12.2023
Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Direct interest
Teh Wee Chye 37,659,395 - - 37,659,395
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 2,000 - - 2,000
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 1,500 - - 1,500
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 1,287,000 - - 1,287,000
Lim Pang Boon 66,120 - - 66,120
Deemed interest
Teh Wee Chye 11,628,065 - - 11,628,065
Azhari Arshad 50,000 - - 50,000
Number of Warrants
								 At			 At
								 1.1.2023 Acquired Disposed 31.12.2023
Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Direct interest
Teh Wee Chye 27,200,944 - - 27,200,944
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 4,387 - - 4,387
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 1,250 - - 1,250
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 1,072,500 - (12,500) 1,060,000
Azhari Arshad 62,500 - - 62,500
Deemed interest
Teh Wee Chye 9,690,052 - - 9,690,052
* Deemed to have interests through spouse and children pursuant to the Section 59(11)(c) of the Companies
Act 2016 in Malaysia.
By virtue of his interest in the shares of the Company, Mr. Teh Wee Chye is also deemed interested in the
shares of the subsidiaries during the financial year to the extent that Malayan Flour Mills Berhad has an
interest.
None of the other Directors holding office at 31 December 2023 had any interests in the ordinary shares,
RCULS and warrants of the Company and of its related corporations during the financial year.
 
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
117
Directors’ benefits
Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled
to receive any benefits (other than those shown below) by reason of a contract made by the Company or a
related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the Director is a member, or with a company in
which the Director has a substantial financial interest.
The Directors’ benefits paid to or receivable by Directors in respect of the financial year ended
31 December 2023 are as follows:
					From
				 From the subsidiary
				 Company companies
				RM’000 RM’000
Directors of the Company:
Fees 924 -
Remuneration 8,242 372
Estimated monetary value of any other benefits 92 -
										 9,258 372
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling
Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.
Issue of shares
During the financial year, the issued and fully paid-up share capital of the Company increased from
RM535,902,000 to RM537,262,000 by way of:
(i) issuance of 2,621,656 new ordinary shares amounting to RM1,311,000 pursuant to the conversion of
1,310,828 RCULS; and
(ii) issuance of 60,607 new ordinary shares amounting to RM49,000 pursuant to the exercise of warrants.
The new ordinary shares issued rank pari passu in all respect with the existing shares of the Company.
There were no other changes in the issued and paid-up capital of the Company during the financial year.
Options granted over unissued shares
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
Indemnity and insurance costs
During the financial year, the amount of insurance premium effected for all Directors and officers of the
Company was RM18,564.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
118
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 December 2023 (cont’d)
Other statutory information
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable
steps to ascertain that:
(i) all known bad debts have been written off and adequate provision made for doubtful debts, and
(ii) any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business have been
written down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.
At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) that would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts
in the Group and in the Company inadequate to any substantial extent, or
(ii) that would render the value attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company misleading, or
(iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of
the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate, or
(iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements that would render any amount stated
in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(i) any charge on the assets of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the financial
year and which secures the liabilities of any other person, or
(ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the
financial year.
No contingent liability or other liability of any company in the Group has become enforceable, or is likely
to become enforceable within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the
opinion of the Directors, will or may substantially affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to meet
their obligations as and when they fall due.
In the opinion of the Directors, except for the loss on remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable
amounting to RM71,065,000 and impairment of investment in a joint venture amounting to RM35,765,000 as
disclosed in Note 21, the financial performance of the Group and of the Company for the financial year ended
31 December 2023 have not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a material and
unusual nature nor has any such item, transaction or event occurred in the interval between the end of that
financial year and the date of this report.
 
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
119
Auditors
The auditors, KPMG PLT, have indicated their willingness to accept re-appointment.
The auditors’ remuneration of the Group and of the Company during the year are RM273,000 and RM169,000
respectively.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Director
Teh Wee Chye
Director
4 April 2024
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
120
		Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 3 446,408 444,476 233,678 245,469
Right-of-use assets 4 16,605 19,028 13,912 15,675
Intangible assets 5 1,450 566 805 351
Investment properties 6 4,826 4,883 4,555 4,612
Investments in subsidiaries 7 - - 141,348 141,348
Investments in joint ventures 8 709,051 693,598 611,617 647,382
Investment in an associate 9 - 1,061 - -
Deferred tax assets 10 6,164 5,771 - -
Other receivables 11 - 71,065 - 71,065
Total non-current assets		 1,184,504 1,240,448 1,005,915 1,125,902
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives 11 408,797 572,297 192,351 355,564
Prepayments 5,408 7,393 3,377 5,649
Inventories 12 523,921 627,831 158,436 202,887
Current tax assets		 4,446 5,932 1,355 2,291
Fixed deposits 13 332,717 157,219 - -
Cash and cash equivalents 14 87,350 86,710 52,952 32,715
		 1,362,639 1,457,382 408,471 599,106
Asset classified as held for sale 15 33,597 33,597 33,597 33,597
Total current assets		 1,396,236 1,490,979 442,068 632,703
Total assets		 2,580,740 2,731,427 1,447,983 1,758,605
Equity
Share capital		 537,262 535,902 537,262 535,902
RCULS - Equity		 77,410 78,694 77,410 78,694
Reserves		 727,282 749,820 308,738 409,842
Total equity attributable to
owners of the Company 16 1,341,954 1,364,416 923,410 1,024,438
Non-controlling interests 7 104,027 101,677 - -
Total equity		 1,445,981 1,466,093 923,410 1,024,438
Balance Sheets
as at 31 December 2023
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
121
The notes set out on pages 131 to 190 are an integral part of these financial statements.
		Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 10 18,136 10,538 17,119 10,534
RCULS - Liabilities 16 - 2,126 - 2,126
Loans and borrowings 17 72,060 120,711 51,000 85,000
Lease liabilities		 9,857 11,353 9,379 10,555
Total non-current liabilities		 100,053 144,728 77,498 108,215
RCULS - Liabilities 16 2,702 5,026 2,702 5,026
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives 18 110,127 125,304 50,575 51,141
Loans and borrowings 17 913,622 984,981 392,483 568,037
Lease liabilities		 1,639 2,070 1,315 1,748
Current tax liabilities		 6,616 3,225 - -
Total current liabilities		 1,034,706 1,120,606 447,075 625,952
Total liabilities		 1,134,759 1,265,334 524,573 734,167
Total equity and liabilities		 2,580,740 2,731,427 1,447,983 1,758,605
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
122
		Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue 19 3,148,901 2,915,570 779,166 678,546
Cost of goods sold		 (2,912,486) (2,674,172) (677,265) (601,462)
Gross profit		 236,415 241,398 101,901 77,084
Other income		 18,829 17,263 40,633 126,663
Distribution expenses		 (92,648) (89,880) (47,447) (45,023)
Administrative expenses		 (31,427) (29,110) (20,574) (19,026)
Net (loss)/gain on impairment of
financial instruments		 (1,357) 1,494 (873) (156)
Other expenses		 (1,342) (15,961) (21) (264)
Results from operating activities 128,470 125,204 73,619 139,278
Interest expense		 (57,154) (41,768) (28,138) (21,199)
Interest income		 25,548 17,186 4,247 2,134
Net finance costs		 (31,606) (24,582) (23,891) (19,065)
Results from operating activities
after net finance costs		 96,864 100,622 49,728 120,213
(Loss)/Write back on remeasurement of
contingent consideration receivable 21 (71,065) 8,819 (71,065) 8,819
Impairment of investment in a joint
venture 8.1 - - (35,765) -
Share of profit of equity-accounted
joint ventures, net of tax 8 5,932 70,020 - -
Share of profit/(loss) of equity-
accounted associate, net of tax		 231 (17) - -
Profit/(Loss) before tax		 31,962 179,444 (57,102) 129,032
Tax expense 20 (26,677) (25,444) (13,342) (4,760)
Profit/(Loss) for the year 21 5,285 154,000 (70,444) 124,272
Income Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2023
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
123
The notes set out on pages 131 to 190 are an integral part of these financial statements.
		Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
(Loss)/Profit attributable to:
Owners of the Company		 (6,681) 145,045 (70,444) 124,272
Non-controlling interests 11,966 8,955 - -
Profit/(Loss) for the year		 5,285 154,000 (70,444) 124,272
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary
share (sen) 22 (0.65) 14.22
Basic earnings per ordinary share
(sen) (adjusted)* 22 6.30 13.36
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary
share (sen) 22 (0.46) 10.67
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
(sen) (adjusted)* 22 5.29 10.03
* The adjusted basic and diluted earnings per share exclude the loss on remeasurement of contingent
consideration receivable of RM71,065,000 in the financial year ended 31 December 2023 (2022: write
back on remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable of RM8,819,000).
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
124
		Group Company
		 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Profit/(Loss) for the year		 5,285 154,000 (70,444) 124,272
Other comprehensive income/(expense)
for the year, net of tax
Item that is or may be reclassified
subsequently to the income statement
Foreign currency translation differences for
foreign operations		
16,050 1,190 - -
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for
the year		 21,335 155,190 (70,444) 124,272
Total comprehensive income/(expense)
attributable to:
Owners of the Company		 8,122 145,008 (70,444) 124,272
Non-controlling interests 13,213 10,182 - -
Total comprehensive income/(expense) for
the year		 21,335 155,190 (70,444) 124,272
The notes set out on pages 131 to 190 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Statements of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2023
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
125
			 Attributable to owners of the Company
		 		 Non-distributable		 Distributable
							
Other				 Non-
				 Share RCULS - Warrant capital Translation Retained		
controlling Total
Group		 Note capital Equity reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
				RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At 1 January 2022		 535,623 78,179 17,770 93,065 (34,407) 564,084 1,254,314 96,242 1,350,556
Foreign currency translation
differences for foreign
operations		 - - - - (37) - (37) 1,227 1,190
Profit for the year		 - - - - - 145,045 145,045 8,955 154,000
Total comprehensive
(expense)/income for the
year			 - - - - (37) 145,045 145,008 10,182 155,190
Conversion of RCULS 16 279 515 - - - - 794 - 794
Exercise of warrants 16 * - ** - - - *** - ***
Dividends to owners of the
Company		 23 - - - - - (35,700) (35,700) (4,747) (40,447)
At 31 December 2022		 535,902 78,694 17,770 93,065 (34,444) 673,429 1,364,416 101,677 1,466,093
				 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16
			 Attributable to owners of the Company
		 		 Non-distributable		 Distributable
							
Other				 Non-
				 Share RCULS - Warrant capital Translation Retained		
controlling Total
Group		 Note capital Equity reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
				RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At 1 January 2023		 535,902 78,694 17,770 93,065 (34,444) 673,429 1,364,416 101,677 1,466,093
Foreign currency translation
differences for foreign
operations		 - - - - 14,803 - 14,803 1,247 16,050
(Loss)/Profit for the year		 - - - - - (6,681) (6,681) 11,966 5,285
Total comprehensive
income/(expense) for the
year			 - - - - 14,803 (6,681) 8,122 13,213 21,335
Conversion of RCULS 16 1,311 (1,284) - - - - 27 - 27
Exercise of warrants 16 49 - (7) - - - 42 - 42
Dividends to owners of the
Company		 23 - - - - - (30,653) (30,653) (10,863) (41,516)
At 31 December 2023		 537,262 77,410 17,763 93,065 (19,641) 636,095 1,341,954 104,027 1,445,981
				 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16
* Denotes increase in share capital by RM41.
** Denotes reduction in warrant reserve by RM7.
*** Denotes exercise of warrants amounting to RM34.
The notes set out on pages 131 to 190 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2023
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
126
Non-distributable Distributable
		 Share RCULS - Warrant Retained Total
Company Note capital Equity reserve earnings equity
		RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At 1 January 2022		 535,623 78,179 17,770 303,500 935,072
Profit and total comprehensive
income for the year
Profit for the year - - - 124,272 124,272
Other comprehensive income for the
year		- - - - -
Total comprehensive income for the
year		- - - 124,272 124,272
Conversion of RCULS 16 279 515 - - 794
Exercise of warrants 16 * - ** - ***
Dividends to owners of the Company 23 - - - (35,700) (35,700)
At 31 December 2022/
1 January 2023		 535,902 78,694 17,770 392,072 1,024,438
Loss and total comprehensive
expense for the year
Loss for the year		 - - - (70,444) (70,444)
Other comprehensive income for the
year		- - - - -
Total comprehensive expense for the
year		- - - (70,444) (70,444)
Conversion of RCULS 16 1,311 (1,284) - - 27
Exercise of warrants 16 49 - (7) - 42
Dividends to owners of the Company 23 - - - (30,653) (30,653)
At 31 December 2023		 537,262 77,410 17,763 290,975 923,410
Note 16 Note 16 Note 16
* Denotes increase in share capital by RM41.
** Denotes reduction in warrant reserve by RM7.
*** Denotes exercise of warrants amounting to RM34.
The notes set out on pages 131 to 190 are an integral part of these financial statements.
Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2023
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
127
		Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cash flows from operating activities
Profit/(Loss) before tax 31,962 179,444 (57,102) 129,032
Adjustments for:
Amortisation of intangible assets 5 330 257 260 165
Bad debt recovered		 (23) - (23) -
Depreciation of investment properties 6 57 58 57 58
Depreciation of property, plant and
equipment 3 34,210 39,372 16,722 20,147
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 4 2,610 2,881 1,913 2,168
Impairment of investment in a joint
venture 8.1 - - 35,765 -
Impairment of investment in an
associate 9 197 - - -
Dividend income		 (3) (4) (25,350) (112,296)
Net gain on disposal of property, plant
and equipment and intangible assets		 (102) (218) (48) (218)
Loss/(Write back) on remeasurement
of contingent consideration
receivable 21 71,065 (8,819) 71,065 (8,819)
Loss on liquidation of subsidiaries		 - 35 - 88
Gain on lease modification		 (9) (196) (9) (196)
Interest expense		 57,154 41,768 28,138 21,199
Interest income		 (25,548) (17,186) (4,247) (2,134)
Net loss/(gain) on impairment of
financial assets		 1,357 (1,494) 873 156
Property, plant and equipment
written off		 20 295 19 58
Share of profit of equity-accounted
joint ventures, net of tax 8 (5,932) (70,020) - -
Share of (profit)/loss of equity-
accounted associate, net of tax		 (231) 17 - -
Net unrealised (gain)/loss on
foreign exchange		 (2,127) 4,860 (2,263) 3,348
Operating profit before changes in
working capital		 164,987 171,050 65,770 52,756
Changes in working capital:
Trade and other receivables,
prepayments and other financial
assets		 164,165 (75,010) 164,635 (91,841)
Inventories		 103,910 (130,849) 44,451 (58,236)
Trade and other payables and
other financial liabilities		 (6,225) 6,560 4,625 (4,550)
Statements of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December 2023
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
128
		Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cash generated from/(used in)
operations		 426,837 (28,249) 279,481 (101,871)
Interest paid		 (56,110) (40,058) (27,094) (19,489)
Interest received		 25,548 17,186 4,247 2,134
Net income tax paid (14,550) (28,244) (5,830) (2,647)
Net cash from/(used in) operating
activities		 381,725 (79,365) 250,804 (121,873)
Cash flows from investing activities
Acquisition of intangible assets 5 (774) (257) (670) (204)
Acquisition of property, plant and
equipment 3 (34,792) (50,000) (5,013) (14,098)
Dividend received		 3 4 25,350 34,575
(Increase)/Decrease in fixed deposits		 (175,498) 163,233 - -
Proceeds from disposal of property,
plant and equipment		 132 218 67 218
Proceeds from advances to an
associate 9 892 - - -
Net cash (used in)/from investing
activities		 (210,037) 113,198 19,734 20,491
Cash flows from financing activities
Dividends paid to non-controlling
interests 7 (10,863) (20,572) - -
Dividends paid to owners of the
Company 23 (30,653) (35,700) (30,653) (35,700)
(Repayment of)/Proceeds from loans
and borrowings, net		 (126,835) (102,790) (212,482) 97,149
RCULS coupon payment 16 (5,458) (5,481) (5,458) (5,481)
Payment of lease liabilities (2,068) (1,545) (1,750) (1,234)
Exercise of warrants 16 42 - 42 -
Net cash (used in)/from financing
activities		 (175,835) (166,088) (250,301) 54,734
Net (decrease)/increase in cash
and cash equivalents		 (4,147) (132,255) 20,237 (46,648)
Effect of exchange rate
fluctuations on cash held		 4,787 4,888 - -
Cash and cash equivalents
at 1 January 14 86,710 214,077 32,715 79,363
Cash and cash equivalents
at 31 December 14 87,350 86,710 52,952 32,715
Statements of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December 2023 (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
129
(a) Cash outflows for leases as a lessee
		Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Included in net cash from
operating activities
Payment relating to short-term
leases 21 118 385 11 270
Payment relating to leases of
low-value assets 21 71 67 67 63
Payment relating to variable lease
payments not included in the
measurement of lease liabilities 21 1,884 1,785 829 843
Interest paid in relation to lease
liabilities		 478 558 403 460
Included in net cash from
financing activities
Payment of lease liabilities 2,068 1,545 1,750 1,234
Total cash outflows for leases		 4,619 4,340 3,060 2,870
(b) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents included in the statements of cash flows comprise the following balance
sheets amounts:
		Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Deposits placed with licensed banks 14 25,763 30,033 13,644 434
Cash and bank balances 14 61,587 56,677 39,308 32,281
								 87,350 86,710 52,952 32,715
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
130
The notes set out on pages 131 to 190 are an integral part of these financial statements.
(c) Reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash flows arising from financing activities
		Net				
At 31 Net					
		
changes				
December changes					
At from Acquisition		 Foreign 2022/ from Acquisition		 Foreign At 31
1 January financing of new Derecognition exchange 1 January financing of new Derecognition exchange December
2022 cash flows lease of lease movement 2023 cash flows lease of lease movement 2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/Unsecured
revolving credits 994,114 (56,045) - - (3,630) 934,439 (97,183) - - 5,362 842,618
Unsecured term loans 217,998 (46,745) - - - 171,253 (29,652) - - 1,463 143,064
Lease liabilities 15,050 (1,545) 23 (105) - 13,423 (2,068) 180 (39) - 11,496
Total liabilities from
financing activities 1,227,162 (104,335) 23 (105) (3,630) 1,119,115 (128,903) 180 (39) 6,825 997,178
Company
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/Unsecured
revolving credits 405,054 131,149 - - (2,166) 534,037 (178,482) - - 2,928 358,483
Unsecured term loans 153,000 (34,000) - - - 119,000 (34,000) - - - 85,000
Lease liabilities 13,619 (1,234) 23 (105) - 12,303 (1,750) 180 (39) - 10,694
Total liabilities from
financing activities 571,673 95,915 23 (105) (2,166) 665,340 (214,232) 180 (39) 2,928 454,177
Statements of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December 2023 (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
131
Malayan Flour Mills Berhad is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and
is listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The address of its registered office, which
is also its principal place of business is as follows:
Registered office and principal place of business
Suite 28.01, Level 28
Menara Citibank
165 Jalan Ampang
50450 Kuala Lumpur
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the financial year ended
31 December 2023 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group” and
individually referred to as “Group entities”) and the Group’s interest in an associate and joint ventures.
The Company is principally engaged in the business of milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grain and
other allied products, whilst the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 7 to the financial
statements.
These financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 4 April 2024.
1. Basis of preparation
(a) Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), IFRS Accounting Standards as
issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS Accounting Standards”) and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The following are accounting standards, interpretations and amendments of the MFRSs that
have been issued by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) but have not been
adopted by the Group and the Company:
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2024
• Amendments to MFRS 16, Leases – Lease Liability in a Sale and Leaseback
• Amendments to MFRS 101, Presentation of Financial Statements – Non-current Liabilities
with Covenants and Classification of Liabilities as Current or Non-current
• Amendments to MFRS 107, Statement of Cash Flows and MFRS 7, Financial Instruments:
Disclosures – Supplier Finance Arrangements
 
Notes to the
Financial Statements
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
132
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
1. Basis of preparation (cont’d)
(a) Statement of compliance (cont’d)
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2025
• Amendments to MFRS 121, The Effects of Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates – Lack of
Exchangeability
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
after a date yet to be confirmed
• Amendments to MFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128, Investments
in Associates and Joint Ventures – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and
its Associate or Joint Venture
The Group and the Company plan to apply the abovementioned accounting standards,
interpretations and amendments:
• from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2024 for the amendments that are effective
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2024.
• from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2025 for the amendments that are effective
for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2025.
The initial application of the abovementioned accounting standards, interpretations or
amendments is not expected to have any material financial impact to the current period and
prior period financial statements of the Group and of the Company.
(b) Basis of measurement
The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for
the following item, which is measured based on the measurement base stated below:
Item				 Measurement base
Derivative financial instruments Fair value
(c) Functional and presentation currency
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s
functional currency. All financial information is presented in RM and has been rounded to the
nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.
(d) Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with MFRSs requires management to
make judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies
and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ
from these estimates.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
133
1. Basis of preparation (cont’d)
(d) Use of estimates and judgements (cont’d)
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods
affected.
There are no significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying
accounting policies that have significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial
statements other than those disclosed in the following notes:
• Note 4 – 
extension options and incremental borrowing rate in relation to leases
entered into during the year
• Note 8 – investments in joint ventures
• Note 25 – measurement of expected credit loss (“ECL”)
2. Changes in material accounting policies
2.1 Global minimum top-up tax
The Group has adopted the amendments to MFRS 112, Income Taxes – International Tax
Reform – Pillar Two Model Rules upon their release on 2 June 2023. The amendments provide
a temporary mandatory relief from deferred tax accounting for the top-up tax which is applied
retrospectively. Since the newly enacted tax legislation in Malaysia and Vietnam will only come
into effect in year 2025 and 2024 respectively, there is no current tax impact for the current year
ended 31 December 2023. The Group does not expect to be subjected to the top-up tax in
relation to its operations in both Malaysia and Vietnam.
2.2 Material accounting policy information
The Group also adopted amendments to MFRS 101, Presentation of Financial Statements and
MFRS Practice Statement 2 – Disclosures of Accounting Policies from 1 January 2023. The
amendments require the disclosure of ‘material’, rather than ‘significant’, accounting policies. The
amendments also provide guidance on the application of materiality to disclosure of accounting
policies, assisting entities to provide useful, entity-specific accounting policy information that
users need to understand other information in the financial statements.
Although the amendments did not result in any changes to the Group’s accounting policies, it
impacted the accounting policy information disclosed in the financial statements. The material
accounting policy information is disclosed in the respective notes to the financial statements
where relevant.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
134
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
3. Property, plant and equipment
		Freehold Plant,				
		 land, machinery,		 Capital		
		 buildings fixtures and Motor work-in-
Group Note and jetty equipment vehicles progress Total
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2022		 359,142 372,411 21,746 48,782 802,081
Additions		 4,108 9,513 492 35,887 50,000
Disposals		 - (275) (900) - (1,175)
Write-off		 (430) (248) - (41) (719)
Transfers		 (16) 46,970 - (46,954) -
Transfer to intangible assets 5 - (212) - - (212)
Reclassifications		 - - - (3,946) (3,946)
Effect of movements in
exchange rates		 1,358 2,296 196 443 4,293
At 31 December 2022/
1 January 2023		 364,162 430,455 21,534 34,171 850,322
Additions		 119 4,508 618 29,547 34,792
Disposals		 - (255) (663) - (918)
Write-off		 - (764) (29) - (793)
Transfers		 29,344 11,042 - (40,386) -
Transfer to intangible assets 5 - - - (449) (449)
Reclassifications		 - (2,438) 2,438 - -
Effect of movements in
exchange rates		 1,042 2,407 163 605 4,217
At 31 December 2023		 394,667 444,955 24,061 23,488 887,171
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
135
3. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)
		Freehold Plant,				
		 land, machinery,		 Capital		
		 buildings fixtures and Motor work-in-
Group Note and jetty equipment vehicles progress Total
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2022		 111,261 236,718 17,723 - 365,702
Depreciation for the year		 9,233 28,891 1,248 - 39,372
Disposals		 - (275) (900) - (1,175)
Write-off		 (194) (230) - - (424)
Transfer to intangible assets 5 - 8 - - 8
Effect of movements in
exchange rates		 662 1,569 132 - 2,363
At 31 December 2022/
1 January 2023		 120,962 266,681 18,203 - 405,846
Depreciation for the year		 9,147 23,933 1,130 - 34,210
Disposals		 - (234) (662) - (896)
Write-off		 - (745) (28) - (773)
Reclassifications		 - (2,259) 2,259 - -
Effect of movements in
exchange rates		 644 1,619 113 - 2,376
At 31 December 2023		 130,753 288,995 21,015 - 440,763
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2022		 247,881 135,693 4,023 48,782 436,379
At 31 December 2022/
1 January 2023		 243,200 163,774 3,331 34,171 444,476
At 31 December 2023		 263,914 155,960 3,046 23,488 446,408
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
136
3. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)
			Plant,				
			machinery,		 Capital		
		 Buildings fixtures and Motor work-in-
Company Note and jetty equipment vehicles progress Total
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2022		 245,993 198,686 9,558 12,436 466,673
Additions		 97 8,412 459 5,130 14,098
Disposals		 - (275) (900) - (1,175)
Write-off		 - (180) - (41) (221)
Transfers		 - 17,350 - (17,350) -
Transfer to intangible assets 5 - (212) - - (212)
At 31 December 2022/
1 January 2023		 246,090 223,781 9,117 175 479,163
Additions		 - 3,519 255 1,239 5,013
Disposals		 - (240) (452) - (692)
Write-off		 - (764) (4) - (768)
Transfers		 - 1,143 - (1,143) -
Transfer to intangible assets 5 - - - (51) (51)
At 31 December 2023		 246,090 227,439 8,916 220 482,665
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2022		 70,112 135,868 8,897 - 214,877
Depreciation for the year		 4,910 14,902 335 - 20,147
Disposals		 - (275) (900) - (1,175)
Write-off		 - (163) - - (163)
Transfer to intangible assets 5 - 8 - - 8
At 31 December 2022/
1 January 2023		 75,022 150,340 8,332 - 233,694
Depreciation for the year		 4,910 11,491 321 - 16,722
Disposals		 - (229) (451) - (680)
Write-off		 - (745) (4) - (749)
At 31 December 2023		 79,932 160,857 8,198 - 248,987
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2022		 175,881 62,818 661 12,436 251,796
At 31 December 2022/
1 January 2023		 171,068 73,441 785 175 245,469
At 31 December 2023		 166,158 66,582 718 220 233,678
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
137
3. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)
3.1 Borrowing costs
Included in additions of the Group are borrowing costs capitalised at 3.90% - 6.00% (2022:
2.50% - 4.03%) per annum amounting to RM2,499,000 (2022: RM97,000).
3.2 Material accounting policy information
(a) Recognition and measurement
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
(b) Depreciation
Depreciation is recognised in the income statements on a straight-line basis over the
estimated useful lives of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment
from the date that they are available for use. Freehold land is not depreciated. Capital
work-in-progress are not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows:
• buildings and jetty 10, 20 and 50 years
• plant, machinery, fixtures and equipment 4 - 20 years
• motor vehicles 5 - 10 years
4. Right-of-use assets
Leasehold land Buildings Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
At 1 January 2022 7,064 14,683 21,747
Additions - 23 23
Depreciation (496) (2,385) (2,881)
Lease modification - 91 91
Effect of movements in exchange rates 48 - 48
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 6,616 12,412 19,028
Additions - 180 180
Depreciation (499) (2,111) (2,610)
Lease modification - (30) (30)
Effect of movements in exchange rates 37 - 37
At 31 December 2023 6,154 10,451 16,605
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
138
4. Right-of-use assets (cont’d)
Leasehold land Buildings Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Company
At 1 January 2022 4,431 13,298 17,729
Additions - 23 23
Depreciation (134) (2,034) (2,168)
Lease modification - 91 91
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 4,297 11,378 15,675
Additions - 180 180
Depreciation (130) (1,783) (1,913)
Lease modification - (30) (30)
At 31 December 2023 4,167 9,745 13,912
The Group leases buildings for its office space, warehouse and staff quarters that typically run for a
period of one to five years, with an option to renew the lease after that date.
4.1 Extension options
Some leases of office space, warehouse and staff quarters contain extension options exercisable
by the Group. Where applicable, the Group seeks to include extension options in new leases to
provide operational flexibility. The extension options held are exercisable only by the Group and
not by the lessors. The Group assesses at lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain
to exercise the extension options. The Group reassesses whether it is reasonably certain to
exercise the options if there is a significant event or significant change in circumstances within
its control.
As at 31 December 2023, the Group has included all potential future cash flows of exercising the
extension options in the lease liabilities.
4.2 Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to lease
The Group assesses at lease commencement by applying significant judgement whether it
is reasonably certain to exercise the extension options. Group entities consider all facts and
circumstances including their past practice and any cost that will be incurred to change the asset
if an option to extend is not taken, to help them determine the lease term.
The Group also applied judgement and assumptions in determining the incremental borrowing
rate of the respective leases. Group entities first determine the closest available borrowing rates
before using significant judgement to determine the adjustments required to reflect the term,
security, value or economic environment of the respective leases.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
139
4. Right-of-use assets (cont’d)
4.3 Material accounting policy information
Recognition exemption
The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for short-term
leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of low-value assets. The Group
recognises the lease payments associated with these leases as an expense on a straight-line
basis over the lease term.
When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head lease and the
sublease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sublease with reference to the right-
of-use asset arising from the head lease, not with reference to the underlying asset. If a head
lease is a short-term lease to which the Group applies the exemption described above, then it
classifies the sublease as an operating lease.
5. Intangible assets
		 Computer software
Note Group Company
		RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2022		 9,045 6,182
Additions		257 204
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 3 212 212
Write-off		(401) (401)
Effect of movements in exchange rates		 52 -
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023		 9,165 6,197
Additions		774 670
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 3 449 51
Write-off		(16) (16)
Disposal		(9) (8)
Effect of movements in exchange rates		 43 -
At 31 December 2023		 10,406 6,894
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
140
5. Intangible assets (cont’d)
		 Computer software
Note Group Company
		RM’000 RM’000
Accumulated amortisation
At 1 January 2022		 8,704 6,090
Amortisation for the year		 257 165
Write-off		(401) (401)
Transfer from property, plant and equipment 3 (8) (8)
Effect of movements in exchange rates		 47 -
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023		 8,599 5,846
Amortisation for the year		 330 260
Write-off		(16) (16)
Disposal		(1) (1)
Effect of movements in exchange rates		 44 -
At 31 December 2023		 8,956 6,089
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2022		 341 92
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023		 566 351
At 31 December 2023		 1,450 805
5.1 Intangible assets
Intangible assets principally comprise expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition
of software licences and any other development costs directly attributable to the preparation of
the computer software for its intended use.
5.2 Material accounting policy information
Recognition and measurement
Computer software acquired by the Group is stated at cost less any accumulated amortisation
and any accumulated impairment losses.
Amortisation of computer software is recognised in the income statements on a straight-line
basis over its estimated useful lives from the date that it is available for use.
The estimated useful life of computer software is 4 years.
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each reporting
period and adjusted, if appropriate.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
141
6. Investment properties
Freehold
land Buildings Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Cost
At 1 January 2022/31 December 2022/
1 January 2023/31 December 2023 3,943 2,836 6,779
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2022 - 1,838 1,838
Depreciation for the year - 58 58
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 - 1,896 1,896
Depreciation for the year - 57 57
At 31 December 2023 - 1,953 1,953
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2022 3,943 998 4,941
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 3,943 940 4,883
At 31 December 2023 3,943 883 4,826
Company
Cost
At 1 January 2022/31 December 2022/
1 January 2023/31 December 2023 3,672 2,836 6,508
Accumulated depreciation
At 1 January 2022 - 1,838 1,838
Depreciation for the year - 58 58
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 - 1,896 1,896
Depreciation for the year - 57 57
At 31 December 2023 - 1,953 1,953
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2022 3,672 998 4,670
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023 3,672 940 4,612
At 31 December 2023 3,672 883 4,555
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
142
6. Investment properties (cont’d)
6.1 Other income/expenses recognised in the income statements in relation to investment
properties
		 Group and Company
				2023 2022
			RM’000 RM’000
Lease income			479 458
Direct operating expenses:
- income generating investment properties			 54 53
6.2 Fair value information
Fair value of investment properties are categorised as follows:
Group Company
		 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Level 3
Freehold land and buildings		 133,956 124,335 128,956 119,475
Level 3 fair value
The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of fair values within
Level 3, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.
Description of valuation
technique and inputs used
Significant
unobservable inputs
Inter-relationship between
significant unobservable
inputs and fair value
measurements
Comparison method of
valuation which entails
comparing the property with
similar properties that were
sold recently and those that
are currently offered for sale
in the vicinity.
Recent transactions of
similar properties at or near
reporting period with similar
land usage, land size and
location.
The estimated fair value
would increase/(decrease)
if recent transactions of
similar properties at or near
reporting period with similar
land usage and land size
were higher/(lower).
Valuation processes applied by the Group for Level 3 fair value
The fair value of investment properties is estimated by the Directors using the comparison
method. The comparison method entails critical analysis of recent evidences of values of
comparable properties in the neighbourhood and making adjustment for differences in location,
size and shape of land, age and condition of building, tenure, title restrictions if any and other
relevant characteristics.
6.3 Material accounting policy information
Investment properties carried at cost are properties which are owned or right-of-use asset held
under a lease contract to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, but not for
sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production or supply of goods or services or
for administrative purposes. Investment properties initially and subsequently measured at cost
are accounted for similarly to property, plant and equipment. Freehold land is not depreciated.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
143
7. Investments in subsidiaries
		Company
				2023 2022
				RM’000 RM’000
At cost
Unquoted shares			141,800 141,800
Less: Accumulated impairment losses			 (452) (452)
				141,348 141,348
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows:
Name of subsidiary
Principal place of
business/Country
of incorporation Principal activities
Effective
ownership
interest
2023
%
2022
%
Dindings Soya &
Multifeeds Sdn. Berhad
Malaysia Manufacture and sale of animal
feeds and sale of related raw
materials
100 100
Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Trading in corn, soybean meal
and other feed ingredients
51 51
Vimaflour Ltd.* Vietnam Milling and selling wheat flour
together with its allied products
70 70
MFM International Ltd. # British Virgin
Islands
Investment holding 100 100
MFM Property Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Investment holding 100 100
MFM Feedmill Sdn. Bhd. Malaysia Dormant 100 100
Semakin Dinamik
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia Dormant 100 100
MFM LTD. Malaysia Dormant 100 100
Muda Fibre
Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd.
Malaysia Dormant 60 60
Dindings Broiler Breeder
Farm Sdn. Bhd.^
Malaysia Dormant (in member’s voluntary
liquidation)
100 100
Syarikat Pengangkutan
Lumut Sdn. Bhd.^
Malaysia Dormant (in member’s voluntary
liquidation)
100 100
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
144
7. Investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)
Details of the subsidiaries are as follows: (cont’d)
Name of subsidiary
Principal place of
business/Country
of incorporation Principal activities
Effective
ownership
interest
2023
%
2022
%
Dindings Grand Parent
Farm Sdn. Bhd.^
Malaysia Dormant (in member’s voluntary
liquidation)
100 100
AVIOTA Sdn. Bhd.^ Malaysia Dormant (in member’s voluntary
liquidation)
100 100
Subsidiary of MFM
International Ltd.
Mekong Flour Mills Ltd.* Vietnam Milling and selling wheat flour
together with its allied products
100 100
* Audited by other member firms of KPMG International.
# Not audited by member firms of KPMG PLT.
^ These subsidiaries are in member’s voluntary liquidation.
7.1 Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries
The subsidiaries’ information are aggregated based on their operating segment. The Group’s
subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (“NCI”) are as follows:
			
Other
		 Subsidiaries subsidiaries
		 with with
		 material immaterial
		 NCI* NCI Total
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2023
Carrying amount of NCI		 99,081 4,946 104,027
Comprehensive income/(expense) allocated to NCI 13,219 (6) 13,213
2022
Carrying amount of NCI		 96,882 4,795 101,677
Comprehensive income/(expense) allocated to NCI 10,186 (4) 10,182
* Subsidiaries with material NCI consist of Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. and Vimaflour Ltd..
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
145
7. Investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)
7.1 Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (cont’d)
		 Subsidiaries with
		 material NCI*
			2023 2022
			RM’000 RM’000
Summarised financial information before
intra-group elimination
As at 31 December
Non-current assets			103,442 104,935
Current assets			654,569 687,532
Non-current liabilities			 (4,120) (8,278)
Current liabilities			 (436,532) (471,421)
Net assets			317,359 312,768
Year ended 31 December
Revenue			1,840,896 1,708,015
Profit for the year			 37,757 38,021
Total comprehensive income			 41,913 42,109
Cash flows from operating activities			 108,185 5,067
Cash flows used in investing activities			 (83,241) (29,726)
Cash flows (used in)/from financing activities			 (44,947) 26,767
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents		 (20,003) 2,108
Dividends paid to NCI			 10,863 4,747
* Subsidiaries with material NCI consist of Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. and Vimaflour Ltd..
7.2 Material accounting policy information
Investments in subsidiaries are measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
impairment losses.
8. Investments in joint ventures
Group Company
		 Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At cost
Unquoted shares		 656,057 656,057 647,382 647,382
Less: Impairment loss 8.1 - - (35,765) -
Share of post-acquisition reserves		 52,994 37,541 - -
			 709,051 693,598 611,617 647,382
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
146
8. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)
8.1 Impairment loss of investment in a joint venture
As at 31 December 2023, the net assets of a joint venture, PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia
(“BFMI”), of RM153,413,000 was lower than its initial cost of investment. Hence, there was an
indication of impairment which requires management to estimate the recoverable amount of the
investment in the joint venture.
For the purpose of impairment testing, the recoverable amount of the joint venture was determined
based on its value-in-use.
Management estimated the recoverable amount of the Company’s investment in BFMI of
RM157,100,000 and an impairment loss of RM35,765,000 is recognised in the income statement.
8.2 Significant judgements and assumptions in relation to impairment assessment of
investment in a joint venture
The Company applied significant judgements and assumptions in performing impairment testing
which requires management to estimate the recoverable amount of the investment in a joint
venture and to provide impairment loss when required. The Company considered the joint
ventures’ cash flow projections in determining the recoverable amount of the investment in a
joint venture.
The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of the fair value and
the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation calculation.
Description of valuation
technique and inputs used
Level 3 fair value
significant
unobservable inputs
Inter-relationship between
significant unobservable
inputs and fair value
measurements
The valuation method
considers the discounting of
future cash flows expected
to be generated.
• Pre-tax discount rate of
11% (2022: 13%).
• Annual revenue growth
of 6% for the years 2024
to 2026 and 2% for
the years 2027 to 2033
(2022: annual revenue
growth of 20%, 8% and
9% for 2023, 2024 and
2025 respectively, 5% for
the years 2026 to 2027
and 4% for the years
2028 to 2032).
• Terminal growth rate of
2% (2022: 1%).
• The estimated fair value
would increase/decrease
if the discount rate were
lower/higher.
• The estimated fair value
would increase/decrease
if the annual revenue
growth rate were higher/
lower.
• The estimated fair value
would increase/decrease
if the terminal growth rate
were higher/lower.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
147
8. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)
8.3 Sensitivity to changes in assumption
The above estimate is particularly sensitive to the annual revenue growth rate.
Group
A decrease of 1 percentage point in the annual revenue growth rate would have resulted in an
impairment loss of RM8,968,000.
Company
A decrease of 1 percentage point in the annual revenue growth rate would have increased the
impairment loss by RM12,655,000.
 
The joint ventures, all of which are incorporated in Malaysia except as disclosed otherwise, comprise:
Name of joint venture
Principal place
of business/
Country of
incorporation Principal activities
Percentage of
ownership
2023
%
2022
%
Dindings Tyson Sdn. Bhd.
(“DTSB”) #
Malaysia Investment holding 51 51
Subsidiaries of DTSB
Dindings Poultry
Development Centre
Sdn. Bhd. #
Malaysia Breeding and sale of day-old
chicks (“DOC”), poultry grow-
out farm, purchase and contract
farming activities, manufacture
and sale of animal feeds and
sale of related raw materials
51 51
Dindings Poultry Processing
Sdn. Bhd. #
Malaysia Processing and sale of poultry
products
51 51
Dindings Foods Sdn. Bhd. # Malaysia Dormant 51 51
PT Bungasari Flour Mills
Indonesia (“BFMI”) *
Indonesia Milling and selling of wheat flour
together with its allied products
30 30
# Although the Group has majority voting rights in DTSB, there are substantive rights shared with the
other shareholder pursuant to the shareholders’ agreement. Accordingly, DTSB and its subsidiaries
are classified as joint ventures of the Group.
* Not audited by member firms of KPMG PLT.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
148
8. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)
The following table summarises the financial information of the joint ventures, as adjusted for any
differences in accounting policies. The table also reconciles the summarised financial information to
the carrying amount of the Group’s interest in the joint ventures, which is accounted for using the equity
method.
DTSB BFMI Total
2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Summarised financial
information
As at 31 December
Non-current assets 906,578 895,685 884,011 774,905 1,790,589 1,670,590
Current assets 432,594 437,365 852,914 872,985 1,285,508 1,310,350
Non-current liabilities (9,949) (15,208) (97,921) (99,597) (107,870) (114,805)
Current liabilities (228,814) (268,175) (1,127,628) (1,002,162) (1,356,442) (1,270,337)
Net assets 1,100,409 1,049,667 511,376 546,131 1,611,785 1,595,798
Year ended 31 December
Revenue 1,141,459 1,109,578 2,224,740 1,815,020 3,366,199 2,924,598
Profit/(Loss) for the year 50,742 151,045 (66,490) (23,376) (15,748) 127,669
Reconciliation of net
assets to carrying
amount as at
31 December
Group’s share of net assets 490,569 464,690 153,413 163,839 643,982 628,529
Goodwill 65,069 65,069 - - 65,069 65,069
Carrying amount in the
balance sheet 555,638 529,759 153,413 163,839 709,051 693,598
Group’s share of results
for year ended
31 December
Group’s share of profit/
(loss) for the year 25,879 77,033 (19,947) (7,013) 5,932 70,020
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
149
8. Investments in joint ventures (cont’d)
8.4 Contingent liabilities
PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia (“BFMI”)
Corporate guarantee
The Company has provided proportionate corporate guarantees of up to USD15.0 million (2022:
USD15.0 million) for financing facilities granted by financial institutions to the joint venturer,
BFMI. As at 31 December 2023, the outstanding loans proportionately amounted to USD3.6
million (2022: USD7.6 million).
Dindings Poultry Development Centre Sdn. Bhd. (“DPDC”)
Litigation
On 5 August 2022, DPDC received a Notice of Proposed Decision issued by the Malaysia
Competition Commission (“MyCC”) pursuant to Section 36 of the Competition Act 2010 (“the
Act”) (“Proposed Decision”). The Proposed Decision is premised primarily on the allegation that
DPDC had engaged in agreements and/or concerted practices to fix the quantum of poultry feed
price which is in breach of Section 4(1) read together with Sections 4(2)(a) and 4(3) of the Act.
DPDC strongly denies the allegation of the aforesaid infringement which is without merit and
intends to defend such unfounded allegation vigorously. DPDC has appointed external legal
counsel to represent it and submit written representations and make an oral representation before
MyCC. However, in the event of any findings to the contrary, MyCC has proposed a financial
penalty equivalent to 10% based on the relevant turnover and based on MyCC’s calculations
for the alleged period which amounts to RM70 million. DPDC denies that it is liable for the said
penalty and refutes the basis of the calculation applied by MyCC. DPDC submitted its written
submission to MyCC on 31 January 2023 rebutting the allegation of the aforesaid infringement
and made its oral representation on 29 and 31 May 2023.
On 22 December 2023, DPDC received MyCC’s Notice of Finding of An Infringement under
Section 40 of the Competition Act 2010 together with the Decision of Infringement under Section
4(1) read with Sections 4(2)(a) and 4(3) of the Competition Act 2010 dated 11 December 2023
(“the Decision”). MyCC maintains its finding of price-fixing infringement with imposition of
financial penalty of RM70 million on DPDC.
The legal counsel is of the view that there are sufficient grounds to challenge the Decision. On
9 January 2024, DPDC filed a Notice of Appeal with the Competition Appeal Tribunal to appeal
against the Decision and applied for a stay of the Decision pending appeal.
Based on the advice of the legal counsel, the Directors concur with DPDC’s view that no provision
is required in the financial statements at this juncture.
8.5 Material accounting policy information
Investments in joint ventures are measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
impairment losses.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
150
9. Investment in an associate
		Group
				2023 2022
				RM’000 RM’000
At cost
- Unquoted shares 15 15
- Advances to an associate 197 1,105
Share of post-acquisition reserves (15) (59)
Impairment loss (197) -
- 1,061
In previous financial years, advances to an associate of RM1,105,000 was capitalised as cost of
investment.
During the financial year, advances to an associate amounting to RM892,000 was repaid in cash and
RM16,000 was offset against amount due to an associate.
Details of the associate are as follows:
Name of entity
Principal place of
business/Country
of incorporation
Nature
of the
relationship
Effective
ownership
interest
2023
%
2022
%
Freeman Properties Holding Ltd.
(Held through MFM Property Sdn. Bhd.)
Cambodia Investment 49 49
9.1 Material accounting policy information
Investment in an associate is measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
impairment losses.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
151
10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
10.1 Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Property, plant and
equipment - - (28,314) (26,444) (28,314) (26,444)
Right-of-use assets - - (3,225) (3,646) (3,225) (3,646)
Lease liabilities 2,566 2,953 - - 2,566 2,953
RCULS 648 1,716 - - 648 1,716
Provisions 4,031 3,353 - - 4,031 3,353
Reinvestment
allowances - 5,493 - - - 5,493
Unabsorbed capital
allowances 10,862 9,350 - - 10,862 9,350
Tax losses
carry-forward 2,439 1,719 - - 2,439 1,719
Others 83 739 (1,062) - (979) 739
Tax assets/(liabilities) 20,629 25,323 (32,601) (30,090) (11,972) (4,767)
Set-off of tax (14,465) (19,552) 14,465 19,552 - -
Net tax assets/
(liabilities) 6,164 5,771 (18,136) (10,538) (11,972) (4,767)
Company
Property, plant and
equipment - - (20,805) (20,621) (20,805) (20,621)
Right-of-use assets - - (3,225) (3,646) (3,225) (3,646)
Lease liabilities 2,566 2,953 - - 2,566 2,953
RCULS 648 1,716 - - 648 1,716
Provisions 3,614 3,008 - - 3,614 3,008
Reinvestment
allowances - 5,493 - - - 5,493
Others 83 563 - - 83 563
Tax assets/(liabilities) 6,911 13,733 (24,030) (24,267) (17,119) (10,534)
Set-off of tax (6,911) (13,733) 6,911 13,733 - -
Net tax liabilities - - (17,119) (10,534) (17,119) (10,534)
 
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
152
10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)
10.2 Movement in temporary differences during the year
		Recognised			Recognised
		 in the Recognised		 in the Recognised
		 income directly in At income directly in
At statements equity 31.12.2022/ statements equity At
1.1.2022 (Note 20) (Note 16) 1.1.2023 (Note 20) (Note 16) 31.12.2023
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Property, plant
and equipment (23,200) (3,244) - (26,444) (1,870) - (28,314)
Right-of-use
assets (4,255) 609 - (3,646) 421 - (3,225)
Lease liabilities 3,269 (316) - 2,953 (387) - 2,566
RCULS 2,872 (906) (250) 1,716 (1,059) (9) 648
Provisions 3,142 211 - 3,353 678 - 4,031
Reinvestment
allowances 7,399 (1,906) - 5,493 (5,493) - -
Unabsorbed
capital
allowances 8,200 1,150 - 9,350 1,512 - 10,862
Tax losses
carry-forward 3,809 (2,090) - 1,719 720 - 2,439
Others (385) 1,124 - 739 (1,718) - (979)
851 (5,368) (250) (4,767) (7,196) (9) (11,972)
Company
Property, plant
and equipment (17,564) (3,057) - (20,621) (184) - (20,805)
Right-of-use
assets (4,255) 609 - (3,646) 421 - (3,225)
Lease liabilities 3,269 (316) - 2,953 (387) - 2,566
RCULS 2,872 (906) (250) 1,716 (1,059) (9) 648
Provisions 2,471 537 - 3,008 606 - 3,614
Reinvestment
allowances 7,399 (1,906) - 5,493 (5,493) - -
Others (67) 630 - 563 (480) - 83
(5,875) (4,409) (250) (10,534) (6,576) (9) (17,119)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
153
10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)
10.3 Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following items (stated at gross):
		Group
				2023 2022
				RM’000 RM’000
Unabsorbed capital allowances 1,431 1,431
Tax losses carry-forward 19,858 24,925
Other deductible temporary differences 341 351
21,630 26,707
The abovementioned deferred tax assets do not expire under the current tax legislation except
for the tax losses carry-forward. Pursuant to the Finance Act 2021, the tax losses carry-forward
can only be carried forward up to 10 consecutive Years of Assessment.
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not
probable that sufficient future taxable profit will be available against which the Group can utilise
the benefits there from.
11. Trade and other receivables, including derivatives
Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Non-current
Other receivables
- contingent consideration
receivable 11.1 - 71,065 - 71,065
Current
Trade receivables from
contracts with customers		 384,475 428,348 99,387 104,806
Amounts due from subsidiaries 11.2 - - 82,258 116,477
Other receivables 11.3 17,208 9,547 4,157 2,708
Contingent consideration
receivable 11.1 - 119,971 - 119,971
Amounts due from joint ventures 11.4 5,531 10,601 5,461 10,601
Deposits		 1,292 3,817 990 1,001
Derivatives at fair value through
profit or loss:
- future and option contracts		 291 13 98 -
		 408,797 572,297 192,351 355,564
		 408,797 643,362 192,351 426,629
 
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
154
11. Trade and other receivables, including derivatives (cont’d)
11.1 Contingent consideration receivable
On 31 May 2021, the Company had completed the disposal of 49% equity interest in DTSB
for a total cash consideration of RM445,028,000. During the year, contingent consideration of
RM119,971,000 was received, with a final contingent consideration due in 2024 based on the
financial targets as at 31 December 2023.
As at 31 December 2023, management assessed the final contingent consideration and has
recognised a loss on remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable of RM71,065,000
(2022: write back on remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable of RM8,819,000) in
the income statements.
In the previous financial year, the valuation technique used in the determination of the fair value
and the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation calculation is shown in the table
below.
Description of
valuation technique
and inputs used
Level 3 fair value
significant
unobservable inputs
Inter-relationship between
significant unobservable
inputs and fair value
measurement
The valuation method
considered the estimated
consideration receivable
from the joint venturer based
on the achievability of certain
financial targets.
Discount rate of 4% derived
based on the counterparty’s
credit risk adjusted with a
reasonable risk premium.
The estimated fair value
would increase/decrease
if the discount rate were
lower/higher.
11.2 Amounts due from subsidiaries
The amounts due from subsidiaries are unsecured, repayable on demand and subject to interest
ranging from 2.61% - 5.50% (2022: 1.97% - 4.00%) per annum.
11.3 Other receivables
Included in other receivables of the Group are advances paid to suppliers of RM4,685,000 (2022:
RM4,644,000) and interest receivable from deposits placed with licensed banks of RM10,553,000
(2022: RM2,522,000).
Included in other receivables of the Company are advances paid to suppliers of RM2,336,000
(2022: RM414,000).
11.4 Amounts due from joint ventures
The amounts due from joint ventures are unsecured, repayable on demand and interest free.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
155
12. Inventories
Group Company
		 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Raw materials		 471,774 570,295 141,423 181,575
Finished goods		 33,366 32,548 10,826 13,844
Consumables		18,781 24,988 6,187 7,468
			 523,921 627,831 158,436 202,887
Recognised in the income statements:
Inventories recognised as cost
of goods sold		 2,742,778 2,535,562 601,433 531,836
12.1 Material accounting policy information
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories is
calculated using the weighted average method.
13. Fixed deposits
		Group
				2023 2022
				RM’000 RM’000
Fixed deposits placed with licensed banks with
maturity of more than 3 months				 332,717 157,219
Fixed deposits represent time deposits at banks with maturity of more than 3 months to less than
12 months.
Included in fixed deposits are deposits received from customers amounting to RM15,413,000 (2022:
RM14,980,000) which are subject to restriction in use in accordance with agreements with customers.
14. Cash and cash equivalents
Group Company
		 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Deposits placed with licensed banks		 25,763 30,033 13,644 434
Cash and bank balances		 61,587 56,677 39,308 32,281
			 87,350 86,710 52,952 32,715
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
156
15. Asset classified as held for sale
Certain plant and equipment previously classified as property, plant and equipment was presented as
an asset held for sale following the commitment of the Company’s plan to sell the asset during the year.
Efforts to sell the plant and equipment have commenced, and a sale is expected in financial year 2024.
		 Group and Company
				2023 2022
				RM’000 RM’000
Asset classified as held for sale
Plant and equipment				 33,597 33,597
The carrying value of the asset held for sale is the same as its carrying value before it was reclassified
from property, plant and equipment.
16. Capital and reserves
Share capital
Group and Company
			 Number		Number
		 Amount of shares Amount of shares
		 2023 2023 2022 2022
		 RM’000 ’000 RM’000 ’000
Issued and fully paid shares with no
par value:
Ordinary shares
At 1 January		 535,902 1,020,210 535,623 1,019,653
Conversion of RCULS		 1,311 2,622 279 557
Exercise of warrants		 49 61 * *
At 31 December		 537,262 1,022,893 535,902 1,020,210
* Denotes 50 ordinary shares amounting to RM41.
16.1 Ordinary shares
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time,
and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
157
16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)
16.2 Redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks (“RCULS”)
		 Group and Company
				2023 2022
				RM’000 RM’000
RCULS - Equity portion 77,410 78,694
RCULS - Liability portion
Non-current - 2,126
Current 2,702 5,026
2,702 7,152
80,112 85,846
On 28 January 2019, the Renounceable Rights Issue of RM165,084,641 in nominal value of
5-year 5% RCULS at 100% of its nominal value of RM1.00 on the basis of three (3) RCULS for
every ten (10) existing ordinary shares, together with 82,542,291 Bonus Shares A on the basis
of one (1) Bonus Share A for every two (2) RCULS subscribed and 82,542,291 Free Warrants A
on the basis of one (1) Free Warrant A for every two (2) RCULS subscribed has been completed
following the listings and quotation on the Main Market of Bursa Securities.
The salient features of the RCULS are as follows:
(i) The coupon rate for the RCULS is 5% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears prior
to conversion of the RCULS;
(ii) The conversion price for the RCULS has been fixed at RM0.50 each (“Conversion Price”)
with the conversion ratio of 2 ordinary shares for every RCULS with a nominal value of
RM1.00 surrendered;
(iii) The new ordinary shares to be issued upon conversion of the RCULS will, upon allotment
and issue, rank equally in all respects with the then existing ordinary shares, except that
they shall not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and any other distributions of
which the entitlement date is before the date of allotment of the new ordinary shares;
(iv) The RCULS holder is entitled to exercise the right of conversion from date of issuance up
to 24 January 2024 (“Maturity Date”);
(v) The Company may redeem the outstanding RCULS (if not earlier converted) in full on
the Maturity Date in cash at 100% of its nominal value plus all accrued coupon of such
RCULS up to the Maturity Date subject to an irrevocable prior written notice is being
served no less than 30 days or such other period as mutually agreed before the Maturity
Date; and
(vi) All outstanding RCULS which have not been earlier converted or redeemed on the Maturity
Date, shall be mandatorily converted into fully paid new ordinary shares at the Conversion
Price on the Maturity Date.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
158
16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)
16.2 Redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks (“RCULS”) (cont’d)
Group and Company
			 Equity Liability
			 component component Total
			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
As at 1 January 2022			 78,179 11,967 90,146
Conversion of RCULS to share capital*		 (259) (20) (279)
RCULS coupon payment			 - (5,481) (5,481)
Interest expense on RCULS			 - 1,710 1,710
RCULS liabilities reduction arising from
conversion of RCULS to share capital		 1,024 (1,024) -
Deferred tax effect (Note 10):
- on conversion			 (250) - (250)
As at 31 December 2022/1 January 2023		 78,694 7,152 85,846
Conversion of RCULS to share capital#		 (1,275) (36) (1,311)
RCULS coupon payment			 - (5,458) (5,458)
Interest expense on RCULS			 - 1,044 1,044
Deferred tax effect (Note 10):
- on conversion			 (9) - (9)
As at 31 December 2023			 77,410 2,702 80,112
* In the previous financial year, 556,880 new ordinary shares amounting to RM279,000 were
issued resulting from the conversion of 278,440 units of RCULS at the conversion price of
RM0.50 each.
# During the financial year, 2,621,656 new ordinary shares amounting to RM1,311,000 were
issued resulting from the conversion of 1,310,828 units of RCULS at the conversion price of
RM0.50 each.
As at 31 December 2023, 108,094,759 RCULS remained unconverted.
16.3 Warrant reserve
Group and Company
			 Number of		 Number of
		 Amount warrants Amount warrants
		 2023 2023 2022 2022
								 RM’000 ’000 RM’000 ’000
At 1 January		 17,770 136,689 17,770 136,689
Exercised during the year		 (7) (61) * *
At 31 December		 17,763 136,628 17,770 136,689
* Denotes 50 warrants amounting to RM7.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
159
16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)
16.3 Warrant reserve (cont’d)
On 28 January 2019, 137,570,667 warrants were issued pursuant to the Rights Issue of Rights
Shares and RCULS (“Rights Issue”).
The warrant reserve comprises the fair value of the free detachable warrants arising from the
Rights Issue. The warrants are constituted by the deed poll dated 3 December 2018 (“Deed
Poll”). The salient features of the warrants are as follows:
(i) Each warrant entitles the warrant holder to subscribe for one (1) new ordinary share in the
Company at the exercise price of RM0.68 during the 5-year period expiring on 23 January
2024 (“Exercise Period”), subject to further adjustments in accordance with provisions of
the Deed Poll;
(ii) At the expiry of the Exercise Period, any warrants which have not been exercised shall
automatically lapse and cease to be valid for any purpose; and
(iii) The new ordinary shares to be issued upon exercise of the warrants will, upon allotment
and issue, rank equally in all respects with the then existing ordinary shares, except that
they shall not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and any other distributions of
which the entitlement date is before the date of allotment of the new ordinary shares.
In the previous financial year, 50 warrants were exercised at RM0.68 each amounting to RM34.
This resulted in the issuance of 50 new ordinary shares and a transfer of warrant reserve of RM7
to share capital. The total increase arising from the warrants exercised amounted to RM41.
During the financial year, 60,607 warrants were exercised at RM0.68 each amounting to
RM42,000. This resulted in the issuance of 60,607 new ordinary shares and a transfer of warrant
reserve of RM7,000 to share capital. The total increase arising from the warrants exercised
amounted to RM49,000.
As at 31 December 2023, 136,627,710 warrants remained unexercised.
16.4 Other capital reserve
Other capital reserve comprises the amount transferred from retained earnings being the profit
reinvested as capital contribution by subsidiaries.
16.5 Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of
the financial statements of foreign operations.
 
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
160
17. Loans and borrowings
Group Company
		 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Non-current
Unsecured term loans		 72,060 120,711 51,000 85,000
Current
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/
Unsecured revolving credits		 842,618 934,439 358,483 534,037
Unsecured term loans		 71,004 50,542 34,000 34,000
						 913,622 984,981 392,483 568,037
Total loans and borrowings		 985,682 1,105,692 443,483 653,037
18. Trade and other payables, including derivatives
Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Trade payables		 40,275 49,933 10,907 9,185
Amounts due to subsidiaries 18.1 - - 11,076 11,188
Amounts due to joint ventures 18.2 3,110 1,874 - -
Other payables and accruals 18.3 65,382 63,582 27,327 24,671
Derivatives at fair value
through profit or loss:
- future and option contracts		 - 44 - 44
- foreign currency forward
contracts		 1,360 9,871 1,265 6,053
		110,127 125,304 50,575 51,141
18.1 Amounts due to subsidiaries
The amounts due to subsidiaries are unsecured, repayable on demand and interest free, except
for RM265,000 (2022: RM365,000) which is subject to interest at 5.50% (2022: 4.00%) per annum.
18.2 Amounts due to joint ventures
The amounts due to joint ventures are unsecured, repayable on demand and interest free.
18.3 Other payables and accruals
Included in other payables and accruals of the Group and of the Company are deposits from
customers of RM22,531,000 (2022: RM21,653,000) and RM254,000 (2022: RM214,000)
respectively.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
161
19. Revenue
Group Company
		 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue from contracts with customers 3,148,901 2,915,570 779,166 678,546
Revenue is recognised when the Group or the Company transfers control of a good to the customers,
net of rebates and/or incentives. The Group or the Company allows returns for quality issues and
compensation for weight loss exceeding the normal threshold, if any. The performance obligation is
satisfied at a point in time and the customers are required to pay within the agreed credit terms, ranging
between 0 to 90 days.
20. Tax expense/(credit)
20.1 Recognised in the income statements
Group Company
		 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Income tax expense		 26,677 25,444 13,342 4,760
Share of tax of equity-accounted
joint ventures (3,061) (25,554) - -
Total income tax expense/(credit) 23,616 (110) 13,342 4,760
Current tax expense
- current year		 18,687 21,304 5,979 1,588
- under/(over) provision in prior
year		 794 (1,228) 787 (1,237)
Total current tax expense		 19,481 20,076 6,766 351
Deferred tax expense
Origination of temporary
differences		 3,979 4,577 3,455 3,697
Under provision in prior year		 3,217 791 3,121 712
Total deferred tax expense		 7,196 5,368 6,576 4,409
Share of tax of equity-accounted
joint ventures (3,061) (25,554) - -
Total tax expense/(credit)		 23,616 (110) 13,342 4,760
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
162
20. Tax expense/(credit) (cont’d)
20.2 Reconciliation of tax expense/(credit)
Group Company
		 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Profit/(Loss) for the year		 5,285 154,000 (70,444) 124,272
Total tax expense/(credit)		 23,616 (110) 13,342 4,760
Profit/(Loss) before tax		 28,901 153,890 (57,102) 129,032
Tax at Malaysian tax rate of 24% 6,936 36,934 (13,704) 30,968
Effect of tax rates in foreign
jurisdictions (4,136) (6,395) - -
Difference in effective tax rate in
equity-accounted joint ventures 474 166 - -
Non-deductible expenses		 22,922 3,621 29,328 2,855
Non-taxable income		 (5,954) (3,552) (6,084) (23,428)
Difference in effective tax rate
for foreign source income		 1 (4,934) 1 (4,934)
Recognition of deferred tax
assets		 (1,199) (42,101) - -
Deferred tax assets not
recognised		 - 16,812 - -
Others		 561 (224) (107) (176)
		 19,605 327 9,434 5,285
Under/(Over) provision in
prior year		 4,011 (437) 3,908 (525)
		 23,616 (110) 13,342 4,760
20.3 Income tax recognised directly in equity
Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
RCULS
- Deferred tax 10 9 250 9 250
 
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
163
21. Profit/(Loss) for the year
Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Profit/(Loss) for the year is
arrived at after charging/
(crediting):
Auditors’ remunerations
Audit fees:
- KPMG PLT		 234 234 130 130
- Member firms of KPMG
International Limited		
179 129 - -
- Other auditors		 105 75 90 7
Non-audit fees:
- KPMG PLT		 39 39 39 39
- Local affiliates of KPMG PLT		 87 894 65 845
Material expenses/(income)
Amortisation of intangible assets 5 330 257 260 165
Depreciation of investment
properties 6 57 58 57 58
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment 3 34,210 39,372 16,722 20,147
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 4 2,610 2,881 1,913 2,168
Dividend income from
subsidiaries (unquoted)		 - - (25,347) (112,292)
Insurance recoveries		(2,240) (187) (985) (157)
Interest income of financial
assets calculated using the
effective interest method that are:
- at amortised cost:
- deposits placed with
licensed banks		
(24,218) (16,606) (704) (687)
- debtors		 (327) (382) (95) (79)
- subsidiaries		 - - (2,445) (1,170)
- joint ventures (944) (11) (944) (11)
- at fair value through profit or
loss (“FVTPL”):
- liquid investment		 (59) (187) (59) (187)
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
164
21. Profit/(Loss) for the year (cont’d)
Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Profit/(Loss) for the year is
arrived at after charging/
(crediting): (cont’d)
Material expenses/(income)
(cont’d)
Interest expense of financial
liabilities that are not at FVTPL:
- recognised in the income
statements:
- unsecured bankers’
acceptances/unsecured
revolving credits		 48,713 32,593 21,421 12,175
- unsecured term loans		 6,919 6,907 5,139 5,203
- subsidiaries		 - - 131 1,651
- RCULS		 1,044 1,710 1,044 1,710
- lease liabilities		 478 558 403 460
Net loss/(gain) on future and
option contracts:
- realised		
5,132 3,742 720 230
- unrealised		 (322) 770 (143) 40
Net (gain)/loss on foreign
exchange:
- realised		 (3,269) 14,359 (770) (920)
- unrealised		 (2,127) 4,860 (2,263) 3,348
Loss/(Write back) on
remeasurement of contingent
consideration receivable 11.1 71,065 (8,819) 71,065 (8,819)
Impairment of investment in a
joint venture 8.1 - - (35,765) -
Impairment of investment in an
associate 9 197 - - -
Personnel expense (including
key management personnel):
- Contributions to Employees
Provident Fund		 8,261 7,545 5,586 5,179
- Wages, salaries and others		 81,083 72,679 51,823 45,999
Other expenses/(income)
arising from leases
Expenses relating to short-term
leases		 118 385 11 270
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
165
21. Profit/(Loss) for the year (cont’d)
Group Company
		 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Profit/(Loss) for the year is
arrived at after charging/
(crediting): (cont’d)
Other expenses/(income)
arising from leases (cont’d)
Expenses relating to leases of
low-value assets		 71 67 67 63
Expenses relating to variable
lease payments not included in
the measurement of lease
liabilities		
1,884 1,785 829 843
Income from subleasing
right-of-use assets (excluding
subleasing of investment
properties)		 - - (1,155) (1,155)
Net loss/(gain) on impairment
of financial instruments
Financial assets at amortised cost:
- Trade receivables		 1,357 (1,494) 873 156
22. Earnings per ordinary share
22.1 Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share was based on the (loss)/profit
attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company and a weighted average number of ordinary
shares outstanding, calculated as follows:
		Group
				2023 2022
				RM’000 RM’000
(Loss)/Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company (6,681) 145,045
				’000 ’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December		 1,021,580 1,019,923
				Sen Sen
Basic (loss)/earnings per ordinary share			 (0.65) 14.22
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
166
22. Earnings per ordinary share (cont’d)
22.2 Basic earnings per ordinary share (adjusted)
		Group
				2023 2022
				RM’000 RM’000
(Loss)/Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company (6,681) 145,045
Loss/(Write back) on remeasurement of contingent consideration
receivable				71,065 (8,819)
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the
Company (adjusted) 64,384 136,226
				’000 ’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December		 1,021,580 1,019,923
				Sen Sen
Basic earnings per ordinary share (adjusted) 6.30 13.36
22.3 Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share was based on (loss)/profit attributable
to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would have
been in issue upon the full conversion of all outstanding RCULS and exercise of all outstanding
warrants, calculated as follows:
		Group
				2023 2022
				RM’000 RM’000
(Loss)/Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company (6,681) 145,045
Interest expense on RCULS, net of tax			 1,044 1,710
				 (5,637) 146,755
				’000 ’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December
(basic)				1,021,580 1,019,923
Potential dilution arising from outstanding RCULS		 216,190 218,811
Potential dilution arising from outstanding warrants		 72* 136,688
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December
(diluted)				1,237,842 1,375,422
				Sen Sen
Diluted (loss)/earnings per ordinary share			 (0.46) 10.67
*	
Actual warrants exercised subsequent to the balance sheet date and up to the warrants
expiry date of 23 January 2024.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
167
22. Earnings per ordinary share (cont’d)
22.4 Diluted earnings per ordinary share (adjusted)
		Group
				2023 2022
				RM’000 RM’000
(Loss)/Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company (6,681) 145,045
Interest expense on RCULS, net of tax			 1,044 1,710
				 (5,637) 146,755
Loss/(Write back) on remeasurement of contingent consideration
receivable				71,065 (8,819)
				 65,428 137,936
				’000 ’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at
31 December (diluted)				 1,237,842 1,375,422
				Sen Sen
Diluted earnings per ordinary share (adjusted) 5.29 10.03
23. Dividends
Dividends recognised by the Company are:
				 Sen Total		
				 per share amount Date of payment
					 RM’000
2023
Interim 2022 ordinary 1.50 15,315 24 March 2023
Interim 2023 ordinary 1.50 15,338 29 September 2023
					 30,653
2022
Interim 2021 ordinary 2.00 20,398 25 March 2022
Interim 2022 ordinary 1.50 15,302 23 September 2022
					 35,700
On 29 February 2024, the Directors declared a second interim dividend of 1.50 sen per ordinary share
totalling approximately RM18,587,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023, which
was paid on 29 March 2024.
The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year under review.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
168
24. Operating segments
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s business and geographical segments.
For each business and geographical segments, the Group’s chief operating decision maker reviews
internal management reports on a regular basis.
The Group’s operations comprise the following main business segments:
• Flour and grain trading Milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grain and other
		 allied products
• Poultry integration Manufacture and sale of animal feeds, processing and sale of
poultry products, poultry grow-out farm, breeding and sale of
day-old-chicks and contract farming activities
• Others Manufacture and sale of aqua feeds and remeasurement of
contingent consideration receivable
Performance is measured based on segment profit before tax, interest, depreciation and amortisation,
as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s chief operating
decision maker. Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such
information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities
that operate within these industries.
The total of segment assets is measured based on all assets of a segment, as included in the internal
management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s chief operating decision maker. Segment total
assets is used to measure the return of assets of each segment.
Flour and grain		
trading Poultry integration Others Consolidated
2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Business
segments
Revenue from
external
customers 3,065,456 2,843,606 - - 83,445 71,964 3,148,901 2,915,570
Inter-segment
revenue 26,084 24,885 - - - - 26,084 24,885
Total segment
revenue 3,091,540 2,868,491 - - 83,445 71,964 3,174,985 2,940,455
Results from
operating
activities 125,346 127,724 - - 3,124 (2,520) 128,470 125,204
Interest expense (55,374) (40,064) - - (1,780) (1,704) (57,154) (41,768)
Interest income 25,421 17,186 - - 127 - 25,548 17,186
(Loss)/Write
back on
remeasurement
of contingent
consideration
receivable - - - - (71,065) 8,819 (71,065) 8,819
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
169
24. Operating segments (cont’d)
Flour and grain		
trading Poultry integration Others Consolidated
2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Share of (loss)/
profit of equity-
accounted
joint ventures,
net of tax (19,947) (7,013) 25,879 77,033 - - 5,932 70,020
Share of profit/
(loss) of equity-
accounted
associate,
net of tax 231 (17) - - - - 231 (17)
Profit/(Loss)
before tax 75,677 97,816 25,879 77,033 (69,594) 4,595 31,962 179,444
Depreciation and
amortisation (33,189) (38,511) - - (4,018) (4,057) (37,207) (42,568)
Tax (expense)/
credit (26,491) (26,047) - - (186) 603 (26,677) (25,444)
Insurance
recoveries 2,096 187 - - 144 - 2,240 187
Non-cash
expense
other than
depreciation
and
amortisation 2,356 (6,364) - - (318) 70 2,038 (6,294)
Capital
expenditure (34,878) (48,897) - - (688) (1,360) (35,566) (50,257)
Segment assets 1,761,402 1,924,322 - - 110,287 112,446 1,871,689 2,036,768
Investments in
joint ventures 153,413 163,839 555,638 529,759 - - 709,051 693,598
Investment in
an associate - - - - - 1,061 - 1,061
Total segments
assets 1,914,815 2,088,161 555,638 529,759 110,287 113,507 2,580,740 2,731,427
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
170
24. Operating segments (cont’d)
Geographical segments
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on geographical
location of customers. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the assets.
Malaysia Vietnam Consolidated
2023 2022 2023 2022 2023 2022
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue from external
customers 1,821,006 1,638,770 1,327,895 1,276,800 3,148,901 2,915,570
Non-current assets 1,039,769 1,112,346 144,735 128,102 1,184,504 1,240,448
Major customers
There were no customers with revenue equal to or more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue for the
financial year ended 31 December 2023 (2022: Nil).
25. Financial instruments
25.1 Categories of financial instruments
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows:
(a) Fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”)
- Mandatorily required by MFRS 9
(b) Amortised cost (“AC”)
			 Carrying		Mandatorily
		 Note amount AC at FVTPL
			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
2023
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives		 11 408,797 408,506 291
Fixed deposits		 13 332,717 332,717 -
Cash and cash equivalents		 14 87,350 87,350 -
			 828,864 828,573 291
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives		 18 (110,127) (108,767) (1,360)
Loans and borrowings		 17 (985,682) (985,682) -
RCULS - Liabilities		 16 (2,702) (2,702) -
			 (1,098,511) (1,097,151) (1,360)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
171
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.1 Categories of financial instruments (cont’d)
			 Carrying		Mandatorily
		 Note amount AC at FVTPL
			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Company
2023
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives		 11 192,351 192,253 98
Cash and cash equivalents		 14 52,952 52,952 -
			 245,303 245,205 98
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives		 18 (50,575) (49,310) (1,265)
Loans and borrowings		 17 (443,483) (443,483) -
RCULS - Liabilities		 16 (2,702) (2,702) -
			 (496,760) (495,495) (1,265)
Group
2022
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives		 11 643,362 452,313 191,049
Fixed deposits		 13 157,219 157,219 -
Cash and cash equivalents		 14 86,710 86,710 -
			 887,291 696,242 191,049
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives		 18 (125,304) (115,389) (9,915)
Loans and borrowings		 17 (1,105,692) (1,105,692) -
RCULS - Liabilities		 16 (7,152) (7,152) -
			 (1,238,148) (1,228,233) (9,915)
Company
2022
Financial assets
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives		 11 426,629 235,593 191,036
Cash and cash equivalents		 14 32,715 32,715 -
			 459,344 268,308 191,036
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
172
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.1 Categories of financial instruments (cont’d)
			 Carrying		Mandatorily
		 Note amount AC at FVTPL
			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Company
2022
Financial liabilities
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives		 18 (51,141) (45,044) (6,097)
Loans and borrowings		 17 (653,037) (653,037) -
RCULS - Liabilities		 16 (7,152) (7,152) -
			 (711,330) (705,233) (6,097)
25.2 Net gains and losses arising from financial instruments
Group Company
		 2023 2022 2023 2022
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Net (losses)/gains on:
Financial assets/(liabilities) at
FVTPL:
Mandatorily required by MFRS 9
- foreign currency forward
contracts 8,511 (7,796) 4,788 (4,771)
- future and option contracts (4,810) (4,512) (577) (271)
- other receivables (71,065) 8,819 (71,065) 8,819
- liquid investments 59 187 59 187
Financial assets at amortised cost 24,132 18,493 3,315 1,791
Financial liabilities measured at
amortised cost (59,791) (53,968) (29,490) (18,395)
(102,964) (38,777) (92,970) (12,640)
25.3 Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to the following risks from its financial instruments:
• Credit risk
• Interest rate risk
• Foreign currency risk
• Liquidity risk
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
173
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.4 Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails
to meet its contractual obligations. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to credit risk arise
principally from their receivables from customers. There are no significant changes as compared
to prior periods.
Trade receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an
ongoing basis. Credit risk is addressed by the Credit Committee that sets policies, approves credit
evaluations and institutes mitigating actions.  New customers are subject to credit evaluation
process and existing customers’ risk profiles are reviewed regularly with a view to setting
appropriate terms of trade and credit limits. Where appropriate, further sales are suspended and
legal actions are taken to attempt recoveries and mitigate losses.
At each reporting date, the Group or the Company assesses whether any of the trade receivables
are credit impaired.
The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partially or
fully) when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group or
the Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could
generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. Nevertheless, trade
receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.
There are no significant changes as compared to previous year.
Exposure to credit risk and credit quality
At the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from trade receivables is
represented by their carrying amounts in the balance sheets.
The Group and the Company receive financial guarantees given by banks, shareholders or
directors of customers in managing exposure to credit risks.
Concentration of credit risk
The exposure of credit risk for trade receivables at the balance sheet date by geographic region
was:
Group Company
		 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Malaysia		 260,301 298,930 99,387 104,806
Vietnam		 124,174 129,418 - -
		 384,475 428,348 99,387 104,806
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
174
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Trade receivables (cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group and the Company manage their debtors
and take appropriate actions (including but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue
balances. Generally, trade receivables will pay within 90 days. The Group’s and the Company’s
debt recovery process are as follows:
(a) Above 30 days past due after credit term, the Group or the Company will start to initiate a
structured debt recovery process which is monitored by the sales management team; and
(b) Above 180 days past due after credit term, the Group or the Company will commence a
legal proceeding against the customer.
The Group and the Company use an allowance matrix to measure ECLs of trade receivables for
all segments. Invoices which are past due 90 days will be considered as credit impaired.
Loss rates are calculated using a ‘roll rate’ method based on the probability of a receivable
progressing through successive stages of delinquency to 90 days past due.
Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experience over the past three years. The Group and
the Company also consider differences between (a) economic conditions during the period over
which the historic data has been collected, (b) current conditions and (c) the Group’s view of
economic conditions over the expected lives of the receivables. Nevertheless, the Group and
the Company believe that these factors are immaterial for the purpose of impairment calculation
for the year.
The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade
receivables which are grouped together as they are expected to have similar risk nature.
Group Company
		 Gross			Gross
		
carrying Loss Net carrying Loss Net
Note amount allowance balance amount allowance balance
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2023
Not past due		 379,834 (353) 379,481 99,551 (297) 99,254
More than 90 days
past due 25.4.1 701 - 701 - - -
		
380,535 (353) 380,182 99,551 (297) 99,254
Credit impaired
More than 90
days past due		 4,685 (392) 4,293 203 (70) 133
Individually
impaired		 1,934 (1,934) - 1,220 (1,220) -
		
387,154 (2,679) 384,475 100,974 (1,587) 99,387
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
175
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Trade receivables (cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)
Group Company
		 Gross			Gross
		
carrying Loss Net carrying Loss Net
		 amount allowance balance amount allowance balance
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2022
Not past due		 427,407 (337) 427,070 104,499 (255) 104,244
Credit impaired
More than 90 days
past due		
1,647 (369) 1,278 903 (341) 562
Individually impaired		 649 (649) - 144 (144) -
		 429,703 (1,355) 428,348 105,546 (740) 104,806
25.4.1 More than 90 days past due
Subsequent payment for trade receivables which were more than 90 days past due was
received in January 2024.
The movements in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year
are shown below.
Group Company
Trade receivables Trade receivables
Lifetime Credit		 Lifetime Credit
ECL impaired Total ECL impaired Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At 1 January 2022 517 2,366 2,883 302 316 618
Amounts written off - (34) (34) - (34) (34)
Net remeasurement
of loss allowance (180) (1,314) (1,494) (47) 203 156
At 31 December 2022/
1 January 2023 337 1,018 1,355 255 485 740
Amounts written off - (29) (29) - (26) (26)
Net remeasurement
of loss allowance 16 1,341 1,357 42 831 873
Foreign exchange rate - (4) (4) - - -
At 31 December 2023 353 2,326 2,679 297 1,290 1,587
As at 31 December 2023, RM29,000 (2022: RM34,000) and RM26,000 (2022: RM34,000) of trade
receivables for the Group and for the Company, respectively, were written off but they are still
subject to enforcement activities.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
176
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Other receivables
In the previous financial year, credit risk on other receivables mainly arose from contingent
consideration receivable from a joint venturer which was subject to the achievability of certain
financial targets.
During the financial year, the Group and the Company recognised a loss on remeasurement
contingent consideration receivable of RM71,065,000 (2022: write back on remeasurement of
contingent consideration receivable of RM8,819,000).
In the current year, credit risk on other receivables are mainly arising from advances paid to
suppliers and interest receivable from deposits placed with licensed banks. At the balance sheet
date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is presented by their carrying amounts in the balance
sheets.
Fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents
The fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. At
the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the balance sheets.
These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. Consequently, the Group and the
Company are of the view that the loss allowance is not material and hence, it is not provided for.
Financial guarantees to banks
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured financial guarantees to financial institutions in respect of
financing facilities granted to its joint venturer, BFMI. The Company monitors on an ongoing
basis the results of the joint venturer and repayments made by the joint venturer.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
The Company has provided proportionate financial guarantees totalling up to USD15.0 million
(2022: USD15.0 million) in respect of financing facilities granted to its joint venturer.
As at 31 December 2023, the maximum exposure to credit risk amounted to USD3.6 million
(2022: USD7.6 million) representing the share of the outstanding banking facilities of the joint
venturer at the balance sheet date.
Financial guarantee to joint venturer
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
At the balance sheet date, there was no indication that the joint venturer would default on
repayment. The Company is of the view that the loss allowance is not material and hence, it is
not provided for.
The Company provides bank guarantee to its joint venturer pursuant to the disposal of 49%
equity interest in DTSB amounting to RM13,741,947 (2022: RM13,741,947) in respect of the
post-completion adjustment, breach of warranties and profit guarantee as stipulated in the share
purchase agreement entered with the joint venturer.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
177
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Intercompany advances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors the
results of the subsidiaries regularly.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
At the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the balance sheet.
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
Generally, the Company considers advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company
assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial position
deteriorates significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of the
subsidiaries’ advances when they are payable, the Company considers the advances to be in
default when the subsidiaries are not able to pay when demanded. The Company considers a
subsidiary’s advance to be credit impaired when:
• The subsidiary is unlikely to repay its advance to the Company in full;
• The subsidiary’s advance is overdue for more than 365 days; and
• The subsidiary is continuously loss-making and is having a deficit shareholders’ fund.
The Company determines the probability of default for these advances individually using internal
information available.
The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for
subsidiaries’ advances as at 31 December.
			 Gross Impairment
			carrying loss Net
Company			 amount allowance balance
			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2023
Low credit risk			 82,258 - 82,258
Credit impaired			 710 (710) -
			 82,968 (710) 82,258
2022
Low credit risk			 116,477 - 116,477
Credit impaired			 710 (710) -
			 117,187 (710) 116,477
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
178
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Intercompany advances (cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of subsidiaries’ advances during the
year is as follows:
Company					 Lifetime ECL
					RM’000
At 1 January 2022					 907
Derecognition upon liquidation of subsidiaries				 (197)
At 31 December 2022/1 January 2023/31 December 2023			 710
25.5 Interest rate risk
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk relate primarily to their borrowings
and deposits with licensed banks.
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group’s and the Company’s bank borrowings and interest-bearing deposits are both subject
to interest based on fixed and floating rates. Market interest rates movements are monitored with
the view of ensuring the most competitive rates are secured and where appropriate, borrowing
arrangements are restructured or reduced.
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group’s and the Company’s significant interest-bearing financial
instruments, based on the carrying amounts at the balance sheet date are as follows:
Group Company
Note 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Fixed rate instruments
Amounts due from
subsidiaries 11 - - 82,258 116,477
Fixed deposits 13 332,717 157,219 - -
Deposits placed with
licensed banks 14 25,763 30,033 13,644 434
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/Unsecured
revolving credits 17 (842,618) (934,439) (358,483) (534,037)
Lease liabilities		 (11,496) (13,423) (10,694) (12,303)
RCULS - Liabilities 16 (2,702) (7,152) (2,702) (7,152)
Amounts due to subsidiaries 18.1 - - (265) (365)
		 (498,336) (767,762) (276,242) (436,946)
Floating rate
instruments
Unsecured term loans 17 (143,064) (171,253) (85,000) (119,000)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
179
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.5 Interest rate risk (cont’d)
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
Fair value sensitivity analysis for fixed rate instruments
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value through
profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the balance sheet date would not affect the
income statements.
Cash flow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments
A change of 50 basis points (“bp”) in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would
have increased/(decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown below. This analysis
assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates, remained constant.
Profit or loss
		 50 bp 50 bp 50 bp 50 bp
		 increase decrease increase decrease
		 2023 2023 2022 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Floating rate instruments		 (544) 544 (651) 651
Company
Floating rate instruments		 (323) 323 (452) 452
25.6 Foreign currency risk
The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and
borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies
of the Group entities. The currencies giving rise to this risk are primarily United States Dollar
(“USD”) and Euro Dollar (“EUR”).
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group and the Company monitor their exposure to foreign currency movements closely and
where appropriate, the Group and the Company have used foreign currency forward contracts
to hedge some of their foreign currency risk.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
180
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.6 Foreign currency risk (cont’d)
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the
functional currency of the Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts at the balance sheet
date was:
Denominated in
Group Note USD EUR
		 RM’000 RM’000
2023
Balances recognised in the balance sheet
Unsecured term loans 17 (9,180) (20,784)
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/
Unsecured revolving credits 17 (182,797) -
		 (191,977) (20,784)
Forecast transactions
Forecast purchases		 (86,280) -
Forward exchange contract on forecast purchases		 84,920 -
18 (1,360) -
Net exposure		 (193,337) (20,784)
2022
Balances recognised in the balance sheet
Unsecured term loans 17 (5,382) (7,611)
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/
Unsecured revolving credits 17 (398,733) (239)
		(404,115) (7,850)
Forecast transactions
Forecast purchases		 (502,776) -
Forward exchange contract on forecast purchases		 492,905 -
18 (9,871) -
Net exposure		(413,986) (7,850)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
181
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.6 Foreign currency risk (cont’d)
Exposure to foreign currency risk (cont’d)
Denominated in USD
Company Note 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000
Balance recognised in the balance sheet
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/
Unsecured revolving credits 17 (73,144) (189,140)
Forecast transactions
Forecast purchases		 (76,231) (342,608)
Forward exchange contract on forecast purchases		 74,966 336,555
18 (1,265) (6,053)
Net exposure		 (74,409) (195,193)
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
A 5% (2022: 5%) strengthening/(weakening) of RM against the following currencies at the
balance sheet date would have increased/(decreased) post-tax profit or loss by the amounts
shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remained
constant.
		 Profit or loss
2023 2022
RM’000 RM’000
Group
USD 4,068 3,374
EUR 790 298
Company
USD 69 5,602
25.7 Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group and the Company will not be able to meet its financial
obligations as they fall due. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to liquidity risk arises
principally from its various payables, loans and borrowings and lease liabilities.
The Group and the Company monitor and maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and
bank facilities deemed adequate by the management to ensure, as far as possible, that they will
have sufficient liquidity to meet their liabilities when they fall due.
It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly
earlier, or at significantly different amounts.
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
182
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)
Maturity analysis
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial
liabilities at the balance sheet date based on undiscounted contractual payments.
		Contractual					 More
Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 than
Group amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years
RM’000 % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2023
Non-derivative
financial liabilities
Trade and other
payables 108,767 - 108,767 108,767 - - -
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/
Unsecured
revolving credits 842,618 2.00 - 7.12 851,544 851,544 - - -
Unsecured term
loans 143,064 5.28 - 7.97 152,076 79,705 49,162 23,209 -
Lease liabilities 11,496 3.50 - 8.50 12,993 2,061 2,132 5,187 3,613
RCULS liabilities 2,702 - 2,702 2,702 - - -
Financial
guarantees - - 30,266 30,266 - - -
Derivative financial
liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts
(gross settled):
Outflow 1,360 - 86,280 86,280 - - -
Inflow - - (84,920) (84,920) - - -
1,110,007		 1,159,708 1,076,405 51,294 28,396 3,613
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
183
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)
Maturity analysis (cont’d)
		Contractual					 More
Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 than
Group amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years
RM’000 % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2022
Non-derivative
financial liabilities
Trade and other
payables 115,389 - 115,389 115,389 - - -
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/
Unsecured
revolving credits 934,439 2.78 - 8.00 947,226 947,226 - - -
Unsecured term
loans 171,253 4.03 - 6.40 179,840 57,797 51,341 70,702 -
Lease liabilities 13,423 3.50 - 8.50 15,346 2,525 1,984 5,828 5,009
RCULS liabilities 7,152 5.10 8,205 5,470 2,735 - -
Financial
guarantees - - 47,106 47,106 - - -
Derivative financial
liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts
(gross settled):
Outflow 9,871 - 502,776 502,776 - - -
Inflow - - (492,905) (492,905) - - -
Future and option
contracts
(gross settled):
Outflow 44 - - - - - -
Inflow - - 44 44 - - -
1,251,571		 1,323,027 1,185,428 56,060 76,530 5,009
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
184
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)
Maturity analysis (cont’d)
		Contractual					 More
Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 than
Company amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years
RM’000 % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2023
Non-derivative
financial liabilities
Trade and other
payables 49,045 - 49,045 49,045 - - -
Amounts due to
subsidiaries 265 5.50 280 280 - - -
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/
Unsecured
revolving credits 358,483 3.70 - 7.12 363,478 363,478 - - -
Unsecured term
loans 85,000 5.28 91,181 37,825 36,019 17,337 -
Lease liabilities 10,694 3.50 - 5.00 12,074 1,656 1,792 5,013 3,613
RCULS liabilities 2,702 - 2,702 2,702 - - -
Financial
guarantees - - 30,266 30,266 - - -
Derivative financial
liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts
(gross settled):
Outflow 1,265 - 76,231 76,231 - - -
Inflow - - (74,966) (74,966) - - -
507,454		 550,291 486,517 37,811 22,350 3,613
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
185
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)
Maturity analysis (cont’d)
		Contractual					 More
Carrying interest rate/ Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 than
Company amount Discount rate cash flows 1 year years years 5 years
RM’000 % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2022
Non-derivative
financial liabilities
Trade and other
payables 44,679 - 44,679 44,679 - - -
Amounts due to
subsidiaries 365 4.00 380 380 - - -
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/
Unsecured
revolving credits 534,037 2.78 - 6.20 540,018 540,018 - - -
Unsecured term
loans 119,000 4.67 129,428 38,961 37,383 53,084 -
Lease liabilities 12,303 3.50 - 5.00 14,084 2,144 1,582 5,075 5,283
RCULS liabilities 7,152 5.10 8,205 5,470 2,735 - -
Financial
guarantees - - 47,106 47,106 - - -
Derivative financial
liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts
(gross settled):
Outflow 6,053 - 342,608 342,608 - - -
Inflow - - (336,555) (336,555) - - -
Future and option
contracts
(gross settled):
Outflow 44 - - - - - -
Inflow - - 44 44 - - -
723,633		 789,997 684,855 41,700 58,159 5,283
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
186
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.8 Fair value information
The carrying amounts of fixed deposits, cash and cash equivalents, short-term receivables and
payables and short-term borrowings reasonably approximate their fair values due to the relatively
short-term nature of these financial instruments.
The tables below analyses other financial instruments at fair value.
					Not
Carried at			 carried at
fair value			 fair value Total fair Carrying
Group Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 3 value amount
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2023
Financial assets
Future and option
contracts 291 - - 291 - 291 291
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts - (1,360) - (1,360) - (1,360) (1,360)
Unsecured term
loans (non-current) - - - - (72,060) (72,060) (72,060)
- (1,360) - (1,360) (72,060) (73,420) (73,420)
2022
Financial assets
Contingent
consideration
receivable - - 191,036 191,036 - 191,036 191,036
Future and option
contracts 13 - - 13 - 13 13
13 - 191,036 191,049 - 191,049 191,049
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts - (9,871) - (9,871) - (9,871) (9,871)
Future and option
contracts (44) - - (44) - (44) (44)
Unsecured term
loans (non-current) - - - - (120,711) (120,711) (120,711)
(44) (9,871) - (9,915) (120,711) (130,626) (130,626)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
187
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.8 Fair value information (cont’d)
					Not
Carried at			 carried at
fair value			 fair value Total fair Carrying
Company Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Level 3 value amount
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2023
Financial assets
Future and option
contracts 98 - - 98 - 98 98
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts - (1,265) - (1,265) - (1,265) (1,265)
Unsecured term
loans (non-current) - - - - (51,000) (51,000) (51,000)
- (1,265) - (1,265) (51,000) (52,265) (52,265)
2022
Financial assets
Contingent
consideration
receivable - - 191,036 191,036 - 191,036 191,036
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts - (6,053) - (6,053) - (6,053) (6,053)
Future and option
contracts (44) - - (44) - (44) (44)
Unsecured term
loans (non-current) - - - - (85,000) (85,000) (85,000)
(44) (6,053) - (6,097) (85,000) (91,097) (91,097)
Level 2 fair value
Derivatives
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between
the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the
contract using a risk-free interest rate (based on government bonds).
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
188
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.8 Fair value information (cont’d)
Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values
There has been no transfer between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values during the financial year
(2022: no transfer in either direction).
Fair value of financial instruments not carried at fair value
Level 3 fair value
Level 3 fair value not carried at fair value comprises long-term term loans where their fair values
approximate their carrying amounts. The fair values are estimated using discounted cash flows
using a rate based on the current market rate of borrowing of the respective Group entities at
the reporting date.
26. Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence
and to sustain future development of the business. The Directors monitor and are determined to maintain
an optimal debt-to-equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory requirements.
The debt-to-equity ratios at 31 December 2023 and at 31 December 2022 were as follows:
Group
Note 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000
Total borrowings 17 985,682 1,105,692
Lease liabilities		 11,496 13,423
Less:
Fixed deposits 13 (332,717) (157,219)
Cash and cash equivalents 14 (87,350) (86,710)
Net debt		 577,111 875,186
Total equity		 1,445,981 1,466,093
Debt-to-equity ratio		 0.40 0.60
There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
189
27. Capital commitments
Group Company
		 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Property, plant and equipment
Contracted but not provided for		 46,072 22,419 32,736 943
Joint ventures
Share of capital commitment of the
joint ventures 12,630 24,467 - -
28. Related parties
Significant related party transactions
Related party transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business under negotiated
terms. The significant related party transactions of the Group and of the Company are shown below.
The balances related to the below transactions are shown in Notes 11 and 18.
Group Company
		 2023 2022 2023 2022
			 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
A. Subsidiaries
Sales of goods		 - - 11,545 10,970
Purchases of goods		 - - - (407)
Dividend income		 - - 25,347 112,292
Consultancy fees income		 - - 1,386 1,324
Management fees income		 - - 521 540
Management Information System
fees income		 - - 232 356
Rental of premises		 - - 42 2
Rental of furniture and fittings		 - - 42 42
Rental of equipment		 - - 1,667 2,430
Interest income		 - - 2,445 1,170
Interest expense		 - - (131) (1,651)
B. Joint ventures
Sales of goods		 90,790 70,023 35,037 29,815
Purchases of goods		 (115,089) (91,627) - -
Management fees income		 11,684 10,094 11,684 10,094
Management Information System
fees income		 4,538 5,552 4,538 5,552
Rental of premises		 451 242 451 242
Rental of furniture and fittings		 111 111 111 111
Rental of equipment		 3,770 4,387 3,770 4,387
Interest income		 944 11 944 11
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
190
28. Related parties (cont’d)
Significant related party transactions (cont’d)
Group Company
		 2023 2022 2023 2022
		 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
C. Key management personnel
Directors of the Company:
- Fees		 924 960 924 960
- Remuneration		 8,614 9,419 8,242 8,906
- Other short-term employee
benefits (including estimated
monetary value of benefits-
in-kind)		 92 93 92 93
		 9,630 10,472 9,258 9,959
Directors of the Group entities:
- Remuneration		
621 685 - -
- Other short-term employee
benefits (including estimated
monetary value of benefits-
in-kind)		
143 130 - -
		
764 815 - -
Total short-term employee
benefits		10,394 11,287 9,258 9,959
191
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 120 to 190 are drawn up in accordance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS Accounting Standards as issued by the International
Accounting Standards Board and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a
true and fair view of the financial position of the Group and of the Company as of 31 December 2023 and of
their financial performance and cash flows for the financial year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Director
Teh Wee Chye
Director
4 April 2024
Statement by Directors
pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016
192 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
I, Yau Tee Peng, the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 120 to 190 are, to the
best of my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the
declaration to be true, and by virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above named Yau Tee Peng, MIA CA15344, at Kuala Lumpur in the
Federal Territory on 4 April 2024.
Yau Tee Peng
Before me:
Dr. T. Yokheswarem (W540)
Commissioner for Oaths
Kuala Lumpur
Statutory Declaration
pursuant to Section 251(1)(b) of the Companies Act 2016
193
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad, which comprise the balance sheets
as at 31 December 2023 of the Group and of the Company, and the income statements, statements of
comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and of
the Company for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including material accounting
policy information, as set out on pages 120 to 190.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of
the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2023, and of their financial performance and their cash
flows for the year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, IFRS Accounting
Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (“IFRS Accounting Standards”) and the
requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our auditors’ report. We believe that the
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional
Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including
International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities
in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole,
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
(i) Valuation of investment in a joint venture
Refer to Note 1(d) – Use of estimates and judgements and Note 8 – Investments in joint ventures.
The key audit matter
As at 31 December 2023, the net assets of a joint venture, PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia, of
RM153,413,000 was lower than the Company’s initial cost of investment. Hence, there was an indication
of impairment which requires management to estimate the recoverable amount of the investment in the
joint venture.
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
194 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (cont’d)
Key Audit Matters (cont’d)
(i) Valuation of investment in a joint venture (cont’d)
The key audit matter (cont’d)
We identified the valuation of investment in a joint venture as a key audit matter because of its significance
to the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and because assessing the key impairment
assumptions involves significant judgement which requires significant involvement of our more experienced
audit engagement team members.
How the matter was addressed in our audit
We performed the following audit procedures, among others:
• We assessed the Group’s and the Company’s assessment on indicators of impairment in investment
in a joint venture;
• We compared the joint venture’s cash flow projections to its approved business plan and previous
cash flow projections to actual results to assess the reliability of the Group’s forecasting process;
• We assessed and challenged the reasonableness of the key assumptions used in the cash flow
projections by comparing them to externally derived data as well as our own assessments which
takes into account historical trends and other corroborative evidence available;
• We assessed whether the Group and the Company had adequately provided impairment on the
investment in a joint venture; and
• We assessed the adequacy of the disclosure in the financial statements.
(ii) Valuation of contingent consideration receivable
Refer to Note 8 – Investments in joint ventures and Note 11 – Trade and other receivables, including
derivatives.
The key audit matter
On 31 May 2021, the Company had completed the disposal of 49% equity interest in Dindings Tyson Sdn.
Bhd. for a total cash consideration of RM445,028,000, with a final contingent consideration due in 2024
based on the financial targets as at 31 December 2023.
As at 31 December 2023, management assessed the final contingent consideration and has recognised a
loss on remeasurement of contingent consideration receivable of RM71,065,000 in the income statements.
We identified the valuation of contingent consideration receivable as a key audit matter because of its
significance to the financial statements of the Group and of the Company and because assessing the
calculation of the contingent consideration requires significant involvement of our more experienced audit
engagement team members.
195
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Key Audit Matters (cont’d)
(ii) Valuation of contingent consideration receivable (cont’d)
How the matter was addressed in our audit
We performed the following audit procedures, among others:
• We read the relevant agreements to determine the significant terms and conditions factored in the
computation of the Group’s contingent consideration receivable;
• We assessed the appropriateness of the Group’s computation in measuring the contingent
consideration receivable; and
• We assessed the adequacy of the disclosure in the financial statements.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the annual report
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility
is to read the annual report and, in doing so, consider whether the annual report is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
there is a material misstatement of the annual report, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to
report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and
of the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards,
IFRS Accounting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The Directors are
also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the preparation
of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement, whether
due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for
assessing the ability of the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the
Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.
196 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (cont’d)
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and
International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
of the internal control of the Group and of the Company.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
and related disclosures made by the Directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If
we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to
the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up
to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the
Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that gives a true and fair view.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely
responsible for our audit opinion.
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.
197
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, actions taken to eliminate threats
or safeguards applied.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter
should not be communicated in our auditors’ report because the adverse consequences of doing so would
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries
of which we have not acted as auditors are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
Other Matter
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of
the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other
person for the content of this report.
KPMG PLT Chong Dee Shiang
LLP0010081-LCA & AF 0758 Approval Number: 02782/09/2024 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Petaling Jaya
4 April 2024
198 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Analysis of Shareholdings
as at 29 March 2024
Share Capital - RM651,092,240.51
Class and Number of Issued Shares - 1,239,154,165 ordinary shares
13,656 shareholders
Voting rights: One vote for one share
Size of Holdings
No. of
Shareholders
% of
Shareholders
No. of
Issued Shares
% of
Issued
Shares
Less than 100 1,599 11.71 18,893 0.00
100 to 1,000 1,477 10.81 871,912 0.07
1,001 to 10,000 5,880 43.06 32,029,678 2.59
10,001 to 100,000 3,993 29.24 130,509,725 10.53
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 704 5.16 826,350,857 66.69
5% and above of issued shares 3 0.02 249,373,100 20.12
13,656 100.00 1,239,154,165 100.00
Thirty (30) Largest Shareholders No. of Shares
Percentage
Holding (%)
1. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd		
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
91,058,005 7.35
2. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd		
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
81,052,695 6.54
3. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd		
[Exempt An for Credit Suisse (SG BR-TST-ASING)]
77,262,400 6.24
4. Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd 60,561,922 4.89
5. Astar Commercial Limited 53,583,750 4.32
6. Azlin binti Arshad 42,513,570 3.43
7. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd for Wise Bright Investment Limited)
39,381,435 3.18
8. Duangmanee Liewphairatana 33,380,875 2.69
9. CGS International Nominees Malaysia (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Zalaraz Sdn Bhd)
31,339,800 2.53
10. Yong Kok Yian 31,034,372 2.50
11. Amble Volume Sdn Bhd 30,847,500 2.49
12. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Exempt An for Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. Ltd)
30,269,600 2.44
13. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Essence Lane Sdn Bhd)
25,129,449 2.03
14. Azlin binti Arshad 24,806,750 2.00
199
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Thirty (30) Largest Shareholders No. of Shares
Percentage
Holding (%)
15. Teh Wee Chye 19,158,376 1.55
16. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Amble Volume Sdn Bhd for Rise Glory Investment Limited)
15,425,197 1.25
17. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
[Employees Provident Fund Board (Pheim)]
11,490,400 0.93
18. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Urusharta Jamaah Sdn Bhd)
11,018,291 0.89
19. CIMB Islamic Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(MIDF Amanah Asset Management Berhad for Perbadanan		
Pembangunan Pertanian Negeri Perak)		
10,379,230 0.84
20. Teoh Guan Kok & Co Sdn Berhad 9,594,000 0.77
21. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon)
9,540,000 0.77
22. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Chung Keat Ann)
8,037,000 0.65
23. RHB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Teh Wee Chye)
7,741,500 0.63
24. Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd 7,328,158 0.59
25. Chew Hem Poo @ Choy Nean Chin 7,000,000 0.57
26. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
[Lembaga Tabung Haji (Al-Wara’)]
6,508,900 0.53
27. Maybank Investment Bank Berhad
[IVT (9) ECD SW-H]
6,391,400 0.52
28. Su Ming Keat 5,400,200 0.44
29. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
(Deutsche Trustees Malaysia Berhad for Eastspring Investments
Small-Cap Fund)
5,122,200 0.41
30. HLB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Toh Hooi Hak)
5,000,000 0.40
Substantial Shareholders
Name
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
No. of Shares % No. of Shares %
Teh Wee Chye 199,083,701 16.07 87,273,490(1) 7.04
Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd 60,561,922 4.89 1,519,119(2) 0.12
Duangmanee Liewphairatana 33,380,875 2.69 62,081,041(3) 5.01
Azlin binti Arshad 67,320,320 5.43 31,339,800(4) 2.53
200 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors' Interests in the Company and its Related Corporations
Name
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
No. of Shares % No. of Shares %
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 27,087 0.00 - -
Teh Wee Chye 199,083,701 16.07 87,273,490(1) 7.04
Dato’ Seri Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 11,250 0.00 - -
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 9,652,500 0.78 - -
Azhari Arshad 600,000 0.05 31,339,800(4) 2.53
Lim Pang Boon 620,825 0.05 - -
Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris - - 34,000(5) 0.00
Director, Teh Wee Chye is deemed to have interests in all the shares held by the Company in its related
corporations by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in the Company.
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd, Suai Timber
Products Sdn Bhd, Essence Lane Sdn Bhd and shareholding of his spouse.
(2) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd and Suai Timber Products Sdn Bhd.
(3) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd and Suai
Timber Products Sdn Bhd.
(4) Deemed interested through Zalaraz Sdn Bhd.
(5) Deemed interested through shareholding of her child.
Analysis of Shareholdings
as at 29 March 2024 (cont’d)
201
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Description, Location & Size Existing Use
Approximate
Age of
Building
(Year)
Date/Year
of last
Revaluation/
Acquisition
Net Book
Value At
31-12-23
RM
Freehold land with shop houses
GRN 116112 Lot 3618 Section 4
GRN 116113 Lot 3619 Section 4
Town of Butterworth
District of Seberang Perai Utara
Penang
Total: 1.44 acres
Shoplot 63 9 Sept 1996 2,795,000
Freehold land with residential building
GRN 29231
Lot 449 Section 67
District of Kuala Lumpur
Federal Territory
Total: 1.00 acre
Commercial
land and
building
84 4 Dec 1996 1,558,000
Freehold land
Lots 5326, 5327 and part of
Lots 5331 & 5332
District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 9.00 acres
Vacant land - 1981 72,000
Leasehold land with buildings
Lots 4902 (expiring on 11-12-2061)
5337 (expiring on 25-4-2075)
5466 & 5336 (expiring on 22-11-2090)
PT 4333 HSD 28222/PT 4334 HSD 28223
(expiring on 25-4-2075)
Mukim of Lumut, District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 61.43 acres
Office and
factory
41-57 6 Oct 1998 16,623,000
Freehold land with shop house
Grant No. 36370, Lot No. 12256
Mukim of Pulai
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 0.04 acre
Shoplot 44 1991 131,000
Leasehold land with buildings
HSD 238626, Lot PTD 119736
(expiring on 28-2-2051)
Mukim of Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 10.1 acres
Office and
factory
31 3 Feb 1995 46,280,000
List of Properties
202 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
List of Properties (cont’d)
Description, Location & Size Existing Use
Approximate
Age of
Building
(Year)
Date/Year
of last
Revaluation/
Acquisition
Net Book
Value At
31-12-23
RM
Leasehold land with building
PN 25155 Lot 7114
(expiring on 22-7-2096)
Mukim of Batu Berendam
District of Melaka Tengah
Melaka Darul Azim
Total: 0.13 acre
Shoplot 26 1997 298,000
Freehold land with building
HS(D) 212786 PTB 18284
Bandar Johor Bahru
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 0.13 acre
Factory 24 1999 378,000
Leasehold land
HS(D) 503714 PTD 209638
(expiring on 2-4-2072)
Mukim of Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 4.57 acres
Vacant land - 2011 2,576,000
Leasehold land with buildings
HSD 30844 PT 13524
(expiring on 20-10-2075)
Mukim of Lumut
District of Manjung
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 23 acres
Factory 11 2020 92,881,000
Freehold land with house
GRN 160946 Lot 45520
Mukim of Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 0.04 acre
Residential
house
32 2017 136,000
Freehold land
Grant 1784, Lot 12653
Mukim of Sitiawan
District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 17 acres
Vacant land - 1997 271,000
203
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Description, Location & Size Existing Use
Approximate
Age of
Building
(Year)
Date/Year
of last
Revaluation/
Acquisition
Net Book
Value At
31-12-23
RM
Freehold land
GM 10137, Lot 23464
Mukim of Bagan Serai
District of Kerian
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 2.12 acres
Vacant land - 1990 1
Land Use Rights with buildings
(expiring on 31-8-2024)
Cai Lan, Quang Ninh Province
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Total: 17.30 acres
Office and
factory
26 1994 54,076,000
Land Use Rights with buildings
(expiring on 30-6-2048)
Phu My Industrial Zone I
Tan Thanh District
Baria - Vungtau Province
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Total: 17.29 acres
Office and
factory
21 2000 15,245,000
204 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Sixty-Fourth Annual General Meeting (“64th AGM”) of Malayan Flour
Mills Berhad will be conducted on a virtual basis from its Broadcast Venue at Suite 25.01, Level 25, Menara
Citibank, 165 Jalan Ampang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur on Thursday, 16 May 2024 at 10.00 a.m. for the following
purposes:-
Ordinary Business
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended
31 December 2023 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors
thereon. [Please refer to Explanatory Notes].
2. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation in accordance with
Clause 132 of the Constitution of the Company and being eligible, offer
themselves for re-election:
(i) Mr Quah Poh Keat (Ordinary Resolution 1)
(ii) Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr. Aini binti Ideris (Ordinary Resolution 2)
(iii) Mr Lim Pang Boon (Ordinary Resolution 3)
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees amounting to RM264,000 per
annum for the Non-Executive Chairman and RM132,000 per annum for
each of the Non-Executive Directors in respect of the financial year ended
31 December 2023. (Ordinary Resolution 4)
4. To approve an amount of up to RM350,000 as benefits payable to the
Non-Executive Directors for the period from the conclusion of the 64th AGM
until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company. (Ordinary Resolution 5)
5. To re-appoint Messrs KPMG PLT as Auditors of the Company for the
financial year ending 31 December 2024 and to authorise the Directors to
fix their remuneration. (Ordinary Resolution 6)
Special Business
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modifications, the following
resolutions:-
6. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections
75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016
“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016 and approval from the relevant
authorities, where such approval is necessary, full authority be and is hereby
given to the Directors pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act
2016 to issue and allot shares in the Company at any time and upon such
terms and conditions and for such purposes as the Directors may, in their
absolute discretion deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares
issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed 10% of the total number
of issued shares of the Company for the time being (“General Mandate”)
and that the Directors be and are also empowered to obtain the approval
for the listing of and quotation for the additional shares so issued on Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad and that such authority shall continue in force
until the conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.
Notice of
Annual General Meeting
205
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
THAT pursuant to Section 85 of the Companies Act 2016 read together with
the Company’s Constitution, approval be given to waive the statutory pre-
emptive rights conferred upon the shareholders of the Company AND THAT
the Board is exempted from the obligation to offer such new shares first to
the existing shareholders of the Company in respect of the allotment and
issuance of new shares pursuant to the General Mandate.
AND FURTHER THAT the new shares to be issued pursuant to the General
Mandate, shall, upon allotment and issuance, rank equally in all respects
with the existing shares of the Company, save and except that they shall
not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and/or any other forms
of distribution that which may be declared, made or paid before the date of
allotment of such new shares.” (Ordinary Resolution 7)
7. Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back
“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016, the provisions of the Constitution
of the Company, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
Main Market Listing Requirements and the approvals of all relevant
governmental and/or regulatory authorities, the Company be and is hereby
authorised, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to purchase such amount
of ordinary shares in the Company (“Proposed Share Buy-back”) as may
be determined by the Directors of the Company from time to time through
Bursa Securities upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem
fit and expedient in the interest of the Company provided that the aggregate
number of shares purchased pursuant to this resolution does not exceed
10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company as at the point
of purchase and that an amount not exceeding the Company’s retained
profits at the time of the purchase(s) will be allocated by the Company for
the Proposed Share Buy-back;
THAT the authority conferred by this resolution will be effective immediately
and shall continue in force until: -
(a) the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company following
the general meeting at which such resolution was passed at which time
it shall lapse unless by ordinary resolution passed at that meeting, the
authority is renewed, either conditionally or subject to conditions; or
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next annual general meeting
after that date is required by law to be held; or
(c) revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by shareholders in a
general meeting,
whichever occurs first;
206 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notice of
Annual General Meeting (cont’d)
AND THAT authority be and is hereby given unconditionally and generally
to the Directors of the Company to take all such steps as are necessary
or expedient (including without limitation, the opening and maintaining
of central depository account(s) under the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act, 1991, and the entering into of all other agreements,
arrangements and guarantee with any party or parties) to implement,
finalise and give full effect to the aforesaid purchase with full powers to
assent to any conditions, modifications, revaluations, variations and/or
amendments (if any) as may be imposed by the relevant authorities and with
the fullest power to do all such acts and things thereafter (including without
limitation, the cancellation or retention as treasury shares of all or any part
of the repurchased shares) in accordance with the Companies Act 2016, the
provisions of the Constitution of the Company and the requirements and/or
guidelines of the Bursa Securities and all other relevant governmental and/
or regulatory authorities and to do all such things as the said Directors may
deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company.” (Ordinary Resolution 8)
8. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given in
accordance with the Companies Act 2016.
By Order of the Board
Mah Wai Mun
MAICSA 7009729
SSM PC No. 202008000785
Company Secretary
Kuala Lumpur
17 April 2024
207
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes:-
1. The 64th AGM will be conducted on a virtual basis via live streaming and online remote voting using Remote Participation
and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) at
https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my.
2. Please read and follow the procedures as set out in the Administrative Guide in order to register, participate and vote
remotely via the RPEV facilities.
3. The Broadcast Venue of the AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which
requires the Chairman of the Meeting to be present at the main venue. Members WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the AGM in
person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the meeting.
4. A member entitled to participate and vote remotely at the AGM is entitled to appoint not more than 2 proxies to participate and to
vote in his/her stead. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
5. Where a member appoints 2 proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her holding to
be represented by each proxy.
6. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act,
1991, it may appoint at least 1 proxy but not more than 2 proxies in respect of each securities account it holds which is credited
with ordinary shares of the Company.
7. Notwithstanding the above, an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial
owners in 1 securities account (“Omnibus Account”), may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account held.
8. The instrument appointing a proxy must be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if
the appointer is a corporation, either under its common seal or the hand of the attorney duly authorised.
9. Proxy Form shall not be treated as valid unless the posted Proxy Form is received or the Proxy Form is deposited at the office of
the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo
Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan or lodged electronically via “Boardroom Smart Investor Portal” at
https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment
thereof. Proxy Form transmitted by fax or email will not be accepted. The Company will not accept any photocopies of the Proxy
Form in place of the original signed copy for the hardcopy submission.
10. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to participate in this 64th AGM, the Company shall be requesting
Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd in accordance with Clause 82 of the Constitution of the Company and Section 34(1) of the
Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991 to issue a Record of Depositors as at 9 May 2024. Only a depositor whose name
appears on such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate and vote at the said AGM or appoint proxies to participate and
vote on his/her behalf.
11. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“Bursa Securities Listing
Requirements”), all resolutions set out in the Notice of the 64th AGM will be put to vote on a poll.
Explanatory Notes on Ordinary Business
Item 1 of the Agenda: To receive the Audited Financial Statements
This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1) of the Companies Act 2016 does not require a formal
approval of the shareholders and hence, is not put forward for voting.
Ordinary Resolutions 1, 2, and 3: Re-election of Directors
Mr Quah Poh Keat, Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr. Aini binti Ideris and Mr Lim Pang Boon are standing for re-election as Directors of the
Company and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election at the 64th AGM.
The Board had through the Nomination Committee carried out assessment on the Directors who are standing for re-election and satisfied
that they met the criteria as prescribed by Paragraph 2.20A of the Bursa Securities Listing Requirements on character, experience,
integrity, competence and time to effectively discharge their role as Directors.
Ordinary Resolutions 4 and 5: Directors’ Fees and Other Benefits
Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016 provides amongst others, that the fees and any benefits payable to the Directors of a listed
company shall be approved at a general meeting.
In this respect, the Board wishes to seek the shareholders’ approval for the following payments to Non-Executive Directors at the 64th
AGM:-
Resolution 4: Payment of Directors’ fees amounting to RM264,000 per annum for the Non-Executive Chairman and RM132,000 per
annum for each of the Non-Executive Directors in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2023; and
208 Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Resolution 5: Payment of benefits payable to the Non-Executive Directors which have been reviewed by the Remuneration Committee
and Board of Directors of the Company for the period from the conclusion of the 64th AGM until the conclusion of the next AGM of the
Company.
The benefits payable to the Non-Executive Directors comprise Board Committees’ fixed allowance, meeting allowances and benefits-in-
kind. In determining the estimated total amount of the benefits payable, the Board has considered various factors including the number
of scheduled and special meetings for the Board and Board Committees as well as the number of Non-Executive Directors involved in
these meetings.
Resolutions 4 and 5, if passed, will facilitate the payment of Directors’ fees and benefits as and when required. The Board is of the view
that the Non-Executive Directors should be paid such fees and benefits upon them discharging their responsibilities and rendering their
services to the Company.
Ordinary Resolution 6: Re-appointment of Auditors
The Audit & Risk Management Committee and the Board had, on 4 April 2024, considered the re-appointment of Messrs KPMG PLT
as Auditors of the Company. The Audit & Risk Management Committee and the Board collectively agreed and are satisfied that Messrs
KPMG PLT meets the relevant criteria prescribed by Paragraph 15.21 of the Bursa Securities Listing Requirements.
Explanatory Notes on Special Business
Ordinary Resolution 7: Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares
The proposed Resolution 7 is for the purpose of seeking a renewal of the general mandate (“General Mandate”) and if passed, will
empower the Directors of the Company pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016, to issue and allot new shares in the
Company from time to time provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the General Mandate does not exceed 10%
of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being. The General Mandate, unless revoked or varied by the Company
in general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
The General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities, including but not limited to further
placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment project(s), working capital and/or acquisition(s) and any share issuance for
acquisition involving equity deal which requires the Company to allot and issue new shares, which is only to be undertaken if the Directors
consider it to be in the best interest of the Company.
As at the date of this Notice, no new share in the Company was issued pursuant to the General Mandate granted to the Directors at the
63rd AGM of the Company held on 16 May 2023.
Ordinary Resolution 8: Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back
The proposed Resolution 8, if passed, will empower the Directors to purchase the Company’s shares of up to a maximum of 10% of the
total number of issued shares of the Company by utilising the funds allocated out of the retained profits of the Company. This authority,
unless revoked or varied at a general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
Personal Data Privacy
By registering for the meeting via remote participation and electronic voting and/or submitting an instrument appointing proxy(ies) and/
or representatives to attend, speak and vote at the meeting and/or any adjournment thereof, a member of the Company: (i) consents
to the processing of the member’s personal data by the Company (or its agents): (a) for processing and administration of proxies and
representatives appointed for the meeting; (b) for preparation and compilation of the attendance lists, minutes and other documents
relating to the meeting (which includes any adjournments thereof); and (c) for the Company’s (or its agents) compliance with any applicable
laws, listing rules, regulations and/or guidelines (collectively the Purpose); (ii) warrants that he/she has obtained such proxy(ies)’ and/or
representative(s)’ prior consent for the Company’s (or its agents’) processing of such proxy(ies)’ and/or representative(s)’ personal data
for the Purposes; and (iii) agrees that the member will indemnify the Company for any penalties, liabilities, claims, demands, losses and
damages as a result of the member’s breach of warranty.
Note: The term “processing” and “personal data” shall have the meaning as defined in the Personal Data Protection Act, 2010.
Notice of
Annual General Meeting (cont’d)
209
Annual Report 2023 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections 75
and 76 of the Companies Act 2016
The renewal of this general mandate (“General Mandate”) will empower the Directors of the Company pursuant
to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016, to issue and allot new shares in the Company from time to
time provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the General Mandate does not exceed
10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being. The General Mandate, unless
revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next Annual General
Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company.
The General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities, including
but not limited to further placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment project(s), working
capital and/or acquisition(s) and any share issuance for acquisition involving equity deal which requires the
Company to allot and issue new shares, which is only to be undertaken if the Directors consider it to be in
the best interest of the Company.
As at the date of this Notice, no new share in the Company was issued pursuant to the General Mandate
granted to the Directors at the 63rd AGM of the Company held on 16 May 2023.
Statement Accompanying Notice
of Annual General Meeting
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements
This page is intentionally left blank.
MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD
Registration No. 196101000210 (4260-M)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
PROXY FORM
I/We _________________________________________NRIC No./Passport No./Company No._________________
			 (full name in block letters)
of_______________________________________________________________________________________________
					 (full address)
being a member/members of MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD hereby appoint:-
Full Name (In Block) NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholding
No. of Shares %
Address
* and/or
Full Name (In Block) NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholding
No. of Shares %
Address
or failing him/her, the *CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as my/our proxy to attend and vote for me/us on my/our
behalf at the Sixty-Fourth Annual General Meeting (“64th AGM”) of the Company which will be conducted on
a virtual basis from its Broadcast Venue at Suite 25.01, Level 25, Menara Citibank, 165 Jalan Ampang, 50450
Kuala Lumpur on Thursday, 16 May 2024 at 10.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof.
My/our proxy is to vote on a poll as indicated below:
(Please indicate with a “x” or “√” in the boxes provided how you wish your vote to be cast. If you do not do so, the proxy
will vote or abstain from voting at his discretion).
No. Resolutions For Against
1.
2.
3.
Re-election of the following Directors who retire by rotation in accordance
with Clause 132 of the Constitution of the Company:-
a. Mr Quah Poh Keat
b. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr. Aini binti Ideris
c. Mr Lim Pang Boon
4. Payment of Directors’ fees
5. Payment of benefits payable to the Directors
6. Re-appointment of Messrs KPMG PLT as Auditors of the Company
7. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections 75 and
76 of the Companies Act 2016
8. Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back
* Strike out whichever not applicable
Dated this ______________ day of _____________________, 2024
____________________________________
Signature/Common Seal of Shareholder
Notes:-
1. The 64th AGM will be conducted on a virtual basis via live streaming and online remote voting using Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”)
facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) at https://meeting.boardroomlimited.my.
2. Please read and follow the procedures as set out in the Administrative Guide in order to register, participate and vote remotely via the RPEV facilities.
3. The Broadcast Venue of the AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires the Chairman of
the Meeting to be present at the main venue. Members WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the AGM in person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the
meeting.
4. A member entitled to participate and vote remotely at the AGM is entitled to appoint not more than 2 proxies to participate and to vote in his/her stead. A
proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
5. Where a member appoints 2 proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she specifies the proportion of his/her holding to be represented by each
proxy.
6. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, it may appoint at least
1 proxy but not more than 2 proxies in respect of each securities account it holds which is credited with ordinary shares of the Company.
7. Notwithstanding the above, an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in 1 securities
account (“Omnibus Account”), may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account held.
8. The instrument appointing a proxy must be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointer is a
corporation, either under its common seal or the hand of the attorney duly authorised.
9. Proxy Form shall not be treated as valid unless the posted Proxy Form is received or the Proxy Form is deposited at the office of the Company’s Share
Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan or lodged electronically via “Boardroom Smart Investor Portal” at https://investor.boardroomlimited.com not less than 48 hours before
the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof. Proxy Form transmitted by fax or email will not be accepted. The Company will not
accept any photocopies of the Proxy Form in place of the original signed copy for the hardcopy submission.
10. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to participate in this 64th AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository
Sdn Bhd in accordance with Clause 82 of the Constitution of the Company and Section 34(1) of the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991 to
issue a Record of Depositors as at 9 May 2024. Only a depositor whose name appears on such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate and
vote at the said AGM or appoint proxies to participate and vote on his/her behalf.
11. Pursuant to Paragraph 8.29A of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements, all resolutions set out in the Notice of the 64th AGM
will be put to vote on a poll.
!
CDS Account No. No. of Shares Held
Share Registrar
BOARDROOM SHARE Registrars SDN BHD
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Fold this flap for sealing
1st fold here
2nd fold here
AFFIX
STAMP
HERE
