Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
29
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
30
Contents
31
31
32
32
32
32
33
33
34
34
35
36
36
38
39
40
40
44
45
47
48
49
49
ABOUT THIS REPORT
Scope & Boundaries
APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
Reporting Framework
Sustainability-related Index
Sustainability Governance
Sustainability Framework
Sustainability Risk Management
Framework
Sustainability Approach
Management Approach to Sustainability
KEY STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT
MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS
Review of Material Matters
Prioritisation of Material Matters
Validation of Materiality Assessment
SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC
Food Security, Safety and Halal
Biosecurity
Customer Satisfaction
Brand and Reputation
Data Security/Data Leakage
Business Growth
Supply Chain Management
ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
Energy Management
Water Management
Waste Management
Emission Management
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Workforce & Workplace Environment
Employee Education & Development
Talent Attraction & Retention
Fair Labour Practices
Occupational Safety & Health
Community Relationship
GOVERNANCE
Corporate Governance and Business
Ethics
SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE
DATA
STATEMENT OF ASSURANCE
51
51
53
54
56
57
57
59
63
64
67
74
77
77
79
84
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
31
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
This Sustainability Report (“this Report”)
discloses our commitment, practices and
initiatives towards achieving sustainable
economic, minimising environmental impact,
promoting social responsibility, and ensuring
ethical governance (“EESG”).
Scope & Boundaries
The reporting period is from 1 January 2024
to 31 December 2024. It covers the four
business segments of the Group, namely
flour, poultry integration, grain trading and
aqua feeds in Malaysia and Vietnam. It does
not cover our joint venture in Indonesia,
PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia, as the
Group does not have full management
control over it.
About This Report
FLOUR
MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD
(“MFM”)
VIMAFLOUR LTD (“Vimaflour”)
MEKONG FLOUR MILLS LTD
(“Mekong Flour”)
POULTRY INTEGRATION
DINDINGS TYSON SDN BHD (“DTSB”)
DINDINGS POULTRY DEVELOPMENT
CENTRE SDN BHD (“DPDC”)
DINDINGS POULTRY PROCESSING
SDN BHD (“DPP”)
GRAIN TRADING
PREMIER GRAIN SDN BHD (“PGSB”)
AQUA FEEDS
DINDINGS SOYA & MULTIFEEDS SDN
BERHAD (“DSM”)
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
32
Reporting Framework
This Report is prepared in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guide (3rd Edition) issued by Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad (“Bursa Malaysia”) as well as with reference to the following reporting and global best practices
for sustainability as respond to emerging information demands from stakeholders and regulators:
• Global Reporting Initiative Standards (“GRI Standards”); and
• United Nations Sustainability Development Goals (“UN SDGs”)
Sustainability-related Index
MFM has been a constituent of the FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index and FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Shariah
Index (“FTSE4Good Index Series”) since 23 December 2024. This is a mark of recognition for the Company’s
commitment towards sustainability and responsible business practices.
Sustainability Governance
Audit & Risk
Management Committee
Sustainability Reporting
Working Group
Sustainability Steering Commitee
• Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director
• Heads of Business Units and Business Functions
Board of Directors
Approach to
Sustainability
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
33
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
The Board of Directors of MFM is committed and responsible in setting the sustainability direction for the Group.
The Audit & Risk Management Committee assists the Board to review the effectiveness of the Group’s strategies,
policies, principles, and practices relating to sustainability.
The Sustainability Steering Committee (“SSC”) comprising MFM’s Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing
Director, and the Heads of Business Units and Business Functions, supports the Board in formulating strategies,
policies, practices and targets for sustainability. Based on the strategies, priorities and targets set, the Heads of
Business Units and Business Functions implement and manage sustainability initiatives within their businesses.
Sustainability Reporting Working Group guides and assists the SSC on the sustainability reporting requirements and
preparing the sustainability report.
Sustainability Framework
Sustainability Risk Management Framework
All the sustainability-related risks and opportunities of the Group are integrated into its comprehensive risk
management framework. This formal risk management process assists the Management to identify, evaluate,
mitigate, monitor and review risks impacting the Group.
In 2024, the Internal Audit and Risk Management Function had carried out a full review of the risk scorecards
with the Senior Management and Heads of business units and business functions to identify new risks, re-assess
existing risks and develop preventive, detective and corrective measures to manage the key risks.
The final Risk Scorecards were presented to the Audit & Risk Management Committee in February 2025 for
endorsement.
VISION
We aspire to be a leading food manufacturing enterprise in the region.
MISSION
• To be the preferred provider and strategic partner in the food
industry.
• To drive operational excellence by embracing a culture of
continuous improvement.
• To add value to stakeholders by growing economies of scale.
GOVERNANCE
Business Divisions adopt the well-known continuous improvement
cycle Plan-Do-Check-Act (“PDCA”) in managing sustainability
initiatives.
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
34
Sustainability Approach
In embracing good sustainability practices, MFM Group focuses on managing its social and environmental impact
and seeks to improve operational efficiency and natural resources stewardship.
MFM is committed to managing EESG material matters, guided by its Code of Conduct and related Policies,
Standards & Guidelines.
Management Approach to Sustainability
Our Group has identified and prioritised its approaches towards managing the material matters relating to EESG for
our business operations as follows:
Sustainable
Economic
Environmental
Responsibility
Social
Responsibility
Governance
Sustainable
Economic
Environmental
Responsibility
Social
Responsibility
Governance
Sustainable
Economic
Environmental
Responsibility
Social
Responsibility
Governance
Sustainable
Economic
Environmental
Responsibility
Social
Responsibility
Governance
• To provide our
customers
with safe and
quality products
that adhere to
Government
legislation &
requirements
• To have good
strategic
management &
wisely utilise our
resources
• To advance
sustainable
profitable growth
whilst satisfying
our ethical, legal
& contractual
obligations
• To comply with
the regulatory
requirements
& standards
in relation to
environmental
concerns
• To raise awareness
among our
employees & the
whole supply chain
in order to act in
an environmental
responsible manner
• To integrate
environmental
matter into our
business decisions
• To ensure that
energy & water are
utilised efficiently
& consumption is
being monitored
• To recycle, reduce
or reuse the waste
or resources where
practicable
• To reduce carbon
footprint through
energy efficiency
& conservation
practices
• To empower our
employees by
offering training,
motivation & career
advancement
• To provide a safe &
healthy workplace
& take care of
employees’ well-
being
• To encourage open
communication,
ideas and
innovation
• To support diversity
in workforce
• To provide job
security to
employees
• To engage actively
with civic project,
charity events & the
local communities
through our
corporate social
initiatives
• To provide ample
job opportunities
• To abide by the
requirements of all
laws & industry’s
best practices
• To adopt good
ethical practices
through Code of
Conduct
• To ensure an
appropriate
governance
system is in
place to oversee
the strategic
development
& performance
that relates to
the maintenance
of a sustainable
business
• To ensure proper
risk management
& internal control
system are in place
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
35
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
We continually engage with our key stakeholders to identify key sustainability issues and solutions to manage the
material matters. Stakeholder engagement is vital for us to understand the needs, expectations and concerns of
our key stakeholders and address the material matters accordingly for continuous improvement which in return will
enable us to sustain our business in the evolving business environment as well as strengthen relationships, build
lasting confidence and trust of the stakeholders in our Group and products.
Our engagement platforms with the various key stakeholders and their focus areas are as follows:
Stakeholders Focus Areas Method of Engagement
Investors and
shareholders
• Financial performance
• Growth and prospects
• Good corporate governance
• Risk management
• Regulatory compliance
• General Meetings
• Quarterly Financial Reports
• Annual Reports
• Circular/Notice to Shareholders
• Announcements
• Press Releases
• Analyst Briefings
• Corporate website
Customers • Safe, nutritious and quality products
• Product innovation
• Business ethics
• Competitive pricing and values
• Customer service
• Sustainability practices
• Customer feedback survey
• Customer meetings/visits
• Customer Careline
• Technical training and support
• Social media platforms
• Corporate website
Employees • Career advancement
• Remuneration and benefits
• Learning and development
• Labour and human rights
• Job security
• Workplace health and safety
• Work-life balance
• Onboarding programme
• Townhall meetings
• Employee Portal
• Learning and Development
programmes
• Events and functions
• Internal newsletters
• Management meetings
• Annual performance appraisal
Government &
Regulators
• Law and regulatory compliance
• Good corporate governance
• Food security
• Support for government policies and
initiatives
• Statutory submissions
• Attend briefings/conferences
• Organise meetings to brief and
update the relevant authorities on
industry trends/concerns
Suppliers & Service
Providers
• Payment terms
• Governance and business ethics
• Fair procurement contract  
• Regular meetings
• Suppliers’ evaluation (audit)
• Contractual/Annual Review
• Suppliers’ Conferences
Media • Financial performance
• Corporate news
• Business/product development
• Media briefings
• Corporate events
• Press releases
• Social media platforms
Local Communities
& NGOs
• Environmental impact on operations
• Direct and indirect economic impact
• Corporate social responsibility (CSR)
• CSR activities and events
• Job opportunities
• Financial support/contribution
Industry Peers • Price competition
• New business opportunity
• Innovation and creativity
• Industry outlook and issues
• Dialogue with government on
industry concerns
• Participation in government initiatives
for the industry
Key Stakeholders
Engagement
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
36
Review of Material Matters
MFM conducts its materiality assessment every 3 years based on the above materiality assessment process to
ensure that the Material Matters of the Group remain relevant and material to the business and are aligned to the
stakeholders’ focus areas.
The last materiality assessment was conducted in 2023. Arising from the review, a revised set of 15 Material
Matters relevant to the Group based on recent developments and changes in the business context, stakeholders’
expectations and alignment with the common material matters identified in the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s
Enhanced Sustainability Reporting Framework, were identified. As the 15 Material Matters remained relevant, there
was no review carried out in 2024.
The 15 Material Matters and their alignment with the UN SDGs, which are a global call to action to end poverty,
protect the earth’s environment and climate, and ensure that all people can enjoy peace and prosperity, are as
follows:
Link to UN SDGs Material Matter Description on its Significance
SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC
Food security, safety
and Halal
Ensuring sufficient supply, safe and nutritious food products to
meet relevant standards and customer expectations.
Biosecurity Our poultry farms require strict biosecurity to prevent and control
diseases to ensure undisrupted operations and good farm
management practices.
Customer
satisfaction
Customer satisfaction is our priority for customer loyalty and
retention.
Review
Review and
update material
matters against
current
developments and
changes in the
business
environment
Prioritise
Conduct
materiality
assessment to
prioritise the
material matters to
determine their
relative
importance
Validate
Outcome of the
materiality
assessment to be
reviewed and
validated by both
the Senior
Management and
Board
Material Sustainability
Matters
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
37
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
Link to UN SDGs Material Matter Description on its Significance
SUSTAINABLE ECONOMIC (cont’d)
Brand and reputation Having a strong and positive brand and reputation in the market
are crucial for the Company to enjoy greater customer loyalty &
trust, distinguishing itself from the competitors and boost sales.
Data security/data
leakage
Data protection is increasingly vital to safeguard valuable
information which is a critical asset to the Company and prevent
business disruption, loss of customers' confidence and data
breaches.
Business Growth Sustainable business growth is crucial for the continuity of our
business as well as delivering long term value to the stakeholders.
Supply Chain
Management
Supply chain management is important as it helps to improve
product quality, customer service, operating costs, financial
performance and competitive advantage.
ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY
Environmental
compliance
Our operations generate waste and effluent. Processing the waste
before discharge prevents environmental contamination and
complies with the Environmental Quality Act 1974.
Emissions and Water
Security
Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions arising from the use of energy
and other pollutant gases in our manufacturing and supply chain
activities contribute to climate change and high usage of water
will strain the scarce resources. As these will have adverse effects
on our business and the environment, the management of energy
usage to reduce the carbon footprint and water security are crucial
for the Company to minimise its environmental impact.
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY
Employee education
& development
Continuous training and leadership development will enhance the
skills and competency for the career growth of the employees and
to meet the changing needs of the Company.
Talent attraction &
retention
Talent attraction and retention are important to building the
Company’s competent team, reducing the turnover rate and cost
as well as leading to better customer relationships.
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
38
Link to UN SDGs Material Matter Description on its Significance
SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (cont’d)
Fair Labour Practices Practising human rights and employee fair treatment will promote
job satisfaction, reinforce our position as a caring employer who
respects the basic human rights of the stakeholders as well as
compliance with all applicable laws, regulations and employment
& human rights standards.
Occupational Safety
& Health (“OSHA”)
Providing a healthy and safe workplace is crucial to safeguarding
the health and overall wellbeing of the employees and other
stakeholders, reducing accidents risk and vital in attracting and
retaining talent.
Community
Relationship
Supporting the community is the corporate responsibility to care
and give back to society for mutual growth.
GOVERNANCE
Corporate
Governance and
Business Ethics
Good corporate governance and business ethics help to build an
environment of trust, transparency and accountability necessary
for fostering long-term investment, financial stability and
business integrity of the Company. The corporate governance
practices are guided by our Board Charter, Code of Conduct
and policies/principles on anti-corruption, anti-competition, anti-
money laundering, anti-profiteering, risk management and tax
governance.
Prioritisation of Material Matters
Following the revised set of Material Matters, we conducted a prioritisation exercise to determine their relative
importance as not all Material Matters are of equal importance. The intention is to focus the Group’s efforts on the
Material Matters that matter most. The prioritisation exercise was carried out through a materiality assessment
survey where opinions were gathered from the Senior Management to rank and rate Material Matters from their
standpoints and the deemed importance to other stakeholders on their impact on our business and stakeholders.
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
39
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
ECONOMIC
Materiality Matrix
1 Food security, safety and Halal
2 Biosecurity
ENVIRONMENTAL
8 Environmental compliance
9 Emissions and Water Security
3 Customer satisfaction
4 Brand and reputation
5 Data security/data leakage
6 Business Growth
7 Supply Chain Management
SOCIAL
10 Employee education & development
11 Talent attraction & retention
GOVERNANCE
15 Corporate Governance and Business Ethics
12 Fair Labour Practices
13 Occupational Safety & Health (OSHA)
14 Community Relationship
In uence on Stakeholder Assessments and Decisions
Signi cance of Group's Economic, Environmental, Social and Governance Impacts
LOW
HIGH
HIGH
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 11
15
12,13
14
Validation of Materiality Assessment
Based on the outcome of the materiality assessment survey, the Materiality Matrix below was plotted in accordance
with the degree of materiality and the relative relevance of Material Matters. This is to identify the priority of Material
Matters.
The outcome of the materiality assessment survey and Materiality Matrix were reviewed and validated by the Senior
Management and subsequently approved by the Board.
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
40
Sustainable
Economic
Food Security, Safety and Halal
We are dedicated to producing food products that meet the highest standards of safety, quality, and nutrition. As
such, ensuring food security, food safety and food quality that have direct and intense impact on public health,
consumer trust and industry sustainability, are our utmost priority.
We adhere to strict quality control measures throughout every stage of production, from sourcing raw materials
to manufacturing and packaging. Our team works diligently to ensure that our products meet all relevant industry
standards and regulations, and we continuously strive to improve our processes to guarantee consistency and
excellence.
We are fully committed to understanding and meeting the unique needs of our customers. By listening to their
feedback and requirements, we ensure that our products align with their expectations for both quality and nutrition.
Our goal is to provide food that nourishes the body and mind while maintaining the trust of those who choose our
brand.
Through transparency, innovation, and a passion for excellence, we aim to lead the way in delivering food that is not
only safe and nutritious but also supports the health and well-being of all our customers.
Our Commitment to Food Safety & Quality
MFM Group’s commitment to the safety and quality of all its products is guided by the following Food Safety Policy –
Practices adopted for Food Security, Safety, Quality and Halal Compliance
MFM Group has embraced the globally recognised Food Safety System Certification Scheme (“FSSC 22000”) and
the principle of HACCP for our flour milling and poultry processing operations. Additionally, our plants are certified
as Halal by JAKIM (Department of Islamic Development Malaysia).
By implementing the Food Safety and Quality Assurance (“FSQA”) and Halal Assurance System (“HAS”), we ensure
that our processes are devoid of potential hazards or sources of haram in the raw materials and ingredients. This
system prioritises food safety, quality and cleanliness at every stage of production, providing a structured approach
to guarantee and uphold halal integrity while securing the safety and high quality of our products.
We regularly engage independent certification bodies to audit our Management System to ensure that we remain in
compliance with internal policies, ISO Standards, laws and regulations.
Adoption of Hazard Analysis and Critical
Control Points (“HACCP”) system, applying
Good Manufacturing Practice (“GMP”) and
training employees in Good Hygiene Practice
(“GHP”) throughout the food processing flow
chart from raw material to finished goods.
Provide continuous training to our staff
ensuring that they possess the necessary
knowledge and understanding in managing
food safety and strive to improve customer
confidence in our products.
Strictly follows the reference standards of
“Requirements for a HACCP based Food Safety
System” (Compiled by the National Board of
Experts-­
HACCP, the Netherlands, 2002), the
Malaysia Food Act (1983) and Food Regulation
(1985) as a reference guide to draw the HACCP
Manual.
To co-­
operate with the relevant authorities
ensuring the processing system adheres
to both domestic and international
requirements.
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
41
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
Standards & Certifications Obtained for Food Safety & Quality
Standards and Certifications adopted
1. FSSC 22000 V5.1 Food Safety Certification
scheme
2. ISO 22000:2018 Food Safety Management
Standard (“FSM”)
3. ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System
(“QMS”)
4. MS 1480:2019 Hazard Analysis and Critical
Control Points (“HACCP”)
5. MS 1514:2009 Good Manufacturing Practice
(“GMP”)
6. Veterinary Health Mark (“VHM”)
7. MS 1500:2019 Halal Food (certified by JAKIM)
8. Halal Slaughterhouse (certified by JAKIM)
9. ISO/IEC 17025:2017 General requirements
for the competence of testing and calibration
laboratories
10. SIRIM MS 85:2018 (Edible Wheat Flour)
11. MeSTI (Food Safety is Responsibility of the
Industry)
12. Malaysian Good Agricultural Practices
Certification Scheme (“myGAP”)
13. Fish Quality Certificate (“FQC”) by Department
of Fisheries Malaysia
Facilities for Food Safety & Quality
Some of the new machineries/system installed for food safety and quality are as follows:
Laserlife Egginject Technology for In-ovo Vaccination and Hatchery Processes
Our hatchery has implemented the innovative poultry vaccination by Ceva Animal Health, automated with Laserlife
Egginject Technology.
This integrated technology plays a crucial role in improving chick health and quality by effectively mitigating the risk
of disease outbreaks, preventing and controlling diseases such as Newcastle Disease, Infectious Bursal Disease
(“IBD”), and Infectious Bronchitis (“IB”), while also significantly reducing chicks’ first-week mortality.
Food Safety Assurance Good Agricultural Practices
HALAL Certificate Veterinary Health Mark
Food Safety Management System
Quality Management System
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
42
These automated vaccination processes also enable us to optimise our labour force. By reducing the need for manual
intervention, we can better allocate our resources, resulting in enhanced productivity and streamlined operations.
Additionally, the automation minimises the risk of human error, ensuring consistent and reliable outcomes.
This poultry vaccination with Laserlife Egginject Technology has led to significant improvements, further reinforcing
our commitment to excellence and innovation in hatchery management.
Turbolizer and Aspiration System in Wheat Cleaning Line
Turbolizer and Aspiration System was installed in the wheat cleaning
line to increase process efficiency of maximising impurities removal
for Food Safety commitment as well as minimise risk of explosion.
Heat Sealing Machine
Heat Sealing Machine was installed for
hygienic improvement, pest control and
minimise cross-contamination as Food
Safety commitment besides pro-longed
product shelf life and to provide fresher
product in the market.
Training for Food Safety and Quality Assurance
Our quality assurance system is not just about meeting industry, legal, customer standards, it is about surpassing
them. To ensure our employees are competently equipped to maintain our high standards of food safety, quality and
security throughout the production process, our employees undergo regular and customised training programmes
to stay abreast of the latest industry trends, technologies, and safety protocols. Their unwavering commitment to
excellence is the cornerstone of our quality assurance system, ensuring that every product is handled with care and
expertise.
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
43
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
We also conduct training to educate consumers, wholesalers/distributors and the community on food safety and
quality requirements.
Commitment to Halal Compliance
We recognise the growing demand for Halal-certified products and the importance of Halal Certification and
compliance to access the growing Halal market, enhance customer trust and loyalty, improve brand reputation,
differentiate and reposition our products and brands in the market and align with global market expansion.
As such, we are dedicated to upholding the integrity of our Halal certification and practices from procurement of raw
materials to distribution of our manufactured products by strictly adhering to Halal Standards, abiding by our Halal
Assurance Management System and other relevant standards.
OUR HALAL COMMITMENT THROUGHOUT THE VALUE CHAIN
Raw Material Suppliers Factories Warehouses Transportation
Marketing
and Sales
End user
All raw
material and
ingredients
sourced are
Halal-certified.
We conduct
Halal
briefings and
surveillance
audits on
our suppliers
and co-
manufacturers
to ensure
they meet our
stringent Halal
standards.
Our Halal
Assurance
System
complies with
the strictest
Halal practices
across our
factories,
ensuring
highest
standards
of hygiene,
quality and
food safety.
Our
warehouses
only store
Halal products
and are
Halal-certified.
Our
transportation
system
complies
with Halal
requirements
and the
strictest
hygiene
control
standards.
All our
marketing
communications,
promotions
and in-store
activations
comply with
local Halal
standards.
All this is
done to
ensure
that all our
consumers,
Muslims and
non-Muslims
alike around
the world,
can enjoy
our products
with peace of
mind.
We take pride in upholding our Halal certification and compliance, and as such we conduct regular audits and
inspection of all our approved supplier’s facilities and processes to verify their compliance with Halal standards.
Likewise, internally, we will undergo regular audits and inspections by Halal certification body. These audits ensure
that all aspects of production, processing and handling meet the requirements for Halal certification.
To ensure the integrity and authenticity of our Halal-certified products along our supply and to ensure that our
manufactured products are Halal, or permissible, for consumption by Muslims, we prioritise the conducting of
comprehensive training programmes for our internal Halal Committee members and fostering a culture of Halal
compliance within food production facilities.
All products manufactured, exported and distributed are Halal-certified by the Halal Certification Agency.
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
44
Biosecurity
In the upstream operation of the poultry integration, implementing stringent biosecurity measures stands as a
cornerstone for ensuring food security, food safety and environmental sustainability.
One of the primary reasons behind enforcing strict biosecurity protocols in poultry farming is to uphold food safety
standards. Poultry serves as a vital protein source for Malaysian consumers nationwide, hence, making it imperative
to maintain the integrity of poultry products. By implementing strict biosecurity measures, we effectively reduce the
risk of disease transmission within flocks.
Diseases such as Avian Influenza and Newcastle disease pose significant threats to both poultry populations and
human health. A single outbreak can lead to the mass culling of infected birds, economic losses, and potential
contamination of the food supply chain. The likelihood of such outbreaks can be minimised through robust
biosecurity practices, thereby ensuring the safety of chicken products for consumers.
MFM Group’s poultry farm and hatchery facilities are fully equipped with bio-security facilities with strict practices
such as proper visitor matrix management, internal truck to deliver feed and going through dust filter barrier before
entering the farms.
All the closed house farms are designed with galvanised steel structures, fitted with insulated materials, latest
automated temperature control and ventilation system to ensure that all chickens are raised in safe and healthy
environment. This reduces chicken stress, lowers chicken mortality, and improves farm performance, thus reducing
drastically the need to use drugs during the rearing of the broilers. The effects of antibiotic residue free in the
chicken further enhances the numerous health aspects of chicken consumption in modern day living.
In addition, the farms are cared by professional and qualified veterinarians who monitor the flock health, carry out
diagnosis, provide treatment prescription and conduct research and development (“R&D”). Structured vaccination
programs with pharmaceutical companies are also in place to prevent and control diseases/outbreaks which can
cause significant economic losses with detrimental impacts on the food supply.
With the necessary biosecurity in place, both DPDC’s breeder and broiler farms in Lumut, Perak have been certified
that they have fulfilled the stringent requirements of the Department of Veterinary Services (“DVS”) as outlined in
the Malaysian Veterinary Standard Operating Procedures and have been approved by the Animal Disease Free
Certification Committee as a Highly Pathogenic Avia Influenza (“HPAI”) Free Compartment. DPDC’s farms are
the first poultry farms in Malaysia to obtain the status of this World Organisation of Animal Health Certification issued
by DVS in February 2025 which is internationally recognised.
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
45
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
Customer Satisfaction
Improve Customer Relationship by being Customer Centric
We adopt a customer centric approach to prioritise understanding customers’ needs and feedback and tailor our
offerings accordingly such as reliable and consistent supply, cost competitiveness, product quality and deliver value
add services through personalised experience that create customer satisfaction, loyalty and advocacy.
 Customer Satisfaction Survey
As part of our commitment to enhancing customer satisfaction and driving economic value, we conducted an
annual Customer Satisfaction Survey to assess our performance in key service areas, ensuring that we meet
and/or exceed customers’ expectations across various trade segments.
A total of 500 survey forms were distributed to trade customers, including fast food restaurants, hypermarkets,
supermarkets, distribution partners, and food service providers. The survey evaluated our performance in
customer service, order response effectiveness, delivery timeliness and fulfilment, and product quality.
We achieved an outstanding 93.9 points, exceeding our target of 90% for consecutive years. This strong
performance reflects our commitment to operational excellence and reinforces customer trust, which is critical
in sustaining long-term business growth and economic impact.
Despite these positive results, we remain dedicated to continuous improvement. We aim to further enhance our
offerings by identifying evolving customer needs, delivering products that meet precise specifications, ensuring
exceptional product quality, providing consistent technical support, and offering unparalleled sales and after-
sales service. These efforts will not only strengthen customer loyalty but also contribute to economic resilience
by fostering long-term business partnerships and driving industry standards.
Customer Relation Boosting Activities
Among the activities held to boost the relationship with customers are as follows:
➣ Trade Customer Engagement Program – "Kawan MFM"
To reinforce customer retention and drive sustained business growth, MFM introduced the "Kawan MFM" trade
engagement program. This initiative fosters long-term brand loyalty by offering rewards, incentives, and exclusive
benefits to our trade customers. By encouraging repeat purchases and deeper customer relationships, the
program enhances customer lifetime value while strengthening our position in the competitive market landscape.
➣ Value Added Services
We focus on providing Value Added Services
(“VAS”) to our valued customers besides
Customer Relationship Management (“CRM”)
and Research and Development (“R&D”) to
support specific customer needs and quality,
strengthen supplier-customer relationship as
well as brand identity.
One of significant VAS rendered to our valued
customer is conducting silo cleaning at the
customer’s premises to ensure its food safety.
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
46
➣ Distributors’ Conference
Vimaflour held its annual conference which served
as a platform to discuss critical issues faced by the
Flour Distributor Community. The conference aimed
to strengthen relationships among distributors and
between distributors and Vimaflour, fostering a
healthy competitive environment that supports the
sustainable growth of the flour industry. In addition to
the conference sessions, the attendees also enjoyed
some leisure activities.
➣ Conducted various product demonstrations to distributors' sales team and customers
➣ Conducted regular technical visits to customers
➣ Online Training Course
Mekong Flour is committed to support the growth of the baking
industry by providing high-quality training programs for bakery
owners, professional bakers, and enthusiasts. Through its Online
Training Course initiative, it helps participants refine their skills,
diversify their product offerings, and optimise their businesses.
In 2024, Mekong Flour successfully conducted two specialised
courses which received overwhelmingly feedback, equipping
participants with advanced baking techniques and innovative
product ideas to enhance their business value. Beyond skill
development, the courses also strengthened Mekong Flour’s
brand recognition, generated significant engagement, and
contributed to increased sales.
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
47
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
Brand and Reputation
Having a strong and positive brand and reputation in the market is crucial for the Group to enjoy greater customer
loyalty and trust, distinguish ourselves and achieve sustainable business growth.
Besides our commitment on food safety, quality and halal compliance as well as attaining customer trust and
satisfaction, we have also implemented a variety of activities to strengthen our brand identity which include among
others:
➣ Launched Beli & Menang Campaign
As part of our commitments to drive economic growth and consumer engagement, we have launched the “Beli
& Menang” MFM Cap Ros consumer campaign in conjunction with Merdeka Day. This initiative aimed not only
to strengthen our brand awareness but also to stimulate local economic activity by encouraging consumer
participation and supporting small businesses within the supply chain.
Merdeka Video Recipe: A specially curated video showcasing traditional Malaysian cuisine resonated strongly
with audiences, generated 110,754 reach and 47,525 3-second views, making it the most successful content
in August 2024. By promoting local culinary traditions, this initiative helped drive demand for homegrown
ingredients and products.
Beli & Menang Contest Post: The contest drove significant participation, achieving 99,209 reach and 181,841
impressions. The buy-and-win mechanism not only encouraged brand engagement but also stimulated consumer
spending, benefiting local retailers and distributors.
➣ Participation in Vietnam-Laos Trade Fair 2024 (VIETLAO EXPO)
This is the largest bilateral trade promotion event co-hosted by the 2 countries’
Ministries of Industry and Trade in Vientiane, Laos. This expo featured 250 booths
and hundreds of participating Vietnamese and Lao businesses. Vimaflour was
among the exhibitors, leveraging the event to promote its brand and products.
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
48
➣ Participation in Bakery China Trade Show
Mekong Flour participated in the Bakery China Trade Fair with the goal of reaching potential customers, enhancing
brand visibility in the Chinese market, and expanding market share. The event provided an opportunity for
Mekong Flour to showcase its high-quality products, meeting the diverse needs of the Chinese bakery industry,
while also establishing strategic partnerships with regional partners.
Data Security/Data Leakage
In an increasingly digital world, safeguarding sensitive data is essential for maintaining stakeholder trust, ensuring
regulatory compliance, and supporting business continuity. Data security and privacy are critical components of
good corporate governance. At MFM, we are committed to implementing robust cybersecurity policies and data
protection measures to prevent unauthorised access, data leakage, and cyber threats.
Our Information Technology (“IT”) Policy reinforces data security by establishing rules and best practices for
protecting digital assets. This includes access control, data encryption, and network security to mitigate cyber risks.
Strong password policies, backup strategies, continuous monitoring, audits, and third-party security measures
further enhance our protection framework.
To strengthen our cybersecurity posture, we have adopted a cloud-based Secure Access Service Edge (“SASE”)
platform that integrates networking and security into a unified solution. This implementation enables advanced
threat prevention, Zero Trust Network Access (“ZTNA”), and Data Loss Prevention (“DLP”) to block cyber threats
and prevent unauthorised data leaks. With secure remote access, encryption, and continuous monitoring, we ensure
safe data transmission, regulatory compliance, and a scalable, cloud-native security infrastructure.
Beyond technology and policies, employees play a critical role in preventing cyber incidents. Human error remains
a significant risk factor, making security training and awareness programs essential. MFM invests in regular
cybersecurity education, equipping employees to recognise phishing, malware, and social engineering threats. We
mitigate cyber risks and insider vulnerabilities by promoting secure data handling, access controls, and safe remote
work practices. Continuous education empowers employees to actively prevent breaches actively, making them key
contributors to a stronger cybersecurity culture.
Through strategic investments in technology, governance policies, and employee awareness, MFM remains
dedicated to maintaining a resilient cybersecurity framework that protects our business, stakeholders, and data
integrity.
Indicator of Sustainability Matter 2023 2024
Number of complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and
losses of customer data
0 0
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
49
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
Business Growth
Sustainable business growth is a crucial goal for MFM Group to thrive over the long term which requires a holistic
approach that aligns values, engages stakeholders, and balances economic, social and environmental impact.
Initiatives for Business Growth
Amongst the initiatives implemented for business growth are as follows:
➣ New Brand Designs for Vietnam and Thailand Markets
Vimaflour has developed several new brand designs for specific markets and product lines. The Pizza Gold
brand was redesigned for paper bags, replacing laminated polypropylene bags. A new blue VMP brand was
launched to compete in the lower-end plywood segment. The Golden Gerbera brand was designed for frying
purposes. For the Thailand market, Ha Long Red, Ha Long Blue, and Ha Long Green brands were created.
➣ Customised Brown Brand for Export to Philippines
Vimaflour had secured a new client with the Customised Brown Brand which contributed to an impressive 81%
increase in sales within the Philippine market.
➣ Expansion of Product Range for Export to Thailand
Following the success of the Ha Long Gold brand (specifically designed for noodles), Vimaflour expanded
its product offerings in Thailand to include bread, cake, bread crumb, and frying flour segments. These new
products are marketed under the Ha Long Red, Ha Long Green, Ha Long Blue, and Lobster brands, paving the
way for increased market share in 2025.
Expansion to Support Business Growth
Supply Chain Management
MFM Group is committed to ensuring a sustainable food distribution system to supply safe, nutritious and affordable
food to consumers by utilising the competitive advantage of each global and local supply chain point.
Ensuring the long-term viability and resilience of the flour and poultry industries requires a commitment to supply
chain sustainability. MFM Group is dedicated to this goal by implementing sustainable practices such as responsible
sourcing, animal welfare standards, and resource efficiency measures. These efforts aim to reduce environmental
impact, improve animal welfare, and fulfill social responsibilities. Collaboration, innovation, and stakeholders’
engagement are crucial for driving positive change in the evolving business context and securing a sustainable
future for the food industry to ensure food security in the country.
Bulk Delivery Capacity Expansion
We have been increasing our bulk delivery
capabilities for growing market and food security
commitment.
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
50
MFM Group has a Procurement Policy and Procedures which provide guidance to the Group’s Purchasing
Department to carry out its responsibilities which include:
➣ Obtaining competitive bids, select suppliers, negotiate price and assure quality;
➣ Ensure the highest purchasing standards and ethics are maintained; and
➣ Ensure the proper operation and the purchasing processes are observed and incorporating the principles of
transparency, rationality, objectivity, equity and accountability.
MFM Group as a leading food manufacturer, has embarked on a comprehensive sustainability program aimed at
addressing key environmental, social, and economic challenges across its supply chain.
Supply Chain Sustainability Program
➣ We combine multi-commodities and multi-grades of raw materials on large dry bulk carriers such as Panamax/
Kamsamax to enhance economies of scale as well reduce carbon footprint by optimising supply chain of raw
materials.
➣ We are partnering with reliable global raw materials suppliers with extensive originations and shipping capabilities
for wheat, corn and soybean meal to optimise our sourcing of commodities and enhance operations, shorter
supply chain to reduce carbon dioxide emissions per ton of freight per mile travelled (ton-mile emission), which
ultimately reduces its carbon footprint and transportation cost.
➣ We work with our commodity grain majors who are already supporting or working towards supporting farmers
in their transition to regenerative agriculture to mitigate climate change, regenerate soil, and improve water
conservation to reduce energy use and pollution to environment.
➣ We ensure transparency and traceability in the commodity supply chain, where the suppliers are working
towards knowing where ingredients are sourced from with policies of non-discrimination and equal opportunities
to protect human rights and human health and safety as well as address on animal welfare.
➣ To uphold our commitments, we source soy products from certified sellers audited by third parties that verify
sustainable soybean production such as US Soy Sustainability Assurance Protocol (“SSAP”) and Round Table
on Responsible Soy Association (”RTRS”).
➣ Implementing animal welfare standards based on industry best and independent audits to ensure the humane
treatment of poultry.
➣ Engaging with consumers, retailers, and other stakeholders to promote transparency and raise awareness about
sustainable poultry production practices.
➣ Ongoing consolidation and optimisation of transport routes reduce the environmental impact, particularly by
minimising lorry emissions from land transport.
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
51
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
MFM is committed to fostering sustainability and protecting the environment through responsible practices that
minimise our ecological footprint. We recognise the critical need to preserve the natural resources upon which future
generations depend. As part of our core values, we continually strive to integrate eco-friendly initiatives into our
operations, from reducing waste and energy consumption to supporting renewable energy sources.
Our commitment towards managing the impact of our operations on the environment is guided by our Environmental
Policy.
Energy Management
Energy management involves identifying and implementing strategies to reduce energy consumption, improve
equipment performance, and optimise energy systems.
Energy optimisation is the process of maximising energy efficiency while minimising energy waste. Optimising
provides huge cost savings and numerous benefits including air quality, protecting the environment, and bolstering
energy security. By focusing on energy optimisation, we can reduce energy bills and enhance their environmental
sustainability.
MFM Group is dedicated to expanding its efforts to reduce greenhouse gas (“GHG”) emissions by optimising energy
efficiency across its operations. We have been proactively identified opportunities to implement various energy-
efficiency improvement initiatives.
Energy Management Initiatives at Flour Mills
Renewable Energy Initiatives
 Subscription of Green Electricity as support to Customer
We co-operate with our customer on initiative for its Scope 3 commitment
by subscribing 1,629 MWh of electricity generated from renewable sources
for its purchased volume which offset an approximate of 1,234 tonnes of
carbon dioxide (CO2
) emissions. The cost of the subscription and offset of
carbon emission are absorbed by the customer.
 Installation of Roof-Mounted Photovoltaic (PV) Solar System
Solar PV technology offers a clean and abundant source of renewable energy, aligning with MFM Group’s aims
to demonstrate its commitment to environmental stewardship.
The adoption of Solar PV System offers a solution to addressing various environmental challenges by reducing
harmful emission, reducing energy consumption generated from fossil fuel and contribute to mitigating negative
environmental impacts.
This Solar PV project is at the planning stage for implementation at both the flour mills in Malaysia and Vietnam.
This Redemption Statement has been produced for
MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD
by
SP CARBON SOLUTIONS PTE LTD
conﬁrming the Redemption of
1 629.000000
I-REC Certiﬁcates, representing 1 629.000000 MWh of
electricity generated from renewable sources
This Statement relates to electricity consumption located at or in
Jalan David Sung, Batu Undan 32200 Lumut, Perak Malaysia
Malaysia
in respect of the reporting period
2024-01-01 to 2024-12-31
The stated Redemption Purpose is
Meet Corporate Renewable Energy Goals
QR Code Veriﬁcation
Verify the status of this Redemption Statement by scanning the QR code on the left and en
tering in the Veriﬁcation Key below
Veriﬁcation Key
6 6 1 2 8 8 9 2
https://api-internal.evident.app/public/certiﬁcates/en/b0HZzRIgCx%2BysGO35sDH6%2Fh1PLu8ioPE8
LIY0l90zBET9Bhc6kfPyefgRvc9werh
Environmental
Responsibility
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
52
Energy Efficiency Initiatives
 Conversion of Diesel Forklift to Battery-Powered (Rechargeable)
Both the flour mills in Malaysia and Vietnam have started replacing their forklifts from diesel to battery-powered
with the target of gradually replacing up to 50% of their diesel forklifts to battery-powered forklifts by 2026.
The battery-powered forklift has the benefits of environmentally friendly, cost saving, quiet operation, improved
energy efficiency and reduced emissions.
 Optimise the Production Lines: Preventive maintenance is a good practice to ensure the machines are in good
working condition, especially timely replacement of roller-mills and grinding rolls to maintain optimal working
load of the machines which in turn would save the energy.
 Reduce Load During Peak Hours: Optimise the production planning to fully utilise off-peak hours electricity and
avoid/reduce running of the production during peak hours electricity which will increase energy efficiency and
reduce the cost.
 Install Energy Saving Lighting: Using 100% LED lights in the plant enable saving of significant energy compared
to traditional bulb with the same light output.
 Educate Power Saving Practice: Staff and workers at the plants are trained/educated to practise efficient use of
lighting, minimise the empty running of the production system, optimum capacity utilisation of the machine and
production system thus optimising the power consumption for production.
Energy Management Initiatives at Poultry Processing Plant
Our poultry processing plant in Sitiawan, Perak has implemented various initiatives to reduce energy consumption,
improve equipment performance, and optimise energy systems with the following strategies:
Harnessing Renewable Energy
 Installed Roof-Mounted Photovoltaic (PV) Solar System
The Solar PV installation on the roof top of the Primary Processing Plant and Rendering Plant has been completed
and the reliability testing started in October 2024. The Solar PV system was successfully commissioned on
20 January 2025.
Final Solar PV system installed:-
• Total installed capacity: 4,812.21 kWp
• Number of Solar PV panels: 8,226
• Average annual solar energy to be harvested: 6,264,172 kWh/year which is equivalent to average of 4,002
tonnes of CO2
emissions reduction/year.
(From SEDA, 2016: Baseline CO2
for Peninsular - 0.639 tCO2
/ MWh)
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
53
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
Energy Efficiency Equipment/System
 Monitoring Energy Efficiency via iSCADA System which enables more focus on electrical supply usage, water
supply, room temperature and compressed air supply thus facilitates consistent and comprehensive distribution
of data, enabling efficient management operations.
 Monitoring Equipment Effectiveness via RED Zone Software which directly contribute to efficient energy usage.
 Ammonia Refrigeration System enables energy savings from condenser automation and VSD motors.
 Automated System and Retrieval System reduces energy consumption with decreased cooling needs by about
50%, hence lowers operational costs.
Energy Consumption 2023 2024
Electricity purchased (Megawatt) 153,645 174,348 *
Green electricity purchased (Megawatt) 11,000 -
Gas consumed (Megawatt) 90,851 70,868
Fuel consumed (Megawatt) 21,235 33,679 *
Note:
* The increased consumption was due to additional staff quarters and the inclusion of motor vehicles used for
production.
Water Management
We recognise that water is one of the most precious and finite resources. As part of our commitment to environmental
responsibility, we are dedicated to sustainable water management practices that reduce our impact on local water
systems, promote conservation, and ensure equitable access to water for future generations.
Our Approach to Water Management
 Groundwater withdrawal for usage at the poultry farm.
 Condensate Return System has been installed at the rendering plant and boiler house and commissioned in April
2024. It captures and returns condensed steam (condensate) back to the boiler for reuse, improving efficiency,
reducing energy costs, and minimising water and water softeners consumption.
 Live Bird Supply System at Processing Plant
After the product is unloaded, all containers will be transferred to the cleaning section and automatically cleaned
and sanitised by the cleaning equipment. By recycling the water for pre-wash, the container washer can reduce
water consumption by 20%.
Solar Panel on the roof top of the Primary Processing Plant Solar Panel on the roof top of the Rendering Plant
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
54
 Raise awareness of employees on water conservation.
 Set a strict water usage management with water meter installed at appropriate areas for data collection and
enhance analysis.
 Production section to monitor and analyse water consumption on monthly basis to ensure reasonable water
usage and detect any abnormal water usage which could be due to water leakage caused by broken underground
water pipes or water tanks.
Water Consumption 2023 2024
Total Municipal potable water (Megalitres) 2,108.95 2,024.55
Total Groundwater (Megalitres) 157.68 157.68
Waste Management
With limited space for landfills and rising costs of waste disposal, there is increased pressure and urgent need
to tackle the waste management issue and reduce the impact on the environment and general well-being of the
community. MFM demonstrates its commitment to environmental preservation by practising sustainable waste
management by way of reuse, reduce, recycling, treatment and proper disposal.
Proper Waste Disposal
 Scheduled Waste Disposal
Scheduled waste disposals are practised in accordance with the Environmental Quality Act of 1974 and the
Environmental Quality (Scheduled Wastes) Regulations 2005. We ensure compliance through:
The scheduled waste generated at our facility includes:
SW 109
(Containing Mercury)
SW 305
(Spent Lubricating Oil)
SW 102
(Used Lead Acid Battery)
SW 409
(Used Containers)
SW 110
(E-Waste)
SW 410
(Used Gloves, Rags)
Proper classification
and labeling of
scheduled waste
Proper storage and containment
measures to prevent leaks
Scheduled waste disposal
through licensed waste
contractors
Regular training for
employees on waste
handling procedures
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
55
SUSTAINABILITY
REPORT 2024
 Wastewater Treatment Plant at Poultry Processing Plant
The Wastewater Treatment Plant (“WWTP”) uses physical-chemical and biological processes to treat wastewater
generated from production and operation activities in the processing plant and rendering plant. The capacity of
the WWTP is 10,250 m3/day built to cater for anticipated increase in slaughtering rate at Primary Processing
Plant and production rate at Further Processing Plant.
Latest technologies are deployed in the process to reduce manual workforce, increase safe work practice, and
ease of process monitoring without jeopardising the quality of treated effluent. The wastewater treated at the
WWTP complies with the standards regulated by Department of Environment (“DOE”) Malaysia. All wastewater
is treated to achieve a minimum effluent standard before discharging back to nature. The WWTP will eliminate
disease-causing bacteria and kill harmful organisms through filtering, ensure minimal odour and remove up to
97% of contaminants from used water.
 Chemical Waste Management
Apart from the Standard Operating Procedure (“SOP”) for proper handling of chemical waste, our Group also
conducts training programme on chemical waste management and disposal procedures including “Safe Chemical
Handling” for workers. Waste oil and hazardous chemicals can cause extensive damage to environment and
pose substantial hazards to the lives of animals, plants and human-beings. Our Group manages waste oil and
hazardous chemical disposal properly in accordance with the Environmental Quality Act 1974.
Recycle Organic Solid Waste
 Rendering Plant at Poultry Processing Plant
Our state-of-the-art Rendering Plant is designed to kill harmful bacteria, leaving only useful protein for animal
feeds. Rendering is the process of converting animal by-products, that would otherwise be discarded as waste,
into usable product material. In general, animal tissue is processed to obtain animal fat and protein meal. These
products can be used as raw material in aqua feed manufacturing.
Through this rendering plant, the processing plant achieves zero waste whereby all materials are recycled which
significantly minimise environmental footprint and promote resource conservation.
Waste Reduction Initiatives
 Zero Waste in Flour Milling: Our flour mills optimise the usage of wheat to produce flour to achieve zero waste
in flour milling. Whole wheat flour uses all parts of the kernel whereas white flour only uses the endosperm. The
bran removed is used for feed milling process to produce animal feeds and the germ will be sold or used to
produce special kind of flour.
 Recyclability is a fundamental aspect of sustainability initiative as it promotes resource conservation, energy
efficiency, waste reduction and environmental protection.
MFM Group practises recycling activities for certain recyclable waste (i.e. plastic drums, metal drums, unused
wooden pallets and etc.) as part of our efforts to conserve natural resources. Initiatives are also being implemented
for all packaging to conform to recyclability standards.
 Reduce usage of packaging materials by bulk tanker delivery to customers.
 Prolonged lifespan of LED lighting used by the Group has effectively reduced waste.
 Digitisation of sales reports, communication cards and sales kits for marketing has effectively reduce paper
usage.
 The practice of sending notices, documents and information by email for management and board meetings
and by way of publication in our website for shareholders’ meetings have reduced the paper usage significantly.
 Usage of thinner Plastic Bag for Retail Pack enables us to reduce greenhouse gases emission.
Annual Report 2024 | Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
56
Emission Management
Emission management plays a crucial role in addressing climate change and minimising the impact of GHG
emissions. In caring for our mother earth, our energy and waste management initiatives as well as the following
facilities of MFM Group and emission management initiatives have played crucial roles in reducing the emission
impacts of the Group:
Emission Reduction Facilities
 Belt Conveyor Facility at Jetty to Deliver Raw Materials
The installed conveyor belt from jetty to the mills has eliminated the use of trucks to deliver raw materials to the
mills. Using this integrated grains logistics transport system instead of traditional land transport has reduced our
emission impact on the environment.
 Solar PV Installation
The completion of the Solar PV installation at the processing plant in 2024 for renewable energy will reduce air
pollution due to reduction in purchased electricity which predominantly is fossil fuel-based energy generation,
which is a significant source of harmful emissions such as sulfur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, and mercury.
The adoption of Solar PV technology also aids in reducing greenhouse gas emissions of approximately 4,002
tonnes of CO2
annually, thereby mitigating climate change and its adverse effects on the environment.
 Biofilter
Our plants are installed with biofilter which is an odour treatment system for all the processing waste gas.
Waste gas is passed through a filter bed before being released to the atmosphere. The biofilter ensures organic
pollutants from waste gas, odour and toxic in waste gas are removed before releasing it.
 Thermal Pest Control via Heat Treatment
Heat treatment system is used for pest control which is eco-friendly, hence, avoiding environment pollution and
ensure personal safety and food safety.
Emission Management Initiatives
 Our plant operations in Vietnam also cooperate with relevant parties to conduct environmental inspection every
6 months to fully comply with the environment regulation and standards to ensure that there is no dust pollution
in the plant. Diesel consumption is also tracked, and CO2
emission is closely monitored.
 We aspire to achieve continuous improvement in reducing CO2
emissions throughout our businesses by
incorporating innovative technologies.
