Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 25
Achieving greater heights
in our drive to manage
sustainability
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 25
GO
BEYOND
SUSTAINABILITY
2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
26
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
27
MFM
GROUP
BUSINESS
DIVISIONS
28 - 29
EXECUTIVE DEPUTY
CHAIRMAN CUM
MANAGING
DIRECTOR’S
MESSAGE
36 - 38
BALANCED
RELATIONSHIP
WITH NATURE
35
OUR
MATERIAL
MATTERS
34
KEY
STAKEHOLDERS
ENGAGEMENT
48 - 51
OPERATIONS
EXCELLENCE &
GOVERNANCE
52 - 57
COMMITMENT
TO SOCIETY
30 - 33
ABOUT
THIS
REPORT
39 - 47
WORKFORCE
& WORKPLACE
ENVIRONMENT
CONTENTS
TABLE
OF
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 27
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Our Sustainability Report will be reported for
three business divisions: flour division, poultry
integration division and aqua feeds division.
Flour
• MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD
(MFM)
• VIMAFLOUR LTD
• MEKONG FLOUR MILLS LTD
Poultry Integration
• DINDINGS TYSON SDN BHD (DTSB)
• DINDINGS POULTRY DEVELOPMENT
CENTRE SDN BHD (DPDC)
• DINDINGS POULTRY PROCESSING
SDN BHD (DPP)
Aqua Feeds
• DINDINGS SOYA & MULTIFEEDS
SDN BERHAD (DSM)
BUSINESS DIVISIONS
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
28
EXECUTIVE DEPUTY CHAIRMAN CUM
MANAGING DIRECTOR’S MESSAGE
Dear Stakeholders,
On behalf of MFM, we are delighted to share the sustainability initiatives
we have employed in 2022. We continue to embrace United Nations
Sustainability Development Goals (“UN SDGs”) and remain focused
on “growing responsibly”. MFM has had three priorities: care for the
development, safety and health of its employees, ensure business
sustainability and continue to contribute to the society.
Year 2022 was another tumultuous year for humanity and business.
Inflation, supply chain disruptions, Russian-Ukraine war, climate
change and much more had come together to challenge us all. With the
escalation of the Russian-Ukraine war where the region supplies nearly
20% of the corn and 30% of wheat global exports, Grains Futures
soared to a nearly 10-year high level.
MFM Group’s businesses were impacted by the surge in the wheat
cost, raw material cost for poultry feeds and diseases which affected
the supply of poultry. The poultry industry in the country faced
unprecedented shortage of broilers while the demand was picking up
with the easing of COVID-19 pandemic.
As our commitment to the Environmental Sustainability Governance in achieving the Economic, Environmental and
Social values, among the sustainability initiatives in place include:
• MFM’s mill has its own natural harbour which deploys the latest automated technology to enable the discharging
of shipments at high capacity, with efficient material handling combined with technology in the storage and
preservation of corn which enhance the quality of the feeds;
• MFM is partnering with experts from shipping and commodity to optimise our sourcing of commodities
and enhance the operations with shorter supply chain which ultimately reduces the carbon footprint and
transportation cost;
• Deploying latest farmhouse model which incorporates industry revolution 4.0 technology with climate control
for poultry production. With the advanced technology, this farmhouse maximises the flock welfare and
performance through proper controlled microclimatic conditions and bio-security features. It also minimises
environmental concerns such as flies and odour issues as well as lower the labour and feed costs;
• Wastewater treatment plant to treat wastewater generated from the poultry processing plants; and
• Rendering plant which reduces impact on the environment by transforming solid wastes from the processing
plant to protein sources.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 29
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
When it comes to the sustainability of our workforce, we are investing in both our current and future employees.
Besides carrying out various leadership trainings and development programmes to help our employees to acquire
and update the skills they need for success in today’s economy, MFM strives to continuously establish and maintain
strategic partnerships with universities, schools and various institutions to nurture the development of young
talents in the society and build a sustainable talent pipeline and leadership capability in achieving MFM’s business
objectives and goals.
MFM also continues to create value for society and bring joy to people’s lives through a broad range of community
initiatives, charitable donation and support of non-profit agencies in the communities in which we operate.
We endeavour to continue to focus on the area of sustainability and contribute to the UN SDGs. Together, we
make improvements for people and the environment, and create value for our shareholders, customers, consumers,
society and employees.
Last but not least, to all stakeholders, thank you for your continued support, confidence and trust in MFM.
TEH WEE CHYE
EXECUTIVE DEPUTY CHAIRMAN
CUM MANAGING DIRECTOR
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
30
ABOUT THIS REPORT
MFM Group publishes the annual
Sustainability Report with the
objective of improving transparency,
visibility and communication to
a wide array of stakeholders. It
showcases our commitment and
responsibilities towards achieving
Economic, Environmental and Social
(“EES”) values.
This 6th edition of MFM Group
Sustainability Report is part of
Annual Report 2022.
The UN Sustainability Development
Goals (“SDGs”) are incorporated
in this report. The specific SDG
goals below are mentioned in the
subsequent pages of this report
wherever it is applicable.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 31
Scope & Boundaries
The reporting period for this report is from 1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022. It covers our flour, poultry integration
and aqua feeds businesses in Malaysia and Vietnam. It does not include our joint venture, PT Bungasari Flour Mills
Indonesia. There has been no changes to our scope for sustainability reporting since our last reporting in 2021.
Reporting Framework
The Second Edition of Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Reporting Guide issued by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
(“Bursa Malaysia”) is used in preparing this report.
Sustainability Governance
Our Sustainability Task Force is led by our Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director, Mr. Teh Wee Chye
to ensure reliable decision-making process for our Group in achieving greater sustainability.
Sustainability risk management is integrated into our Group’s risk assessment and is spearheaded by our
Sustainability Task Force which assesses the risk and publishes the Sustainability Report annually.
Our business divisions implement and manage sustainability initiatives.
Board of Directors
Executive Deputy Chairman cum Managing Director
Sustainability Task Force
Flour
Business Division
Poultry Integration
Business Division
Aqua Feeds
Business Division
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
32
SUSTAINABILITY FRAMEWORK
SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH
In embracing good sustainability practices, MFM Group focuses on managing its social and environmental impact
and seeks to improve operational efficiency and natural resources stewardship.
As wheat-related and poultry products would always remain as an essential part of food consumption worldwide,
MFM is dedicated in constantly creating added value not only to shareholders but for society as a whole. Moving
forward, MFM is committed to managing Economic, Environmental, Social and Governance matters, guided by
MFM’s Code of Conduct and related Policies, Standards & Guidelines.
Core Values
MFM Group upholds its core values of “QUALITAS”, “CONSILIUM” and “PROGRESSUS” to identify key issues of
EES.
QUALITAS
Produce and
provide consumers
with consistent
quality products at
reasonable prices
CONSILIUM
Unity of employees
and management
PROGRESSUS
Continuous improvement
to maintain its
competitiveness and
contribute effectively to
benefit the society
We aspire to be a leading food manufacturing enterprise in the region.
• To be the preferred provider and strategic partner in the food industry.
• To drive operational excellence by embracing a culture of continuous
improvement.
• To add value to stakeholders by growing economies of scale.
Business Divisions adopt the well-known continuous improvement cycle
Plan-Do-Check-Act (“PDCA”) in managing sustainability initiatives.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
VISION
MISSION
GOVERNANCE
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 33
MANAGEMENT APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY
Our Group has identified and prioritised key issues related to EES for our business operations as follows:
• To comply with
the regulatory
requirements &
standards in relation
to environmental
concerns
• To raise awareness
among our
employees & the
whole supply chain
in order to act in an
environmentally-
responsible manner
• To integrate
environmental matter
into our business
decisions
• To ensure that
energy & water are
utilised efficiently &
consumption is being
monitored
• To recycle, reduce
or reuse the waste
or resources where
practicable
• To reduce carbon
footprint through
energy efficiency
& conservation
practices
• To have good strategic
management & wisely
utilise our resources
• To advance sustainable
profitable growth whilst
satisfying our ethical,
legal & contractual
obligations
• To abide by the
requirements of all
laws & industry’s best
practices
• To provide our
customers with safe
products that adhere
to Government’s
legislation &
requirements
• To adopt good ethical
practices through Code
of Conduct
• To ensure an
appropriate governance
system is in place to
oversee the strategic
development &
performance that relates
to the maintenance of a
sustainable business
• To ensure proper risk
management & internal
control system are in
place
• To empower our
employees by
offering training,
motivation & career
advancement
• To provide a safe &
healthy workplace
& take care of
employees’ well-being
• To encourage open
communication,
ideas and innovation
• To support diversity
in workforce
• To provide job security
to employees
• To engage actively
with civic project,
charity events & the
local communities
through our
corporate social
initiatives
• To help our
community survive &
prosper economically
• To provide ample job
opportunities
1
Balanced
Relationship
With Nature
2
Workforce &
Workplace
Environment
3
Operations
Excellence &
Governance
4
Commitment
To
Society
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
34
KEY STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT
Our Group has continually engaged each stakeholder to address their concerns. We have summarised our
engagement platforms with the various stakeholders and the related outcomes from each engagement.
SHAREHOLDERS
Engage via:
Annual General Meetings, Quarterly Financial
Reports, Annual Reports, Shareholders’
Circulars, Announcements, Analyst Briefings
& Corporate Website.
Concerns:
Financial performance and returns, going
concern and positive investment growth.
COMMUNITY & NGOs
Engage via:
Internship programmes, charity
events and volunteer programmes.
Concerns:
Community living, care and
development.
CUSTOMERS
Engage via:
Service satisfaction, customer
appreciation and social media platforms.
Concerns:
Quality of product, market availability,
product prices and values.
GOVERNMENT & REGULATORS
Engage via:
Compliance activities
Concerns:
Tax issues, pricing issues,
labour practices, health issues,
transparency and accountability.
MEDIA
Engage via:
Media briefings, events, press
conferences, press release and
internet.
Concerns:
Group’s performance and updates.
COMPETITORS
Engage via:
Industry competition and market
forces.
Concerns:
Price competition, new business
opportunity, innovation and creativity.
HUMAN CAPITAL
Engage via:
Town hall meetings, Employee Portal,
Learning & Development programmes
and corporate events.
Concerns:
Career development, work-life balance
and employee welfare.
SUPPLIERS & SERVICE PROVIDERS
Engage via:
Compliance with ISO Standards,
suppliers’ evaluation (audit) and
quotation from suppliers.
Concerns:
Payment and up-to-date information
about the Group.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 35
OUR MATERIAL MATTERS
MFM Group adopted the materiality assessment with accordance with Bursa Malaysia Sustainability Reporting
Guide. Material matters are defined in Bursa Malaysia Listing Requirements as those:
• reflecting the business’s significant EES impacts; or
• substantively influence the assessments and decisions of stakeholders
In 2020, MFM Group conducted a materiality assessment of 14 material matters. The Materiality Matrix below was
derived based on the input of the business leaders within the Group. They are familiar with MFM Group’s material
matters, and the significance of those matters to MFM Group and stakeholders. The materiality assessment of our
Group for year 2020 is still applicable for year 2022.
The Materiality Matrix has been endorsed by the Board of Directors.
MATERIALITY MATRIX
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Significance to our Group
Significance to our stakeholders
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
36
1 BALANCED
RELATIONSHIP
WITH NATURE
For sustainable business development, it is
crucial for MFM Group to maintain a balanced
relationship with mother earth where all
resources come from.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
36
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 37
ENERGY
Energy conservation plays a crucial role in slowing down the greenhouse effect. As one of the market leaders in flour
manufacturing and poultry industry, MFM Group aspires to reduce its carbon footprint by conserving energy. Energy
conservation is not only about reducing energy consumption, but also using energy in a more efficient manner.
Group Energy Usage (Million kWh)
In conserving energy, we deploy the following initiatives:
• embrace energy-efficient building design;
• utilise heat recovering system;
• utilise energy-efficient equipment; and
• install LED lighting and others.
We also continue to monitor energy consumption through power meter and supervisory control and data acquisition
(SCADA) system. Corrective actions are taken to reduce abnormal power consumption and minimise energy waste
during idle production time.
In the long run, we endeavour to manage a balance between ensuring the quality of our products and minimising
energy consumption. We will also continue to explore other alternative renewable source of energy in minimising
our carbon footprint.
WATER
As a major food producer, MFM Group uses significant amount of water in its operations to produce safe and clean
products. In conserving water resources, we will continue to measure and manage water consumption effectively
at entity level.
Group Water Usage (Million m³)
In conserving water, the poultry processing plant has been designed with a rainwater harvesting system which
allows rainwater to be reused.
100
0
2019
142.52
155.93 157.74 154.59
2020 2021 2022
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
1
0
2019
1.60 1.63
1.88
1.75
2020 2021 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
38
WASTE MANAGEMENT
MFM Group strives to implement effective, sustainable and ecologically sound waste management.
Competent persons are engaged to manage scheduled wastes. Trained and certified personnel will assist business
units in managing risk associated with scheduled waste and comply with Environmental Quality Act 1974.
MFM Group invested in a wastewater treatment plant in 2018. Wastewater generated in the poultry processing
plant is treated before its final discharge point at the plant. All wastewater is treated to achieve a minimum effluent
standard in line with Department of Environment (DOE)’s requirement.
The poultry primary processing plant is supported by a rendering plant to manage solid waste from the processing
plant. The rendering plant is designed to convert chicken by-products such as chicken intestines and feathers into
raw material for animal feeds. The soft offal and feather meal line is a continuous production line. The rendering plant
will reduce impact on environment by transforming our waste to be used as one of the protein sources in animal/
aqua feeds.
EMISSION
Emission represents the various air pollutant that affects the environment and surrounding community. We are
committed to reduce emissions throughout our businesses in protecting our environment. We have adopted
emission controls to reduce harmful emissions from our flour and feed operations. Air filters are installed at all
possible emission areas, and we have certified external parties to assist in monitoring works and complying with
applicable laws and regulations.
We have also constructed a biofilter to remove odours emitted from the rendering plant. The use of natural materials
such as wood chips, coconut husk and coco peat provide a growth medium for microbes to remove bad odour
from air emitted from rendering plant. This process reduces air pollution whereby clean air is released into the
environment.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Offal and Feather Meal Processing Line
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 39
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
2 WORKFORCE
& WORKPLACE
ENVIRONMENT
As employees are the most treasured resource
in MFM Group, we aim to always grow together
in order to achieve greater success and to
create a better future.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 39
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
40
SUSTAINABILITY THEMES
At MFM, we are committed to ensure sustainability in our workforce, workplace and operations by focusing on six
key themes. By prioritising sustainability, we ensure business continuity while also being mindful of the safety and
the environment in which we operate. As a testament to our HR excellence, we are proud to have been recognised
by HR Asia as the Best Companies to Work for in Asia for five consecutive years (2018 to 2022). We have also
received the HR Asia Most Caring Company award (2019 to 2022) for the third consecutive year, recognising our
commitment to providing a caring and supportive workplace for our employees.
Sustaining Post-Pandemic
New Norm
Strategic Partnership
for Talent Supply
Developing Future Leaders
and Workforce
Diversity
Embracing Workforce
Wellbeing
Securing Sustainable
Future
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 41
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
SUSTAINING POST-PANDEMIC NEW NORM
At the heart of our Company is our employees. Our employees feel valued and supported when their values align
with the Company’s values. We demonstrate that we care about the well-being of our people by undertaking
programmes for the heart, mind and soul. By fostering a culture that values and supports our employees, we aim to
create an environment where our people can thrive both personally and professionally.
Intensifying frequency of workforce engagement and
dialogue sessions as an outreach programme from
the management to allow workforce to voice crucial
matters.
Activating knowledge sharing session and encourage
cross departmental, business sharing to operate in
a knowledge economy. Mounted Learn Over Lunch
(“LOL”) sessions with various topics to ensure the
knowledge sharing is prevalent.
Revamping our comprehensive onboarding programme
to ensure that all new joiners feel welcomed and feel
that they are part of a larger family at work.
We have revitalised our workforce engagement
activities and have resumed celebrations of employees
birthdays, festivals and other occations that bring our
workforce together.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
42
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
DEVELOPING FUTURE LEADERS AND WORKFORCE
We have invested in leadership development, workforce exchange and knowledge sharing to develop the skills of
our talents. Our programmes help our people develop critical skills, gain exposure to different roles and functions,
and foster cross-functional collaboration. We strive to provide continuous learning and development opportunities
for the success of our workforce and the company.
The Harvard Adaptive Leadership Programme was
extended to our Executive level workforce to empower
them with adaptive leadership capabilities to sustain
during these turbulent times. They were assigned
into teams to work on a total of 13 projects towards
“Roadmap to Profitability”.
Our Talent Exchange Programme (“TEP”) which
comprises a structured sharing/experiential learning
covering technical, framework, methodologies,
processes, best practices and culture including
business acumen.
We brought the poultry industry’s Subject Matter
Expert, Dr Bill Hewat to be physically present in our
Poultry Farms and Plants to engage the various teams,
key topics knowledge sharing and also engaging
government stakeholders.
We offer a total of 22 training programmes in our
Training Catalogue to our workforce to personalise
a development roadmap for themselves based on
themes of Professional and Personal Development,
People Leadership, Business Acumen, Strategy and
Change.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 43
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
EMBRACING WORKFORCE WELLBEING
We have implemented a five-pillar framework to address the well-being of our workforce within our organisation.
Here are some examples of the workforce well-being measures we have implemented:
Physical Wellness
Organised events that encourages safe practices at work and also activities that
encourage physical health amongst the workforce.
Mental Wellness
Our Caring & Connected programme consists of both individual and group couselling
sessions for our workforce. Talks and trainings on mental wellness which we continuously
mount and enhance are targeted to build resilience amongst the team.
Workforce Lifestyle Privileges
Corporate discounts made available to MFM were extended to our workforce to allow
our workforce to benefit their various lifestyle. The privileges covered a wide range of
benefits covering luxury vehicle purchase, food and beverage outlets and several online
subscription plans.
Workforce Health Fitness
Through our strategic partnership with a local healthcare provider, our MFM workforce
and family members received their Covid-19 second booster vaccination. Onsite health
screening programme was organised as well.
Financial Wellness
The Financial Wellness programme ensures that our workforce are empowered with
Financial Intelligence, to ensure that they will be able to afford their different lifestyles
comfortably.
Physical Wellness Workforce Health Fitness
Mental Wellness Workforce Lifestyle Privileges
Financial Wellness
Putting our People First
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
44
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIP FOR TALENT SUPPLY
MFM is committed to building and maintaining strategic partnerships with universities, schools and various
institutions to foster the development of young talent in society and building a sustainable pipeline of talent to
support our organisation.
We attract growing talents to transform them into future talents in MFM.
• University of Arkansas
• Kansas State University
• Universiti Putra Malaysia
• Universiti Sains Malaysia
• Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman
• Montfort Boys Town
• Politeknik Ungku Omar
• Kolej Tingkatan Enam Tunku Abdul Rahman Putra
• SMJK Yoke Kuan
• SMK Nan Hwa
• SMK Methodist (A.C.S.) Sitiawan
• Ekuinas
• TalentCorp
• and beyond…
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 45
DIVERSITY
It is imperative to create an environment at work where
different generations can converge to co-create, be
inspired, cooperate, contribute, and learn from one
another. This way, the organisation can benefit from both
the knowledge of its more experienced workforce and
the fresh ideas for innovation of its younger workforce.
64.1%
Malay
0.6%
Indigenous
people
Chinese
Indian
21%
14.3%
Baby Boomers
Generation
X
5%
24.2%
Generation
Y
39.3%
Generation
Z
31.5%
In our organisation, female represents about 50% of
the workforce population, although this is scarce in the
predominantly male industry.
We embrace diversity in our workforce, workplace and work that we do to allow every workforce to bring forth their
ideas and capabilities that will benefit the organisation as a whole.
We are fortunate to operate in a multiracial nation where
our organisation values contribution from all races and
ethnicities equally. We utilise this diversity to maintain
smooth and ongoing operations organisation.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
46
SECURING SUSTAINABLE FUTURE
At MFM, we are dedicated to operating within a sustainable ecosystem, and we achieve this through the
implementation of comprehensive Environmental, Social and Governance (“ESG”) controls.
Ensuring our workforce is safe and practising
the highest standards affordable by the
organisation to remain safe when performing
their work at their workplace. The Safety Health
and Evnironment (“SHE”) committee reviews
the policy and has a structured escalation path
to ensure any incidents are reported, including
Potential Safety Incidents and Fatalities (“PSIF”)
are mitigated in a timely manner.
Our organisation and team commit ourselves to
performsocialresponsibilitiestothecommunities
where we operate in, through distribution of our
products to the needy and also sponsoring in
student adoption programmes.
We also provide career opportunities to
students from various academic levels to have
a sustainable life.
We have enhanced our Code of Conduct (“COC”)
for our workforce to ensure good governance.
The enhanced COC was a collaborative effort
with our JV partner, Tyson Foods, Inc., where
we leverage on the global best practices into
our organisation. At the same time, we observe
the 11 Indicators of Forced Labour by the
International Labour Organisation as our guiding
Principles for Good Workforce Practices.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 47
Safety Officer
Our Safety & Health Officers are present to conduct
regular checks to ensure compliance with statutory
regulations, procedures and practices. They investigate
any safety and health-related incidents that happen in
the workplace, conduct safety campaigns and provide
individual counselling on safety and health-related
matters.
Compliance
We comply with the Occupational Safety & Health Act
(“OSHA”)1994,Factories&MachineryAct1967andtheir
regulations. Our poultry farm reinforces our commitment
towards OSHA by developing Occupational Safety &
Health Administration manual and implementing Hazard
Identification, Risk Assessment and Risk Control
(“HIRARC”).
Internal Trainings
• Safety Townhall
• Site Induction Safety Tutor (“SIST”) for the new
worker
• 100 Days Free Recordable Injury Safety Pledge
Campaign
• Walkthrough Safety Devices Reliability Check
• Quarterly Safety, Health and Environment (“SHE”)
Quiz
• Yearly Fire Evacuation Mock Drill Exercise
• Safety Mega Toolbox to the Contractor
• Safety & Health Logo Contest
• Road Safety Awareness Program
• Working at Height & Self Retracting Lifeline
System
• Chemical Handling Training
• Schedule Waste Awareness Training
• Potential Serious Injury & Fatality (“PSIF”)
Introduction Training
• Ergonomic Risk Assessment Briefing
• Confined Space Training
• Safety and Health Carnival
• Environmental Awareness Program
• Internal HIRARC Program
• Quarterly Safety & Health Committee Meeting
HEALTH & SAFETY
MFM always puts workplace safety and employee health as the first priority. We equip related employees with proper
Personal Protective Equipment (“PPE”) to protect them from physical hazards at the worksite. Health surveillance
was carried out for employees in accordance with Department of Occupational Safety and Health (“DOSH”)’s
requirements.
To create a healthy and safe working environment, we comply with laws and regulations, provide continuous and
consistent trainings to related employees and establish Health, Safety and Environment (“HSE”) divisions to oversee
these matters in line with MFM’s slogan of “Come to work happily, go home safely”.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
External Trainings
• Basic Occupational First Aid, CPR, and AED Training
• Risk Assessment (HIRARC) Training
• Respirator Training by 3M
• Ammonia and Chlorine Gas Handling
• Authorised Entrant & Standby Person (“AESP”)
• Authorised Entrant & Standby Person Refresher
(“AESP-R”)
• Authorised Gas Tester & Entrant Supervisor (“AGTES”)
• Authorised Gas Tester & Entrant Supervisor
Refresher (“AGTES”)
• Certificate Of Boilerman
• Safe Chemical Handling and spillage control.
• National OSH Conference
• Course of Certified Environmental Professional in
Scheduled Waste Management (“CePSWaM”)
• Certified Environmental Professional in Bag Filter
Operation (“CePBFO”)
• Emergency Response Team
• Environment Aspect Impact Training
• Forklift Operator Competency Training
• Hearing Loss Prevention & Occupation Safety and
Health (Noise Exposure)
• Lockout Tagout Demonstration
• Respirator Training by 3M
• Safe Defensive Basic Driving – Logistic
• Seminar on Compliance with the Environmental
Quality Act 1974
• Seminar on Scheduled Waste Management DOE
• Seminar on Uniform Building by Law Act
• Chemical Exposure Monitoring (“CEM”)
• Hearing Conservation Programme (“HCP”)
Penalty & Fatality
In 2022, we received two penalties pursuant to Section
15(1) of Occupational Safety and Health Act 1994 due
to hand injuries recorded in 2020 while a worker was
repairing a machinery at the poultry processing plant
and a worker operating a machinery at the feed mill.
Unfortunately, in 2022, we recorded a fatal accident
involving a truck driver on the road after completing
the live birds harvest at the contract farm.
As workplace safety and employee health are our
utmost priority, we have thoroughly reviewed and
analysed all the incidents and took corrective actions
to ensure that all the safe operating procedures are
adhered to by all the employees.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
48
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
3 OPERATIONS
EXCELLENCE &
GOVERNANCE
To provide our customers with safe and high
quality products that adhere to legislation and
requirements.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
48
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 49
PRODUCTS & SERVICES RESPONSIBILITY
CUSTOMER RELATIONS
Developing a healthy relationship with customers is crucial to understand customers’ needs in order to improve
our products and services quality. MFM Group deploys Customer Relationship Management (“CRM”) system to
manage customers’ feedbacks.
We value and safeguard customer data and privacy as company asset. In 2022, MFM Group did not receive any
complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy.
OUR COMMITMENT TO FOOD QUALITY & SAFETY
WE AFFIRM THE FOLLOWING:
MFM products are FREE from:
• Any visible metal fragments
• Salmonella and Aflatoxin; yeast and mould
MFM products are certified by:
JAKIM (Department of Islamic Development Malaysia) as
HALAL, complying with Islamic dietary requirements.
Customer complaint related to food safety issues:
Strictly controlled to be not more than 5 cases per year.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
50
Certificate & Training For Food Safety & Quality
FLOUR POULTRY INTEGRATION AQUA FEEDS
Flour
Milling
Feed
Milling
Poultry
Farming
Poultry
Processing
Feed
Milling
• Hazard Analysis
and Critical
Control Points
(“HACCP”)
• Food Safety
System
Certification
(“FSSC”) 22000
• ISO 9001:2015
• HALAL (certified
by JAKIM)
• SIRIM MS
85:2018 Edible
Wheat Flour
• MeSTI (Food
Safety is
Responsibility
of the Industry)
• Hazard Analysis and
Critical Control Points
(“HACCP”)
• ISO 17025 (MFM
Integrated Laboratory)
• Wholesaler’s Poisons
Licence (Type B)
• Permit to Purchase,
Store and Use of Sodium
Hydroxide
• Malaysia Good
Agriculture Practice
(“myGAP”)
• License for Poultry
Farming and Related
Activities
• Hazard Analysis and
Critical Control Points
(“HACCP”)
• Veterinary Health
Mark (“VHM”)
• Good Manufacturing
Practice (“GMP”)
• ISO 22000:2018
• ISO 9001:2015
• HALAL (certified by
JAKIM)
• Hazard Analysis
and Critical
Control Points
(“HACCP”)
• Fish Quality
Certificate
(“FQC”) by
Department
of Fisheries
Malaysia
• ISO 22000:2018
• Good
Manufacturing
Practices (“GMP”)
• Awareness &
Implementation
of FSSC 22000
• Transition to
FSSC 22000
(Version 5.1)
• FSSC 22000
Awareness and
Transition Course
(Version 5.1)
• Internal Auditing
based on ISO
19011 (FSSC
22000 Version
5.1)
• Halal Industry
Fundamental
Program,
Competency and
Certification
• Halal Awareness
• Food Allergen,
Food Defence
and Food Fraud
• Food Safety
Awareness and
Practices
• Effective Internal Audit
Skills of HACCP
• Understand and
Implementation of
HACCP
• Good Manufacturing
Practice (“GMP”) for
Food Industry
• Basic Chemical Spillage
and Leakage Control
• 3M Food Safety Technical
Training: Best Practices
in Microbial Testing using
3M Petrifilm: Sampling,
Dilution, Plating,
Interpretation
• Validation and Verification
of Microbiology Methods
• Autoclave Safety and
Operation Guidelines
• FSSC V5.1 Internal Audit
• Chemical Handling &
Spillage
• HALAL Awareness
• Halal Competency
• FSSC V5.1 Awareness
• Scheduled Waste
Management Seminar
at Johor State Level
• ISO 9001:2015
Internal Auditor
Training by SGS
• Poultry Short Course
(Basic)
• Transformation in
the Malaysian
Poultry Industry
• Important Infectious
Poultry Diseases in
Malaysia
• Public Health
Concern in Poultry
Production
• Let’s Speak Poultry
Forum by Boehringer
Ingelheim
• Poultry Indirect Elisa
Result Interpretation
and What is a Good
Elisa
• IDvet Malaysia Poultry
Webinar 2022
• Professional Engineer
Competency
Certificate
• Training Insight
in Poultry Heath
and Food Safety
(Biosecurity)
• Food Safety & Good
Manufacturing
Practices (“GMP”)
• Allergen Training
• Animal Welfare Training
• Foreign Material
Training (in-process
inspection)
• Video Monitoring
Training (Animal
welfare)
• Proficiency Training
(Lab)
• Pest Control Training
• HACCP
(MS1480:2007)
Awareness & Internal
Audit
• Risk Analysis /
Assessment (“PCQI”)
• Food Safety Risk
Assessment
• Food Handler Training
• Ante & Post Mortem
Examination Basic
Course
• Malaysia Halal
Management System
2020
• Understanding
and
Implementation
of
ISO 22000:2018
• ISO 22000:2018
Effective Internal
Audit Skills
• Material Handling
• Best Aquaculture
Practices (“BAP”)
HALAL
CERTIFIED
GMP
CERTIFIED
HACCP
CERTIFIED
FSSC
22000:2005
CERTIFIED
ISO
9001:2015
CERTIFIED
DVS
CERTIFIED
ISO
22000:2018
CERTIFIED
CERTIFICATIONS
TRAININGS
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 51
BIO-SECURITY
MFM Group’s poultry farm and hatchery facilities are equipped with bio-security facilities. Bio-security is an
effective and efficient way of disease prevention and disease control. Farms are cared by professional and qualified
veterinarians who monitor the flock health, carry out diagnosis, provide treatment prescription and conduct research
& development (“R&D”). Strict bio-security measures are in place to prevent infestation or disease in farms, thus
protecting the environment and workers. The closed house system allows chicken house temperature to be
regulated. This reduces bird stress, lowers bird mortality and improves farm performance.
COVID-19 pandemic is a material matter to the Group and management is fully aware of the bio-security risks.
Special quarantine areas were set up at the onset of COVID-19. Such measures isolate workers with COVID-19
symptoms from others. The above plus strict adherence to Ministry of Health’s Standard Operating Procedures has
proven effective in managing COVID-19 risk. Compartmentalisation ensures the safety of employees and business
continuity.
CODE OF CONDUCT
We instil high standards of professional and ethical conduct in all employees. Integrity helps us to earn the trust and
respect of the people we serve. MFM Group’s Code of Conduct sets out the ethical standards to all employees in
their dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors, the wider community and
the environment. We uphold our reputation and high standards by living the Code of Conduct. This will help us to
achieve the highest possible standards across our businesses within the MFM Group.
ANTI-CORRUPTION
MFM Group has in place the Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment to avoid misconduct by its associated
persons which may tarnish the Group’s reputation or violate the antibribery and competition laws.
The Whistle Blowing Policy and Standard Operating Procedures are also in place for all employees as well as
external parties to raise genuine concerns on non-compliance of the Code of Conduct or any misconduct to instil
the highest level of corporate governance.
ANTI-COMPETITION BEHAVIOUR
In 2022, MFM Group did not have any legal actions pending or completed related to anti-competition behaviour.
Closed Farm Houses
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
52
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
4 COMMITTMENT
TO SOCIETY
MFM holds the responsibilities not only to
consistently provide high quality food to people,
but also to give back to society.
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
52
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 53
Corporate Social Responsibility Towards Workplace
Celebration of Festivals
We celebrated festivals in the workplace to cultivate respect and sharing spirits in the Group. The celebrations also
provide a great change from the monotony of everyday work routine, uplift employees morale and great opportunity
for employees engagement.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
54
Corporate Social Responsibility Towards Workplace (Cont’d)
Women’s Day Celebration
We pay tribute to our female employees by celebrating International Women’s Day on 8 March 2022 and Vietnamese
Woman’s Day on 20 Octorber 2022.
Company Trip
Vimaflour Ltd and Mekong Flour Mills Ltd had organised company trip to promote team spirits and bonding among
colleagues.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 55
Corporate Social Responsibility Towards Workplace (Cont’d)
Safety & Health Carnival
A Safety & Health Carnival was held on 21 December 2022 to promote safety awareness in the workplace. We
celebrated the milestone achievement of 100-day without recordable injury at the primary and further processing
plant. Government agencies such as BOMBA, PERKESO and other private agencies had also participated in the
carnival.
Corporate Social Responsibility Towards Marketplace
Technical Training and Support
Vimaflour Ltd and Mekong Flour Mills Ltd had organised technical support workshops/visits to provide customers
with training and support on any quality related issue.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
56
Blood Donation
Mekong Flour Mills Ltd participated in a blood donation event coordinated by the Red Cross and Cho Ray Hospital.
Corporate Social Responsibility Towards Community
Charity Activities
Vimaflour Ltd had organised and donated in charity events whereby underprivileged children were provided with
daily necessities, bicycle, school stationeries and gifts.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
Annual Report 2022 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 57
Corporate Social Responsibility Towards Community (Cont’d)
Plant Tour for Ha Long Highschool Students
Vimaflour Ltd had organised a plant tour for students and provided them with an interactive introduction on flour
milling industry. The objective was to motivate them to learn better and attract their interest in the flour milling
industry.
SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2022
