ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad 55
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue 2,538,686 2,402,283 2,423,774 2,681,563 2,680,670
Profit before tax 111,319 96,493 39,933 78,295 36,027
Tax expense (18,359) (24,530) (12,467) (17,693) (15,443)
Profit for the year 92,960 71,963 27,466 60,602 20,584
Minority interests (12,125) (3,395) (9,690) (17,351) (15,171)
Profit attributable to equity
holders of the Company 80,835 68,568 17,776 43,251 5,413
Issued share capital (RM’000) 275,120 377,501 377,501 527,571 530,665
Shareholders’ fund (RM’000) 833,105 834,616 819,950 1,094,312 1,070,859
Net assets per share (sen) * 151 152 149 109 106
Basic earnings per share (sen) ** 14.69 12.46 3.23 4.51a 0.54a
Gross dividends (%) 13.00 9.50 5.50 5.72 3.43
* Based on number of shares (’000) 550,239 550,285 550,285 1,004,095 1,010,282
** Based on weighted average
number of shares (’000) 550,239 550,270 550,285 958,710 1,007,587
Note:
a. As disclosed in Note 22 to the Financial Statements.
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
2,539
2,402
2,424
2,682
2,681
Revenue
(RM’Million)
Basic Earnings Per Share
(Sen)
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
14.69
12.46
3.23
4.51
0.54
Proﬁt Before Tax
(RM’ Million)
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
111
96
40
78
36
Shareholders’ Fund
(RM’ Million)
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020
833
835
820
1,094
1,071
GROUP FINANCIAL
HIGHLIGHTS
56
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“the Company”) strives to ensure that
good corporate governance is embraced in the conduct of the businesses and affairs of the Company and
its subsidiaries (“the Group”) as it is the Board’s fundamental responsibility to protect and enhance long-term
shareholder value and the financial performance of the Group, whilst taking into account the interest of all
stakeholders.
The Board recognises that the practice of good corporate governance, by being ethical, accountable and
transparent, is vital for the sustainability of the Group. The Board makes adjustments as may be appropriate
with the ultimate objective of continuously enhancing the business processes, stakeholder value and
increasing the confidence of the investors and customers.
The Board has been guided by the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance 2017 (“MCCG 2017”) in
its implementation of corporate governance practices. Whilst ensuring compliance with Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”) and the Companies Act 2016,
the Board always keep abreast with the developments in industry practices and the requirements by other
relevant regulations to uphold the highest level of corporate governance throughout the Group.
This statement provides an overview of the corporate governance practices of the Company in respect of
financial year ended 31 December 2020 and to be read together with the Corporate Governance Report of the
Company (“CG Report”) which is available on the Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my. The CG Report
discloses the Company’s application of each recommended practice in the MCCG 2017.
This overview statement describes the approaches that the Company has taken with respect to the 3 key
principles of the MCCG 2017 as follows:
A. Board Leadership and Effectiveness
B. Effective Audit and Risk Management
C. Integrity in Corporate Reporting and Meaningful Relationship with Stakeholders
PRINCIPLE A: BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
I. Board Responsibilities
Roles and Responsibilities of the Board
The Board plays a role in providing stewardship and control of the Group’s business and affairs on behalf
of shareholders with due consideration on the impact of the Group’s activities on its stakeholders. The
Board is responsible for the oversight and overall management of the Group by providing guidance and
direction to the management with regards to the sustainability, strategic planning, risk management,
succession planning, financial and operations to meet the expectations and obligations to the shareholders
and various stakeholders.
Amongst the key responsibilities of the Board are as follows:
• Review and approve short and medium terms strategic plans
• Monitor the progress of the Group’s businesses to evaluate whether the businesses are properly
managed to achieve its targeted returns and sustainability
• Establish goals for management and monitor the achievement of these goals
• Identify principal business risks faced by the Group and ensure the implementation of appropriate
internal controls and mitigating measures to address the risks
56 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement
57
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
57
• Review the adequacy of the internal control systems
• Review succession and human resource plans
• Consider management’s recommendations on key issues including investments, acquisitions, funding
and significant capital expenditure
The Board delegates the day-to-day management of the Group to the Managing Director who further
cascades the delegation to the management team. Both the Managing Director and management team
remain accountable to the Board for the authority delegated to them and brief the Board on the operational
progress and financial results on a quarterly basis.
Significant matters reserved for the consideration of the Board include the following:
• Approval of financial statements including accounting policies of the Group
• Declaration of dividends
• Approval of annual budget
• Approval for the appointment and remuneration of Directors and Senior Management staff
• Proposed corporate exercise
• Borrowings from financial institutions
• Acquisition and disposal of assets
• New investments such as joint venture
As for the succession planning, the Board is responsible in reviewing candidates for the appointment of
Director and key management positions. The Managing Director updates the Board annually and from time
to time on the details of the programmes for management development such as coaching, leadership and
technical training. The Board also reviews the remuneration of the Directors and key Senior Management
to ensure that their remuneration packages are sufficiently attractive to attract and retain the talents.
Separation of positions of the Chairman and Managing Director
The Board Charter provides clear division of responsibility between the Chairman and the Managing
Director to ensure that there is a balance of power and authority, such that no one individual has unfettered
powers of decision-making.
Tun Arshad bin Ayub, who is a Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, is the Chairman of the Company.
He is responsible for leading and ensuring the Board effectiveness and compliance with corporate
governance. He acts as a facilitator at Board meetings and general meetings to ensure that the meetings
are carried out smoothly according to their agenda. He is the father of Mr Azhari Arshad who is an
Executive Director.
Mr Teh Wee Chye is the Managing Director of the Company and leads the day-to-day management of
the Group. He, together with the support of the management team, formulate business strategies and
plans to achieve the Group’s vision and missions, targeted growth, turnover and profitability to meet the
stakeholders’ expectation. He is responsible for implementing the policies and decisions of the Board and
coordinating the implementation of business and corporate strategies.
The Chairman and Managing Director have regular dialogues over all operational matters. Between Board
meetings, the Chairman maintains an informal link between the Board and the Managing Director, expects
to be kept informed by the Managing Director on all important matters and is available to the Managing
Director to provide counsel and advice where appropriate.
58 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Board Meetings and Time Commitment
The Board meets at least 6 times annually with quarterly meeting being held to review amongst other
matters, the business progress report and financial results. Board meetings for the ensuing financial year
are scheduled prior to the commencement of that year to enable the Board and management to plan
their schedule ahead. Additional meetings are convened in between scheduled meetings when Board’s
decision is required for urgent and important proposals or matters. Where appropriate, the Board’s
decision may be made via Circular Resolution in between scheduled meetings. Decisions of the Board
are made unanimously or by consensus.
For the Board to deliberate effectively on agenda of the meetings, relevant meeting papers will be furnished
to the Directors in advance of each meeting. This allows the Directors sufficient time to peruse the papers
and have productive discussion and make informed decision at the meeting.
All deliberations and decisions made by the Board are properly recorded by the Company Secretary by
way of minutes of the meetings. Minutes of proceedings and resolutions passed at each Board and Board
Committees meetings are kept in the minutes book at the registered office of the Company.
In the event of a potential conflict of interest, the Director in such position will make a declaration to that
effect as soon as practicable at the Board meeting. The Director concerned will then abstain from any
decision-making process in which he has an interest in.
During the year under review, 8 Board meetings were held. The attendance of each Director at the Board
meetings is as follows:
Name of Directors Meeting Attendance
Non-Independent
Tun Arshad bin Ayub 8/8
Teh Wee Chye 8/8
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 8/8
Azhari Arshad 8/8
Lim Pang Boon 8/8
Independent
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 8/8
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 8/8
Quah Poh Keat 8/8
Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris 7/8
Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil 8/8
All the Directors have complied with the requirement to attend at least 50% of the Board meetings held in
the financial year pursuant to the Listing Requirements.
The Board is satisfied with the level of time commitment given by all the Directors towards fulfilling their
duties and responsibilities as Directors of the Company. This is reflected by their attendances at the
Board and various Board Committees meetings held during the year.
Besides attending Board and Board Committees meetings, as their commitment in discharging their
duties and responsibilities, some Directors had also attended offsite meetings with relevant authorities
and discussion meetings with management.
In addition, all the Directors of the Company do not hold directorships at more than five public listed
companies as prescribed in paragraph 15.06 of the Listing Requirements and thus, able to commit
sufficient time to the Company. For notification to the Companies Commission of Malaysia as well
as monitoring purpose, the Directors are required to notify the Company on any changes in his other
directorship of public companies or subsidiaries of public companies.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
59
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Access to Advice and Information
In order for the Board to effectively discharge its duties and responsibilities, the Directors are provided
with full, complete and unrestricted access to timely and accurate information. All Board and Committee
members are provided with the agenda and reports relevant to the business of the meeting in advance so
that the Directors have sufficient time to prepare and deliberate on the issues prior to the meeting.
Senior Management members are also invited to attend Board meetings to provide the Board with their
views and explanations on certain agenda items tabled to the Board and to furnish their clarification on
issues that may be raised by Directors.
In addition, the Directors may request for independent advice from the relevant professionals for the
discharge of their duties, at the Company’s expense.
Qualified and Competent Company Secretary
In furtherance of their duties, the Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company
Secretary who satisfied the qualification as prescribed under Sections 235(2) and 241 of the Companies
Act 2016. The Company Secretary is responsible for ensuring that Board meeting procedures are adhered
to and that applicable laws, rules and regulations are complied with. The Board is updated and advised
by the Company Secretary from time to time on new statutes and directives issued by the regulatory
authorities.
The Company Secretary organises and attends all the Board and Board Committees meetings as well as
the General Meetings and ensures accurate records of the proceedings and decisions of the meetings
are made and properly kept.
The Company Secretary also notifies the Directors on each closed period for dealing in the Company’s
listed securities, based on the targeted dates of announcements of the Group’s quarterly results and in
accordance with the period defined in Chapter 14 of the Listing Requirements, before the commencement
of each closed period as prior notice of the closed period. The Directors are also being advised on the
procedure for dealing in the Company’s listed securities during the closed period to aid them in complying
with the Listing Requirements.
The Company Secretary always keep abreast of the evolving regulatory changes and developments in
corporate governance through continuous training as she plays an important role in advising the Board
on updates relating to new statutory and relevant regulatory requirements.
Directors’ Continuing Development
The Directors of the Company have continued to attend and participate in various programmes which
they have individually or collectively considered as relevant for them to keep abreast with the changes in
regulations and trends in the business practices, environment and markets.
From time to time, the Board will be updated on the companies and securities legislations and other
relevant rules and regulations at the Board and Board Committees meetings, in order to acquaint them
with the latest developments in these areas. Beside this, the Directors also receive regular briefings
and updates from the management on the Group’s businesses, operations, risk management, internal
controls, corporate governance and finance.
In addition, the Company Secretary also receives regular updates on training programmes from Bursa
Securities and various organisations which will be circulated to the Directors for their consideration.
The Company Secretary facilitates the participation of the Directors in the external training programmes
and keeps record of the trainings attended by all the Directors.
60 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
For the year under review, the Directors had attended various appropriate seminars, conferences,
workshop and courses covering economy, company laws, taxation, risk management, capital markets
and leadership of the following topics:
• Companies Act 2016: Practical Guide for Company Directors
• Fraud Risk Management workshop
• Industry 4.0 and It’s Impact of Malaysian Capital Market
• How The US-China Trade War Will Move Forward
• A New Reality Webinar Series - Asia Pacific after COVID-19
• Leadership Sharing
• Tax Update on Budget Proposals
Board Charter
The roles and functions of the Board are clearly defined in the Board Charter which regulates how
the business is to be conducted by the Board in accordance with the principles of good Corporate
Governance. The Board Charter was last revised in 2020 to reflect the changes in the Terms of Reference
of the Audit & Risk Management Committee. The Board Charter is available on the Company’s website.
Code of Conduct
The Company’s Code of Conduct (“Code”) is in force across the Group and all employees must comply
with it. Disciplinary action may be taken against employees who are found guilty for non-compliance with
the Code. The Code sets out the ethical standards of conduct that all employees are expected to comply
with in their dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors, the wider
community and the environment.
Every employee must display and behave in a manner which is consistent with the Group’s philosophy
and core values. The following Code of Conduct must be adhered to at all times by all employees within
the Group:
a. Demonstrating commitment
b. Living the core values of the Group
c. Avoiding conflict of interest
d. Preventing bribery and corruption
e. Practising confidentiality and data protection
f. Communicating externally and internally with ethics and within authority
g. Protecting company assets and resources
h. Giving equal opportunity, non-discrimination and fair employment
i. Ensuring safety and protecting the environment
j. Prohibiting insider trading
The Code is subject to change and review as and when it is deemed necessary by the Company.
As personal commitment to the Code, each employee of the Group is required to make a declaration that
he/she has been furnished a copy of the Code, has read and understood the Code, accepted to comply
with the Code and understood that any breach of the Code may result in disciplinary action being taken
against him/her. The Code is available on the Company’s website.
Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment
In line with good practice of corporate governance in the conduct of business and affairs of the Group and
as part of the measures to avoid conflict of interest and prevention of bribery and corruption in compliance
with Section 17A(5) of the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009 (“MACC Act”), the Group
has adopted a revised Policy and Guidelines on Gifts and Entertainment (“Policy and Guidelines”) on
6 July 2020.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
61
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
The Policy and Guidelines apply to the Board of Directors, officers and employees, including contractual
employees, consultants, agents and person associated with the Group (“Associated Persons”).
The Group requires its Associated Persons to abide by the Policy and Guidelines to avoid conflict of
interest or the appearance of conflict of interest for either party in on-going or potential business dealing
between the Group and external parties as a gift can be seen as a bribe that may tarnish the Group’s
reputation or be in violation of anti-bribery and corruption laws.
The Policy and Guidelines were published on the Internal Newsletter for the attention of all the existing
employees as well as notified to the suppliers and customers via letter or email. All new recruits will also
be briefed on the Policy and Guidelines during the orientation.
The Policy and Guidelines are also published on the Company’s website.
Whistle Blowing Policy
The Company has a Whistle Blowing Policy in place. The objectives of the Standard Operating Procedures
& Policy (“SOPP”) on Whistle Blowing Policy are as follows:
a. To instill the highest level of corporate governance in the Group;
b. To encourage and enable all employees to raise genuine concerns within the Group rather than
overlooking a problem. Employees are reminded to conduct the business at the highest ethical and
legal standards; and
c. To set a procedure for all employees to give information on non-compliances to the Code of Conduct,
regardless of his or her position, to an independent party to investigate the allegations and take the
appropriate actions.
A Whistle Blowing Policy for external parties is published on the Company’s website.
All employees or any person who has dealings with the Group may report any suspected fraud, misconduct
or any integrity concerns to Datuk Oh Chong Peng, Senior Independent Non-Executive Director of the
Company, via the email address at whistleblowing@mflour.com.my.
II. Board Composition
Composition and Balance of the Board
There are currently 10 Directors on the Board comprising 3 Executive Directors and a strong team of
7 Non-Executive Directors of whom 5 are Independent Directors. The size and composition of the Board
provides for a diversity of views, the desired level of objectivity and independence in Board deliberations
and decision-making.
The Directors of the Company are persons of high integrity and calibre who come from diverse backgrounds
with expertise and skills in banking, finance, accounting, manufacturing, retailing, property development,
public services, education and legal.
The present Board composition complies with paragraph 15.02 of the Listing Requirements which require
a minimum of 2 directors or 1/3 of the Board to be independent directors, whichever is the higher.
The Board diversity shall be considered from a number of aspects, including but not limited to gender, age,
cultural and educational background, professional experience in varying stages of business development
and internationally, personal characteristics, skills and knowledge. Currently, the Board, which comprises
amongst others, diverse professional experience, ethnicity and age, had also achieved the gender diversity
with 2 women Directors on the Board which represent 20% of the Board.
62 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
As the Company practices equal opportunity and non-discrimination in any form, the selection criteria for
appointment of Director continued to be based on merit, calibre, skill and knowledge which are relevant
to the Group. A brief profile of each Director of the Company can be found on pages 5 to 12 of this Annual
Report.
Appointment and Re-election of Directors
The procedures for appointments to the Board are formal and transparent. The Nomination Committee is
responsible for making recommendation for any appointment to the Board by considering the mix of skills,
knowledge, expertise and experience which the Director brings to the Board. Amongst the qualifications
for membership of the Board are:
• an appropriate knowledge, understanding or experience of the conduct of business;
• the ability to see the wider picture and perspective, with some benefit of international experience;
• the ability to make sensible and informed business decisions and recommendations;
• high ethical standards and sound practical sense;
• integrity in personal and business dealings; and
• total commitment to furthering the interest of the shareholders and to achieve the Company’s goals.
For the position of independent non-executive director, the Nomination Committee also evaluates the
candidate’s calibre, credibility and necessary skill and experience to bring an independent judgement
and view to matters under consideration. Upon performing the requisite assessment by the Nomination
Committee, the new nomination of Director will be recommended to the Board for approval.
The Constitution of the Company provides that all Directors shall hold office only until the next Annual
General Meeting (“AGM”) subsequent to their appointment and shall then be eligible for re-election.
In respect of the retirement by rotation of Directors, the Constitution provides that at least 1/3 or the
nearest to 1/3 of the Directors for the time being are subject to retirement by rotation at each AGM and
that all Directors are subject to retirement by rotation at least once in every 3 years. The Director who is
subject to retirement at the AGM, shall be eligible for re-election.
A Director who is due for re-election at the AGM will first be assessed by the Nomination Committee on
his performance and contribution, who will then submit its recommendation to the Board for deliberation
and endorsement. Thereafter, shareholders’ approval will be sought for the re-election.
Information of the Director standing for re-election such as his personal profile, attendance of meetings
and shareholdings are available in this Annual Report for the shareholders to make an informed decision.
Independence of Directors
The Independent Non-Executive Directors are not involved in the day-to-day management of the Company
and not full-time salaried employees. They contribute independent views to matters under consideration
and provide wide and unfettered perspective on issues. They also bring to the Board integrity and a
strong sense of ethics as well as ensuring effective check and balance in the functioning of the Board.
Currently, the Board Charter provides that there shall be no fixed term of office for an Independent
Director as the Board believes that continued contribution by long serving Directors provides more
benefit to the Company and the Group as a whole. Their considerable knowledge of the Company’s
culture and businesses would facilitate them to discharge their duties and role as Independent Directors
more effectively. However, each Independent Director shall be subject to the Independent Director’s
Self-Assessment for Annual Declaration of Independence and the annual Individual Director Self/Peer
Evaluation to ensure that each of them continues to fulfill the definition of independence as set out in the
Listing Requirements.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
63
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Based on both the results of the Independent Director’s Self-Assessment for Annual Declaration of
Independence and annual Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation, the Nomination Committee and the
Board were satisfied that all the Independent Non-Executive Directors of the Company had continued
to be independent-minded and demonstrate conduct and behaviour that are essential indicators of
independence.
The Nomination Committee and Board also concluded that the length of service of all the Independent
Directors on the Board do not in any way interfere with their exercise of independent judgement and
ability to act in the best interests of the Group and they had continued to possess the following qualities:
• They are respectable personalities in society. Hence, their contributions, views and insights are always
taken seriously and respected by the management;
• They have the ability to analyse issues, challenge viewpoints of the management with intelligent
questioning and debate rigorously in the decision-making process; and
• They remain capable of exercising unbiased, objective and independent view, advice and judgement
in the decision-making process.
Board Committees
The Board has delegated certain responsibilities to the Board Committees which are necessary to facilitate
efficient decision-making to assist the Board in the execution of its duties, power and authorities. The
Committees assist the Board in its duties by preparing and reviewing in more detail matters falling within
the competence of the Board. The functions and terms of reference of all the Board Committees are
clearly defined in the Board Charter and are available on the Company’s website. The Chairman of the
various committees will report to the Board on the outcome of the respective Committee meetings and
such reports are incorporated in the minutes of the Board meeting.
The Board has 3 permanent committees namely, Audit & Risk Management Committee, Nomination
Committee and Remuneration Committee. The Board retains full responsibility for the direction and
control of the Company and the Group.
Nomination Committee
The Nomination Committee shall comprise exclusively of non-executive directors, a majority of whom
must be independent. The Committee currently consists of 3 Independent Non-Executive Directors and
2 Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors as follows:
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain (Chairman) Independent Non-Executive Director
Tun Arshad bin Ayub Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Datuk Oh Chong Peng Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris Independent Non-Executive Director
The terms of reference of the Nomination Committee are as follows:
a. To review regularly the Board structure, size and composition and make recommendations to the
Board with regards to any adjustments that are deemed necessary and to recommend Directors to
Committees of the Board;
b. To be responsible for identifying and nominating candidates for the approval of the Board to fill Board
vacancies as and when they arise as well as put in place plans for succession, in particular, of the
Chairman and the Managing Director;
64 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
c. To review the required mix of skills and experience and other qualities and competencies which
Non-Executive Directors should bring to the Board and to assess the effectiveness of the Board,
Committees of the Board and contributions of Directors of the Board;
d. To review the balance between Executive and Non-Executive Directors and to ensure at least 1/3 of
the Board is comprised of Independent Directors in compliance with the Listing Requirements;
e. To recommend to the Board for the continuation (or not) in service of an Executive Director as an
Executive or Non-Executive Director;
f. To recommend Directors who are retiring by rotation to be put forward for re-election; and
g. To recommend to the Board the employment of the services of such advisers as it deems necessary
to fulfill its responsibilities.
The Nomination Committee had conducted the Performance Evaluation of the Board, Board Committees
and Individual Director for year 2020 via questionnaires which were completed by each Director on a
confidential basis. The questionnaires comprised of a Board and Board Committees Performance
Evaluation, an Individual Director Self/Peer Evaluation and an Independent Director’s Self-Assessment
for Annual Declaration of Independence. The effectiveness of the Board was assessed in the areas of
composition, operations, roles and responsibilities and performance of the Chairman.
In the evaluation of each Board Committee, its effectiveness was assessed in terms of its composition,
level of assistance to the Board, fulfilment of the roles by each member of the Committee and effectiveness
of its Chairman.
Meanwhile, the individual Director was assessed on his contribution to interaction, quality of input and
understanding of his/her role.
Results of the assessments and areas which required improvement were compiled and reviewed by the
Nomination Committee. For the overall results of the assessments, the Board and Board Committees had
achieved the strong ratings.
Having been satisfied with the results of the assessments, the Nomination Committee had recommended
to the Board that:
• The Board and Board Committees had been able to discharge their duties and responsibilities
professionally and effectively.
• Each of the Directors continued to perform, contribute and devote sufficient time in fulfilling his/her
role and responsibility towards an effective Board.
• All the Independent Directors complied with the definition of Independent Director as defined in the
Listing Requirements.
• All the Independent Directors had remained objective and independent in expressing their views and
in exercising their decision-making irrespective of their length of service.
• Shareholders’ approval be sought at the forthcoming AGM for the re-election of Mr Quah Poh Keat,
Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris and Mr Lim Pang Boon who are retiring by rotation
and being eligible, have offered themselves for re-election.
The Nomination Committee meets as and when required and at least once a year. During the year under
review, 1 meeting was held.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
65
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
III. Remuneration
Remuneration Policies for Directors and Senior Management
The remuneration framework for executive directors and senior management has an underlying objective
of attracting and retaining directors and senior management needed to run the Company successfully.
The Company has in place a remuneration policy which linked the remuneration package of the Executive
Directors and Senior Management to the corporate and individual performance. The remuneration
package of the Executive Directors and Senior Management comprises the basic salary, performance
incentive and other benefits as are laid down by the Company’s rules and regulations from time to time.
Their remuneration packages are periodically reviewed to keep abreast with the changes in the market
and industry as well as to motivate and retain the talents to pursue the long term goals of the Group.
The policy to determine the remuneration of Directors is provided in the Board Charter. The Non-Executive
Directors are paid Directors’ and Committee fees and meeting allowance for each Board and Committee
meeting they attend. Besides these, the Chairman is entitled to the Company’s car benefit. In addition,
the Company reimburses reasonable expenses incurred by the Directors in the course of discharging their
duties.
Remuneration Committee
The Remuneration Committee shall comprise mainly of non-executive directors. The Committee currently
consists of 1 Independent Non-Executive Director, 2 Non-Independent Non-Executive Directors and
1 Executive Director as follows:
Tun Arshad bin Ayub (Chairman) Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Datuk Oh Chong Peng Senior Independent Non-Executive Director
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Teh Wee Chye Managing Director
The terms of reference of the Committee are as follows:
a. To determine and agree with the Board the framework or broad policy for the remuneration of the
Company’s or Group’s Chief Executive and other Senior Management staff of the Company or Group;
b. To determine and recommend to the Board any performance related pay schemes for the Company
or Group;
c. To determine the policy for and scope of service agreements for the executive directors, termination
payments and compensation commitments;
d. To oversee any major changes in employee remuneration and benefit structures throughout the
Company or Group;
e. To produce an annual report of the Committee’s remuneration policy for Board members which will
form part of the Company/Group’s annual report and accounts; and
f. To recommend to the Board the appointment of the services of such advisers or consultants as it
deems necessary to fulfill its responsibilities.
The Committee reviews and recommends for the Board’s consideration the Directors’/Committees’ fees
and meeting allowances. In reviewing and recommending the Directors’ fees, the Committee ensures
that the level of remuneration for the Non-Executive Directors commensurate with their scope of
responsibilities and contributions to the effective functioning of the Group. The Committee also reviews
and recommends the yearly salary increment and performance incentives of the Senior Management for
the Board’s approval.
66 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Executive Director will abstain from deliberations and voting decisions in respect of his remuneration.
Non-Executive Directors’ remuneration will be a matter to be decided by the Board as a whole with
the Director concerned abstaining from deliberations and voting decisions in respect of his individual
remuneration. The Directors’ fees and benefits payable to the Directors are subject to yearly approval by
the shareholders at the AGM.
The Remuneration Committee meets as and when required and at least twice a year. During the year
under review, 2 meetings were held.
Details of the Directors’ remuneration paid or payable or otherwise made to all Directors of the Company
in respect of financial year 2020 are as follows:
Fees
Salary/
Bonus/
Beneﬁts-
in-kind
Other
Remuneration Total
Company Company Subsidiary Company Group
RM’000
Executive Directors
Teh Wee Chye - 2,403 163 25 2,566 2,591
Azhari Arshad - 543 31 - 574 574
Lim Pang Boon - 1,176 - 208 1,176 1,384
Non-Executive Directors
Tun Arshad bin Ayub 240 28 34 70 302 372
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 120 - 36 - 156 156
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad
Zain
120 - 27 - 147 147
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 120 - 24 25 144 169
Quah Poh Keat 120 - 19 - 139 139
Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini
binti Ideris
120 - 14 - 134 134
Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil 120 - 10 - 130 130
Total 960 4,150 358 328 5,468 5,796
PRINCIPLE B: EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
I. Audit & Risk Management Committee
The composition, duties and responsibilities of the Audit & Risk Management Committee together with its
report are presented on pages 71 to 74 of this Annual Report.
II. Risk Management and Internal Control Framework
The Group has a sound system of internal control which covers not only financial controls but also
operational, compliance and risk management. The system of internal controls provides reasonable but
not absolute assurance against material misstatements, losses and fraud.
The Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control as set out on pages 75 to 79 of this Annual
Report provides an overview of the state of internal controls within the Group.
Corporate Governance
Overview Statement (cont’d)
67
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
PRINCIPLE C: INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND MEANINGFUL
RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
I. Corporate Reporting
Financial Reporting
The Directors take responsibility for presenting a balanced and objective assessment of the Group’s
financial performance and prospects primarily through the quarterly and annual financial announcements
of results. In addition, the Chairman’s Statement and Management Discussion and Analysis are also
contained in this Annual Report for the shareholders.
The Group’s financial statements are prepared in accordance with the requirements of the applicable
approved accounting standards in Malaysia and the provisions of the Companies Act 2016. Efforts
are made to ensure that in presenting the financial statements, the appropriate accounting policies,
consistently applied and supported by reasonable and prudent judgements and estimates are being used.
Corporate Disclosure
The Company is mindful of the importance to disseminate information to shareholders and investors in
a prompt and timely manner in order for informed decision to be made. As such, the Board has always
stressed for all material information to be announced immediately upon available. This is not only for
compliance with the Listing Requirements but also to avoid insider trading.
II. Communication with Stakeholders
The timely release of quarterly financial results, the issuance of the Company’s Annual Reports and
Circular/Statement to Shareholders together with the announcements to Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad on material information and corporate proposals are the principal channels for dissemination of
information to its investors, stakeholders and the public generally.
The Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my provides quick access to information on the Group. The
information available on the website of the Company includes, amongst others, the corporate profile,
directors’ profiles, financial results, annual reports, announcements released to Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad, research reports, board charter, corporate governance statement, summary of AGM proceedings,
code of conduct, whistle blowing policy, dividend information, corporate news, operations and products
of the Group.
From time to time, the designated Senior Management also has dialogues with fund managers, research
analysts and media on the strategies, performance and prospects of the Group.
In addition, information was also provided to shareholders and/or investors in the replies to their enquiries
via the email address at ir@mflour.com.my.
As there may be instances where investors and shareholders may prefer to express their concerns to an
independent director, the Board has appointed Datuk Oh Chong Peng as the Senior Independent Non-
Executive Director to whom concerns may be directed. At all times, investors and shareholders may
contact the Company Secretary for information on the Group.
68 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
III. Conduct of General Meetings
The Board recognises the importance of maintaining an effective communication with the shareholders
and the general public. All shareholders are encouraged to attend the Company’s General Meetings and
to participate in the proceedings.
The Company serves the Notice of AGM to the shareholders at least 28 days prior to the meeting to
provide them sufficient time to prepare, participate and make informed voting decision at the AGM.
The Company has successfully conducted its first fully virtual AGM on 24 June 2020 during the period
of Conditional Movement Control Order (“CMCO”) through live streaming and online remote voting using
Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities.
The conduct of the fully virtual AGM is in compliance with the Constitution of the Company which allows
General Meetings to be held using any technology or electronic means as well as in accordance with
the Securities Commission Malaysia’s Guidance Note on the Conduct of General Meetings for Listed
Issuers during a period when there is in place or outside of an MCO period but where safe distancing
requirements remain.
In view of the attendance limitation of public gatherings for safe distancing to prevent the spread of
COVID-19 pandemic and taking into consideration the well-being of shareholders and all participants,
only the Chairman, Executive Directors, Company Secretary and other essential persons were allowed
to be physically present at the broadcast venue while the rest of the Directors and meeting participants
participated in the AGM remotely.
The Managing Director presented the brief overview of the financial performance of the Group during
the AGM. Every opportunity was given to the shareholders to ask questions and seek clarification on
the business and performance of the Group during the live webcast by posing questions through the
messaging window facility of the Virtual AGM Portal. Shareholders’ suggestions received during AGM are
reviewed and considered for implementation wherever possible.
In accordance with the Listing Requirements, all the resolutions set out in the notice of the AGM were
voted by poll. All the shareholders who participated in the AGM remotely had voted on all the resolutions
using the RPV facilities. An independent scrutineer for the electronic poll voting process was appointed
to verify all the votes. Upon verifying the votes, the scrutineer announced the voting results which were
displayed on the screen. The poll results were subsequently announced to Bursa Securities on the same
day.
Summary of the minutes of the AGM is also posted on the Company’s website for the information and
benefit of all the shareholders of the Company.
69
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
The following information is provided in compliance with Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market
Listing Requirements.
1. Utilisation of Proceeds Raised from Corporate Proposal
The Company has on 28 January 2019 completed its Rights Issue of Redeemable Convertible Unsecured
Loan Stocks (“RCULS”) and Rights Issue of Shares with free Warrants and Bonus Shares (collectively
referred to as the “Rights Issue”). Pursuant to the Rights Issue, 165,084,641 RCULS at 100% of its
nominal value of RM1.00 and 220,113,744 Rights Shares of RM0.50 each were issued and cash proceeds
of RM275,141,513 were raised.
The summary of the utilisation of Rights Issue proceeds is as follows:-
Description of Utilisation of
Proceeds
Rights
Issue
Proceeds
(RM’000)
Actual
Utilisation
(RM’000)
Balance of
Rights Issue
Proceeds
Unutilised as at
31 March 2021
(RM’000)
Revised time
frame
Capital expenditure and repayment
of revolving credit loans drawn to
finance the capital expenditure
216,761 209,022 7,739 @ Within 3 years
Repayment of revolving credit loans
drawn to finance working capital
requirement
54,798 54,798 - Completed
Estimated expenses for the Rights
Issue
3,583 # 3,954 - Completed
Total 275,142 267,774 7,739
@ Construction work is in progress. The time frame has been extended for another 1 year from
28 January 2021 until 28 January 2022.
# The additional expenses incurred were paid from working capital.
The proceeds to be raised from the exercise of the 137,570,667 Warrants issued pursuant to the Rights
Issue at the exercise price of the Warrants of RM0.68 each are dependent on the total number of Warrants
exercised during the tenure of the Warrants. Such proceeds, if and when the Warrants are exercised, will
be used for working capital purposes.
Up to 31 March 2021, cash proceeds of RM4,284 were raised from the exercise of 6,300 Warrants.
As at 31 March 2021, 137,564,367 Warrants remained unexercised whilst 109,924,827 RCULS remained
unconverted.
Additional Compliance
Information
70 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Audit and Non-Audit Fees
The amount of audit fees and non-audit fees paid or payable to the Company’s external auditors, KPMG
PLT and a firm affiliated to KPMG PLT by the Group and the Company for financial year 2020 are as
follows:
Group
(RM’000)
Company
(RM’000)
Audit Fees 459 110
Non-Audit Fees 109 44
Total 568 154
3. Material Contracts involving Directors’ and Major Shareholders’ Interests
There were no material contracts entered into by the Company and its subsidiaries involving Directors’
and major shareholders’ interests either subsisting as at 31 December 2020 or entered into since the end
of the previous financial year except for the related party transactions disclosed in Note 29 to the financial
statements on pages 173 and 174 of this Annual Report.
4. Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
The Recurrent Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature are disclosed in Note 29 to the
financial statements on pages 173 and 174 of this Annual Report.
71
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (“the Company”) is pleased to present the
Audit & Risk Management Committee Report for the year ended 31 December 2020.
Composition
Chairman: Datuk Oh Chong Peng
(Senior Independent Non-Executive Director)
Members: Tun Arshad bin Ayub
(Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
Quah Poh Keat
(Independent Non-Executive Director)
The Audit & Risk Management Committee (“the Committee”) comprises 4 members, all of whom are Non-
Executive Directors and 3 being Independent Directors. This meets the requirements of paragraph 15.09(1)
(a) and (b) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing Requirements (“Listing Requirements”).
Chairman of the Committee, Datuk Oh Chong Peng, is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
England and Wales (“ICAEW”) as well as a member of the Malaysian Institute of Certified Public Accountants
(“MICPA”) and the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”) whilst Mr Quah Poh Keat is a Fellow of the
Malaysian Institute of Taxation (“MIT”) and the Association of Chartered Certified Accountants (“FCCA”) and
a member of the MIA, the MICPA and the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (“CIMA”). Hence,
the Company complies with paragraph 15.09(1)(c)(i) of the Listing Requirements.
The Nomination Committee assesses the performance of the Committee and its members through an annual
Board Committee evaluation as well as reviews the terms of office of the members of the Committee. The
Nomination Committee is satisfied that the Committee and its members have discharged their duties and
responsibilities in accordance with its Terms of Reference and has supported the Board well in reviewing the
financial statements, internal control and risk management.
Meetings
During the year, the Committee held 5 meetings and the details of the attendance of each member of the
Committee are as follows:
Members Attendance
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 5/5
Tun Arshad bin Ayub 5/5
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 5/5
Quah Poh Keat 5/5
At the request of the Committee, the Managing Director, Chief Financial Officer and/or Financial Controller
had attended the meetings to advise, clarify and address matters discussed at the meetings.
The Head of Group Internal Audit and Risk Management had attended all the quarterly meetings of the
Committee to report on the internal audit plan, internal audit and risk management reports and the review on
the related party transactions.
During the year, the representatives of the external auditors had also attended the meetings of the Committee
to present their Audit Plan, Audit Status and the annual audit report on the audit of financial statements.
Audit & Risk Management
Committee Report
72 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
The Company Secretary of the Company is the Secretary of the Committee. The Secretary shall maintain
minutes of the proceedings of the meetings of the Committee.
Terms of Reference
The Committee is governed by its terms of reference which describe its composition, authority, duties and
responsibilities. The Terms of Reference is available on the Company’s website at www.mfm.com.my.
Summary of the Work of the Committee
The work carried out by the Committee in the discharge of its duties and responsibilities in line with its Terms
of Reference during the financial year ended 31 December 2020 were as follows:
a. Financial Reporting
i. Reviewed the quarterly unaudited financial results and announcements before recommending them
to the Board for approval.
ii. Reviewed the annual audited financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries (“the Group”)
and of the Company prior to submission to the Board for approval.
iii. Reviewed the impact of the changes to the accounting policies and adoption of new accounting
standards and treatments used in the financial statements.
b. Internal Audit
i. Head of Group Internal Audit and Risk Management presented the comprehensive internal audit plan
which had been undertaken to evaluate and identify the companies and operational auditable areas
to be audited within the Group. The Committee reviewed the annual internal audit plan to ensure
adequate scope, coverage of the activities of the Group and the resource requirements of internal
audit to carry out its functions.
Subsequently, the Committee reviewed the progress status of the internal audit plan presented by the
Head of Group Internal Audit and Risk Management at its quarterly meeting.
ii. Reviewed the internal audit and risk management reports submitted and presented by the Head of
Group Internal Audit and Risk Management at each of the quarterly meeting of the Committee. The
Committee appraised the adequacy of actions and remedial measures taken by the management in
resolving audit issues reported and recommended further improvement measures.
iii. Reviewed the performance of the Head of Group Internal Audit and Risk Management and based on
the recommendation of the Remuneration Committee, approved his salary increment and performance
incentive.
c. External Audit
i. Reviewed with the external auditors, KPMG PLT, on their Audit Plan prior to commencement of the
audit. The Engagement Partner of KPMG PLT presented the Audit Plan and Strategy for the Group for
financial year 2020 which entailed the engagement team, audit scope, audit timeline and audit focus
areas.
ii. Reviewed the proposed fees for the statutory audit, review of the Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control and review of Group Reporting Package and Audit Working Papers of component
auditors. The proposed fees were then recommended by the Committee to the Board for approval.
Audit & Risk Management
Committee Report (cont’d)
73
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
iii. Discussed and reviewed the Group’s financial statements with the external auditors including issues
and findings noted in the course of the audit.
iv. Meeting with the external auditors without the presence of the Executive Directors and employees
of the Company. During the meeting, the external auditors were invited to raise any matter which
they considered vital for the Committee’s attention. The external auditors had confirmed that the
management had given its full support, co-operation and unrestricted access to information as
required by the external auditors to perform their duties.
v. The external auditors had provided their written assurance that they were independent of the Group
and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional Ethics, Conduct and Practice)
of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International Ethics Standards Board
for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including International
Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”) and they had fulfilled the other ethical responsibilities in
accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
The external auditors had also implemented a number of firm-wide ethics and independence systems
to monitor compliance with their policies in relation to independence and ethics.
Besides the written assurance from the external auditors on their independence, input from the
Company personnel, who had substantial contact with the external auditors throughout the year, on
the quality of service provided, independence, objectivity and professional skepticism of the external
auditors via questionnaires was obtained for the Committee’s annual evaluation of the external
auditors. Subsequently, the Committee conducted an assessment on the performance, technical
competency, suitability and independence of the external auditors throughout the conduct of their
audit engagement and being satisfied with the suitability and independence of the external auditors,
the Committee recommended to the Board for approval on the re-appointment of the external auditors
at the Annual General Meeting of the Company.
d. Risk Management
i. Reviewed the Audit & Risk Management Committee Report before recommending it for approval by
the Board for inclusion in the Annual Report.
ii. Reviewed the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control (“SORMIC”) which was prepared
by the Head of Group Internal Audit and Risk Management on behalf of the Committee, being the
delegated committee of the Board responsible for the preparation of the SORMIC.
Upon the review by the external auditors, who were engaged to provide an independent limited
assurance on the SORMIC, the Committee recommended the SORMIC to the Board for adoption and
disclosure in the Annual Report.
The Committee authorised the Managing Director of the Company and the Financial Controller to sign
the Letter of Representation in respect of the Board’s SORMIC, for and on behalf of the Committee.
iii. Reviewed the revised Terms of Reference of the Committee to oversee the implementation of the anti-
corruption policies and procedures of the Group and review the policies and procedures at least once
every 3 years to assess their effectiveness; to review the Whistle Blowing policies and procedures of
the Group at least once every 3 years to assess their effectiveness; and to provide improvement to
some of the terms for better clarity before recommending the revised terms for approval by the Board.
iv. Reviewed the Policy and Guidelines on Foreign Exchange Hedging (“Hedging Policy”) of the Company
to manage the foreign currency risk exposure before recommending the Hedging Policy to the Board
for adoption.
74 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Internal Audit Function
The Group has an in-house Group Internal Audit and Risk Management Department (“IARM”) which
undertakes internal audit functions based on the risk-based audit plans that were reviewed and approved by
the Committee.
The purpose, authority and responsibility of the IARM as well as the nature of the assurance and consultancy
activities provided by the function are articulated in the Internal Audit Charter.
The IARM reports directly to the Committee who reviews and approves the IARM’s annual audit plan, financial
budget and human resource requirements to ensure that the function is adequately resourced with competent
and proficient internal auditors.
During the year, the IARM conducted various internal audit engagements in accordance with the risk-based
audit plan which covered the review of adequacy of risks management, operational controls, compliance with
law and regulations, quality of assets, management efficiency and level of customer services amongst others.
The internal auditors reported internal control deficiencies to the appropriate level of management when
identified and recommendations were duly acted by the management. Significant matters were reported
directly to the Committee and Senior Management.
The total costs incurred for maintaining the Group Internal Audit and Risk Management function for year 2020
were approximately RM669,759.
Audit & Risk Management
Committee Report (cont’d)
75
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
The Board of Directors (“the Board”) of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad is pleased to present the Statement on
Risk Management and Internal Control in accordance with paragraph 15.26(b) of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad Listing Requirements.
Board Responsibility
The Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing a sound risk management framework and internal
control system. The Board’s responsibilities include:-
• Determine the Group’s level of risk tolerance and actively identify, assess and monitor key business risks
to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets;
• Committed to articulating, implementing and reviewing the Group’s internal control system; and
• Periodic testing of the effectiveness and efficiency of the internal control procedures and processes to
ensure that the system is viable and robust.
The internal control systems are designed to manage rather than to eliminate the risk of failure and can only
provide reasonable, and not absolute, assurance against material misstatement or loss.
Internal Control
Risk Management
The Board confirms that there is an ongoing process and risk management plan in place to identify, evaluate
and manage significant risks faced by the Group.
During the year and up to the date of approval of this statement, discussions were conducted at different
levels of management to identify and address risks identified in the Group. The assessment of significant
risks and the execution of relevant mitigating action plans are part of the operational activities of the Group.
Risk Management is an integral part of our business operations and this process goes through a review by the
Board. As part of the process, the key business risks are identified by the respective operations of the Group.
The impact and likelihood of occurrence of these risks are then evaluated and documented. Based on the
results of the above evaluation, these risks are categorised into 4 ratings: Low, Medium, High and Extreme.
Appropriate action plans and control measures are put in place to mitigate these risks.
Risk Management Framework
The Group has in place a formal risk management process to identify, evaluate, mitigate, monitor and review
risks impacting the Group. Objectives would be broadly organisation-wide taking into consideration a variety
of risks (i.e. strategic, operational, compliance & reporting risks) as well as more narrowly defined business
units, function or departmental risks (i.e. sales, credit control, accounts receivable, purchasing, accounts
payable, production planning, quality control, human resource, etc.). Once those scopes had been defined,
the possible risks deemed likely to occur would be rated in terms of their impact or severity and likelihood or
probability. The result can be compiled into a “risk profile” detailing the risk score which each business unit,
function or department is contributing to the overall risk score.
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control
76 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Internal Audit & Risk Management department will carry out a yearly review of the risk scorecards and update
them accordingly together with the management of respective business units.
Any significant risk that requires the Board’s attention will be highlighted via a Flash Report. Key risks
highlighted in the Flash Report will be used by internal audit in developing internal audit plan.
Control Structure
• The Board meets regularly to monitor and review the overall performance of the Group, to consider the
findings and recommendations of committees and senior management and to consider and approve
measures to be taken and changes in policies and procedures necessary to address risks and to enhance
the system of internal control.
• An independent internal audit department reports directly to the Audit & Risk Management Committee.
Internal audit plans are reviewed and approved by the Audit & Risk Management Committee and the
plans are to monitor compliance with and adequacy of the Group’s system of internal control and to
provide assurance on the effectiveness of the Group’s system of internal control including policies and
procedures. Follow-up reviews on the previous audit reports were carried out to ensure that appropriate
actions have been implemented to address control weaknesses highlighted.
• The Group has in place an organisation structure with proper segregation of duties and reporting
procedures and authorisation limits and all heads of business units and departments are accountable for
ensuring the effective implementation of established policies and procedures.
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control (cont’d)
77
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
• The Group has in place a management reporting mechanism whereby financial information is generated
and reviewed by management and the Board on a regular basis. Performance and results are monitored on
a monthly basis against the results of corresponding period of prior year, with major variances explained
and appropriate action taken or plans put in place.
• The Group Managing Director meets with the senior management regularly to review and resolve key
operational, financial, personnel and other key management issues, including issues of risks and internal
controls. Significant issues are highlighted and discussed at Board meetings.
• The Credit Committee meets regularly to conduct credit reviews, monitor receivables, progress of legal
cases and formulates credit procedures and policies.
• The training and development programs are established to enhance and improve employee competencies
and proficiencies. This is implemented through a combination of on-the-job training and classroom
training courses.
• The Group Code of Conduct is established to set out the ethical standards to all employees in their
dealings with fellow colleagues, customers, shareholders, suppliers, competitors, the wider community
and the environment.
• The Whistle Blowing policy is in place with the objective of providing all stakeholders a mechanism to
raise genuine concerns on unethical behaviour or any misconduct.
The policy allows the Management to take appropriate preventive and corrective actions without the
negative effects that come with public disclosure, such as loss of image or reputation, financial distress,
loss of investor confidence or a drop in value of the share prices. Through this policy, employees are
encouraged to disclose concerns about illegal, unethical or improper business conduct which otherwise
may not be easily detected through normal process or transaction.
The Group is committed to conduct business dealings with the highest level of integrity and ethics and
to comply fully with applicable laws and regulatory requirements on anti-corruption. The Group has
adopted a zero-tolerance approach against all forms of bribery and corruption and takes a strong stance
against such acts. During the financial year under review, the Group adopted and implemented its own
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy (“ABAC Policy”), based on the Main Market Listing Requirements of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and Section 17A of the Malaysia Anti-Corruption Commission Act 2009
(“MACC Act”). The ABAC Policy sets out the Group’s policies to prevent acts of bribery and corruption,
and is published on the Company’s website.
Signiﬁcant Risk Factors relating to MFM Group
a. Business risks
Our Group is principally involved in activities within the food manufacturing and livestock industries.
As such, our Group is susceptible to business risks in these industries which include but not limited to
demand and competition in the food manufacturing and livestock market, supply of labour and increase
in the cost of labour and raw material prices. We continuously seek to limit these risks through amongst
others, careful planning of supplies and prudent management of our business.
78 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
b. Availability and cost of raw materials
Raw materials i.e. wheat, corn and soybean meal contribute to a significant proportion of our total cost
of production. These materials are commodities and their availability and prices are dependent on market
conditions. Any increase in raw material prices will inevitably affect our Group’s profitability and results of
operations. Further, if there is a shortage of these materials, we may find it difficult to obtain the amount
of materials required at prices that are commercially acceptable. We have taken relevant steps to hedge
our exposure to these price fluctuations by entering into futures contracts. In addition, we have good
business relationships with our long term major suppliers and where possible, source our supplies from
a variety of suppliers.
c. Government policies & regulations including price controls & subsidies
The price of general-purpose flour in Malaysia is largely regulated and controlled by the Government vide
the Price Control Act 1946. Thus, our financial performance depends to a certain extent on Government’s
policies in respect of the flour industry, such as the level of price ceilings and flour subsidy, which are
beyond our control. With effect from 1st March 2016, the wheat flour subsidy for 25kg bag flour had been
removed by the Government, whilst, the 1kg general purpose flour subsidy has remained unchanged
based on the subsidy rationalisation program.
d. Bio-Security
In combating bio-security risks, the Group will continue to keep abreast with the latest development
and work closely with authorities and subject matter experts. People and livestock will continue to be
exposed to diseases and viruses, and possibly mutated strains in the future. Nevertheless, management
will continue to embrace robust risk management practices to cushion the negative financial impact.
Disease and Virus
Livestock is vulnerable to diseases and viruses, changes in weather conditions and the environment.
Adverse situations such as these will also affect the demand for feeds. The Group has embarked upon
bio-security installations and HACCP (Hazard Analysis & Critical Control Points) certification, FSSC 22000,
HALAL, MS 1514: 2009 (Good Manufacturing Practice for Food), ISO 9001, ISO 22000 and MyGAP
Certifications. In essence, HACCP is a management system in which food safety is addressed through
the analysis and control of biological, chemical, and physical hazards from raw material production,
procurement and handling, to manufacturing, distribution and consumption of the finished product.
COVID-19
The COVID-19 pandemic has developed rapidly in 2020, with a significant number of cases. Measures
taken by the government to contain the virus have affected economic activities. We have taken a number
of measures to monitor and mitigate the effects of COVID-19, such as safety and health measures for our
people (e.g. social distancing, working from home and others) and securing the supply of materials that
are essential to our production process.
As we operate in the food industry (an essential service), we expect demand for our products to continue.
We will continue our operations in the best and safest way possible without jeopardising the health of our
people.
Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control (cont’d)
79
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
e. Foreign exchange ﬂuctuations
All of raw materials i.e. wheat, corn and soybean meal are imported, whereby the purchase prices are
largely denominated in USD. As such, we have taken sufficient steps to hedge our financial exposure to
foreign currency fluctuations by entering into forward contracts. However, there can be no assurance that
any significant changes in exchange rate fluctuations or foreign exchange control regulations will not have
any adverse impact upon our Group’s business.
Review of this Statement by External Auditors
The external auditors have reviewed this Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control in accordance
with Audit and Assurance Practice Guide (“AAPG”) 3 (February 2018), Guidance for Auditors on Engagements
to Report on the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control Included in the Annual Report issued by
the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“MIA”) for inclusion in the annual report of the Group for the financial
year ended 31 December 2020 and reported to the Board that nothing has come to their attention that cause
them to believe that the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, in all material respects, has
not been prepared in accordance with the disclosures required by paragraphs 41 and 42 of the Statement on
Risk Management and Internal Control: Guidelines for Directors of Listed Issuers, or is factually inaccurate.
AAPG 3 does not require the external auditors to consider whether the Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control covers all risks and controls, or to form an opinion on the adequacy and effectiveness of the
Group’s risk management and internal control system including the assessment and opinion by the Board
of Directors and Management thereon. The External Auditors are also not required to consider whether the
processes described to deal with material internal control aspects of any significant problems disclosed in the
annual report will, in fact, remedy the problems.
Additionally, they are not required to perform any procedures by way of audit, review or verification of the
underlying records or other sources from which the Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control was
extracted.
Conclusion
Based on the processes set out above, the Board is of the view that the Group’s system of risk management
and internal control are adequate and effective to safeguard the shareholders’ investment and the Group’s
assets and has received assurance from both the Managing Director and Financial Controller in this respect.
Nevertheless, the Board and Management are committed towards operating a sound system of internal
control and the internal control systems will continue to be reviewed, added or updated in line with the
changes in the operating environment.
The Group’s system of internal control applies to Malayan Flour Mills Berhad and its subsidiaries only. Joint
venture and associate are excluded because the Group does not have full management and control over them.
However, the Group’s interests in its material joint venture and associate are served through representations
on the Board of Directors of the respective joint venture and associated company.
Statement made in accordance with the resolution of the Directors dated 5 April 2021.
82
Directors’ Responsibility
Statement
83
Directors’ Report
90
Balance Sheets
92
Income Statements
93
Statements of Comprehensive
Income
94
Consolidated Statement of
Changes in Equity
95
Statement of Changes in
Equity
96
Statements of Cash Flows
100
Notes to the Financial
Statements
176
Statement by Directors
177
Statutory Declaration
178
Independent Auditors’ Report
REPORTS & FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS
81
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
82 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ Responsibility Statement
For the Audited Financial Statements
In respect of the preparation of the audited financial statements, the Directors are required by the Companies
Act 2016 to prepare financial statements for each financial year, which give a true and fair view of the state of
affairs of the Group and the Company and their results, and cash flows for that year.
In preparing the financial statements for the financial year ended 31 December 2020, the Directors have:
• Used appropriate accounting policies and applied them consistently;
• Made judgements and estimates that are reasonable and prudent; and
• Stated whether applicable accounting standards have been followed, subject to any material departures
disclosed and explained in the financial statements.
The Directors are responsible for ensuring that proper accounting records are kept and which disclose with
reasonable accuracy the financial position of the Group and the Company and to enable them to ensure that
the financial statements comply with the Companies Act 2016. They also have a general responsibility for
taking reasonable steps to safeguard the assets of the Group and the Company to prevent and detect fraud
and other irregularities.
83
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 December 2020
The Directors have pleasure in submitting their report and the audited financial statements of the Group and
of the Company for the financial year ended 31 December 2020.
Principal activities
The Company is principally engaged in the business of milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grains and
other allied products, whilst the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 7 to the financial
statements. There has been no significant change in the nature of these activities during the financial year.
Subsidiaries
The details of the Company’s subsidiaries are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
Results
Group Company
RM’000 RM’000
Profit for the year attributable to:
Owners of the Company 5,413 54,178
Non-controlling interests 15,171 -
20,584 54,178
Reserves and provisions
There were no material transfers to or from reserves and provisions during the financial year under review
except for the conversion of Redeemable Convertible Unsecured Loan Stocks (“RCULS”) and warrants as
disclosed in Note 16 to the financial statements.
Dividends
Since the end of the previous financial year, the Company paid a second interim dividend of 1.80 sen per
ordinary share totalling approximately RM18,133,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2019
on 27 March 2020.
On 26 February 2021, the Directors declared an interim dividend of 1.0 sen per ordinary share totalling
approximately RM10,181,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2020, which was paid on
26 March 2021.
The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year under review.
84 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 December 2020 (cont’d)
Directors of the Company
Directors who served during the financial year until the date of this report are:
Tun Arshad bin Ayub
Teh Wee Chye
Datuk Oh Chong Peng
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
Azhari Arshad
Quah Poh Keat
Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris
Lim Pang Boon
Dato’ Maznah binti Abdul Jalil
List of Directors of subsidiaries
Pursuant to Section 253 of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, the list of Directors of the subsidiaries during
the financial year until the date of this report is as follows:
Tun Arshad bin Ayub
Teh Wee Chye
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon
Azhari Arshad
Lim Pang Boon
Bui Thi Thanh Tam
Le Cong Anh
Phan Xuan Que
Chua Kiat Hwa
Tan Keng Seng
Keisuke Okada
Huynh Duc Chinh
Hideki Oya
Shigeharu Kato (Appointed on 1 September 2020)
Koichiro Ito (Ceased on 19 February 2020)
Kazutaka Kuromiya (Ceased on 31 August 2020)
Kong Pak Cheong (Ceased on 31 December 2020)
Dato’ Dr. Kamruddin @ Kardin bin Shukor (Retired on 31 December 2020)
Wong Su Yen Caroline (Resigned on 28 February 2021)
85
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ interests
The interests and deemed interests in the ordinary shares, RCULS and Warrants of the Company and of its
related corporations (other than wholly-owned subsidiaries) of those who were Directors at financial year end
(including the interests of the spouses or children of the Directors who themselves are not Directors of the
Company) as recorded in the Register of Directors’ Shareholdings are as follows:
Number of ordinary shares
At At
1.1.2020 Acquired Disposed 31.12.2020
Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Direct interest
Teh Wee Chye 120,023,411 - - 120,023,411
Tun Arshad bin Ayub 54,686,170 1,350,750 - 56,036,920
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 23,087 - - 23,087
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin
Mahamad Zain 8,250 - - 8,250
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 7,078,500 - - 7,078,500
Lim Pang Boon 488,585 - - 488,585
Azhari Arshad 460,000 40,000 - 500,000
Deemed interest
Teh Wee Chye
- own 63,954,360 - - 63,954,360
- others* 63,000 - - 63,000
Tun Arshad bin Ayub 15,529,800 200,000 - 15,729,800
Azhari Arshad 15,529,800 200,000 - 15,729,800
Deemed interest of
Teh Wee Chye in
subsidiary companies
Muda Fibre Manufacturing
Sdn. Bhd. 7,000,001 - - 7,000,001
Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. 10,200,000 - - 10,200,000
Dindings Poultry Development
Centre Sdn. Bhd. 106,029,560 - - 106,029,560
86 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 December 2020 (cont’d)
Directors’ interests (cont’d)
Interest in capital contribution denominated in
Vietnamese Dong (VND)
At At
1.1.2020 Acquired Disposed 31.12.2020
VND’000 VND’000 VND’000 VND’000
Deemed interest of Teh Wee Chye in
subsidiary companies (cont’d)
Vimaflour Ltd 248,953,884 97,007,400 - 345,961,284
Number of RCULS
At At
1.1.2020 Acquired Disposed 31.12.2020
Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Direct interest
Teh Wee Chye 35,659,395 - - 35,659,395
Tun Arshad bin Ayub 12,306,540 532,500 - 12,839,040
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 2,000 - - 2,000
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 1,500 - - 1,500
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 1,287,000 - - 1,287,000
Lim Pang Boon 66,120 - - 66,120
Deemed interest
Teh Wee Chye 11,628,065 - - 11,628,065
Tun Arshad bin Ayub 50,000 - - 50,000
Azhari Arshad 50,000 - - 50,000
Number of Warrants
At At
1.1.2020 Acquired Disposed 31.12.2020
Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Direct interest
Teh Wee Chye 25,975,944 - - 25,975,944
Tun Arshad bin Ayub 6,973,950 - - 6,973,950
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 4,387 - - 4,387
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 1,250 - - 1,250
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 1,072,500 - - 1,072,500
Lim Pang Boon 80,085 - - 80,085
Azhari Arshad 62,500 - - 62,500
87
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ interests (cont’d)
Number of Warrants
At At
1.1.2020 Acquired Disposed 31.12.2020
Company
- Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (cont’d)
Deemed interest
Teh Wee Chye 9,690,052 - - 9,690,052
* Deemed to have interests through spouse and children pursuant to the Section 59(11)(c) of the
Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
By virtue of his interest in the shares of the Company, Mr. Teh Wee Chye is also deemed interested in the
shares of the subsidiaries during the financial year to the extent that Malayan Flour Mills Berhad has an
interest.
None of the other Directors holding office at 31 December 2020 had any interests in the ordinary shares,
RCULS and Warrants of the Company and of its related corporations during the financial year.
Directors’ beneﬁts
Since the end of the previous financial year, no Director of the Company has received nor become entitled
to receive any benefits (other than those fees and other benefits included in the aggregate amount of
remuneration received or due and receivable by Directors as shown in the financial statements) by reason of
a contract made by the Company or a related corporation with the Director or with a firm of which the Director
is a member, or with a company in which the Director has a substantial financial interest other than certain
Directors who have substantial financial interests in companies which traded with certain companies in the
Group in the ordinary course of business as disclosed in Note 29 to the financial statements.
There were no arrangements during and at the end of the financial year which had the object of enabling
Directors of the Company to acquire benefits by means of the acquisition of shares in or debentures of the
Company or any other body corporate.
Issue of shares
During the financial year, the issued and fully paid-up share capital of the Company was increased from
1,004,094,921 ordinary shares to 1,010,282,021 ordinary shares by way of the issuance of 6,187,100 new
ordinary shares pursuant to the conversion of 3,093,550 RCULS.
The new ordinary shares issued rank pari passu in all respect with the existing shares of the Company.
There were no other changes in the issued and paid-up capital of the Company during the financial year.
Options granted over unissued shares
No options were granted to any person to take up unissued shares of the Company during the financial year.
88 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ Report
for the year ended 31 December 2020 (cont’d)
Indemnity and insurance costs
During the financial year, the amount of insurance premium effected for all Directors and officers of the
Company was RM15,000.
Other statutory information
Before the financial statements of the Group and of the Company were made out, the Directors took reasonable
steps to ascertain that:
(i) all known bad debts have been written off and adequate provision made for doubtful debts, and
(ii) any current assets which were unlikely to be realised in the ordinary course of business have been
written down to an amount which they might be expected so to realise.
At the date of this report, the Directors are not aware of any circumstances:
(i) that would render the amount written off for bad debts or the amount of the provision for doubtful debts
in the Group and in the Company inadequate to any substantial extent, or
(ii) that would render the value attributed to the current assets in the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company misleading, or
(iii) which have arisen which render adherence to the existing method of valuation of assets or liabilities of
the Group and of the Company misleading or inappropriate, or
(iv) not otherwise dealt with in this report or the financial statements that would render any amount stated
in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company misleading.
At the date of this report, there does not exist:
(i) any charge on the assets of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the financial
year and which secures the liabilities of any other person, or
(ii) any contingent liability in respect of the Group or of the Company that has arisen since the end of the
financial year.
No contingent liability or other liability of any company in the Group has become enforceable, or is likely
to become enforceable within the period of twelve months after the end of the financial year which, in the
opinion of the Directors, will or may substantially affect the ability of the Group and of the Company to meet
their obligations as and when they fall due.
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial performance of the Group and of the Company for the financial
year ended 31 December 2020 have not been substantially affected by any item, transaction or event of a
material and unusual nature nor has any such item, transaction or event occurred in the interval between the
end of that financial year and the date of this report.
Subsequent event
Details of the subsequent event are disclosed in Note 30 to the financial statements.
89
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Auditors
The auditors, KPMG PLT, have indicated their willingness to accept re-appointment.
The auditors’ remuneration is disclosed in Note 20 to the financial statements.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
Tun Arshad bin Ayub
Director
Teh Wee Chye
Director
Kuala Lumpur
5 April 2021
90 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Balance Sheets
at 31 December 2020
Group Company
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Assets
Property, plant and equipment 3 1,090,278 1,090,312 254,352 253,596
Right-of-use assets 4 30,420 31,087 8,225 8,027
Intangible assets 5 3,656 1,733 277 432
Investment properties 6 4,997 5,053 4,726 4,782
Investments in subsidiaries 7 - - 391,369 391,369
Investment in a joint venture 8 164,738 130,912 192,865 154,086
Investment in an associate 9 1,050 1,074 - -
Deferred tax assets 10 18,471 9,751 - -
Total non-current assets 1,313,610 1,269,922 851,814 812,292
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives 11 380,323 394,112 554,774 531,597
Prepayments 4,467 4,964 1,305 2,142
Inventories 12 428,194 510,219 54,901 101,746
Biological assets 13 48,586 56,860 - -
Current tax assets 2,195 481 - -
Cash and cash equivalents 14 404,627 330,753 33,815 34,890
1,268,392 1,297,389 644,795 670,375
Asset classified as held for sale 15 - 14,821 - 14,821
Total current assets 1,268,392 1,312,210 644,795 685,196
Total assets 2,582,002 2,582,132 1,496,609 1,497,488
Equity
Share capital 530,665 527,571 530,665 527,571
RCULS - Equity 82,479 85,462 82,479 85,462
Reserves 457,715 481,279 313,008 276,963
Total equity attributable to
owners of the Company 16 1,070,859 1,094,312 926,152 889,996
Non-controlling interests 7 94,048 86,686 - -
Total equity 1,164,907 1,180,998 926,152 889,996
91
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Group Company
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Liabilities
Deferred tax liabilities 10 3,335 2,644 3,335 2,644
RCULS - Liabilities 16 14,234 18,500 14,234 18,500
Loans and borrowings 18 227,428 223,058 - 2,200
Lease liabilities 3,532 3,377 2,248 2,438
Total non-current liabilities 248,529 247,579 19,817 25,782
RCULS - Liabilities 16 5,087 5,495 5,087 5,495
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives 17 220,335 191,303 170,087 140,347
Loans and borrowings 18 932,148 947,628 371,964 434,431
Lease liabilities 2,063 1,886 1,573 1,404
Current tax liabilities 8,933 7,243 1,929 33
Total current liabilities 1,168,566 1,153,555 550,640 581,710
Total liabilities 1,417,095 1,401,134 570,457 607,492
Total equity and liabilities 2,582,002 2,582,132 1,496,609 1,497,488
The notes set out on pages 100 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements
92 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Income Statements
for the year ended 31 December 2020
Group Company
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue 19 2,680,670 2,681,563 476,181 483,667
Cost of goods sold (2,457,034) (2,421,298) (401,405) (417,643)
Gross proﬁt 223,636 260,265 74,776 66,024
Other income 21,752 12,543 47,027 31,926
Distribution expenses (134,463) (129,657) (42,434) (42,094)
Administrative expenses (50,902) (50,539) (20,800) (18,513)
Net loss on impairment of financial
instruments (1,190) (5,978) (180) (846)
Other expenses (6,486) (4,047) (3,803) (2,133)
Results from operating activities 52,347 82,587 54,586 34,364
Interest expense (37,293) (29,684) (18,298) (19,631)
Interest income 20,022 11,304 22,821 19,901
Net ﬁnance (costs)/income (17,271) (18,380) 4,523 270
Operating proﬁt 20 35,076 64,207 59,109 34,634
Share of profit of equity accounted
joint venture, net of tax 8 967 14,121 - -
Share of loss of equity accounted
associate, net of tax (16) (33) - -
Proﬁt before tax 36,027 78,295 59,109 34,634
Tax expense 21 (15,443) (17,693) (4,931) (8,151)
Proﬁt for the year 20,584 60,602 54,178 26,483
Proﬁt attributable to:
Owners of the Company 5,413 43,251 54,178 26,483
Non-controlling interests 15,171 17,351 - -
Proﬁt for the year 20,584 60,602 54,178 26,483
Basic earnings per ordinary
share (sen) 22 0.54 4.51
Diluted earnings per ordinary
share (sen) 22 0.54 3.35
The notes set out on pages 100 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements
93
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statements of Comprehensive Income
for the year ended 31 December 2020
The notes set out on pages 100 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements
Group Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Proﬁt for the year 20,584 60,602 54,178 26,483
Other comprehensive income for the year,
net of tax
Item that is or may be reclassiﬁed
subsequently to income statement
Foreign currency translation differences for
foreign operations (12,013) (1,095) - -
Total comprehensive income for the year 8,571 59,507 54,178 26,483
Total comprehensive income attributable to:
Owners of the Company (5,431) 42,728 54,178 26,483
Non-controlling interests 14,002 16,779 - -
Total comprehensive income for the year 8,571 59,507 54,178 26,483
94 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2020
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-distributable Distributable
Other Non-
Share RCULS - Warrant capital Translation Retained controlling Total
Group Note capital Equity reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At 1 January 2019 377,501 - - 40,883 (42,223) 443,789 819,950 74,223 894,173
Foreign currency translation
differences for foreign
operations - - - - (523) - (523) (572) (1,095)
Profit for the year - - - - - 43,251 43,251 17,351 60,602
Total comprehensive (expense)/
income for the year - - - - (523) 43,251 42,728 16,779 59,507
Issuance of RCULS 16 - 125,629 10,730 - - - 136,359 - 136,359
Issuance of Rights Shares 16 102,007 - 7,154 - - - 109,161 - 109,161
Conversion of RCULS 16 48,062 (40,167) - - - - 7,895 - 7,895
Exercise of warrants 16 1 - * - - - 1 - 1
Dividends to owners of the
Company 23 - - - - - (21,782) (21,782) - (21,782)
Dividends to non-controlling
interests 7 - - - - - - - (4,316) (4,316)
At 31 December 2019 527,571 85,462 17,884 40,883 (42,746) 465,258 1,094,312 86,686 1,180,998
Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16
* 1,300 units of warrants were exercised
Attributable to owners of the Company
Non-distributable Distributable
Other Non-
Share RCULS - Warrant capital Translation Retained controlling Total
Group Note capital Equity reserve reserve reserve earnings Total interests equity
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At 1 January 2020 527,571 85,462 17,884 40,883 (42,746) 465,258 1,094,312 86,686 1,180,998
Foreign currency translation
differences for foreign
operations - - - - (10,844) - (10,844) (1,169) (12,013)
Profit for the year - - - - - 5,413 5,413 15,171 20,584
Total comprehensive (expense)/
income for the year - - - - (10,844) 5,413 (5,431) 14,002 8,571
Conversion of RCULS 16 3,094 (2,983) - - - - 111 - 111
Dividends to owners of the
Company 23 - - - - - (18,133) (18,133) - (18,133)
Dividends to non-controlling
interests 7 - - - - - - - (6,640) (6,640)
At 31 December 2020 530,665 82,479 17,884 40,883 (53,590) 452,538 1,070,859 94,048 1,164,907
Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16 Note 16
The notes set out on pages 100 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements
95
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statement of Changes in Equity
for the year ended 31 December 2020
The notes set out on pages 100 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements
Non-distributable Distributable
Share RCULS - Warrant Retained Total
Company Note capital Equity reserve earnings equity
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At 1 January 2019 377,501 - - 254,378 631,879
Proﬁt and total comprehensive
income for the year
Profit for the year - - - 26,483 26,483
Other comprehensive income
for the year - - - - -
Total comprehensive income
for the year - - - 26,483 26,483
Issuance of RCULS 16 - 125,629 10,730 - 136,359
Issuance of rights shares 16 102,007 - 7,154 - 109,161
Conversion of RCULS 16 48,062 (40,167) - - 7,895
Exercise of warrants 16 1 - * - 1
Dividends to owners of the Company 23 - - - (21,782) (21,782)
At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 527,571 85,462 17,884 259,079 889,996
Proﬁt and total comprehensive
income for the year
Profit for the year - - - 54,178 54,178
Other comprehensive income
for the year - - - - -
Total comprehensive income
for the year - - - 54,178 54,178
Conversion of RCULS 16 3,094 (2,983) - - 111
Dividends to owners of the Company 23 - - - (18,133) (18,133)
At 31 December 2020 530,665 82,479 17,884 295,124 926,152
Note 16 Note 16 Note 16
* 1,300 units of warrants were exercised
96 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Statements of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December 2020
Group Company
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cash ﬂows from operating activities
Profit before tax 36,027 78,295 59,109 34,634
Adjustments for:
Amortisation of intangible assets 5 1,055 977 236 205
Depreciation of investment properties 6 56 57 56 57
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment 3 67,355 64,537 15,738 18,300
Depreciation of right-of-use assets 4 3,202 3,448 1,899 2,128
Dividend income (6) (5) (26,736) (18,982)
Net gain on disposal of property,
plant and equipment (8,305) (258) (8,076) (68)
Interest expense 37,293 29,684 18,298 19,631
Interest income (20,022) (11,304) (22,821) (19,901)
Property, plant and equipment
written off 724 156 18 82
Share of profit of equity accounted
joint venture, net of tax 8 (967) (14,121) - -
Share of loss of equity accounted
associate, net of tax 16 33 - -
Net unrealised (gain)/loss on
foreign exchange (2) (1,639) 550 (12)
Operating proﬁt before changes
in working capital 116,426 149,860 38,271 36,074
Changes in working capital:
Trade and other receivables,
prepayments and other
financial assets 12,565 18,680 (22,340) (54,749)
Inventories 78,775 (43,689) 46,845 (2,779)
Biological assets 8,274 (1,954) - -
Trade and other payables
and other financial liabilities 28,305 48,229 28,786 (14,367)
Cash generated from/(used in)
operations 244,345 171,126 91,562 (35,821)
Interest paid (36,018) (28,375) (17,023) (18,322)
Interest received 20,022 11,304 22,821 19,901
Net income tax paid (23,127) (14,754) (2,379) (1,566)
Net cash generated from/(used in)
operating activities 205,222 139,301 94,981 (35,808)
97
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Group Company
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cash ﬂows from investing activities
Acquisition of intangible assets 5 (2,989) (135) (81) (129)
Acquisition of property, plant and
equipment 3 (69,755) (213,177) (16,535) (30,656)
Increase in investment in
a joint venture 8 (38,779) (53,797) (38,779) (53,797)
Dividend income 6 5 26,736 18,982
Proceeds from disposal of
property, plant and equipment 23,127 304 22,920 78
Net cash used in investing activities (88,390) (266,800) (5,739) (65,522)
Cash ﬂows from ﬁnancing activities
Dividends paid to non-controlling
interests 7 (6,640) (4,316) - -
Dividends paid to owners of the
Company 23 (18,133) (21,782) (18,133) (21,782)
(Repayment of)/Proceeds from
loans and borrowings, net (4,600) 49,634 (64,263) (123,782)
Proceeds from issuance of RCULS 16 - 163,740 - 163,740
Proceeds from issuance of
Rights Shares 16.1 - 109,161 - 109,161
RCULS coupon payment (5,803) (2,953) (5,803) (2,953)
Payment of lease liabilities (2,249) (2,242) (2,118) (1,666)
Exercise of the warrants - 1 - 1
Net cash (used in)/generated from
ﬁnancing activities (37,425) 291,243 (90,317) 122,719
Net increase/(decrease) in cash
and cash equivalents 79,407 163,744 (1,075) 21,389
Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on
cash held (5,533) (1,823) - -
Cash and cash equivalents
at 1 January 330,753 168,832 34,890 13,501
Cash and cash equivalents
at 31 December 404,627 330,753 33,815 34,890
98 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Cash outﬂows for leases as a lessee
Group Company
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Included in net cash from
operating activities
Payment relating to short-term leases 20 399 221 13 32
Payment relating to leases of
low-value assets 20 190 157 92 96
Payment relating to variable lease
payments not included in the
measurement of lease liabilities 20 4,995 2,541 257 127
Interest paid in relation to lease
liabilities 263 325 192 232
Included in net cash from
ﬁnancing activities
Payment of lease liabilities 2,249 2,242 2,118 1,666
Total cash outﬂows for leases 8,096 5,486 2,672 2,153
Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents included in the statements of cash flows comprise the following balance sheets
amounts:
Group Company
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Deposits placed with licensed banks 14 344,207 268,350 421 414
Cash and bank balances 14 38,013 43,572 10,987 15,645
Liquid investments 14 22,407 18,831 22,407 18,831
404,627 330,753 33,815 34,890
Statements of Cash Flows
for the year ended 31 December 2020 (cont’d)
99
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Reconciliation of movements of liabilities to cash ﬂows arising from ﬁnancing activities
Net Net
changes changes
At from Acquisition Foreign At 31 from Acquisition Foreign At 31
1 January financing of new exchange December financing of new exchange December
2019 cash flows lease movement 2019 cash flows lease movement 2020
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/
Unsecured
revolving credits 959,499 (54,083) - (5,368) 900,048 (8,240) - (6,510) 885,298
Unsecured term loans 166,921 103,717 - - 270,638 3,640 - - 274,278
Lease liabilities 7,231 (2,242) 274 - 5,263 (2,249) 2,581 - 5,595
Total liabilities from
financing activities 1,133,651 47,392 274 (5,368) 1,175,949 (6,849) 2,581 (6,510) 1,165,171
Company
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/
Unsecured
revolving credits 535,986 (107,922) - (1,213) 426,851 (56,683) - (404) 369,764
Unsecured term loans 25,640 (15,860) - - 9,780 (7,580) - - 2,200
Lease liabilities 5,357 (1,666) 151 - 3,842 (2,118) 2,097 - 3,821
Total liabilities from
financing activities 566,983 (125,448) 151 (1,213) 440,473 (66,381) 2,097 (404) 375,785
The notes set out on pages 100 to 175 are an integral part of these financial statements
100 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements
Malayan Flour Mills Berhad is a public limited liability company, incorporated and domiciled in Malaysia and
is listed on the Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. The address of its registered office, which
is also its principal place of business is as follows:
Registered ofﬁce and principal place of business
22nd Floor, Wisma MCA
163 Jalan Ampang
50450 Kuala Lumpur
The consolidated financial statements of the Company as at and for the financial year ended 31 December
2020 comprise the Company and its subsidiaries (together referred to as the “Group” and individually referred
to as “Group entities”) and the Group’s interest in an associate and a joint venture.
The Company is principally engaged in the business of milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grains
and other allied products, whilst the principal activities of the subsidiaries are as stated in Note 7 to the
financial statements.
The financial statements were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 5 April 2021.
1. Basis of preparation
(a) Statement of compliance
The financial statements of the Group and of the Company have been prepared in accordance
with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRSs”), International Financial Reporting
Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
The following are accounting standards, amendments and interpretations that have been issued
by the Malaysian Accounting Standards Board (“MASB”) but have not been adopted by the
Group and the Company:
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2021
• Amendments to MFRS 9, Financial Instruments, MFRS 139, Financial Instruments:
Recognition and Measurement, MFRS 7, Financial Instruments: Disclosures, MFRS 4,
Insurance Contracts* and MFRS 16, Leases – Interest Rate Benchmark Reform – Phase 2
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2022
• Amendments to MFRS 1, First-time Adoption of Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards
(Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018−2020)*
• Amendments to MFRS 3, Business Combinations – Reference to the Conceptual
Framework
• Amendments to MFRS 9, Financial Instruments (Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards
2018−2020)
• Amendments to Illustrative Examples accompanying MFRS 16, Leases (Annual
Improvements to MFRS Standards 2018−2020)
101
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
1. Basis of preparation (cont’d)
(a) Statement of compliance (cont’d)
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2022 (cont’d)
• Amendments to MFRS 116, Property, Plant and Equipment − Proceeds before Intended
Use
• Amendments to MFRS 137, Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets −
Onerous Contracts − Cost of Fulﬁlling a Contract
• Amendments to MFRS 141, Agriculture (Annual Improvements to MFRS Standards
2018−2020)
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
after 1 January 2023
• MFRS 17, Insurance Contracts
• Amendments to MFRS 101, Presentation of Financial Statements – Classiﬁcation of
Liabilities as Current or Non-current
MFRSs, interpretations and amendments effective for annual periods beginning on or
after a date yet to be confirmed
• Amendments to MFRS 10, Consolidated Financial Statements and MFRS 128, Investments
in Associates and Joint Ventures – Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and
its Associate or Joint Venture
The Group and the Company plan to apply the abovementioned accounting standards,
interpretations and amendments:
• from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2021 for those amendments that are
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2021, except as marked as
(“*”) which is not applicable to the Group and the Company.
• from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2022 for those amendments that are
effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2022, except as marked as
(“*”) which is not applicable to the Group and the Company.
• from the annual period beginning on 1 January 2023 for the accounting standard and
amendments that are effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2023,
except for MFRS 17 which is not applicable to the Group and the Company.
During the financial year, the Group has early adopted the amendment to MFRS 16, Leases –
COVID-19-Related Rent Concessions which is effective for annual periods beginning on or after
1 June 2020.
The initial application of the abovementioned accounting standards and amendments are not
expected to have any material financial impact to the current period and prior period financial
statements of the Group and the Company.
(b) Basis of measurement
The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis other than as disclosed
in Note 2.
102 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
1. Basis of preparation (cont’d)
(c) Functional and presentation currency
These financial statements are presented in Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”), which is the Company’s
functional currency. All financial information is presented in RM and has been rounded to the
nearest thousand, unless otherwise stated.
(d) Use of estimates and judgements
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with MFRS requires management to make
judgements, estimates and assumptions that affect the application of accounting policies and
the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, income and expenses. Actual results may differ from
these estimates.
Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting
estimates are recognised in the period in which the estimate is revised and in any future periods
affected.
There are no significant areas of estimation uncertainty and critical judgements in applying
accounting policies that have significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial
statements other than disclosed in the following note:
(i) Note 4 - extension options and incremental borrowing rate in relation to leases
(ii) Note 13 - valuation of biological assets
(iii) Note 25 - measurement of expected credit loss (“ECL”)
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies
The accounting policies set out below have been applied consistently to the periods presented in these
financial statements and have been applied consistently by Group entities, unless otherwise stated.
The Group has applied the amendment of MFRS 16, Leases – COVID-19-Related Rent Concessions,
issued by MASB in June 2020. The amendment introduces an optional practical expedient that
simplifies how a lessee accounts for rent concessions, arising as a direct consequence of COVID-19
pandemic. The initial application of the amendment to MFRS 16 did not have any material impact to
the financial statements of the Group.
(a) Basis of consolidation
(i) Subsidiaries
Subsidiaries are entities, including structured entities, controlled by the Company. The
financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial statements
from the date that control commences until the date that control ceases.
103
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(a) Basis of consolidation (cont’d)
(i) Subsidiaries (cont’d)
The Group controls an entity when it is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its
involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns through its power over
the entity. Potential voting rights are considered when assessing control only when such
rights are substantive. The Group also considers it has de facto power over an investee
when, despite not having the majority of voting rights, it has the current ability to direct the
activities of the investee that significantly affect the investee’s return.
Investments in subsidiaries are measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The
cost of investments includes transaction costs.
(ii) Business combinations
Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method from the acquisition
date, which is the date on which control is transferred to the Group.
For new acquisitions, the Group measures the cost of goodwill at the acquisition date as:
• the fair value of the consideration transferred; plus
• the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree; plus
• if the business combination is achieved in stages, the fair value of the existing equity
interest in the acquiree; less
• the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identifiable assets acquired
and liabilities assumed.
When the excess is negative, a bargain purchase gain is recognised immediately in the
income statements.
For each business combination, the Group elects whether it measures the non-controlling
interests in the acquiree either at fair value or at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s
identifiable net assets at the acquisition date.
Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities,
that the Group incurs in connection with a business combination are expensed as incurred.
(iii) Acquisitions of non-controlling interests
The Group accounts for all changes in its ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not
result in a loss of control as equity transactions between the Group and its non-controlling
interest holders. Any difference between the Group’s share of net assets before and after
the change, and any consideration received or paid, is adjusted to or against Group
reserves.
104 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(a) Basis of consolidation (cont’d)
(iv) Loss of control
Upon the loss of control of a subsidiary, the Group derecognises the assets and liabilities
of the former subsidiary, any non-controlling interests and the other components of equity
related to the former subsidiary from the consolidated balance sheets. Any surplus or
deficit arising on the loss of control is recognised in the income statements. If the Group
retains any interest in the former subsidiary, then such interest is measured at fair value
at the date that control is lost. Subsequently, it is accounted for as an equity accounted
investee or as a financial asset depending on the level of influence retained.
(v) Associates
Associates are entities, including unincorporated entities, in which the Group has significant
influence, but not control, over the financial and operating policies.
Investments in associates are accounted for in the consolidated financial statements
using the equity method less any impairment losses. The cost of the investments includes
transaction costs. The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of
profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associates, after adjustments if any,
to align the accounting policies with those of the Group, from the date that significant
influence commences until the date that significant influence ceases.
When the Group’s share of losses exceeds its interest in an associate, the carrying amount
of that interest including any long-term investments is reduced to zero, and the recognition
of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has an obligation or
has made payments on behalf of the associate.
When the Group ceases to have significant influence over an associate, any retained
interest in the former associate at the date when significant influence is lost is measured
at fair value and this amount is regarded as the initial carrying amount of a financial asset.
The difference between the fair value of any retained interest plus proceeds from the
interest disposed of and the carrying amount of the investment at the date when equity
method is discontinued is recognised in the income statements.
When the Group’s interest in an associate decrease but does not result in a loss of
significant influence, any retained interest is not re-measured. Any gain or loss arising
from the decrease in interest is recognised in the income statements. Any gains or losses
previously recognised in other comprehensive income are also reclassified proportionately
to the income statements if that gain or loss would be required to be reclassified to the
income statements on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities.
Investment in an associate is measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
impairment losses. The cost of investments includes transaction costs.
105
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(a) Basis of consolidation (cont’d)
(vi) Joint arrangements
Joint arrangements are arrangements of which the Group has joint control, established by
contracts requiring unanimous consent for decisions about the activities that significantly
affect the arrangements’ returns.
Joint arrangements are classified and accounted for as follows:
• A joint arrangement is classified as “joint operation” when the Group or the Company
has rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities relating to an arrangement.
The Group and the Company account for each of its share of the assets, liabilities
and transactions, including its share of those held or incurred jointly with the other
investors, in relation to the joint operation.
• A joint arrangement is classified as “joint venture” when the Group or the Company
has rights only to the net assets of the arrangement. The Group accounts for its
interest in the joint venture using the equity method.
Investment in a joint venture is measured in the Company’s balance sheet at cost less any
impairment losses, unless the investment is classified as held for sale or distribution. The
cost of investment includes transaction costs.
(vii) Non-controlling interests
Non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period, being the equity in a subsidiary
not attributable directly or indirectly to the equity holders of the Company, are presented
in the consolidated balance sheet and statement of changes in equity within equity,
separately from equity attributable to the owners of the Company. Non-controlling interests
in the results of the Group is presented in the consolidated income statements and other
comprehensive income as an allocation of the profit or loss and the comprehensive income
for the year between non-controlling interests and the owners of the Company.
Losses applicable to the non-controlling interests in a subsidiary are allocated to the non-
controlling interests even if doing so causes the non-controlling interests to have a deficit
balance.
(viii) Transactions eliminated on consolidation
Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising
from intra-group transactions, are eliminated in preparing the consolidated financial
statements.
Unrealised gains arising from transactions with an equity accounted associate and a joint
venture are eliminated against the investment to the extent of the Group’s interest in the
investees. Unrealised losses are eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only
to the extent that there is no evidence of impairment.
106 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(b) Foreign currency
(i) Foreign currency transactions
Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective functional currencies of
Group entities at exchange rates at the dates of the transactions.
Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies at the end of the reporting
period are retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at that date.
Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are not retranslated
at the end of the reporting date, except for those that are measured at fair value which are
retranslated to the functional currency at the exchange rate at the date that the fair value
was determined.
Foreign currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in the income
statements, except for differences arising on the retranslation of equity instruments where
they are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income or a financial instrument
designated as a cash flow hedge, which are recognised in other comprehensive income.
In the consolidated financial statements, when settlement of a monetary item receivable
from or payable to a foreign operation is neither planned nor likely to occur in the
foreseeable future, foreign exchange gains and losses arising from such a monetary item
are considered to form part of a net investment in a foreign operation and are recognised
in other comprehensive income, and are presented in the foreign currency translation
reserve (“FCTR”) in equity.
(ii) Operations denominated in functional currencies other than Ringgit Malaysia (“RM”)
The assets and liabilities of operations denominated in functional currencies other than
RM, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on acquisition, are translated
to RM at exchange rates at the end of the reporting period, except for goodwill and fair
value adjustments arising from business combinations before 1 January 2012 (the date
when the Group first adopted MFRS) which are treated as assets and liabilities of the
Company. The income and expenses of foreign operations, excluding foreign operations
in hyperinflationary economies, are translated to RM at exchange rates at the dates of the
transactions.
Foreign currency differences are recognised in other comprehensive income and
accumulated in the foreign currency translation reserve (“FCTR”) in equity. However, if
the operation is a non-wholly owned subsidiary, then the relevant proportionate share
of the translation difference is allocated to the non-controlling interests. When a foreign
operation is disposed of such that control, significant influence or joint control is lost,
the cumulative amount in the FCTR related to that foreign operation is reclassified to the
income statements as part of the gain or loss on disposal.
When the Group disposes of only part of its interest in a subsidiary that includes a
foreign operation, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reattributed to
non-controlling interests. When the Group disposes of only part of its investments in
an associate or joint venture that includes a foreign operation while retaining significant
influence or joint control, the relevant proportion of the cumulative amount is reclassified
to the income statements.
107
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(c) Financial instruments
(i) Recognition and initial measurement
A financial asset or a financial liability is recognised in the balance sheets when, and only
when, the Group or the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the
instrument.
A financial asset (unless it is a trade receivable without significant financing component)
or a financial liability is initially measured at fair value plus or minus, for an item not at fair
value through profit or loss, transaction costs that are directly attributable to its acquisition
or issuance. A trade receivable without a significant financing component is initially
measured at the transaction price.
An embedded derivative is recognised separately from the host contract where the host
contract is not a financial asset, and accounted for separately if, and only if, the derivative
is not closely related to the economic characteristics and risks of the host contract and the
host contract is not measured at fair value through profit or loss. The host contract, in the
event an embedded derivative is recognised separately, is accounted for in accordance
with policy applicable to the nature of the host contract.
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement
Financial assets
Categories of financial assets are determined on initial recognition and are not reclassified
subsequent to their initial recognition unless the Group or the Company changes its
business model for managing financial assets in which case all affected financial assets
are reclassified on the first day of the first reporting period following the change of the
business model.
(a) Amortised cost
Amortised cost category comprises financial assets that are held within a business
model whose objective is to hold assets to collect contractual cash flows and
its contractual terms give rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely
payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. The
financial assets are not designated as fair value through profit or loss. Subsequent
to initial recognition, these financial assets are measured at amortised cost using
the effective interest method. The amortised cost is reduced by impairment losses.
Interest income, foreign exchange gains and losses and impairment are recognised
in the income statements. Any gain or loss on derecognition is recognised in the
income statements.
Interest income is recognised by applying effective interest rate to the gross
carrying amount except for credit impaired financial assets (see Note 2(l)(i)) where
the effective interest rate is applied to the amortised cost.
108 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(c) Financial instruments (cont’d)
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (cont’d)
Financial assets (cont’d)
(b) Fair value through profit or loss
All financial assets not measured at amortised cost or fair value through other
comprehensive income as described above are measured at fair value through
profit or loss. This includes derivative financial assets (except for a derivative that
is a designated and effective hedging instrument). On initial recognition, the Group
or the Company may irrevocably designate a financial asset that otherwise meets
the requirements to be measured at amortised cost or at fair value through other
comprehensive income as at fair value through profit or loss if doing so eliminates
or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that would otherwise arise.
Financial assets categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently
measured at their fair value. Net gains or losses, including any interest or dividend
income, are recognised in the income statements.
All financial assets, except for those measured at fair value through profit or loss and equity
investments measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, are subject to
impairment assessment (see Note 2(l)(i)).
Financial liabilities
The categories of financial liabilities at initial recognition are as follows:
(a) Fair value through profit or loss
Fair value through profit or loss category comprises financial liabilities that are
derivatives (except for a derivative that is a financial guarantee contract or a
designated and effective hedging instrument), contingent consideration in a
business combination and financial liabilities that are specifically designated into
this category upon initial recognition.
On initial recognition, the Group or the Company may irrevocably designate a
financial liability that otherwise meets the requirements to be measured at amortised
cost as at fair value through profit or loss:
(a) if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces an accounting mismatch that
would otherwise arise;
109
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(c) Financial instruments (cont’d)
(ii) Financial instrument categories and subsequent measurement (cont’d)
Financial liabilities (cont’d)
(a) Fair value through profit or loss (cont’d)
(b) a group of financial liabilities or assets and financial liabilities is managed
and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with a
documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about
the group is provided internally on that basis to the Group’s key management
personnel; or
(c) if a contract contains one or more embedded derivatives and the host is not
a financial asset in the scope of MFRS 9, where the embedded derivative
significantly modifies the cash flows and separation is not prohibited.
Financial liabilities categorised as fair value through profit or loss are subsequently
measured at their fair value with gains or losses, including any interest expense are
recognised in the income statements.
For financial liabilities where it is designated as fair value through profit or loss upon
initial recognition, the Group and the Company recognise the amount of change
in fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to change in credit risk in
the other comprehensive income and remaining amount of the change in fair value
in the income statements, unless the treatment of the effects of changes in the
liability’s credit risk would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch.
(b) Amortised cost
Other financial liabilities not categorised as fair value through profit or loss are
subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
Interest expense and foreign exchange gains and losses are recognised in the
income statements. Any gains or losses on derecognition are also recognised in the
income statements.
(iii) Derecognition
A financial asset or part of it is derecognised when, and only when the contractual rights
to the cash flows from the financial asset expire or transferred, or control of the asset
is not retained or substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership of the financial
asset are transferred to another party. On derecognition of a financial asset, the difference
between the carrying amount of the financial asset and the sum of consideration received
(including any new asset obtained less any new liability assumed) is recognised in the
income statements.
110 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(c) Financial instruments (cont’d)
(iii) Derecognition (cont’d)
A financial liability or a part of it is derecognised when, and only when, the obligation
specified in the contract is discharged, cancelled or expires. A financial liability is also
derecognised when its terms are modified and the cash flows of the modified liability are
substantially different, in which case, a new financial liability based on modified terms is
recognised at fair value. On derecognition of a financial liability, the difference between the
carrying amount of the financial liability extinguished or transferred to another party and
the consideration paid, including any non-cash assets transferred or liabilities assumed, is
recognised in the income statements.
(iv) Offsetting
Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net amount presented in the
balance sheets when, and only when, the Group or the Company currently has a legally
enforceable right to set off the amounts and it intends either to settle them on a net basis
or to realise the asset and liability simultaneously.
(d) Property, plant and equipment
(i) Recognition and measurement
Items of property, plant and equipment are measured at cost less any accumulated
depreciation and any accumulated impairment losses.
Cost includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset
and any other costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to working condition for
its intended use, and the costs of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the
site on which they are located. The cost of self-constructed assets also includes the
cost of materials and direct labour. For qualifying assets, borrowing costs are capitalised
in accordance with the accounting policy on borrowing costs. Cost may also include
transfers from equity of any gain or loss on qualifying cash flow hedges of foreign currency
purchases of property, plant and equipment.
When significant parts of an item of property, plant and equipment have different useful
lives, they are accounted for as separate items (major components) of property, plant and
equipment.
The gain or loss on disposal of an item of property, plant and equipment is determined
by comparing the proceeds from disposal with the carrying amount of property, plant and
equipment and is recognised net within “other income” and “other expenses” respectively,
in the income statements.
111
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(d) Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)
(ii) Subsequent costs
The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant and equipment is
recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future economic
benefits embodied within the component will flow to the Group or the Company, and
its cost can be measured reliably. The carrying amount of the replaced component is
derecognised to the income statements. The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property,
plant and equipment are recognised in the income statements as incurred.
(iii) Depreciation
Depreciation is based on the cost of an asset less its residual value. Significant components
of individual assets are assessed, and if a component has a useful life that is different from
the remainder of that asset, then that component is depreciated separately.
Depreciation is recognised in the income statements on a straight-line basis over the
estimated useful lives of each component of an item of property, plant and equipment
from the date that they are available for use. Freehold land is not depreciated. Capital
work-in-progress are not depreciated until the assets are ready for their intended use.
The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative periods are as follows:
• buildings and jetty 10, 20 and 50 years
• plant, machinery, fixtures and equipment 4 - 20 years
(2019: 4 - 10 years)
• motor vehicles 5 - 10 years
Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at end of the reporting
period and adjusted as appropriate.
(e) Leases
(i) Deﬁnition of a lease
A contract is, or contains, a lease if the contract conveys a right to control the use of an
identified asset for a period of time in exchange for consideration. To assess whether a
contract conveys the right to control the use of an identified asset, the Group assesses
whether:
• the contract involves the use of an identified asset – this may be specified explicitly
or implicitly, and should be physically distinct or represent substantially all of the
capacity of a physically distinct asset. If the supplier has a substantive substitution
right, then the asset is not identified;
• the customer has the right to obtain substantially all of the economic benefits from
use of the asset throughout the period of use; and
112 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(e) Leases (cont’d)
(i) Deﬁnition of a lease (cont’d)
• the customer has the right to direct the use of the asset. The customer has this right
when it has the decision-making rights that are most relevant to changing how and
for what purpose the asset is used. In rare cases where the decision about how and
for what purpose the asset is used is predetermined, the customer has the right to
direct the use of the asset if either the customer has the right to operate the asset;
or the customer designed the asset in a way that predetermines how and for what
purpose it will be used.
At inception or on reassessment of a contract that contains a lease component, the Group
allocates the consideration in the contract to each lease and non-lease component on
the basis of their relative stand-alone prices. However, for leases of land and buildings in
which the Group is a lessee, it has elected not to separate non-lease components and will
instead account for the lease and non-lease components as a single lease component.
(ii) Recognition and initial measurement
(a) As a lessee
The Group recognises a right-of-use asset and a lease liability at the lease
commencement date. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost, which
comprises the initial amount of the lease liability adjusted for any lease payments
made at or before the commencement date, plus any initial direct costs incurred
and an estimate of costs to dismantle and remove the underlying asset or to restore
the underlying asset or the site on which it is located, less any lease incentives
received.
The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments
that are not paid at the commencement date, discounted using the interest rate
implicit in the lease or, if that rate cannot be readily determined, the respective
Group entities’ incremental borrowing rate. Generally, the Group entities use their
incremental borrowing rate as the discount rate.
Lease payments included in the measurement of the lease liability comprise:
• fixed payments, including in-substance fixed payments less any incentives
receivable;
• variable lease payments that depend on an index or a rate, initially measured
using the index or rate as at the commencement date;
• amounts expected to be payable under a residual value guarantee;
• the exercise price under a purchase option that the Group is reasonably
certain to exercise; and
• penalties for early termination of a lease unless the Group is reasonably
certain not to terminate early.
113
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(e) Leases (cont’d)
(ii) Recognition and initial measurement (cont’d)
(a) As a lessee (cont’d)
The Group excludes variable lease payments that linked to future performance or
usage of the underlying asset from the lease liability. Instead, these payments are
recognised in the income statements in the period in which the performance or use
occurs.
The Group has elected not to recognise right-of-use assets and lease liabilities
for short-term leases that have a lease term of 12 months or less and leases of
low-value assets. The Group recognises the lease payments associated with these
leases as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term.
(b) As a lessor
When the Group acts as a lessor, it determines at lease inception whether each
lease is a finance lease or an operating lease.
To classify each lease, the Group makes an overall assessment of whether the lease
transfers substantially all of the risks and rewards incidental to ownership of the
underlying asset. If this is the case, then the lease is a finance lease; if not, then it
is an operating lease.
If an arrangement contains lease and non-lease components, the Group applies
MFRS 15 to allocate the consideration in the contract based on the stand-alone
selling prices.
When the Group is an intermediate lessor, it accounts for its interests in the head
lease and the sublease separately. It assesses the lease classification of a sublease
with reference to the right-of-use asset arising from the head lease, not with
reference to the underlying asset. If a head lease is a short-term lease to which the
Group applies the exemption described above, then it classifies the sublease as an
operating lease.
(iii) Subsequent measurement
(a) As a lessee
The right-of-use asset is subsequently depreciated using the straight-line method
from the commencement date to the earlier of the end of the useful life of the right-
of-use asset or the end of the lease term. The estimated useful lives of right-of-use
assets are determined on the same basis as those of property, plant and equipment.
In addition, the right-of-use asset is periodically reduced by impairment losses, if
any, and adjusted for certain remeasurements of the lease liability.
114 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(e) Leases (cont’d)
(iii) Subsequent measurement (cont’d)
(a) As a lessee (cont’d)
The lease liability is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method.
It is remeasured when there is a change in future lease payments arising from a
change in an index or rate, if there is a revision of in-substance fixed lease payments,
if there is a change in the Group’s estimate of the amount expected to be payable
under a residual value guarantee, or if the Group changes its assessment of whether
it will exercise a purchase, extension or termination option.
When the lease liability is remeasured, a corresponding adjustment is made to the
carrying amount of the right-of-use asset, or is recorded in the income statements if
the carrying amount of the right-of-use asset has been reduced to zero.
(b) As a lessor
The Group recognises lease payments received under operating leases as income
on a straight-line basis over the lease term as part of “other income”.
(f) Intangible assets
(i) Computer software
Computer software acquired by the Group is stated at cost less any accumulated
amortisation and any accumulated impairment losses.
The cost capitalised includes expenditures that are directly attributable to the acquisition
of the software licenses and any other development costs directly attributable to the
preparation of the computer software for its intended use.
(ii) Subsequent expenditure
Subsequent expenditure on computer software is capitalised only when it increases the
future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which it relates. All other
expenditure is recognised in the income statements as incurred.
(iii) Amortisation
Amortisation of computer software is recognised in the income statements on a straight-
line basis over its estimated useful lives from the date that it is available for use.
The estimated useful life of computer software is 4 years.
Amortisation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at the end of each
reporting period and adjusted, if appropriate.
115
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(g) Investment properties
Investment properties carried at cost
Investment properties are properties which are owned or right-of-use asset held under a lease
contract to earn rental income or for capital appreciation or for both, but not for sale in the ordinary
course of business, use in the production or supply of goods or services or for administrative
purposes. Investment properties initially and subsequently measured at cost are accounted for
similarly to property, plant and equipment.
(h) Inventories
Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. The cost of inventories
is calculated using the weighted average cost formula, and includes expenditure incurred in
acquiring the inventories, production or conversion costs and other costs incurred in bringing
them to their existing location and condition. In the case of work-in-progress and finished goods,
cost includes an appropriate share of production overheads based on normal operating capacity.
Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the
estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs necessary to make the sale.
(i) Asset held for sale
Non-current assets that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale or distribution to
owners rather than through continuing use, are classified as held for sale.
Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets are remeasured in accordance with
the Group’s accounting policies. Thereafter generally the assets are measured at the lower of
their carrying amount and fair value less costs of disposal.
(j) Biological assets
Biological assets comprising of parent stock, hatching eggs and broiler inventories are measured
on initial recognition and at the end of each financial year, at fair value less costs to sell. Cost to
sell include the incremental selling costs, including estimated costs of transport but excludes
finance costs and income taxes.
A gain or loss arising on initial recognition of a biological asset at fair value less costs to sell
and from a change in fair value less costs to sell of a biological asset is included in the income
statements for the period in which it arises.
116 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(k) Cash and cash equivalents
Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, balances and deposits with banks and highly
liquid investments which have an insignificant risk of changes in fair value with original maturities
of three months or less, and are used by the Group and the Company in the management of their
short term commitments.
(l) Impairment
(i) Financial assets
The Group and the Company recognise loss allowances for expected credit losses
(“ECLs”) on financial assets measured at amortised cost. Expected credit losses are a
probability-weighted estimate of credit losses.
The Group and the Company measure loss allowances for trade receivables at an amount
equal to lifetime expected credit loss.
When determining whether the credit risk of a financial asset has increased significantly
since initial recognition and when estimating expected credit loss, the Group and the
Company consider reasonable and supportable information that is relevant and available
without undue cost or effort. This includes both quantitative and qualitative information
and analysis, based on the Group’s historical experience and informed credit assessment
and including forward-looking information, where available.
Lifetime expected credit losses are the expected credit losses that result from all possible
default events over the expected life of the asset, while 12-month expected credit losses
are the portion of expected credit losses that result from default events that are possible
within the 12 months after the reporting date. The maximum period considered when
estimating expected credit losses is the maximum contractual period over which the
Group and the Company are exposed to credit risk.
The Group and the Company estimate the expected credit losses on trade receivables
using a provision matrix with reference to historical credit loss experience.
An impairment loss in respect of financial assets measured at amortised cost is recognised
in the income statements and the carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use
of an allowance account.
At each reporting date, the Group and the Company assess whether financial assets
carried at amortised cost is credit-impaired. A financial asset is credit impaired when one
or more events that have a detrimental impact on the estimated future cash flows of the
financial asset have occurred.
117
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(l) Impairment (cont’d)
(i) Financial assets (cont’d)
The gross carrying amount of a financial asset is written off (either partially or full) to the
extent that there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the
Group or the Company determines that the debtor does not have assets or sources of
income that could generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the
write-off. However, financial assets that are written off could still be subject to enforcement
activities in order to comply with the Group’s or the Company’s procedures for recovery
of amounts due.
(ii) Other assets
The carrying amounts of other assets (except for deferred tax assets, inventories, biological
assets and non-current assets (or disposal groups) classified as held for sale) are reviewed
at the end of each reporting period to determine whether there is any indication of
impairment. If any such indication exists, then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated.
For the purpose of impairment testing, assets are grouped together into the smallest group
of assets that generates cash inflows from continuing use that are largely independent of
the cash inflows of other assets or cash-generating units.
The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in
use and its fair value less costs of disposal. In assessing value in use, the estimated future
cash flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects
current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset
or cash-generating unit.
An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of an asset or its related cash-
generating unit exceeds its estimated recoverable amount.
Impairment losses are recognised in the income statements. Impairment losses recognised
in respect of cash-generating units are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any
goodwill allocated to the cash-generating unit (group of cash-generating units) and then
to reduce the carrying amounts of the other assets in the cash-generating unit (groups of
cash-generating units) on a pro rata basis.
Impairment losses recognised in prior periods are assessed at the end of each reporting
period for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment
loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the
recoverable amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. An impairment loss is
reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying
amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no
impairment loss had been recognised. Reversals of impairment losses are credited to the
income statements in the financial year in which the reversals are recognised.
118 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(m) Equity instruments
Instruments classified as equity are measured at cost on initial recognition and are not remeasured
subsequently.
(i) Issue expenses
Costs directly attributable to the issue of instruments classified as equity are recognised
as a deduction from equity.
(ii) Ordinary shares
Ordinary shares are classified as equity.
(n) Compound ﬁnancial instruments
A compound financial instrument is a non-derivative financial instrument that contains both a
liability and an equity component.
Compound financial instruments issued by the Group comprise convertible notes that can be
converted to share capital at the option of the holder, when the number of shares to be issued
does not vary with changes in their fair value.
The proceeds are first allocated to the liability component, determined based on the fair value of
a similar liability that does not have a conversion feature or similar associated equity component.
The residual amount is allocated as the equity component. Any directly attributable transaction
costs are allocated to the liability and equity components in proportion to their initial carrying
amounts.
Subsequent to initial recognition, the liability component of a compound financial instrument
is measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. The equity component of a
compound financial instrument is not remeasured subsequent to initial recognition.
Interest and losses and gains relating to the financial liability are recognised in the income
statements. On conversion, the financial liability is reclassified to equity; no gain or loss is
recognised on conversion.
(o) Employee beneﬁts
(i) Short-term employee beneﬁts
Short-term employee benefit obligations in respect of salaries, annual bonuses, paid
annual leave and sick leave are measured on an undiscounted basis and are expensed as
the related service is provided.
119
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(o) Employee beneﬁts (cont’d)
(i) Short-term employee beneﬁts (cont’d)
A liability is recognised for the amount expected to be paid under short-term cash bonus
or profit-sharing plans if the Group has a present legal or constructive obligation to pay
this amount as a result of past service provided by the employee and the obligation can
be estimated reliably.
(ii) State plans
The Group’s contributions to statutory pension funds are charged to the income statements
in the financial year to which they relate. Once the contributions have been paid, the
Company has no further payment obligations.
(p) Revenue and other income
(i) Revenue
Revenue is measured based on the consideration specified in a contract with a customer
in exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected
on behalf of third parties. The Group or the Company recognises revenue when (or as) it
transfers control over a product or service to customer. An asset is transferred when (or
as) the customer obtains control of the asset.
The Group or the Company transfers control of a good or service at a point in time unless
one of the following over time criteria is met:
(a) the customer simultaneously receives and consumes the benefits provided as the
Group or the Company performs;
(b) the Group’s or the Company’s performance creates or enhances an asset that the
customer controls as the asset is created or enhanced; or
(c) the Group’s or the Company’s performance does not create an asset with an
alternative use and the Group or the Company has an enforceable right to payment
for performance completed to date.
(ii) Rental income
Rental income from investment property is recognised in the income statements on a
straight-line basis over the term of the lease. Rental income from sub-leased property is
recognised as “other income”.
120 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(p) Revenue and other income (cont’d)
(iii) Dividend income
Dividend income is recognised in the income statements on the date that the Group’s or
the Company’s right to receive payment is established.
(iv) Interest income
Interest income is recognised as it accrues, using the effective interest method in the
income statements.
(q) Borrowing costs
General and specific borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, construction or
production of qualifying assets, which are assets that necessarily take a substantial period of
time to get ready for their intended use or sale, are capitalised as part of the cost of those assets,
until such time as the assets are substantially ready for their intended use or sale.
The capitalisation of borrowing costs as part of the cost of a qualifying asset commences when
expenditure for the asset is being incurred, borrowing costs are being incurred and activities that
are necessary to prepare the asset for its intended use or sale are in progress. Capitalisation
of borrowing costs is suspended or ceases when substantially all the activities necessary to
prepare the qualifying asset for its intended use or sale are interrupted or completed.
All other borrowing costs are recognised in income statements in the period in which they are
incurred.
(r) Income tax
Income tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and deferred tax are
recognised in the income statements except to the extent that it relates to items recognised
directly in equity or other comprehensive income.
Current tax is the expected tax payable or receivable on the taxable income or loss for the year,
using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period, and any
adjustment to tax payable in respect of previous financial years.
Deferred tax is recognised using the liability method, providing for temporary differences between
the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities in the balance sheet and their tax bases. Deferred
tax is not recognised for the following temporary differences: the initial recognition of goodwill,
the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in a transaction that is not a business combination
and that affects neither accounting nor taxable profits or loss. Deferred tax is measured at the
tax rates that are expected to be applied to the temporary differences when they reverse, based
on the laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period.
121
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(r) Income tax (cont’d)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if there is a legally enforceable right to offset current
tax liabilities and assets, and they relate to income taxes levied by the same tax authority on the
same taxable entity, or on different tax entities, but they intend to settle current tax liabilities and
assets on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be realised simultaneously.
A deferred tax asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits
will be available against which temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are
reviewed at the end of each reporting period and are reduced to the extent that it is no longer
probable that the related tax benefit will be realised.
Unutilised reinvestment allowance, being tax incentives that is not a tax base of an asset, is
recognised as a deferred tax asset to the extent that it is probable that the future taxable profits
will be available against the unutilised tax incentive can be utilised.
(s) Earnings per ordinary share
The Group presents basic earnings per share data for its ordinary shares (“EPS”).
Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company
by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period.
Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders
and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding, adjusted for own shares held,
for the effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares, which comprise redeemable convertible
unsecured loan stock (“RCULS”) and Warrants.
(t) Operating segments
An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages in business activities from
which it may earn revenues and incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate
to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. Operating segment results are
reviewed regularly by the chief operating decision maker, to make decisions about resources
to be allocated to the segment and to assess its performance, and for which discrete financial
information is available.
(u) Contingencies
Contingent liabilities
Where it is not probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required, or the amount
cannot be estimated reliably, the obligation is not recognised in the statements of financial position
and is disclosed as a contingent liability, unless the probability of outflow of economic benefits is
remote. Possible obligations, whose existence will only be confirmed by the occurrence or non-
occurrence of one or more future events, are also disclosed as contingent liabilities unless the
probability of outflow of economic benefits is remote.
122 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
2. Signiﬁcant accounting policies (cont’d)
(v) Fair value measurements
Fair value of an asset or a liability, except for share-based payment and lease transactions, is
determined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in
an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. The measurement
assumes that the transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes place either in the
principal market or in the absence of a principal market, in the most advantageous market.
For non-financial asset, the fair value measurement takes into account a market participant’s
ability to generate economic benefits by using the asset in its highest and best use or by selling
it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use.
When measuring the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Group uses observable market data
as far as possible. Fair value is categorised into different levels in a fair value hierarchy based on
the input used in the valuation technique as follows:
Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the
Group can access at the measurement date.
Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the
asset or liability, either directly or indirectly.
Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (that is,
unobservable inputs).
The Group recognises transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy as of the date of the
event or change in circumstances that caused the transfers.
123
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
3. Property, plant and equipment
Plant,
Buildings machinery, Capital
and ﬁxtures and Motor work-in-
Group Land jetty equipment vehicles progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2019 31,682 509,993 596,301 43,033 326,686 1,507,695
Additions - 5,032 10,169 3,146 194,830 213,177
Disposals - - (209) (856) - (1,065)
Write-off - (2,674) (8,136) (742) (54) (11,606)
Transfers - 44,723 60,114 1,541 (106,378) -
Effect of movements in
exchange rates - (731) (1,207) (96) (9) (2,043)
At 31 December 2019 /
1 January 2020 31,682 556,343 657,032 46,026 415,075 1,706,158
Additions - 9,902 37,207 3,309 19,337 69,755
Disposals - - (199) (389) - (588)
Write-off - (414) (2,187) (4) - (2,605)
Transfers - 216,852 108,788 1,739 (327,379) -
Effect of movements in
exchange rates - (1,290) (2,159) (199) (46) (3,694)
At 31 December 2020 31,682 781,393 798,482 50,482 106,987 1,769,026
124 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
3. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)
Plant,
Buildings machinery, Capital
and ﬁxtures and Motor work-in-
Group Land jetty equipment vehicles progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Depreciation and
impairment loss
At 1 January 2019
Accumulated depreciation - 165,240 363,515 34,892 - 563,647
Accumulated impairment loss - 3 1,209 - - 1,212
- 165,243 364,724 34,892 - 564,859
Depreciation for the year - 17,532 44,422 2,583 - 64,537
Disposals - - (179) (840) - (1,019)
Write-off - (2,663) (7,433) (742) - (10,838)
Write-off – impairment loss - - (612) - - (612)
Effect of movements in
exchange rates - (306) (716) (59) - (1,081)
At 31 December 2019/
1 January 2020
Accumulated depreciation - 179,803 399,609 35,834 - 615,246
Accumulated impairment loss - 3 597 - - 600
- 179,806 400,206 35,834 - 615,846
Depreciation for the year - 21,667 42,252 3,436 - 67,355
Disposals - - (198) (389) - (587)
Write-off - (244) (1,634) (3) - (1,881)
Effect of movements in
exchange rates - (551) (1,325) (109) - (1,985)
At 31 December 2020
Accumulated depreciation - 200,675 438,704 38,769 - 678,148
Accumulated impairment loss - 3 597 - - 600
- 200,678 439,301 38,769 - 678,748
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2019 31,682 344,750 231,577 8,141 326,686 942,836
At 31 December 2019/
1 January 2020 31,682 376,537 256,826 10,192 415,075 1,090,312
At 31 December 2020 31,682 580,715 359,181 11,713 106,987 1,090,278
125
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
3. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)
Plant,
machinery, Capital
Buildings ﬁxtures and Motor work-in-
Company and jetty equipment vehicles progress Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2019 204,794 195,244 12,747 25,938 438,723
Additions 973 4,054 125 25,504 30,656
Disposals - (76) (194) - (270)
Write-off - (269) (647) (53) (969)
Transfers 3,258 7,157 - (10,415) -
At 31 December 2019/
1 January 2020 209,025 206,110 12,031 40,974 468,140
Additions 5 2,792 642 13,096 16,535
Disposals - (143) (304) - (447)
Write-off - (326) (2) - (328)
Transfers - 2,455 - (2,455) -
At 31 December 2020 209,030 210,888 12,367 51,615 483,900
Depreciation
At 1 January 2019 56,888 128,608 11,895 - 197,391
Depreciation for the year 4,147 13,798 355 - 18,300
Disposals - (66) (194) - (260)
Write-off - (240) (647) - (887)
At 31 December 2019/
1 January 2020 61,035 142,100 11,409 - 214,544
Depreciation for the year 4,169 11,267 302 - 15,738
Disposals - (120) (304) - (424)
Write-off - (308) (2) - (310)
At 31 December 2020 65,204 152,939 11,405 - 229,548
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2019 147,906 66,636 852 25,938 241,332
At 31 December 2019/
1 January 2020 147,990 64,010 622 40,974 253,596
At 31 December 2020 143,826 57,949 962 51,615 254,352
126 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
3. Property, plant and equipment (cont’d)
3.1 Included in additions of the Group are interest expense capitalised amounting to RM2,358,000
(2019: RM12,277,000).
3.2 During the financial year ended 31 December 2020, the Group and the Company conducted an
operational review and as a result, there was a change in the expected useful lives of certain
assets. The effect of these changes on depreciation expense, in current and future periods is as
follows:
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 Later
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
(Decrease)/Increase in
depreciation expense (8,442) (7,931) (7,388) (5,756) (3,853) 33,370
Company
(Decrease)/Increase in
depreciation expense (2,289) (2,286) (2,226) (899) 528 7,172
4. Right-of-use assets
Leasehold
land Buildings Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
At 1 January 2019 41,962 7,151 49,113
Additions 86 188 274
Depreciation for the year (1,133) (2,315) (3,448)
Transfer to asset classified as held for sale (14,821) - (14,821)
Effect of movements in exchange rates (31) - (31)
At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 26,063 5,024 31,087
Additions 15 2,566 2,581
Depreciation for the year (896) (2,306) (3,202)
Effect of movements in exchange rates (140) 94 (46)
At 31 December 2020 25,042 5,378 30,420
127
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
4. Right-of-use assets (cont’d)
Leasehold
land Buildings Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Company
At 1 January 2019 19,468 5,357 24,825
Additions - 151 151
Depreciation for the year (365) (1,763) (2,128)
Transfer to asset classified as held for sale (14,821) - (14,821)
At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 4,282 3,745 8,027
Additions 503 1,594 2,097
Depreciation for the year (207) (1,692) (1,899)
At 31 December 2020 4,578 3,647 8,225
The Group and the Company lease buildings for its office space, warehouse and staff quarters that
typically run for a period of one to five years, with an option to renew the lease after that date.
Legal titles to certain leasehold land of the Group with a carrying amount of RM5,950,000
(2019: RM6,059,000) have yet to be received from the state authorities.
4.1 Extension options
Some leases of office space, warehouse and staff quarters contain extension options exercisable
by the Group. Where applicable, the Group seeks to include extension options in new leases to
provide operational flexibility. The extension options held are exercisable only by the Group and
not by the lessors. The Group assesses at lease commencement whether it is reasonably certain
to exercise the extension options. The Group reassesses whether it is reasonably certain to
exercise the options if there is a significant event or significant change in circumstances within
its control.
As at 31 December 2020, the Group has included all potential future cash flows of exercising the
extension options in the lease liabilities.
4.2 Signiﬁcant judgements and assumptions in relation to lease
The Group assesses at lease commencement by applying significant judgement whether it
is reasonably certain to exercise the extension options. Group entities consider all facts and
circumstances including their past practice and any cost that will be incurred to change the asset
if an option to extend is not taken, to help them determine the lease term.
The Group also applied judgement and assumptions in determining the incremental borrowing
rate of the respective leases. Group entities first determine the closest available borrowing rates
before using significant judgement to determine the adjustments required to reflect the term,
security, value or economic environment of the respective leases.
128 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
5. Intangible assets
Computer software
Group Company
RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2019 11,906 5,962
Additions 135 129
Effect of movements in exchange rates (30) -
At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 12,011 6,091
Additions 2,989 81
Effect of movements in exchange rates (59) -
At 31 December 2020 14,941 6,172
Amortisation
At 1 January 2019 9,329 5,454
Amortisation for the year 977 205
Effect of movements in exchange rates (28) -
At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 10,278 5,659
Amortisation for the year 1,055 236
Effect of movements in exchange rates (48) -
At 31 December 2020 11,285 5,895
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2019 2,577 508
At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 1,733 432
At 31 December 2020 3,656 277
5.1 Intangible assets
Intangible assets principally comprise expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisition
of software licences and any other development costs directly attributable to the preparation of
the computer software for its intended use.
5.2 Amortisation
The amortisation is allocated to the income statements on a straight-line basis over the intangible
assets’ estimated useful lives.
129
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
6. Investment properties
Freehold
land Buildings Total
Group RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Cost
At 1 January 2019/31 December 2019/
1 January 2020/31 December 2020 3,943 2,836 6,779
Depreciation
At 1 January 2019 - 1,669 1,669
Depreciation for the year - 57 57
At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 - 1,726 1,726
Depreciation for the year - 56 56
At 31 December 2020 - 1,782 1,782
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2019 3,943 1,167 5,110
At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 3,943 1,110 5,053
At 31 December 2020 3,943 1,054 4,997
Company
Cost
At 1 January 2019/31 December 2019/
1 January 2020/31 December 2020 3,672 2,836 6,508
Depreciation
At 1 January 2019 - 1,669 1,669
Depreciation for the year - 57 57
At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 - 1,726 1,726
Depreciation for the year - 56 56
At 31 December 2020 - 1,782 1,782
Carrying amounts
At 1 January 2019 3,672 1,167 4,839
At 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 3,672 1,110 4,782
At 31 December 2020 3,672 1,054 4,726
130 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
6. Investment properties (cont’d)
The following are recognised in the income statements in respect of investment properties:
Group Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Lease income 356 363 387 394
Direct operating expenses:
- income generating investment
properties 45 44 52 52
Fair value information
Fair value of investment properties are categorised as follows:
Group Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Level 3
Freehold land and buildings 123,485 123,485 118,855 118,855
Level 3 fair value
The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of fair values within
Level 3, as well as the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation models.
Description of valuation
technique and inputs used
Signiﬁcant unobservable
inputs
Inter-relationship between
signiﬁcant unobservable
inputs and fair value
measurements
Comparison method of
valuation which entails
comparing the property with
similar properties that were
sold recently and those that
are currently offered for sale in
the vicinity.
Recent transactions of similar
properties at or near reporting
period with similar land usage,
land size and location.
The estimated fair value
would increase/(decrease) if
recent transactions of similar
properties at or near reporting
period with similar land usage
and land size were higher/
(lower).
Valuation processes applied by the Group for Level 3 fair value
The fair value of investment properties is estimated by the Directors using the comparison method. The
comparison method entails critical analysis of recent evidences of values of comparable properties in
the neighbourhood and making adjustment for differences in location, size and shape of land, age and
condition of building, tenure, title restrictions if any and other relevant characteristics.
131
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
7. Investments in subsidiaries
Company
2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000
At cost
Unquoted shares 393,395 393,395
Less: Accumulated impairment losses (2,026) (2,026)
391,369 391,369
The subsidiaries, all of which are incorporated in Malaysia except as disclosed otherwise, comprise:
Effective
ownership
interest
Name of subsidiary Principal activities 2020
%
2019
%
Dindings Soya & Multifeeds
Sdn. Berhad
Manufacture and sale of animal feeds
and sale of related raw materials
100 100
Premier Grain Sdn. Bhd. Trading in corn, soybean meal and
other feed ingredients
51 51
Dindings Poultry Development
Centre Sdn. Bhd.
Breeding and sale of day-old chicks,
poultry grow-out farm, purchase
and contract farming activities and
manufacture and sale of animal feeds
and sale of related raw materials
100^ 100^
Dindings Poultry Processing
Sdn. Bhd.
Processing and sale of poultry
products
100 100
Vimaflour Ltd *
(incorporated in Vietnam)
Milling and selling wheat flour
together with its allied products
70 70
MFM International Ltd. #
(incorporated in the British
Virgin Islands)
Investment holding 100 100
MFM Property Sdn. Bhd. Investment holding 100 100
MFM Feedmill Sdn. Bhd. Dormant 100 100
Semakin Dinamik Sdn. Bhd. Dormant 100 100
MFM Ltd. Dormant 100 100
132 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
Effective
ownership
interest
Name of subsidiary Principal activities 2020
%
2019
%
Dindings Broiler Breeder Farm
Sdn. Bhd.
Dormant 100 100
Syarikat Pengangkutan Lumut
Sdn. Bhd.
Dormant 100 100
Muda Fibre Manufacturing Sdn. Bhd. Dormant 60 60
Dindings Grand Parent Farm
Sdn. Bhd.
Dormant 100 100
AVIOTA Sdn. Bhd. Dormant 100 100
Subsidiary of MFM
International Ltd.
Mekong Flour Mills Ltd.*
(incorporated in Vietnam)
Milling and selling wheat flour
together with its allied products
100 100
* Audited by other member firms of KPMG International
# Not audited by member firms of KPMG PLT
^ One (1) unit of ordinary share is held by a third party which has no voting rights nor entitled to any
dividends, rights, allotments or other forms of distribution.
7.1 Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries
The subsidiaries’ information are aggregated based on their operating segment and the principal
activities and the proportion of ownership interest held by non-controlling interests are disclosed
in the above. The Group’s subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (“NCI”) are as
follows:
Other
Subsidiaries subsidiaries
with with
material immaterial
NCI NCI Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2020
Carrying amount of NCI 89,089 4,959 94,048
Comprehensive income/(expense) allocated to NCI 14,006 (4) 14,002
7. Investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)
133
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
7. Investments in subsidiaries (cont’d)
7.1 Non-controlling interests in subsidiaries (cont’d)
Other
Subsidiaries subsidiaries
with with
material immaterial
NCI NCI Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2019
Carrying amount of NCI 81,723 4,963 86,686
Comprehensive income/(expense) allocated
to NCI 16,783 (4) 16,779
Subsidiaries with
material NCI
2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000
Summarised ﬁnancial information before
intra-group elimination
As at 31 December
Non-current assets 66,521 73,095
Current assets 584,725 579,846
Current liabilities (380,661) (406,485)
Net assets 270,585 246,456
Year ended 31 December
Revenue 1,237,602 1,178,166
Profit for the year 50,159 52,599
Total comprehensive income 46,262 50,694
Cash flows from operating activities 49,542 75,594
Cash flows used in investing activities (69,126) (31,921)
Cash flows (used in)/from financing activities (6,527) 788
Net (decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (26,111) 44,461
Dividends paid to NCI 6,640 4,316
134 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
8. Investment in a joint venture
Group Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
At cost
Unquoted shares 192,865 154,086 192,865 154,086
Share of post-acquisition reserves (28,127) (23,174) - -
164,738 130,912 192,865 154,086
PT Bungasari Flour Mills Indonesia (“PT Bungasari”), the only joint venture in which the Group
participates, is principally engaged in the milling and selling of wheat flour together with its allied
products in Indonesia.
During the year, the Company increased its investment in PT Bungasari by subscribing additional 9,300
shares with a nominal value of IDR9,390,000 per share based on the proportionate shareholding for a
cash consideration of RM38,779,000.
The following table summarises the financial information of PT Bungasari, as adjusted for any differences
in accounting policies. The table also reconciles the summarised financial information to the carrying
amount of the Group’s interest in PT Bungasari, which is accounted for using the equity method.
Group
2020 2019
% %
Percentage of ownership interest 30 30
RM’000 RM’000
Summarised ﬁnancial information
As at 31 December
Non-current assets 740,479 406,357
Current assets 538,491 648,094
Non-current liabilities (81,869) (99,066)
Current liabilities (647,974) (519,011)
Net assets 549,127 436,374
Year ended 31 December
Revenue 1,148,037 1,180,264
Profit for the year 3,225 47,070
135
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
8. Investment in a joint venture (cont’d)
Group
RM’000 RM’000
Reconciliation of net assets to carrying amount
as at 31 December
Group’s share of net assets 164,738 130,912
Carrying amount in the balance sheet 164,738 130,912
Group’s share of results for year ended 31 December
Group’s share of profit from continuing operations 967 14,121
Contingent liabilities
The Company has provided proportionate corporate guarantees of up to USD18.6 million (2019:
USD12.6 million) for financing facilities granted by financial institutions to the joint venture company,
PT Bungasari. As at 31 December 2020, the outstanding loans proportionately amounted to USD9.2
million (2019: USD7.0 million).
In 2017, the Indonesian tax authority having performed tax audit in relation to its value-added tax (“VAT”)
has issued a notification letter imposing a total sum of RM17.1 million (additional tax assessment of
RM8.55 million and penalty of RM8.55 million) on PT Bungasari on the basis of overclaimed VAT for the
year 2015. In 2018, the Indonesian tax authority has issued another notification letter imposing a total
sum of RM16.8 million (additional tax assessment of RM8.4 million and penalty of RM8.4 million) on PT
Bungasari on the basis of overclaimed VAT for the year 2016. In 2019, the Indonesian tax authority has
issued another notification letter imposing a total sum of RM20.3 million (additional tax assessment
of RM10.6 million and penalty of RM9.7 million) on PT Bungasari on the basis of overclaimed VAT for
the year 2017. The Group’s 30% share of the potential liabilities are RM5.1 million, RM5.0 million and
RM6.1 million for the years 2015, 2016 and 2017 respectively.
PT Bungasari submitted objection letter against the VAT notification letters, accompanied by a sum of
RM9.6 million payment to the tax authority.
In December 2020, the Tax Court in Indonesia ruled in favour of PT Bungasari for the years 2015 and
2016 and the overpayment in 2015 has been refunded in February 2021. Subsequently, the Director
General of Tax (Jakarta) filed a judiciary review at the Supreme Court to overturn the results of the Tax
Court for the years 2015 and 2016. The court case for year 2017 is still ongoing and the management is
confident that no additional provision is required at this juncture given that the court decision for years
2015 and 2016 were in favour of PT Bungasari.
136 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
9. Investment in an associate
Group
2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000
At cost
Unquoted shares 1,120 1,120
Share of post-acquisition reserves (70) (46)
1,050 1,074
Details of the associate are as follows:
Effective
Principal place of Nature ownership
Name of entity business/country of the interest
of incorporation relationship 2020 2019
% %
Freeman Properties Holding Ltd. Cambodia Investment 49 49
(Held through MFM Property Sdn. Bhd.)
10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities)
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following:
Assets Liabilities Net
2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Property, plant and
equipment - - (78,216) (51,948) (78,216) (51,948)
Right-of-use assets - - (2,693) (6,554) (2,693) (6,554)
Lease liabilities 1,018 1,076 - - 1,018 1,076
RCULS 4,637 5,758 - - 4,637 5,758
Provisions 8,905 7,101 - - 8,905 7,101
Reinvestment allowances 9,914 11,676 - - 9,914 11,676
Unabsorbed capital
allowances 54,148 24,534 - - 54,148 24,534
Tax loss carry-forwards 17,686 19,529 - - 17,686 19,529
Others 405 - (668) (4,065) (263) (4,065)
Tax assets/(liabilities) 96,713 69,674 (81,577) (62,567) 15,136 7,107
Set off of tax (78,242) (59,923) 78,242 59,923 - -
Net tax assets/(liabilities) 18,471 9,751 (3,335) (2,644) 15,136 7,107
137
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)
Recognised deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)
Assets Liabilities Net
2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Company
Property, plant and
equipment - - (19,988) (21,398) (19,988) (21,398)
Right-of-use assets - - (1,974) (1,926) (1,974) (1,926)
Lease liabilities 917 922 - - 917 922
RCULS 4,637 5,758 - - 4,637 5,758
Provisions 2,973 2,149 - - 2,973 2,149
Reinvestment allowances 9,914 11,676 - - 9,914 11,676
Unabsorbed capital
allowances - 3,156 - - - 3,156
Others 186 - - (2,981) 186 (2,981)
Tax assets/(liabilities) 18,627 23,661 (21,962) (26,305) (3,335) (2,644)
Set off of tax (18,627) (23,661) 18,627 23,661 - -
Net tax liabilities - - (3,335) (2,644) (3,335) (2,644)
Movement in temporary differences during the year
Recognised Recognised Recognised Recognised
in income directly in At in income directly in
At statements equity 31.12.2019/ statements equity At
1.1.2019 (Note 21) (Note 16) 1.1.2020 (Note 21) (Note 16) 31.12.2020
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Property, plant and
equipment (47,595) (4,353) - (51,948) (26,268) - (78,216)
Right-of-use assets - (6,554) - (6,554) 3,861 - (2,693)
Lease liabilities - 1,076 - 1,076 (58) - 1,018
RCULS - (395) 6,153 5,758 (1,086) (35) 4,637
Provisions 6,062 1,039 - 7,101 1,804 - 8,905
Reinvestment allowances 11,676 - - 11,676 (1,762) - 9,914
Unabsorbed capital
allowances 17,188 7,346 - 24,534 29,614 - 54,148
Tax loss carry-forwards 14,670 4,859 - 19,529 (1,843) - 17,686
Others (5,079) 1,014 - (4,065) 3,802 - (263)
(3,078) 4,032 6,153 7,107 8,064 (35) 15,136
138 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
10. Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (cont’d)
Movement in temporary differences during the year (cont’d)
Recognised Recognised Recognised Recognised
in income directly in At in income directly in
At statements equity 31.12.2019/ statements equity At
1.1.2019 (Note 21) (Note 16) 1.1.2020 (Note 21) (Note 16) 31.12.2020
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Company
Property, plant and
equipment (21,424) 26 - (21,398) 1,410 - (19,988)
Right-of-use assets - (1,926) - (1,926) (48) - (1,974)
Lease liabilities - 922 - 922 (5) - 917
RCULS - (395) 6,153 5,758 (1,086) (35) 4,637
Provisions 2,432 (283) - 2,149 824 - 2,973
Reinvestment allowances 11,676 - - 11,676 (1,762) - 9,914
Unabsorbed capital
allowances 7,327 (4,171) - 3,156 (3,156) - -
Others (3,112) 131 - (2,981) 3,167 - 186
(3,101) (5,696) 6,153 (2,644) (656) (35) (3,335)
Unrecognised deferred tax assets
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of the following temporary differences (stated
at gross):
Group
2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000
Unabsorbed capital allowances 1,443 1,487
Tax loss carry-forwards 60,778 3,082
Other deductible temporary differences (39) 385
62,182 4,954
The abovementioned deferred tax assets do not expire under the current tax legislation except for the
unutilised tax losses. Pursuant to the Amended Finance Bill 2018, the abovementioned tax loss carry-
forwards can only be carried forward up to 7 consecutive Years of Assessment as shown below:
Group
2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000
Year of assessment in which unutilised tax losses will expire:
- 2026 58,618 3,082
- 2027 - -
- 2028 2,160 -
60,778 3,082
Deferred tax assets have not been recognised in respect of these items because it is not probable that
future taxable profit will be available against which subsidiaries of the Group can utilise the benefits
therefrom.
139
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
11. Trade and other receivables, including derivatives
Group Company
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Trade receivables from
contracts with customers 344,983 354,836 71,773 76,625
Amount due from subsidiaries 11.1 - - 475,265 448,164
Other receivables 11.2 33,308 36,373 6,823 5,678
Deposits 2,032 2,363 913 1,130
Derivatives at fair value through
profit or loss:
- future and option contracts - 540 - -
380,323 394,112 554,774 531,597
11.1 Amount due from subsidiaries
The amount due from subsidiaries is unsecured, repayable on demand and interest bearing
(2019: interest bearing).
11.2 Other receivables
Included in other receivables of the Group are advances paid to suppliers of RM24,529,000
(2019: RM24,564,000) and interest receivable from the deposits placed with licensed banks of
RM4,391,000 (2019: RM3,422,000).
12. Inventories
Group Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Raw materials 338,480 435,371 42,299 88,815
Finished goods 54,162 41,586 6,886 7,982
Consumables 35,552 33,262 5,716 4,949
428,194 510,219 54,901 101,746
140 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
13. Biological assets
Group
2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000
Parent stock 21,245 25,845
Hatching eggs 6,128 5,084
Broiler inventories 21,213 25,931
48,586 56,860
The movement of biological assets can be analysed as follows:
Group
Parent Hatching Broiler
stock eggs inventories Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2020
At 1 January 25,845 5,084 25,931 56,860
Additions 30,007 85,913 401,228 517,148
Fair value measurement (3,429) 1,035 332 (2,062)
Depopulation (31,178) - - (31,178)
Hatched and placed as DOC - (63,823) - (63,823)
Sales - (22,081) (406,278) (428,359)
At 31 December 21,245 6,128 21,213 48,586
2019
At 1 January 18,167 9,557 27,182 54,906
Additions 30,453 90,652 469,915 591,020
Fair value measurement 7,867 (3,721) (5,236) (1,090)
Depopulation (30,642) - - (30,642)
Hatched and placed as DOC - (86,647) - (86,647)
Sales - (4,757) (465,930) (470,687)
At 31 December 25,845 5,084 25,931 56,860
In measuring the fair value of biological assets, management’s estimates and judgments are based on
the following assumptions:
• parent stocks are expected to have a lifespan of up to 65 weeks;
• the expected selling prices of broiler inventories and hatching eggs are based on management’s
estimate of the current market price of broilers, whereas the expected selling price of parent
stock is based on management’s estimate of the historical average market price of broilers,
adjusted for abnormal market movements;
• the costs expected to arise throughout the life of the broiler inventories and parent stocks are
based on management’s estimate of average feed costs and other estimated farm costs; and
• hatching eggs will be hatched into day-old-chick based on the expected hatchability and broiler
inventories are expected to be sold upon reaching saleable weight.
141
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
13. Biological assets (cont’d)
The following table shows the valuation technique used in the determination of the fair value of biological
assets and the significant unobservable inputs used in the valuation calculation:
Description of valuation
technique and inputs used
Signiﬁcant unobservable
inputs
Inter-relationship between
signiﬁcant unobservable
inputs and fair value
measurements
Parent stock
Thevaluationmethodconsiders
the expected day-old-chicks to
be produced and subsequently
reared to mature broiler for sale
after taking into account the
estimated mortality rate.
• Projected selling price
of broiler based on
management’s estimate
by referencing the
historical average adjusted
for abnormal market
movements.
• Management’s estimate of
incremental feed and other
variable costs expected to
be incurred throughout the
life cycle.
• The higher the projected
selling price, the higher the
fair value.
• The higher the incremental
costs, the lower the fair
value.
Hatching eggs
Thevaluationmethodconsiders
the expected day-old-chicks to
be hatched and subsequently
reared to mature broiler for sale
after taking into account the
estimated mortality rate.
• Projected selling price
of broiler based on
management’s estimate of
the current market price.
• Management’s estimate of
incremental feed and other
variable costs expected to
be incurred throughout the
life cycle.
• The higher the projected
selling price, the higher the
fair value.
• The higher the incremental
costs, the lower the fair
value.
Broiler inventories
The valuation method
considers the estimated
selling price, weight and the
mortality rate of the broiler.
• Projected selling price
of broiler based on
management’s estimate of
the current market price.
• Management’s estimate of
incremental feed and other
variable costs expected to
be incurred throughout the
life cycle.
• The higher the projected
selling price, the higher the
fair value.
• The higher the incremental
costs, the lower the fair
value.
142 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
13. Biological assets (cont’d)
Sensitivity analysis
Sensitivity analysis of the fair value of the biological assets to the possible changes in the key
assumptions are disclosed in the table below:
Effect on fair value of biological assets
Group
2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000
Projected selling price of broiler per kg:
- increased by 5% 23,241 27,282
- decreased by 5% (23,241) (27,282)
Number of day-old-chick produced:
- increased by 5% 1,724 2,127
- decreased by 5% (1,724) (2,127)
Feed cost per kg:
- increased by 5% (13,398) (13,958)
- decreased by 5% 13,398 13,958
14. Cash and cash equivalents
Group Company
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Deposits placed with
licensed banks 344,207 268,350 421 414
Cash and bank balances 38,013 43,572 10,987 15,645
Liquid investments 14.1 22,407 18,831 22,407 18,831
404,627 330,753 33,815 34,890
14.1 Liquid investments
The liquid investments represent investment in money market funds which have insignificant risk
of change in value of the instruments.
143
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
15. Asset classiﬁed as held for sale
A leasehold land previously classified as the right-of use assets was presented as an asset held for sale
in prior year following the commitment of the Company’s plan to sell the asset on 21 October 2019. The
leasehold land was sold during the year.
Group and Company
2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000
Asset classiﬁed as held for sale
Leasehold land - 14,821
The carrying value of the asset held for sale in prior year was the same as its carrying value before it
was being reclassified from right-of-use assets.
16. Capital and reserves
Share capital
Group and Company
Number Number
Note Amount of shares Amount of shares
2020 2020 2019 2019
RM’000 ’000 RM’000 ’000
Issued and fully paid:
Ordinary shares
At 1 January 527,571 1,004,095 377,501 550,285
Issuance of Rights Shares 16.1 - - 102,007 220,114
Issuance of bonus shares - - - 137,571
Conversion of RCULS 3,094 6,187 48,062 96,124
Exercise of Warrants - - 1 1
At 31 December 530,665 1,010,282 527,571 1,004,095
Ordinary shares
The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time, and are
entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company.
144 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)
16.1 Issuance of Rights Shares
On 28 January 2019, the Renounceable Rights Issue of 220,113,744 new ordinary shares (“Rights
Shares”) on the basis of two (2) Rights Shares for every five (5) existing ordinary shares together
with 55,028,376 new ordinary shares (“Bonus Shares B”) on the basis of one (1) Bonus Share
B for every four (4) Rights Shares subscribed and 55,028,376 free detachable warrants (“Free
Warrants B”) on the basis of one (1) Free Warrant B for every four (4) Rights Shares subscribed,
at an issue price of RM0.50 per Rights Share has been completed following the listings and
quotation on the Main Market of Bursa Securities.
RM’000
As at 1 January 2019 -
Proceeds from issuance of Rights Shares 110,057
Transaction costs (896)
Net proceeds 109,161
Amount ascribed to issuance of Warrants (7,154)
102,007
Redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks (“RCULS”)
Group and Company
2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000
RCULS - Equity portion 82,479 85,462
RCULS - Liability portion
Non-current 14,234 18,500
Current 5,087 5,495
19,321 23,995
101,800 109,457
On 28 January 2019, the Renounceable Rights Issue of RM165,084,641 in nominal value of 5-year
5% RCULS at 100% of its nominal value of RM1.00 on the basis of three (3) RCULS for every ten (10)
existing ordinary shares, together with 82,542,291 Bonus Shares A on the basis of one (1) Bonus Share
A for every two (2) RCULS subscribed and 82,542,291 Free Warrants A on the basis of one (1) Free
Warrant A for every two (2) RCULS subscribed has been completed following the listings and quotation
on the Main Market of Bursa Securities.
The salient features of the RCULS are as follows:
(i) The coupon rate for the RCULS is 5% per annum, payable semi-annually in arrears prior to
conversion of the RCULS;
(ii) The conversion price for the RCULS has been fixed at RM0.50 each (“Conversion Price”) with
the conversion ratio of 2 ordinary shares for every RCULS with a nominal value of RM1.00
surrendered;
145
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)
Redeemable convertible unsecured loan stocks (“RCULS”) (cont’d)
The salient features of the RCULS are as follows: (cont’d)
(iii) The new ordinary shares to be issued upon conversion of the RCULS will, upon allotment and
issue, rank equally in all respects with the then existing ordinary shares, except that they shall
not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and any other distributions of which the
entitlement date is before the date of allotment of the new ordinary shares;
(iv) The RCULS holder is entitled to exercise the right of conversion from date of issuance up to
24 January 2024 (“Maturity Date”);
(v) The Company may redeem the outstanding RCULS (if not earlier converted) in full on the Maturity
Date in cash at 100% of its nominal value plus all accrued coupon of such RCULS up to the
Maturity Date subject to an irrevocable prior written notice is being served no less than 30 days
or such other period as mutually agreed before the Maturity Date; and
(vi) All outstanding RCULS which have not been earlier converted or redeemed on the Maturity Date,
shall be mandatorily converted into fully paid new ordinary shares at the Conversion Price on the
Maturity Date.
Group and Company
Equity Liability
component component Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
As at 1 January 2019 - - -
Proceeds from issuance of RCULS 129,057 36,028 165,085
Transaction costs (1,345) - (1,345)
Net proceeds 127,712 36,028 163,740
Conversion of RCULS to share capital* (37,673) (10,389) (48,062)
Amount ascribed to issuance of Warrants (10,730) - (10,730)
RCULS coupon payment - (2,953) (2,953)
Interest expense on RCULS - 1,309 1,309
Deferred tax effect (Note 10):
- on issuance 8,647 - 8,647
- on conversion (2,494) - (2,494)
As at 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 85,462 23,995 109,457
Conversion of RCULS to share capital# (2,948) (146) (3,094)
RCULS coupon payment - (5,803) (5,803)
Interest expense on RCULS - 1,275 1,275
Deferred tax effect (Note 10):
- on conversion (35) - (35)
As at 31 December 2020 82,479 19,321 101,800
* In the previous year, 96,123,820 new ordinary shares amounting to RM48,061,910 were issued
resulting from the conversion of 48,061,910 units of RCULS at the conversion price of RM0.50 each.
# During the year, 6,187,100 new ordinary shares amounting to RM3,093,550 were issued resulting
from the conversion of 3,093,550 units of RCULS at the conversion price of RM0.50 each.
As at 31 December 2020, 113,929,181 RCULS remained unconverted.
146 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
16. Capital and reserves (cont’d)
Warrant reserve
Group and Company
Number of Number of
Amount warrants Amount warrants
2020 2020 2019 2019
RM’000 ’000 RM’000 ’000
At 1 January 17,884 137,570 - -
Issued during the year - - 17,884 137,571
Exercised during the year - - * (1)
At 31 December 17,884 137,570 17,884 137,570
* 1,300 units of warrants were exercised
On 28 January 2019, 137,570,667 Warrants were issued pursuant to the Rights Issue of Rights Shares
and RCULS (“Rights Issue”).
The warrant reserve comprises the fair value of the free detachable warrants arising from the Rights
Issue.
The Warrants are constituted by the deed poll dated 3 December 2018 (“Deed Poll”).
The salient features of the Warrants are as follows:
(i) Each Warrant entitles the Warrant holder to subscribe for one (1) new ordinary share in the
Company at the exercise price of RM0.68 during the 5-year period expiring on 23 January 2024
(“Exercise Period”), subject to further adjustments in accordance with provisions of the Deed
Poll;
(ii) At the expiry of the Exercise Period, any Warrants which have not been exercised shall
automatically lapse and cease to be valid for any purpose; and
(iii) The new ordinary shares to be issued upon exercise of the Warrants will, upon allotment and
issue, rank equally in all respects with the then existing ordinary shares, except that they shall
not be entitled to any dividends, rights, allotments and any other distributions of which the
entitlement date is before the date of allotment of the new ordinary shares.
As at 31 December 2020, 137,569,367 Warrants remained unexercised.
Other capital reserve
Other capital reserve comprises the amount transferred from retained earnings being the profit
reinvested as capital contribution by subsidiaries.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the
financial statements of foreign operations.
147
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
17. Trade and other payables, including derivatives
Group Company
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Trade payables 116,779 104,379 7,691 6,665
Amount due to subsidiaries 17.1 - - 135,372 112,832
Other payables and accruals 17.2 95,077 82,149 22,640 17,542
Derivatives at fair value
through profit or loss:
- future and option contracts 1,710 125 336 125
- foreign currency forward
contracts 6,769 4,650 4,048 3,183
220,335 191,303 170,087 140,347
17.1 Amount due to subsidiaries
The amount due to subsidiaries is unsecured, repayable on demand and interest bearing (2019:
interest bearing).
17.2 Other payables and accruals
Included in other payables and accruals of the Group and of the Company are deposits from
customers of RM20,046,000 (2019: RM22,222,000) and RM225,000 (2019: RM1,514,000)
respectively.
18. Loans and borrowings
Group Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Non-current
Unsecured term loans 227,428 223,058 - 2,200
Current
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/
Unsecured revolving credits 885,298 900,048 369,764 426,851
Unsecured term loans 46,850 47,580 2,200 7,580
932,148 947,628 371,964 434,431
Total loans and borrowings 1,159,576 1,170,686 371,964 436,631
Included in the Group’s and the Company’s loans and borrowings are unsecured bankers’ acceptances/
unsecured revolving credits denominated in USD of RM495,507,000 (2019: RM539,187,000) and
RM157,106,000 (2019: RM222,659,000) respectively.
148 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
19. Revenue
Group Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue from contracts
with customers 2,680,670 2,681,563 476,181 483,667
Revenue is recognised when the Group or the Company transfers control of a good to the customers,
net of rebates and/or incentives. The Group or the Company allows returns for quality issues and
compensation for weight loss exceeding the normal threshold, if any. The performance obligation is
satisfied at a point in time and the customers are required to pay within the agreed credit terms, ranging
between 0 to 90 days.
20. Operating proﬁt
Group Company
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Operating proﬁt is arrived at
after charging/(crediting):
Auditors’ remuneration:
- Audit services
KPMG PLT 344 351 110 110
Affiliates of KPMG PLT 115 111 - -
Other auditors 13 13 - -
- Non-audit services
KPMG PLT 17 37 17 37
Affiliates of KPMG PLT 92 156 27 79
Material expenses/(income):
Amortisation of intangible assets 5 1,055 977 236 205
Depreciation of investment
properties 6 56 57 56 57
Depreciation of property, plant
and equipment 3 67,355 64,537 15,738 18,300
Depreciation of right-of-use
assets 4 3,202 3,448 1,899 2,128
Dividend income from
subsidiaries (unquoted) - - (26,730) (18,977)
Insurance recoveries (2,030) (2,356) (330) (1,853)
Interest income from:
- deposit placed with
licensed banks (19,189) (11,037) (1,188) (845)
- subsidiaries - - (21,542) (18,973)
149
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
20. Operating proﬁt (cont’d)
Group Company
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Material expenses/(income):
(cont’d)
Interest expense from:
- unsecured bankers’
acceptances/unsecured
revolving credits 26,579 27,081 12,530 12,705
- unsecured term loans 9,176 969 227 876
- subsidiaries - - 4,074 4,509
- RCULS 1,275 1,309 1,275 1,309
- lease liabilities 263 325 192 232
Net fair value loss on
biological assets 2,062 1,090 - -
Net (gain)/loss on future and
option contracts:
- realised (4,263) (10,668) 1,084 (831)
- unrealised 2,126 (12) 211 745
Net loss/(gain) on foreign
exchange:
- realised 1,937 89 3,371 1,437
- unrealised (2) (1,639) 550 (12)
Personnel expense (including
key management personnel):
- Contributions to Employees
Provident Fund 11,622 11,758 4,488 4,918
- Wages, salaries and others 125,744 124,877 43,877 42,803
Expenses/(Income) arising
from leases:
Expenses relating to short-term
leases 399 221 13 32
Expenses relating to leases of
low-value assets 190 157 92 96
Expenses relating to variable
lease payments not included
in the measurement of lease
liabilities 4,995 2,541 257 127
Income from subleasing
right-of-use assets (excluding
subleasing of investment
properties) - - (1,050) (1,050)
150 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
20. Operating proﬁt (cont’d)
Group Company
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Net loss on impairment of
ﬁnancial instruments
Financial assets at amortised cost 1,190 5,978 180 846
21. Tax expense
Group Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Recognised in the income statements
Current tax expense
- current year 23,756 21,414 4,493 2,202
- prior year (249) 311 (218) 253
Total current tax expense 23,507 21,725 4,275 2,455
Deferred tax expense
Reversal and origination of
temporary differences (5,198) (7,957) 5,208 4,975
(Over)/Under provision in prior year (2,866) 3,925 (4,552) 721
Total deferred tax expense (8,064) (4,032) 656 5,696
Total tax expense 15,443 17,693 4,931 8,151
Reconciliation of tax expense
Profit for the year 20,584 60,602 54,178 26,483
Total tax expense 15,443 17,693 4,931 8,151
Profit before tax 36,027 78,295 59,109 34,634
Tax at Malaysian tax rate of 24% 8,646 18,791 14,186 8,312
Effect of tax rates in foreign jurisdiction (5,848) (4,809) - -
Non-deductible expenses 2,339 3,761 1,751 3,031
Non-taxable income - - (6,417) (4,556)
Recognition of previously unrecognised
deferred tax assets - (4) - -
Current year losses for which no
deferred tax asset was recognised 13,735 3 - -
Others (314) (4,285) 181 390
18,558 13,457 9,701 7,177
(Over)/Under provision in prior year (3,115) 4,236 (4,770) 974
15,443 17,693 4,931 8,151
151
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
22. Earnings per ordinary share
Basic earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of basic earnings per ordinary share was based on the profit attributable to ordinary
shareholders of the Company and a weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding,
calculated as follows:
Group
2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company 5,413 43,251
’000 ’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December 1,007,587 958,710
sen sen
Basic earnings per ordinary share 0.54 4.51
Diluted earnings per ordinary share
The calculation of diluted earnings per ordinary share was based on profit attributable to ordinary
shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would have been in issue upon
the full conversion of all outstanding RCULS and exercise of all outstanding Warrants, calculated as
follows:
Group
2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000
Profit attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company 5,413 43,251
Interest expense on RCULS, net of tax 1,275 1,309
6,688 44,560
’000 ’000
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December (basic) 1,007,587 958,710
Potential dilution arising from outstanding RCULS 227,858 234,046
Potential dilution arising from outstanding Warrants - 137,569
Weighted average number of ordinary shares at 31 December (diluted) 1,235,445 1,330,325
sen sen
Diluted earnings per ordinary share 0.54 3.35
152 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
23. Dividends
Dividends recognised by the Company are:
sen Total
per share amount Date of payment
RM’000
2020
Second interim 2019 ordinary 1.80 18,133 27 March 2020
2019
Interim 2019 ordinary 1.20 12,042 13 September 2019
Second interim 2018 ordinary 1.00 9,740 29 March 2019
21,782
On 26 February 2021, the Directors declared an interim dividend of 1.00 sen per ordinary share totalling
approximately RM10,181,000 in respect of the financial year ended 31 December 2020, which was
paid on 26 March 2021.
The Directors do not recommend any payment of final dividend for the financial year under review.
24. Operating segments
Segment information is presented in respect of the Group’s business and geographical segments.
For each business and geographical segments, the Group’s chief operating decision maker reviews
internal management report on a regular basis.
The Group’s operations comprise the following main business segments:
• Flour and grains trading Milling and selling wheat flour and trading in grains and other
allied products
• Poultry integration Manufacture and sale of animal feeds, processing and sale of
poultry products, poultry grow-out farm, breeding and sale of
day-old-chicks and contract farming activities
The Group’s other operations include companies that had ceased operations and dormant companies.
None of these segments meets any of the quantitative threshold for determining reportable segments
in 2020 or 2019.
Performance is measured based on segment profit before tax, interest, depreciation and amortisation,
as included in the internal management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s chief operating
decision maker. Segment profit is used to measure performance as management believes that such
information is the most relevant in evaluating the results of certain segments relative to other entities
that operate within these industries.
153
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
24. Operating segments (cont’d)
The total of segment asset is measured based on all assets of a segment, as included in the internal
management reports that are reviewed by the Group’s chief operating decision maker. Segment total
asset is used to measure the return of assets of each segment.
Flour and grains
trading Poultry integration Others Eliminations Consolidated
2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Business segments
Revenue from external
customers 2,027,389 1,980,047 653,281 701,516 - - - - 2,680,670 2,681,563
Inter-segment revenue 52,366 39,740 63,428 37,096 - - (115,794) (76,836) - -
Total segment revenue 2,079,755 2,019,787 716,709 738,612 - - (115,794) (76,836) 2,680,670 2,681,563
Results from operating
activities 122,454 114,687 (69,999) (31,942) (108) (158) - - 52,347 82,587
Interest expense (30,824) (34,359) (32,216) (19,698) - - 25,747 24,373 (37,293) (29,684)
Interest income 41,016 30,169 4,763 6,444 - - (25,757) (25,309) 20,022 11,304
Share of profit of equity
accounted joint venture,
net of tax 967 14,121 - - - - - - 967 14,121
Share of loss of equity
accounted associate,
net of tax (16) (33) - - - - - - (16) (33)
Proﬁt/(Loss) before tax 133,597 124,585 (97,452) (45,196) (108) (158) (10) (936) 36,027 78,295
Depreciation and
amortisation (31,187) (33,710) (41,403) (36,219) - (11) 922 921 (71,668) (69,019)
Tax expense (23,316) (20,903) 7,873 3,210 - - - - (15,443) (17,693)
Insurance recoveries 1,514 1,938 516 418 - - - - 2,030 2,356
Non-cash expense
other than depreciation
and amortisation (88) (1,259) (3,478) (3,127) - - - - (3,566) (4,386)
Capital expenditure (22,646) (38,403) (50,098) (176,555) - - - 1,646 (72,744) (213,312)
Segment assets 1,365,680 1,398,120 1,050,021 1,051,482 513 544 - - 2,416,214 2,450,146
Investment in a joint venture 164,738 130,912 - - - - - - 164,738 130,912
Investment in an associate - - - - 1,050 1,074 - - 1,050 1,074
Total segments assets 1,530,418 1,529,032 1,050,021 1,051,482 1,563 1,618 - - 2,582,002 2,582,132
154 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
24. Operating segments (cont’d)
Geographical segments
In presenting information on the basis of geographical segments, segment revenue is based on
geographical location of customers. Segment assets are based on the geographical location of the
assets.
Malaysia Vietnam Consolidated
2020 2019 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Revenue from external
customers 1,720,258 1,765,734 960,412 915,829 2,680,670 2,681,563
Non-current assets 1,220,152 1,168,478 93,458 101,444 1,313,610 1,269,922
Major customers
There were no customers with revenue equal to or more than 10% of the Group’s total revenue for the
financial year ended 31 December 2020 (2019: Nil).
25. Financial instruments
25.1 Categories of ﬁnancial instruments
The table below provides an analysis of financial instruments categorised as follows:
(a) Fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”)
- Mandatorily required by MFRS 9
(b) Amortised cost (“AC”)
Carrying Mandatorily
2020 Note amount AC at FVTPL
Financial assets RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives 11 380,323 380,323 -
Cash and cash equivalents 14 404,627 382,220 22,407
784,950 762,543 22,407
Company
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives 11 554,774 554,774 -
Cash and cash equivalents 14 33,815 11,408 22,407
588,589 566,182 22,407
155
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.1 Categories of ﬁnancial instruments (cont’d)
Carrying Mandatorily
2020 Note amount AC at FVTPL
Financial liabilities RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives 17 (220,335) (211,856) (8,479)
Loans and borrowings 18 (1,159,576) (1,159,576) -
RCULS - Liabilities 16 (19,321) (19,321) -
(1,399,232) (1,390,753) (8,479)
Company
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives 17 (170,087) (165,703) (4,384)
Loans and borrowings 18 (371,964) (371,964) -
RCULS - Liabilities 16 (19,321) (19,321) -
(561,372) (556,988) (4,384)
Carrying Mandatorily
2019 Note amount AC at FVTPL
Financial assets RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives 11 394,112 393,572 540
Cash and cash equivalents 14 330,753 311,922 18,831
724,865 705,494 19,371
Company
Trade and other receivables,
including derivatives 11 531,597 531,597 -
Cash and cash equivalents 14 34,890 16,059 18,831
566,487 547,656 18,831
156 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.1 Categories of ﬁnancial instruments (cont’d)
Carrying Mandatorily
2019 Note amount AC at FVTPL
Financial liabilities RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives 17 (191,303) (186,528) (4,775)
Loans and borrowings 18 (1,170,686) (1,170,686) -
RCULS - Liabilities 16 (23,995) (23,995) -
(1,385,984) (1,381,209) (4,775)
Company
Trade and other payables,
including derivatives 17 (140,347) (137,039) (3,308)
Loans and borrowings 18 (436,631) (436,631) -
RCULS - Liabilities 16 (23,995) (23,995) -
(600,973) (597,665) (3,308)
25.2 Net gains and losses arising from ﬁnancial instruments
Group Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Net (losses)/gains on:
Financial assets/(liabilities) at fair
value through profit or loss:
Mandatorily required by MFRS 9
- foreign currency forward
contracts (2,119) (1,028) (865) (1,014)
- future and option contracts 2,137 10,680 (1,295) 86
Financial assets at amortised cost 18,735 5,326 22,545 19,055
Financial liabilities measured at
amortised cost (37,109) (27,106) (21,355) (20,041)
(18,356) (12,128) (970) (1,914)
157
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.3 Financial risk management
The Group has exposure to credit, interest rate, foreign currency and liquidity risks from its
financial instruments.
25.4 Credit risk
Credit risk is the risk of a financial loss if a customer or counterparty to a financial instrument fails
to meet its contractual obligations. The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to credit risk arise
principally from their receivables from customers. There are no significant changes as compared
to prior periods.
Trade receivables
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
Management has a credit policy in place and the exposure to credit risk is monitored on an
ongoing basis. Credit risk is addressed by the Credit Committee that sets policies, approves credit
evaluations and institutes mitigating actions. New customers are subject to credit evaluation
process and existing customers’ risk profiles are reviewed regularly with a view to setting
appropriate terms of trade and credit limits. Where appropriate, further sales are suspended and
legal actions are taken to attempt recoveries and mitigate losses.
At each reporting date, the Group or the Company assess whether any of the trade receivables
are credit impaired.
The gross carrying amounts of credit impaired trade receivables are written off (either partially or
full) when there is no realistic prospect of recovery. This is generally the case when the Group or
the Company determine that the debtor does not have assets or sources of income that could
generate sufficient cash flows to repay the amounts subject to the write-off. Nevertheless, trade
receivables that are written off could still be subject to enforcement activities.
There are no significant changes as compared to previous year.
Exposure to credit risk and credit quality
At the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk arising from trade receivables is
represented by their carrying amounts in the balance sheets.
The Group and the Company receive financial guarantees given by banks, shareholders or
directors of customers in managing exposure to credit risks.
158 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Trade receivables (cont’d)
Concentration of credit risk
The exposure of credit risk for trade receivables as at the balance sheet date by geographic
region was:
Group Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Malaysia 248,713 257,705 71,773 76,625
Vietnam 96,270 97,131 - -
344,983 354,836 71,773 76,625
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
In managing credit risk of trade receivables, the Group and the Company manage its debtors
and takes appropriate actions (including but not limited to legal actions) to recover long overdue
balances. Generally, trade receivables will pay within the credit terms of 90 days. The Group’s
and the Company’s debt recovery process are as follows:
(a) Above 30 days past due after credit term, the Group or the Company will start to initiate a
structured debt recovery process which is monitored by the sales management team; and
(b) Above 180 days past due after credit term, the Group or the Company will commence a
legal proceeding against the customer.
The Group and the Company use an allowance matrix to measure ECLs of trade receivables for
all segments. Consistent with the debt recovery process, invoices which are past due 90 days
will be considered as credit impaired.
Loss rates are calculated using a ‘roll rate’ method based on the probability of a receivable
progressing through successive stages of delinquency to 90 days past due.
Loss rates are based on actual credit loss experience over the past three years. The Group and
the Company also consider differences between (a) economic conditions during the period over
which the historic data has been collected, (b) current conditions and (c) the Group’s view of
economic conditions over the expected lives of the receivables. Nevertheless, the Group and
the Company believe that these factors are immaterial for the purpose of impairment calculation
for the year.
159
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Trade receivables (cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)
The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for trade
receivables which are grouped together as they are expected to have similar risk nature.
Group Company
Gross Gross
carrying Loss Net carrying Loss Net
amount allowances balance amount allowances balance
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2020
Not past due 342,566 (830) 341,736 71,875 (209) 71,666
Credit impaired
More than 90 days
past due 2,233 (285) 1,948 157 (50) 107
Individually impaired 11,801 (10,502) 1,299 730 (730) -
356,600 (11,617) 344,983 72,762 (989) 71,773
2019
Not past due 346,645 (1,196) 345,449 76,893 (301) 76,592
Credit impaired
More than 90 days
past due 4,104 (685) 3,419 44 (11) 33
Individually impaired 15,676 (9,708) 5,968 1,400 (1,400) -
366,425 (11,589) 354,836 78,337 (1,712) 76,625
There are trade receivables where the Group and the Company have not recognised any loss
allowance as the trade receivables are supported by bank guarantees in managing the exposure
to credit risk.
160 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Trade receivables (cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (continued)
The movements in the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables during the year
are shown below.
Group Company
Trade receivables Trade receivables
Lifetime Credit Lifetime Credit
ECL impaired Total ECL impaired Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Balance at
1 January 2019 - 5,715 5,715 - 953 953
Amounts written off - (104) (104) - (87) (87)
Net remeasurement
of loss allowance 1,196 4,782 5,978 301 545 846
Balance at 31 December
2019/1 January 2020 1,196 10,393 11,589 301 1,411 1,712
Amounts written off - (1,162) (1,162) - (903) (903)
Net remeasurement of
loss allowance (366) 1,556 1,190 (92) 272 180
Balance at
31 December 2020 830 10,787 11,617 209 780 989
As at 31 December 2020, RM1,162,000 and RM903,000 (2019: RM104,000 and RM87,000) of
trade receivables for the Group and for the Company were written off but they are still subject to
enforcement activity.
Cash and cash equivalents
The cash and cash equivalents are held with banks and financial institutions. As at the balance
sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying amounts in the
balance sheets.
These banks and financial institutions have low credit risks. Consequently, the Group and the
Company are of the view that the loss allowance is not material and hence, it is not provided for.
161
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Financial guarantees
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured financial guarantees to financial institutions in respect of
financing facilities granted to its joint venture corporation. The Company monitors on an ongoing
basis the results of the joint venture corporation and repayments made by the joint venture
corporation.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
The Company has provided proportionate financial guarantees totalling up to USD18.6 million
(2019: USD12.6 million) in respect of financing facilities granted to its joint venture corporation.
As at 31 December 2020, the maximum exposure to credit risk amounted to USD9.2 million
(2019: USD7.0 million) representing the share of the outstanding banking facilities of the joint
venture corporation as at the end of the reporting period.
As at the balance sheet date, there was no indication that the joint venture corporation would
default on repayment.
The financial guarantees have not been recognised since the fair value on initial recognition was
not material.
Intercompany advances
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Company provides unsecured advances to its subsidiaries. The Company monitors the
results of the subsidiaries regularly.
Exposure to credit risk, credit quality and collateral
As at the balance sheet date, the maximum exposure to credit risk is represented by their carrying
amounts in the balance sheet.
162 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Intercompany advances (cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss
Generally, the Company considers advances to subsidiaries have low credit risk. The Company
assumes that there is a significant increase in credit risk when a subsidiary’s financial position
deteriorates significantly. As the Company is able to determine the timing of payments of the
subsidiaries’ advances when they are payable, the Company considers the advances to be in
default when the subsidiaries are not able to pay when demanded. The Company considers a
subsidiary’s advance to be credit impaired when:
• The subsidiary is unlikely to repay its advance to the Company in full;
• The subsidiary’s advance is overdue for more than 365 days; and
• The subsidiary is continuously loss-making and is having a deficit shareholders’ fund.
The Company determines the probability of default for these advances individually using internal
information available.
The following table provides information about the exposure to credit risk and ECLs for
subsidiaries’ advances.
Gross Impairment
carrying loss Net
Company amount allowances balance
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2020
Low credit risk 475,265 - 475,265
Credit impaired 392 (392) -
475,657 (392) 475,265
2019
Low credit risk 448,164 - 448,164
Credit impaired 392 (392) -
448,556 (392) 448,164
163
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.4 Credit risk (cont’d)
Intercompany advances (cont’d)
Recognition and measurement of impairment loss (cont’d)
The movement in the allowance for impairment in respect of subsidiaries’ advances during the
year is as follows:
Company Lifetime ECL
RM’000
Balance at 1 January 2019 392
Net remeasurement of loss allowance -
Balance at 31 December 2019/1 January 2020 392
Net remeasurement of loss allowance -
Balance at 31 December 2020 392
25.5 Interest rate risk
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to interest rate risk relate primarily to their borrowings
and deposits with licensed banks.
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group’s and the Company’s bank borrowings and interest-bearing deposits are both subject
to interest based on fixed and floating rates. Market interest rates movements are monitored with
the view of ensuring the most competitive rates are secured and where appropriate, borrowing
arrangements are restructured or reduced.
Exposure to interest rate risk
The interest rate profile of the Group’s and the Company’s significant interest-bearing financial
instruments, based on the carrying amounts as at the balance sheet date are as follows:
Group Company
Note 2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Fixed rate instruments
Deposits placed with
licensed banks 14 344,207 268,350 421 414
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/Unsecured
revolving credits 18 (885,298) (900,048) (369,764) (426,851)
Lease liabilities (5,595) (5,263) (3,821) (3,842)
RCULS - Liabilities 16 (19,321) (23,995) (19,321) (23,995)
(566,007) (660,956) (392,485) (454,274)
Floating rate instruments
Unsecured term loans 18 (274,278) (270,638) (2,200) (9,780)
164 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.5 Interest rate risk (cont’d)
Interest rate risk sensitivity analysis
(a) Fair value sensitivity analysis for ﬁxed rate instruments
The Group does not account for any fixed rate financial assets and liabilities at fair value
through profit or loss. Therefore, a change in interest rates at the balance sheet date would
not affect the income statements.
(b) Cash ﬂow sensitivity analysis for variable rate instruments
A change of 50 basis points (“bp”) in interest rates at the end of the reporting period would
have increased/(decreased) equity and post-tax profit or loss by the amounts shown
below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular foreign currency rates,
remained constant.
Proﬁt or loss
50 bp 50 bp 50 bp 50 bp
increase decrease increase decrease
2020 2020 2019 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
Floating rate instruments (1,042) 1,042 (1,028) 1,028
Company
Floating rate instruments (8) 8 (37) 37
25.6 Foreign currency risk
The Group and the Company are exposed to foreign currency risk on sales, purchases and
borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies
of the Group entities. The currency giving rise to this risk is primarily United States Dollar (USD).
Risk management objectives, policies and processes for managing the risk
The Group and the Company monitor their exposure to foreign currency movements closely and
where appropriate, the Group and the Company have used foreign currency forward contracts
to hedge some of their foreign currency risk.
165
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.6 Foreign currency risk (cont’d)
Exposure to foreign currency risk
The Group’s and the Company’s exposure to foreign currency (a currency which is other than the
functional currency of the Group entities) risk, based on carrying amounts as at the end of the
reporting period was:
Note Denominated in USD
2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000
Group
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/
Unsecured revolving credits 18 (495,507) (539,187)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
- foreign currency forward contracts 17 (6,769) (4,650)
(502,276) (543,837)
Company
Unsecured bankers’ acceptances/
Unsecured revolving credits 18 (157,106) (222,659)
Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss:
- foreign currency forward contracts 17 (4,048) (3,183)
(161,154) (225,842)
Currency risk sensitivity analysis
A 5 percent (2019: 5 percent) strengthening/(weakening) of RM against USD at the balance
sheet date would have increased/(decreased) equity and post-tax profit or loss by the amounts
shown below. This analysis assumes that all other variables, in particular interest rates, remained
constant.
Proﬁt or Loss
2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000
Group
USD 6,262 6,179
Company
USD (1,545) (1,801)
166 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.7 Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall
due. The Group’s exposure to liquidity risk arises principally from its various payables, loans and
borrowings and lease liabilities.
The Group and the Company monitor and maintain a level of cash and cash equivalents and
bank facilities deemed adequate by the management to ensure, as far as possible, that they will
have sufficient liquidity to meet their liabilities when they fall due.
It is not expected that the cash flows included in the maturity analysis could occur significantly
earlier, or at significantly different amounts.
Maturity analysis
The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s and the Company’s financial
liabilities at the balance sheet date based on undiscounted contractual payments:
Carrying Contractual Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5 More than
Group amount interest rate cash ﬂows 1 year years years 5 years
RM’000 % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2020
Non-derivative
ﬁnancial liabilities
Trade and other
payables 211,856 - 211,856 211,856 - - -
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/
Unsecured
revolving credits 885,298 0.94 – 3.20 890,467 890,467 - - -
Unsecured term
loans 274,278 3.24 – 3.68 300,777 54,296 55,755 159,949 30,777
Lease liabilities 5,595 5.00 – 8.50 6,044 2,272 1,937 1,835 -
RCULS liabilities 19,321 5.10 19,938 5,697 5,697 8,544 -
Derivative ﬁnancial
liabilities
Foreign currency
forward contracts
(gross settled):
Outflow 6,769 - 330,709 330,709 - - -
Inflow - - (323,940) (323,940) - - -
Future and option
contracts (gross
settled):
Outflow 1,710 - (5,461) (5,461) - - -
Inflow - - 7,171 7,171 - - -
1,404,827 1,437,561 1,173,067 63,389 170,328 30,777
167
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)
Maturity analysis (cont’d)
Carrying Contractual Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5
Group amount interest rate cash ﬂows 1 year years years
RM’000 % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2019
Non-derivative
ﬁnancial liabilities
Trade and other payables 186,528 - 186,528 186,528 - -
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/Unsecured
revolving credits 900,048 2.37 – 5.30 909,253 909,253 - -
Unsecured term loans 270,638 4.46 – 5.01 304,286 58,928 62,378 182,980
Lease liabilities 5,263 5.00 – 5.80 5,685 2,112 1,877 1,696
RCULS liabilities 23,995 5.10 26,330 5,851 5,851 14,628
Derivative ﬁnancial
liabilities
Foreign currency forward
contracts (gross settled):
Outflow 4,650 - 376,577 376,577 - -
Inflow - - (371,927) (371,927) - -
Future and option
contracts (gross settled):
Outflow 125 - 967 967 - -
Inflow - - (842) (842) - -
1,391,247 1,436,857 1,167,447 70,106 199,304
168 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)
Maturity analysis (cont’d)
Carrying Contractual Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5
Company amount interest rate cash ﬂows 1 year years years
RM’000 % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2020
Non-derivative ﬁnancial
liabilities
Trade and other payables 165,703 - 165,703 165,703 - -
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/Unsecured
revolving credits 369,764 0.94 – 2.97 371,194 371,194 - -
Unsecured term loans 2,200 3.68 2,234 2,234 - -
Lease liabilities 3,821 5.00 4,037 1,683 1,407 947
RCULS liabilities 19,321 5.10 19,938 5,697 5,697 8,544
Derivative ﬁnancial
liabilities
Foreign currency forward
contracts (gross settled):
Outflow 4,048 - 197,756 197,756 - -
Inflow - - (193,708) (193,708) - -
Future and option
contracts (gross settled):
Outflow 336 - 284 284 - -
Inflow - - 52 52 - -
565,193 567,490 550,895 7,104 9,491
169
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.7 Liquidity risk (cont’d)
Maturity analysis (cont’d)
Carrying Contractual Contractual Under 1 - 2 2 - 5
Company amount interest rate cash ﬂows 1 year years years
RM’000 % RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2019
Non-derivative ﬁnancial
liabilities
Trade and other payables 137,039 - 137,039 137,039 - -
Unsecured bankers’
acceptances/Unsecured
revolving credits 426,851 2.43 – 4.11 430,026 430,026 - -
Unsecured term loans 9,780 4.91 – 5.01 10,036 7,792 2,244 -
Lease liabilities 3,842 5.00 4,111 1,564 1,513 1,034
RCULS liabilities 23,995 5.10 26,330 5,851 5,851 14,628
Derivative ﬁnancial
liabilities
Foreign currency forward
contracts (gross settled):
Outflow 3,183 - 270,052 270,052 - -
Inflow - - (266,869) (266,869) - -
Future and option
contracts (gross settled):
Outflow 125 - 967 967 - -
Inflow - - (842) (842) - -
604,815 610,850 585,580 9,608 15,662
170 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.8 Fair value information
The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, short term receivables and payables and
short term borrowings reasonably approximate their fair values due to the relatively short term
nature of these financial instruments.
Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments carried at fair value
Level 1 Level 2 Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Group
2020
Financial assets
Liquid investments 22,407 - 22,407
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts - 6,769 6,769
Future and option contracts 1,710 - 1,710
1,710 6,769 8,479
2019
Financial assets
Future and option contracts 540 - 540
Liquid investments 18,831 - 18,831
19,371 - 19,371
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts - 4,650 4,650
Future and option contracts 125 - 125
125 4,650 4,775
Company
2020
Financial assets
Liquid investments 22,407 - 22,407
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts - 4,048 4,048
Future and option contracts 336 - 336
336 4,048 4,384
171
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
25. Financial instruments (cont’d)
25.8 Fair value information (cont’d)
Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments carried at fair value (cont’d)
Level 1 Level 2 Total
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
2019
Financial assets
Liquid investments 18,831 - 18,831
Financial liabilities
Foreign currency forward contracts - 3,183 3,183
Future and option contracts 125 - 125
125 3,183 3,308
Level 2 fair value
Derivatives
The fair value of forward exchange contracts is estimated by discounting the difference between
the contractual forward price and the current forward price for the residual maturity of the
contract using a risk-free interest rate (based on government bonds).
Transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values
There has been no transfer between Level 1 and Level 2 fair values during the financial year
(2019: no transfer in either directions).
Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments not carried at fair value
Level 3 fair value
Level 3 fair value not carried at fair value comprises long term loan where its fair value approximate
its carrying amount. The fair value is estimated using discounted cash flows with a discount rate
based on the current market rate of borrowing of the respective Group entities at the reporting
date.
26. Capital management
The Group’s objectives when managing capital is to maintain a strong capital base and safeguard the
Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence
and to sustain future development of the business. The Directors monitor and are determined to maintain
an optimal debt-to-equity ratio that complies with debt covenants and regulatory requirements.
172 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
26. Capital management (cont’d)
The debt-to-equity ratios at 31 December 2020 and 31 December 2019 were as follows:
Group
Note 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000
Total borrowings 18 1,159,576 1,170,686
Lease liabilities 5,595 5,263
Less: Cash and cash equivalents 14 (404,627) (330,753)
Net debt 760,544 845,196
Total equity 1,164,907 1,180,998
Debt-to-equity ratio 0.65 0.72
There was no change in the Group’s approach to capital management during the financial year.
27. Capital and other commitments
Group Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
Property, plant and equipment
Contracted but not provided for 24,948 133,782 12,579 14,589
28. Contingencies
Group
Contingent liabilities not considered remote
Litigation
Dindings Poultry Processing Sdn Bhd (“DPP”), a subsidiary of the Company, had appointed eTEC E&C
(M) Sdn Bhd as contractor (“the Contractor”) to construct the new v5, primary processing and further
processing plant in Lumut in December 2016. As the Contractor had breached the terms of the agreement,
DPP had issued a notice of termination of the contract for breach of the terms of the contract which
entitled DPP to make a demand on the performance guarantee of RM12.4 million issued in favour of DPP
pursuant to the terms of the contract. Prior to the demand, the Contractor commenced proceeding in the
High Court to restrain DPP from making the demand. The High Court dismissed the Contractor’s claim and
the bank issuing the guarantee proceeded to release the sum of RM12.4 million to DPP. The Contractor
filed an appeal against the decision and the matter was fixed for case management in the Court of Appeal
on 10 March 2021. On 10 March 2021, the Court of Appeal fixed the matter for further case management
on 1 April 2021. On 1 April 2021, the Court of Appeal fixed the matter for further case management on
28 January 2022 and for Court hearing on 15 February 2022.
173
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
28. Contingencies (cont’d)
Group (cont’d)
Contingent liabilities not considered remote (cont’d)
Litigation (cont’d)
The Contractor has commenced adjudication proceedings for an alleged claim under various progress
claims in the total sum of RM65.9 million. DPP has also raised a counter claim sum of RM48.1 million
in the said proceedings.
Arising from the breach of the contract by the Contractor, DPP has initiated arbitration proceedings
against the Contractor for the consequential losses and damages which has been and/or to be
incurred by DPP. The claim is presently estimated to be approximately RM46.7 million. Against this, the
Contractor counter claims against DPP a sum of approximately RM78.3 million arising from the early
termination of the Contractor’s employment.
Based on the legal advice, the Directors are of the opinion that the subsidiary has a good arguable
defence for these alleged claims and provisions are not required in respect of these claims.
29. Related parties
Identity of related parties
For the purposes of these financial statements, parties are considered to be related to the Group if the
Group has the ability, directly or indirectly, to control or jointly control the party or exercise significant
influence over the party in making financial and operating decisions, or vice versa, or where the Group
and the party are subject to common control. Related parties may be individuals or other entities.
Related parties also include key management personnel defined as those persons having authority
and responsibility for planning, directing and controlling the activities of the Group either directly or
indirectly. Key management personnel include all the Directors of the Group.
The Group has related party relationship with its holding company, significant investors, subsidiaries,
joint venture, associate and key management personnel.
Signiﬁcant related party transactions
Related party transactions have been entered into in the normal course of business under negotiated
terms. The significant related party transactions of the Group and the Company other than as disclosed
elsewhere in the financial statements, are shown below. The balances related to the below transactions
are shown in Note 11 and Note 17.
174 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes to the
Financial Statements (cont’d)
29. Related parties (cont’d)
Signiﬁcant related party transactions (cont’d)
Group Company
2020 2019 2020 2019
RM’000 RM’000 RM’000 RM’000
A. Subsidiaries
Sales of goods - - 27,985 29,909
Purchases of goods - - (76) (662)
Rental of premises - - 86 86
Rental of furniture and fittings - - 147 147
Rental of equipment - - 4,705 4,745
Interest income - - 21,542 18,973
Interest expense - - (4,074) (4,509)
B. Key management personnel
Directors of the Company:
- Fees 960 847 960 847
- Remuneration 4,734 5,297 4,406 4,670
- Other short-term employee
benefits (including estimated
monetary value of benefits-
in-kind) 102 305 102 305
5,796 6,449 5,468 5,822
Directors of the Group entities:
- Fees - 6 - -
- Remuneration 623 1,046 - -
- Other short-term employee
benefits (including estimated
monetary value of benefits-
in-kind) 106 110 - -
729 1,162 - -
Total short-term employee
benefits 6,525 7,611 5,468 5,822
175
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
30. Subsequent event
On 10 February 2021, the Company entered into a conditional share purchase agreement with Tyson
International Holding Company (“Tyson”) for the proposed disposal of 49% equity interest in Dindings
Supreme Sdn. Bhd. (“DSSB”), a newly incorporated wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company, to Tyson
for a total disposal consideration of up to RM420,000,000 to be satisfied wholly by cash, in conjunction
with the proposed strategic partnership with Tyson. An Extraordinary General Meeting (“EGM”) will be
held to approve this disposal by the shareholders.
DSSB was incorporated on 2 February 2021. On 5 February 2021, the Company and DSSB entered
into a Share Transfer Agreement to transfer all ordinary shares in Dindings Poultry Development
Centre Sdn. Bhd. and Dindings Poultry Processing Sdn. Bhd. respectively held by MFM to DSSB. On
9 March 2021, the transfer of shares has been completed.
176 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
In the opinion of the Directors, the financial statements set out on pages 90 to 175 are drawn up in
accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial Reporting Standards and
the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia so as to give a true and fair view of the financial
position of the Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2020 and of their financial performance and
cash flows for the financial year then ended.
Signed on behalf of the Board of Directors in accordance with a resolution of the Directors:
Tun Arshad bin Ayub
Director
Teh Wee Chye
Director
Kuala Lumpur
5 April 2021
Statement by Directors
pursuant to Section 251(2) of the Companies Act 2016
177
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
I, Tan Hui Joo, the officer primarily responsible for the financial management of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad,
do solemnly and sincerely declare that the financial statements set out on pages 90 to 175 are, to the best of
my knowledge and belief, correct and I make this solemn declaration conscientiously believing the declaration
to be true, and by virtue of the Statutory Declarations Act, 1960.
Subscribed and solemnly declared by the above named Tan Hui Joo, MIA CA47701, at Kuala Lumpur in the
State of Wilayah Persekutuan on 5 April 2021.
Tan Hui Joo
Before me:
Samugam Vassoo (W632)
Commissioner for Oaths
Kuala Lumpur
Statutory Declaration
pursuant to Section 251(1)(b) of the Companies Act 2016
178 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Report on the Audit of the Financial Statements
Opinion
We have audited the financial statements of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad, which comprise the balance sheets
as at 31 December 2020 of the Group and of the Company, and the income statements, statements of
comprehensive income, statements of changes in equity and statements of cash flows of the Group and
of the Company for the year then ended, and notes to the financial statements, including a summary of
significant accounting policies, as set out on pages 90 to 175.
In our opinion, the accompanying financial statements give a true and fair view of the financial position of the
Group and of the Company as at 31 December 2020, and of their financial performance and their cash flows
for the year then ended in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards, International Financial
Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia.
Basis for Opinion
We conducted our audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International
Standards on Auditing. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors’
Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our auditors’ report. We believe that the
audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion.
Independence and Other Ethical Responsibilities
We are independent of the Group and of the Company in accordance with the By-Laws (on Professional
Ethics, Conduct and Practice) of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants (“By-Laws”) and the International
Ethics Standards Board for Accountants’ International Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (including
International Independence Standards) (“IESBA Code”), and we have fulfilled our other ethical responsibilities
in accordance with the By-Laws and the IESBA Code.
Key Audit Matters
Key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgement, were of most significance in our
audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year. These matters were
addressed in the context of our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company as a whole,
and in forming our opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters.
Assessment on the valuation of biological assets
Refer to Note 2(j) - Significant accounting policies: Biological assets and Note 13 - Biological assets.
The key audit matter
The Group’s biological assets comprise parent stock, hatching eggs and broiler inventories. These biological
assets are recorded at fair value less costs to sell.
We have identified the valuation of parent stock as a key audit matter as the estimation of the fair value of
parent stock involved complex judgments and assumptions over the life span and production efficiency of
the parent stock.
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
179
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Key Audit Matters (cont’d)
How the matter was addressed in our audit
We performed the following audit procedures, amongst others:
• We assessed the reasonableness of the key assumptions used in the fair valuation model, in particular,
those relating to the egg producing life span of the parent stock, mortality rate, selling prices of broilers
and the costs expected to arise throughout the life of the parent stock and broilers by comparing to
externally derived data as well as our own assessments which took into account historical trends, industry
data and other corroborative evidence available.
• We assessed the appropriateness of the range used to test the sensitivity analysis performed by the
management.
We have determined that there are no key audit matters in the audit of the separate financial statements of
the Company to communicate in our auditors’ report.
Information Other than the Financial Statements and Auditors’ Report Thereon
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the other information. The other information comprises the
information included in the annual report, but does not include the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company and our auditors’ report thereon.
Our opinion on the financial statements of the Group and of the Company does not cover the annual report
and we do not express any form of assurance conclusion thereon.
In connection with our audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, our responsibility
is to read the annual report and, in doing so, consider whether the annual report is materially inconsistent
with the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or our knowledge obtained in the audit, or
otherwise appears to be materially misstated. If, based on the work we have performed, we conclude that
there is a material misstatement of the annual report, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to
report in this regard.
Responsibilities of the Directors for the Financial Statements
The Directors of the Company are responsible for the preparation of financial statements of the Group and
of the Company that give a true and fair view in accordance with Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards,
International Financial Reporting Standards and the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia. The
Directors are also responsible for such internal control as the Directors determine is necessary to enable the
preparation of financial statements of the Group and of the Company that are free from material misstatement,
whether due to fraud or error.
In preparing the financial statements of the Group and of the Company, the Directors are responsible for
assessing the ability of the Group and of the Company to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as
applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless the
Directors either intend to liquidate the Group or the Company or to cease operations, or have no realistic
alternative but to do so.
180 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements
Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements of the Group and
of the Company as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue
an auditors’ report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not
a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and
International Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements
can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could
reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these financial
statements.
As part of an audit in accordance with approved standards on auditing in Malaysia and International Standards
on Auditing, we exercise professional judgement and maintain professional scepticism throughout the audit.
We also:
• Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks,
and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of
not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as
fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal
control.
• Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that
are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness
of the internal control of the Group and of the Company.
• Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates
and related disclosures made by the Directors.
• Conclude on the appropriateness of the Directors’ use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based
on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that
may cast significant doubt on the ability of the Group or of the Company to continue as a going concern. If
we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditors’ report to
the related disclosures in the financial statements of the Group and of the Company or, if such disclosures
are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up
to the date of our auditors’ report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group or the
Company to cease to continue as a going concern.
• Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the financial statements of the Group and of
the Company, including the disclosures, and whether the financial statements of the Group and of the
Company represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that gives a true and fair view.
• Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or
business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the financial statements of the Group.
We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We remain solely
responsible for our audit opinion.
Independent Auditors’ Report
to the members of Malayan Flour Mills Berhad (cont’d)
181
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Auditors’ Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements (cont’d)
We communicate with the Directors regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the
audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify
during our audit.
We also provide the Directors with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements
regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may
reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards.
From the matters communicated with the Directors, we determine those matters that were of most significance
in the audit of the financial statements of the Group and of the Company for the current year and are therefore
the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditors’ report unless law or regulation precludes
public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter
should not be communicated in our auditors’ report because the adverse consequences of doing so would
reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication.
Report on Other Legal and Regulatory Requirements
In accordance with the requirements of the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia, we report that the subsidiaries
of which we have not acted as auditors are disclosed in Note 7 to the financial statements.
Other Matter
This report is made solely to the members of the Company, as a body, in accordance with Section 266 of
the Companies Act 2016 in Malaysia and for no other purpose. We do not assume responsibility to any other
person for the content of this report.
KPMG PLT Chong Dee Shiang
LLP0010081-LCA & AF 0758 Approval Number: 02782/09/2022 J
Chartered Accountants Chartered Accountant
Petaling Jaya
5 April 2021
182 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Share Capital - RM534,672,890
Class and Number of Issued Shares - 1,018,295,729 ordinary shares
12,522 shareholders
Voting rights: One vote for one share
Size of Holdings
No. of
Shareholders
% of
Shareholders
No. of
Issued Shares
% of
Issued
Shares
Less than 100 1,632 13.03 20,020 0.00
100 to 1,000 1,402 11.20 837,743 0.08
1,001 to 10,000 5,663 45.22 29,934,052 2.94
10,001 to 100,000 3,314 26.47 106,049,520 10.41
100,001 to less than 5% of issued shares 509 4.06 735,478,523 72.23
5% and above of issued shares 2 0.02 145,975,871 14.34
12,522 100.00 1,018,295,729 100.00
Thirty (30) Largest Shareholders No. of Shares
Percentage
Holding (%)
1. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
[Exempt An for Credit Suisse (SG BR-TST-ASING)]
79,200,000 7.78
2. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
66,775,871 6.56
3. Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd 44,412,076 4.36
4. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
40,210,539 3.95
5. Astar Commercial Limited 39,294,750 3.86
6. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
35,521,170 3.49
7. Duangmanee Liewphairatana 33,380,875 3.28
8. Yong Kok Yian 31,034,372 3.05
9. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Exempt An for Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co. Ltd)
30,269,600 2.97
10. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd for Wise Bright Investment Limited)
28,879,719 2.84
11. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(RHB Trustees Berhad for Manulife Investment Shariah Progress
Fund)
22,922,100 2.25
12. Amble Volume Sdn Bhd 22,621,500 2.22
13. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
20,515,750 2.01
Analysis of Shareholdings
as at 31 March 2021
183
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Thirty (30) Largest Shareholders No. of Shares
Percentage
Holding (%)
14. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Employees Provident Fund Board)
18,961,133 1.86
15. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Essence Lane Sdn Bhd)
18,428,263 1.81
16. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Zalaraz Sdn Bhd)
15,729,800 1.54
17. Citigroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
[Kumpulan Wang Persaraan (Diperbadankan) (Affin ABSR EQ)]
13,840,000 1.36
18. Teh Wee Chye 12,983,376 1.28
19. Perbadanan Pembangunan Pertanian Negeri Perak 12,010,930 1.18
20. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Amble Volume Sdn Bhd for Rise Glory Investment Limited)
11,794,313 1.16
21. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(TMF Trustees Malaysia Berhad for Affin Hwang Wholesale Equity
Fund)
7,918,900 0.78
22. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon)
6,996,000 0.69
23. Sim Seng Huat Timber Industries Sdn Bhd 6,000,000 0.59
24. Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd 5,884,242 0.58
25. Citigroup Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd (UBS AG) 5,850,519 0.57
26. Amanahraya Trustees Berhad
(Affin Hwang Growth Fund)
5,622,800 0.55
27. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Beng Khim)
5,439,000 0.53
28. Su Ming Keat 5,400,200 0.53
29. Teh Beng Khim 5,056,900 0.50
30. Cartaban Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(RHB Trustees Berhad for Manulife Investment-HW Shariah Flexi Fund)
4,924,200 0.48
Substantial Shareholders
Name
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
No. of Shares % No. of Shares %
Teh Wee Chye 120,023,411 11.79 64,017,360(1) 6.29
Duangmanee Liewphairatana 33,380,875 3.28 45,526,097(2) 4.47
Tun Arshad bin Ayub 56,036,920 5.50 15,729,800(3) 1.54
184 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Directors’ Interests in the Company and its Related Corporations
Name
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
No. of Shares % No. of Shares %
Tun Arshad bin Ayub 56,036,920 5.50 15,729,800(3) 1.54
Teh Wee Chye 120,023,411 11.79 64,017,360(1) 6.29
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 23,087 0.00 - -
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 8,250 0.00 - -
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 7,078,500 0.70 - -
Azhari Arshad 510,000 0.05 15,729,800(4) 1.54
Lim Pang Boon 488,585 0.05 - -
Director, Teh Wee Chye is deemed to have interests in all the shares held by the Company in its related
corporations by virtue of his substantial shareholdings in the Company.
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd, Suai Timber
Products Sdn Bhd, Essence Lane Sdn Bhd and shareholdings of his spouse.
(2) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd and Suai
Timber Products Sdn Bhd.
(3) Deemed interested through Zalaraz Sdn Bhd.
(4) Deemed interested through Zalaraz Sdn Bhd.
Analysis of Shareholdings
as at 31 March 2021 (cont’d)
185
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Unconverted RCULS - 109,924,827
Conversion Price - RM0.50
Maturity Date - 24 January 2024
Size of Holdings
No. of
RCULS
Holders
% of
RCULS
Holders
No. of
RCULS
% of
RCULS
Less than 100 24 2.19 850 0.00
100 to 1,000 181 16.48 114,524 0.10
1,001 to 10,000 656 59.74 2,586,694 2.35
10,001 to 100,000 201 18.31 5,765,695 5.25
100,001 to less than 5% of RCULS 30 2.73 29,998,956 27.29
5% and above of RCULS 6 0.55 71,458,108 65.01
1,098 100.00 109,924,827 100.00
Thirty (30) Largest RCULS Holders No. of RCULS
Percentage
Holding (%)
1. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
20,421,078 18.58
2. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
[Exempt An for Credit Suisse (SG BR-TST-ASING)]
14,400,000 13.10
3. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
12,141,067 11.04
4. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
9,276,540 8.44
5. Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd 8,074,923 7.35
6. Astar Commercial Limited 7,144,500 6.50
7. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd for Wise Bright Investment Limited)
5,250,858 4.78
8. Amble Volume Sdn Bhd 4,113,000 3.74
9. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
3,562,500 3.24
10. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Essence Lane Sdn Bhd)
3,350,593 3.05
11. Teh Wee Chye 3,087,500 2.81
12. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Amble Volume Sdn Bhd for Rise Glory Investment Limited)
1,815,442 1.65
13. Yap Pen Ji @ Yap Fan Yee 1,500,000 1.36
14. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon)
1,272,000 1.16
15. Chew Hem Poo @ Choy Nean Chin 1,103,000 1.00
16. Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd 721,958 0.66
Analysis of RCULS Holdings
as at 31 March 2021
186 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Thirty (30) Largest RCULS Holders No. of RCULS
Percentage
Holding (%)
17. Tan Hoee Eng 510,840 0.46
18. Emmel Sendirian Berhad 473,700 0.43
19. Allison Foo May Ling 450,000 0.41
20. Lim Gaik Bway @ Lim Chiew Ah 340,200 0.31
21. Eu Mui @ Ee Soo Mei 280,000 0.25
22. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(AmFraser Securities Pte Ltd for Tan Jin Chwee & Co Pte Ltd)
266,400 0.24
23. Leow Yan Seong @ Liew Pin 192,900 0.18
24. Thye Nam Loong Shipping Sdn Bhd 172,446 0.16
25. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Exempt An for UOB Kay Hian Pte Ltd (A/C Clients)
160,800 0.15
26. Toh Kok Huat 143,550 0.13
27. Lee Ying Fong 140,000 0.13
28. Tan Ah Kow @ Tan Chee Lin 139,900 0.13
29. Adikem Sdn Bhd 131,100 0.12
30. Toh Kok Lim 129,000 0.12
Directors’ Interests in the Company
Name
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
No. of RCULS % No. of RCULS %
Tun Arshad bin Ayub 12,839,040 11.68 50,000(1) 0.05
Teh Wee Chye 35,659,395 32.44 11,628,065(2) 10.58
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 2,000 0.00 - -
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 1,500 0.00 - -
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 1,287,000 1.17 - -
Lim Pang Boon 66,120 0.06 - -
Azhari Arshad - - 50,000(3) 0.05
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested through Zalaraz Sdn Bhd.
(2) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd, Suai Timber
Products Sdn Bhd and Essence Lane Sdn Bhd.
(3) Deemed interested through Zalaraz Sdn Bhd.
Analysis of RCULS Holdings
as at 31 March 2021 (cont’d)
187
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Unexercised Warrants - 137,564,367
Exercise Price - RM0.68
Expiry Date - 23 January 2024
Size of Holdings
No. of
Warrant
Holders
% of
Warrant
Holders
No. of
Warrants
% of
Warrants
Less than 100 143 7.16 6,392 0.00
100 to 1,000 411 20.56 229,915 0.17
1,001 to 10,000 935 46.77 3,812,102 2.77
10,001 to 100,000 396 19.81 13,835,773 10.06
100,001 to less than 5% of Warrants 111 5.55 85,352,091 62.05
5% and above of Warrants 3 0.15 34,328,094 24.95
1,999 100.00 137,564,367 100.00
Thirty (30) Largest Warrant Holders
No. of
Warrants
Percentage
Holding (%)
1. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
12,210,539 8.88
2. HSBC Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
[Exempt An for Credit Suisse (SG BR-TST-ASING)]
12,000,000 8.72
3. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Teh Wee Chye)
10,117,555 7.35
4. Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd 6,729,102 4.89
5. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
6,097,950 4.43
6. Astar Commercial Limited 5,953,750 4.33
7. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Solid Esteem Sdn Bhd for Wise Bright Investment Limited)
4,375,715 3.18
8. Teh Wee Chye 3,639,725 2.65
9. DB (Malaysia) Nominee (Tempatan) Sendirian Berhad
(Exempt An for Affin Hwang Asset Management Berhad)
3,442,400 2.50
10. Amble Volume Sdn Bhd 3,427,500 2.49
11. Chin Chee Keong 3,394,500 2.47
12. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Looi Boon Han)
2,800,000 2.04
13. Alliancegroup Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Essence Lane Sdn Bhd)
2,792,160 2.03
14. HLB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Tey Hock Seng)
2,067,000 1.50
15. CGS-CIMB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Ting Kuok Ley @ David Kuok Leh Ting)
1,610,000 1.17
16. UOB Kay Hian Nominees (Asing) Sdn Bhd
(Amble Volume Sdn Bhd for Rise Glory Investment Limited)
1,512,868 1.10
Analysis of Warrant Holdings
as at 31 March 2021
188 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Thirty (30) Largest Warrant Holders
No. of
Warrants
Percentage
Holding (%)
17. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Lim Gim Leong)
1,460,100 1.06
18. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Affin Hwang Asset Management Berhad for Yayasan Sabah)
1,360,100 0.99
19. Lim Boon Ngee 1,306,000 0.95
20. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Maybank Trustees Berhad for Affin Hwang Equity Fund)
1,284,200 0.93
21. Maybank Securities Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Ho Yock Main)
1,236,200 0.90
22. Tan Hoee Eng 1,234,033 0.90
23. HLIB Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon)
1,060,000 0.77
24. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Looi Boon Han)
1,000,000 0.73
25. Pristine Acres Sdn Bhd 953,000 0.69
26. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Yew Weng Wah)
950,000 0.69
27. Maybank Securities Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Yew Weng Wah)
900,000 0.65
28. Maybank Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Tun Arshad bin Ayub)
876,000 0.64
29. Kenanga Nominees (Tempatan) Sdn Bhd
(Pledged Securities Account for Gan Kong Hiok)
785,000 0.57
30. Tiong Wei Lee 727,700 0.53
Directors’ Interests in the Company
Name
Direct Interest Indirect Interest
No. of Warrants % No. of Warrants %
Tun Arshad bin Ayub 6,973,950 5.07 - -
Teh Wee Chye 25,975,944 18.88 9,690,052(1) 7.04
Datuk Oh Chong Peng 4,387 0.00 - -
Dato’ Wira Zainal Abidin bin Mahamad Zain 1,250 0.00 - -
Prakash A/L K.V.P Menon 1,072,500 0.78 - -
Lim Pang Boon 80,085 0.06 - -
Azhari Arshad 62,500 0.05 - -
Notes:
(1) Deemed interested through Thye Nam Loong Holdings Sdn Bhd, Thye Nam Loong Sdn Bhd, Suai Timber
Products Sdn Bhd and Essence Lane Sdn Bhd.
Analysis of Warrant Holdings
as at 31 March 2021 (cont’d)
189
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Description, Location & Size Existing Use
Approximate
Age of
Building
(Year)
Date/Year
of last
Revaluation/
Acquisition
Net Book
Value At
31-12-20
RM
Freehold land with shop houses
GRN 116112 Lot 3618 Section 4
GRN 116113 Lot 3619 Section 4
Town of Butterworth
District of Seberang Perai Utara
Penang
Total: 1.44 acres
Shoplot 60 9 Sept 1996 2,947,000
Freehold land with
residential building
GRN 29231
Lot 449 Section 67
District of Kuala Lumpur
Federal Territory
Total: 1.00 acre
Commercial
land and
building
81 4 Dec 1996 1,570,000
Freehold land
Lots 5326, 5327 and part of
Lots 5331 & 5332
District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 9.00 acres
Vacant land - 1981 72,000
Leasehold land with buildings
Lots 4902 (expiring on 11-12-2061)
5337 (expiring on 25-4-2075)
5466 & 5336 (expiring on 22-11-2090)
PT 4333 HSD 28222/PT 4334 HSD 28223
(expiring on 25-4-2075)
Mukim Lumut, District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 61.43 acres
Office and
factory
38-54 6 Oct 1998 25,262,000
Freehold land with shop house
Grant No. 36370, Lot No. 12256
Mukim Pulai
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 0.04 acre
Shoplot 41 1991 136,000
Leasehold land with buildings
HSD 238626, Lot PTD 119736
(expiring on 28-2-2051)
Mukim Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 10.1 acres
Office and
factory
28 3 Feb 1995 57,688,000
List of Properties
190 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Description, Location & Size Existing Use
Approximate
Age of
Building
(Year)
Date/Year
of last
Revaluation/
Acquisition
Net Book
Value At
31-12-20
RM
Leasehold land with building
PN 25155 Lot 7114
(expiring on 22-7-2096)
Mukim Batu Berendam
District of Melaka Tengah
Melaka Darul Azim
Total: 0.13 acre
Factory 23 1997 334,000
Freehold land with building
HS(D) 212786 PTB 18284
Bandar Johor Bahru
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 0.13 acre
Factory 21 1999 421,000
Leasehold land
HS(D) 503714 PTD 209638
(expiring on 2-4-2072)
Mukim Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 4.57 acres
Vacant land 9 2011 2,689,000
Leasehold land with buildings
HSD 30841 PT 13521
HSD 30845 PT 13525
HSD 30844 PT 13524
(expiring in 2075)
Mukim Lumut
District of Manjung
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 200 acres
Breeder farm
and factory
31 2015 122,094,000
Leasehold land with buildings
HSD 42440, PT 19754
(expiring on 13-9-2116)
Mukim Lumut
District of Manjung
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 26.68 acres
Office and
factory
30 10 Mar 1995 5,745,000
Freehold land with house
GRN 160946 Lot 45520
Mukim Plentong
District of Johor Bahru
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 0.04 acre
Residential
house
29 2017 145,000
List of Properties (cont’d)
191
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Description, Location & Size Existing Use
Approximate
Age of
Building
(Year)
Date/Year
of last
Revaluation/
Acquisition
Net Book
Value At
31-12-20
RM
Leasehold land with farm buildings
PN370859 Lot 23679
HSD 35899 PT 18500
HSD 35900 PT 18501
(expiring in 2075)
Mukim Pengkalan Baharu
District of Manjung
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 464.96 acres
Broiler farm 28 2015 55,569,000
Freehold land
Grant 1784, Lot 12653
Mukim Sitiawan
District of Dindings
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 17 acres
Vacant land - 1997 271,000
Freehold land
GM 23464, Lot 10137
Mukim Bagan Serai
District of Kerian
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 2.12 acres
Vacant land - 1990 1
Land Use Rights with buildings
(expiring on 31-8-2024)
Cai Lan, Quang Ninh Province
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Total: 17.30 acres
Office and
factory
23 1994 30,311,000
Freehold land with farm buildings
HS(M) 15129 PTD 21255
Mukim Sri Gading
District of Batu Pahat
Johor Darul Takzim
Total: 17.84 acres
Broiler farm 24 2000 5,924,000
Land Use Rights with buildings
(expiring on 30-6-2048)
Phu My Industrial Zone I
Tan Thanh District
Baria - Vungtau Province
The Socialist Republic of Vietnam
Total: 17.29 acres
Office and
factory
18 2000 12,820,000
Leasehold land with farm buildings
PN 378132 Lot 5471
PN 378133 Lot 5472
(expiring on 7-5-2034)
Mukim Lumut
District of Manjung
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 25.81 acres
Breeder farm 10 2010 1,490,000
192 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Description, Location & Size Existing Use
Approximate
Age of
Building
(Year)
Date/Year
of last
Revaluation/
Acquisition
Net Book
Value At
31-12-20
RM
Freehold land with farm buildings
Geran Nos 110919, 110936, 110937
110940 & 110941
Lots 65276, 65297, 65298, 65301 & 65302
Mukim Sungai Terap
District of Kinta
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 25.91 acres
Broiler farm 9 2011 5,809,000
Freehold land with farm buildings
Geran No. 53949 Lot 3997
Mukim Tawar
District of Baling
Kedah Darul Aman
Total: 116.83 acres
Breeder farm 9 2011 21,823,000
Freehold land
Geran No. 43156 Lot 4656
Geran No. 11810 Lot 9132
Mukim Lenggong
District of Hulu Perak
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 95.54 acres
Vacant land - 2013 7,981,000
Freehold land with farm buildings
GRN 65374 Lot 3160
GRN 61255 Lot 3163
Mukim Lenggong
District of Hulu Perak
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 21.67 acres
Breeder farm 3 2014 6,371,000
Freehold land
Geran No. 364, Lot 1029
Geran No. 413, Lot 272
Geran No. 435, Lot 969
Geran No. 659, Lot 965
Geran No. 785, Lot 968
Geran No. 980, Lot 971
Geran No. 981, Lot 972
Geran No. 982, Lot 973
Geran No. 983, Lot 974
Geran No. 984, Lot 975
Geran No. 985, Lot 976
Geran No. 986, Lot 966
Geran No. 987, Lot 967
Geran No. 988, Lot 980
Geran No. 989, Lot 981
Geran No. 993, Lot 274
Vacant land - 2014 8,643,000
List of Properties (cont’d)
193
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Description, Location & Size Existing Use
Approximate
Age of
Building
(Year)
Date/Year
of last
Revaluation/
Acquisition
Net Book
Value At
31-12-20
RM
Geran No. 994, Lot 275
Geran No. 996, Lot 278
Geran No. 997, Lot 279
Geran No. 1001, Lot 1046
Geran No. 1003, Lot 970
Geran No. 2385, Lot 977
Geran No. 2388, Lot 1301
Geran No. 2390, Lot 1300
Geran No. 2444, Lot 978
Geran No. 2445, Lot 979
Geran No. 2464, Lot 1033
Geran No. 2915, Lot 1034
Geran No. 2925, Lot 1035
Geran No. 1092, Lot 964
Geran No. 365, Lot 1030
Geran No. 373, Lot 1036
Geran No. 392, Lot 1031
Geran No. 594, Lot 1032
Geran No. 753, Lot 276
Geran No. 976, Lot 1037
Geran No. 992, Lot 273
Geran No. 995, Lot 277
Geran No. 998, Lot 281
Geran No. 1002, Lot 1305
Geran No. 1138, Lot 1304
Geran No. 2383, Lot 280
Geran No. 2386, Lot 1302
Geran No. 2387, Lot 1303
Mukim Beriah
District of Kerian
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 102.93 acres
Freehold land with building
Geran No. 2935 Lot 102
Geran No. 2949 Lot 101
Mukim Pengkalan Baharu
District of Manjung
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 2.54 acres
Broiler farm 6 2014 1,515,000
Leasehold land with buildings
PN 296140 Lot 15562
(expiring on 9-7-2105)
Mukim Lumut
District of Manjung
Perak Darul Ridzuan
Total: 5.172 acres
Factory 3 2015 257,475,000
194 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN that the Sixty-First Annual General Meeting (“61st AGM”) of Malayan Flour
Mills Berhad will be conducted on a fully virtual basis from its Broadcast Venue at M5, Mezzanine Floor,
Wisma MCA, 163 Jalan Ampang, 50450 Kuala Lumpur on Friday, 28 May 2021 at 10.00 a.m. for the following
purposes:-
Ordinary Business
1. To receive the Audited Financial Statements for the financial year ended
31 December 2020 together with the Reports of the Directors and Auditors
thereon. [Please refer to Explanatory Notes].
2. To re-elect the following Directors who retire by rotation in accordance with
Clause 132 of the Constitution of the Company and being eligible, offer
themselves for re-election:
(i) Mr Quah Poh Keat (Ordinary Resolution 1)
(ii) Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris (Ordinary Resolution 2)
(iii) Mr Lim Pang Boon (Ordinary Resolution 3)
3. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of RM960,000 for the financial
year ended 31 December 2020. (Ordinary Resolution 4)
4. To approve an amount of up to RM320,000 as benefits payable to the
Directors for the period from the conclusion of the 61st AGM until the
conclusion of the next AGM of the Company. (Ordinary Resolution 5)
5. To re-appoint Messrs KPMG PLT as Auditors of the Company for the
financial year ending 31 December 2021 and to authorise the Directors to
fix their remuneration. (Ordinary Resolution 6)
Notice of Annual General Meeting
195
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Special Business
To consider and if thought fit, to pass with or without modifications, the following
resolutions:-
6. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections
75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016
“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016 and approval from the relevant
authorities, where such approval is necessary, full authority be and is hereby
given to the Directors pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act
2016 to issue and allot shares in the Company at any time and upon such
terms and conditions and for such purposes as the Directors may, in their
absolute discretion deem fit, provided that the aggregate number of shares
issued pursuant to this resolution does not exceed 10% of the total number
of issued shares of the Company for the time being and that the Directors
be and are also empowered to obtain the approval for the listing of and
quotation for the additional shares so issued on Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad and that such authority shall continue in force until the conclusion
of the next Annual General Meeting of the Company.” (Ordinary Resolution 7)
7. Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back
“THAT subject to the Companies Act 2016, the provisions of the Constitution
of the Company, Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”)
Main Market Listing Requirements and the approvals of all relevant
governmental and/or regulatory authorities, the Company be and is hereby
authorised, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to purchase such amount
of ordinary shares in the Company (“Proposed Share Buy-back”) as may
be determined by the Directors of the Company from time to time through
Bursa Securities upon such terms and conditions as the Directors may deem
fit and expedient in the interest of the Company provided that the aggregate
number of shares purchased pursuant to this resolution does not exceed
10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company as at the point
of purchase and that an amount not exceeding the Company’s retained
profits at the time of the purchase(s) will be allocated by the Company for
the Proposed Share Buy-back;
THAT the authority conferred by this resolution will be effective immediately
and shall continue in force until: -
(a) the conclusion of the annual general meeting of the Company following
the general meeting at which such resolution was passed at which time
it shall lapse unless by ordinary resolution passed at that meeting, the
authority is renewed, either conditionally or subject to conditions; or
196 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
(b) the expiration of the period within which the next annual general meeting
after that date is required by law to be held; or
(c) revoked or varied by ordinary resolution passed by shareholders in a
general meeting,
whichever occurs first;
AND THAT authority be and is hereby given unconditionally and generally
to the Directors of the Company to take all such steps as are necessary
or expedient (including without limitation, the opening and maintaining
of central depository account(s) under the Securities Industry (Central
Depositories) Act, 1991, and the entering into of all other agreements,
arrangements and guarantee with any party or parties) to implement,
finalise and give full effect to the aforesaid purchase with full powers to
assent to any conditions, modifications, revaluations, variations and/or
amendments (if any) as may be imposed by the relevant authorities and with
the fullest power to do all such acts and things thereafter (including without
limitation, the cancellation or retention as treasury shares of all or any part
of the repurchased shares) in accordance with the Companies Act 2016, the
provisions of the Constitution of the Company and the requirements and/or
guidelines of the Bursa Securities and all other relevant governmental and/
or regulatory authorities and to do all such things as the said Directors may
deem fit and expedient in the best interest of the Company.” (Ordinary Resolution 8)
8. To transact any other business of which due notice shall have been given in
accordance with the Companies Act 2016.
By Order of the Board
Mah Wai Mun
MAICSA 7009729
SSM PC No. 202008000785
Company Secretary
Kuala Lumpur
28 April 2021
Notice of Annual General Meeting (cont’d)
197
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
Notes:-
1. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic and as part of the safety measures, this 61st AGM will be conducted on a fully virtual basis via
live streaming and online remote voting using Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities provided by Boardroom
Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) at https://web.lumiagm.com.
2. Please read and follow the procedures as set out in the Administrative Guide in order to register, participate and vote
remotely via the RPEV facilities.
3. The Broadcast Venue of the AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which
requires the Chairman of the Meeting to be present at the main venue. Members WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the AGM in
person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of the meeting.
4. A member entitled to participate and vote remotely at the AGM is entitled to appoint not more than 2 proxies to participate and to
vote in his/her stead. A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
5. Where a member appoints 2 proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she speciﬁes the proportion of his/her holding to
be represented by each proxy.
6. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as deﬁned under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act,
1991, it may appoint at least 1 proxy but not more than 2 proxies in respect of each securities account it holds which is credited
with ordinary shares of the Company.
7. Notwithstanding the above, an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneﬁcial
owners in 1 securities account (“Omnibus Account”), may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account held.
8. The instrument appointing a proxy must be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if
the appointer is a corporation, either under its common seal or the hand of the attorney duly authorised.
9. The Form of Proxy (“Form”) shall not be treated as valid unless the posted Form is received or the Form is deposited at the ofﬁce
of the Company’s Share Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo
Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan or lodged electronically via “Boardroom Smart Investor Portal”
at https://boardroomlimited.my which is available to all individual members, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for
holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof. Forms transmitted by fax or email will not be accepted. The Company will not
accept any photocopies of the Form in place of the original signed copy.
10. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to participate in this 61st AGM, the Company shall be requesting
Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn Bhd in accordance with Clause 82 of the Constitution of the Company and Section 34(1) of the
Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991 to issue a Record of Depositors as at 20 May 2021. Only a depositor whose
name appears on such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate and vote at the said AGM or appoint proxies to
participate and vote on his/her behalf.
Explanatory Notes on Ordinary Business
Item 1 of the Agenda: To receive the Audited Financial Statements
This Agenda item is meant for discussion only as the provision of Section 340(1) of the Companies Act 2016 does not require a formal
approval of the shareholders and hence, is not put forward for voting.
Ordinary Resolutions 4 and 5: Directors’ Fees and Other Benefits
Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016 provides amongst others, that the fees and any beneﬁts payable to the Directors of a listed
company shall be approved at a general meeting.
In this respect, the Board wishes to seek the shareholders’ approval for the following payments to Directors at the 61st AGM:-
Resolution 4: Payment of Directors’ fees totalling RM960,000 in respect of the ﬁnancial year ended 31 December 2020; and
Resolution 5: Payment of beneﬁts payable to the Directors which have been reviewed by the Remuneration Committee and Board of
Directors of the Company for the period from the conclusion of the 61st AGM until the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
The beneﬁts payable to the Directors comprise Board Committee ﬁxed fee, meeting allowances and beneﬁts-in-kind. In determining the
estimated total amount of the beneﬁts payable, the Board has considered various factors including the number of scheduled and special
meetings for the Board and Board Committees as well as the number of Directors involved in these meetings.
Ordinary Resolution 7: Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares
The proposed Resolution 7 is for the purpose of seeking a renewal of the general mandate (“General Mandate”) and if passed, will
empower the Directors of the Company pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016, to issue and allot new shares in the
Company from time to time provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the General Mandate does not exceed 10%
of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being. The General Mandate, unless revoked or varied by the Company
in general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
198 ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
The General Mandate will provide ﬂexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities, including but not limited to further
placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment project(s), working capital and/or acquisition(s) and any share issuance for
acquisition involving equity deal which requires the Company to allot and issue new shares, which is only to be undertaken if the Directors
consider it to be in the best interest of the Company.
As at the date of this Notice, no new share in the Company was issued pursuant to the General Mandate granted to the Directors at the
60th AGM of the Company held on 24 June 2020.
Ordinary Resolution 8: Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back
The proposed Resolution 8, if passed, will empower the Directors to purchase the Company’s shares of up to a maximum of 10% of the
total number of issued shares of the Company by utilising the funds allocated out of the retained proﬁts of the Company. This authority,
unless revoked or varied at a general meeting, will expire at the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company.
Notice of Annual General Meeting (cont’d)
199
ANNUAL REPORT 2020 - Malayan Flour Mills Berhad
1. AUTHORITY TO DIRECTORS TO ALLOT AND ISSUE SHARES
PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 75 AND 76 OF THE COMPANIES ACT 2016
The renewal of this general mandate (“General Mandate”) will empower the Directors of the Company
pursuant to Sections 75 and 76 of the Companies Act 2016, to issue and allot new shares in the
Company from time to time provided that the aggregate number of shares issued pursuant to the General
Mandate does not exceed 10% of the total number of issued shares of the Company for the time being.
The General Mandate, unless revoked or varied by the Company in general meeting, will expire at the
conclusion of the next Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company.
The General Mandate will provide flexibility to the Company for any possible fund raising activities,
including but not limited to further placing of shares, for the purpose of funding future investment
project(s), working capital and/or acquisition(s) and any share issuance for acquisition involving equity
deal which requires the Company to allot and issue new shares, which is only to be undertaken if the
Directors consider it to be in the best interest of the Company.
As at the date of this Notice, no new share in the Company was issued pursuant to the General Mandate
granted to the Directors at the 60th AGM of the Company held on 24 June 2020.
Statement Accompanying
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Pursuant to Paragraph 8.27(2) of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Main Market Listing Requirements
This page is intentionally left blank.
This page is intentionally left blank.
This page is intentionally left blank.
MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD
Registration No. 196101000210 (4260-M)
(Incorporated in Malaysia)
FORM OF PROXY
I/We _________________________________________NRIC No./Passport No./Company No_________________
(full name in block letters)
of______________________________________________________________________________________________
(full address)
being a member/members of MALAYAN FLOUR MILLS BERHAD hereby appoint:-
Full Name (In Block) NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholding
No. of Shares %
Address
* and/or
Full Name (In Block) NRIC No./Passport No. Proportion of Shareholding
No. of Shares %
Address
or failing him/her, the *CHAIRMAN OF THE MEETING as my/our proxy to attend and vote for me/us on my/
our behalf at the Sixty-First Annual General Meeting of the Company which will be conducted on a fully
virtual basis from its Broadcast Venue at M5, Mezzanine Floor, Wisma MCA, 163 Jalan Ampang, 50450 Kuala
Lumpur on Friday, 28 May 2021 at 10.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof.
My/our proxy is to vote on a poll as indicated below:
(Please indicate with a “x” or “√” in the boxes provided how you wish your vote to be cast. If you do not do so, the proxy
will vote or abstain from voting at his discretion).
No. Resolutions For Against
1.
2.
3.
Re-election of the following Directors who retire by rotation in accordance
with Clause 132 of the Constitution of the Company:-
a. Mr Quah Poh Keat
b. Prof. Datin Paduka Setia Dato’ Dr Aini binti Ideris
c. Mr Lim Pang Boon
4. Payment of Directors’ fees
5. Payment of benefits payable to the Directors
6. Re-appointment of Auditors
7. Authority to Directors to Allot and Issue Shares Pursuant to Sections 75 and
76 of the Companies Act 2016
8. Proposed Renewal of Authority for Share Buy-back
* Strike out whichever not applicable
Dated this ______________ day of _____________________, 2021
____________________________________
Signature/Common Seal of Shareholder
Notes:-
1. In view of the COVID-19 pandemic and as part of the safety measures, this 61st AGM will be conducted on a fully virtual basis via live streaming and online
remote voting using Remote Participation and Electronic Voting (“RPEV”) facilities provided by Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd (“Boardroom”) at
https://web.lumiagm.com.
2. Please read and follow the procedures as set out in the Administrative Guide in order to register, participate and vote remotely via the RPEV facilities.
3. The Broadcast Venue of the AGM is strictly for the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016 which requires the Chairman
of the Meeting to be present at the main venue. Members WILL NOT BE ALLOWED to attend the AGM in person at the Broadcast Venue on the day of
the meeting.
4. A member entitled to participate and vote remotely at the AGM is entitled to appoint not more than 2 proxies to participate and to vote in his/her stead.
A proxy may but need not be a member of the Company.
5. Where a member appoints 2 proxies, the appointment shall be invalid unless he/she speciﬁes the proportion of his/her holding to be represented by each
proxy.
6. Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as deﬁned under the Securities Industry (Central Depositories) Act, 1991, it may appoint at
least 1 proxy but not more than 2 proxies in respect of each securities account it holds which is credited with ordinary shares of the Company.
7. Notwithstanding the above, an exempt authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneﬁcial owners in 1 securities
account (“Omnibus Account”), may appoint multiple proxies in respect of each Omnibus Account held.
8. The instrument appointing a proxy must be in writing under the hand of the appointer or his attorney duly authorised in writing or, if the appointer is a
corporation, either under its common seal or the hand of the attorney duly authorised.
9. The Form of Proxy (“Form”) shall not be treated as valid unless the posted Form is received or the Form is deposited at the ofﬁce of the Company’s Share
Registrar, Boardroom Share Registrars Sdn Bhd at 11th Floor, Menara Symphony, No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim, Seksyen 13, 46200 Petaling Jaya,
Selangor Darul Ehsan or lodged electronically via “Boardroom Smart Investor Portal” at https://boardroomlimited.my which is available to all individual
members, not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for holding the meeting or any adjournment thereof. Forms transmitted by fax or email will
not be accepted. The Company will not accept any photocopies of the Form in place of the original signed copy.
10. For the purpose of determining a member who shall be entitled to participate in this 61st AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia
Depository Sdn Bhd in accordance with Clause 82 of the Constitution of the Company and Section 34(1) of the Securities Industry (Central Depositories)
Act, 1991 to issue a Record of Depositors as at 20 May 2021. Only a depositor whose name appears on such Record of Depositors shall be entitled to
participate and vote at the said AGM or appoint proxies to participate and vote on his/her behalf.
✁
CDS Account No. No. of Shares Held
Share Registrar
BOARDROOM SHARE REGISTRARS SDN BHD
11th Floor, Menara Symphony
No. 5, Jalan Prof. Khoo Kay Kim
Seksyen 13
46200 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Fold this ﬂap for sealing
1st fold here
2nd fold here
AFFIX
STAMP
HERE
