Capturing Value
Annual Report 2024
FRASER & NEAVE
HOLDINGS BHD
196101000155 (4205-V)
COVER RATIONALE
In FY2024, every business decision at Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd (F&NHB) was guided by a singular focus
- capturing value for all our stakeholders, from consumers to shareholders – as we bring Pure Enjoyment,
Pure Goodness to generations of Malaysians, a commitment reflected on our cover. Our 2024 Annual Report
showcases this dedication through a forward-thinking, value-driven strategy, emphasising how we capture
value by seizing new opportunities, optimising operations and broadening our market reach. Delve into this
report to discover our ongoing journey of growth, resilience, and value creation in an ever-evolving landscape.
SCAN HERE
Read here for our Annual Report 2024
Capturing Value
TABLE OF CONTENT
Basis of This Report 2
About F&NHB 4
Vision | Mission | Global Values 5
+603-5101 4288
groupcomms@fn.com.my
We value and appreciate all feedback to help make
our future reports more relevant to our stakeholders.
Business Review
Food & Beverages Thailand 58
Food & Beverages Malaysia 66
Financial Review
5-Year Group Financial Summary and Highlights 78
Simplified Group Statement of Financial Position 80
Group Segmental Analysis 81
Statement of Value Added 82
Group Quarterly Financial Performance 83
Financial Calendar 84
Investor Relations 85
Share Price Movement 86
F&N At A Glance 6
Group Financial Highlights FY2024 8
Our Awards and Recognition 10
Corporate Structure 13
Our Global Presence 14
Our Brands and Product Categories 16
Our Market-Leading Positions and New Product
Universe
18
Our Value Chain 20
Key Milestones 22
OVERVIEW OF F&N
1
Sustainability Statement 142
SUSTAINABILITY AT F&N
7
Chairman’s Message 24
Q&A with Our CEO 31
KEY MESSAGES
2
Corporate Information 88
Board Composition 89
Profile of Board of Directors 90
Profile of Key Senior Management 102
Organisation Structure 112
LEADERSHIP
5
Value Creation Business Model 40
VALUE CREATION AT F&N
3
Strategic Review
Market Review 43
Key Risks and Mitigation 46
Strategic Performance Review 52
Strengthening our Halal Ecosystem 54
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
4
Corporate Governance Overview Statement 114
Nominating Committee Report 125
Audit Committee Report 127
Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control
131
Statement on Directors’ Responsibility 138
Additional Compliance Information 139
GOVERNANCE
6
Directors’ Report 160
Statements of Financial Position 170
Statements of Profit or Loss 172
Statements of Other Comprehensive Income 173
Statements of Changes in Equity 174
Statements of Cash Flows 177
Notes to the Financial Statements 181
Statement by Directors 270
Statutory Declaration 271
Independent Auditors’ Report 272
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
8
Shareholdings Statistics 276
List of Properties 279
Corporate Directory 285
Notice of Annual General Meeting 287
Appendix I & II (Nomination Letter) 293
Administrative Details 295
• Proxy Form
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
9
INSIDE THIS REPORT
Communications, Corporate Affairs and
Sustainability Department
No. 1 Jalan Bukit Belimbing 26/38,
Persiaran Kuala Selangor, Seksyen 26,
40400 Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
2
BASIS OF THIS REPORT
Annual Report 2024
Annual Report provides a comprehensive
assessment of the Group’s performance and
financial statements for FY2024.
Sustainability Report 2024
Sustainability Report delivers a balanced report
on our efforts to create value for stakeholders and
conducting business in a responsible manner.
The report complies with the Global Reporting
Initiative (GRI) Standards and Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad’s Main Market Listing
Requirements in relation to Sustainability Statements
in Annual Reports.
Internal controls and management assurance
Compliance and internal audit reviews
External audit by KPMG PLT on financial
statements
External audit by Lloyd’s Register Quality
Assurance on selected Environment and Social
disclosures
Board approval assisted by the Board Committees
ASSURANCE
Main Market Listing Requirements of
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Companies Act 2016
Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance
International Integrated Reporting Framework
Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards
(MFRS)
REGULATIONS COMPLIED
DIRECTORS’ APPROVAL
The Board acknowledges its responsibility to ensure the integrity of the Annual Report. In the Board’s opinion, the report
addresses all material issues and matters and fairly presents the Group’s performance for the financial year 2024.
Indicates where more details can be accessed elsewhere in this report
Welcome to Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd’s Annual Report for FY2024.
We trust that transparency and well-balanced reporting is the way to understanding the Group’s process and
businesses. Through the changes we have instituted into our reports this year, and aligning with the principles of
integrated reporting, we hope to provide a clear account of what we believe value creation means for our stakeholders.
S&I Shareholders and Investors
D&T Distributors & Trade Customers
Con Consumers
Com Communities
Reg Regulators
Sup Suppliers
Emp Employees
OUR STAKEHOLDERS
We Create
Value through
6 Capitals
Human Capital
Financial Capital
Intellectual Capital
Manufactured Capital
Social & Relationship Capital
Natural Capital
OVERVIEW OF F&N SECTION
1 2 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 3
As we continue to deliver Pure Enjoyment, Pure Goodness, our mission is
to help our customers grow by being a trusted partner in their success,
delivering innovative, high-quality products and solutions. With a
commitment to providing new and unique offerings, we empower our
clients to better serve their consumers and stay ahead of market trends.
Together, we can unlock fresh opportunities and achieve meaningful,
sustainable growth.
Capturing Value
for our Customers
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
4
ABOUT F&NHB
Fraser & Neave Holdings
Bhd (F&NHB) is a Malaysian-
incorporated and Shariah-
compliant company listed on
Bursa Malaysia’s Main Board.
With a rich heritage spanning
over 140 years, F&NHB’s
core businesses include the
manufacturing, sales, and
marketing of quality and Halal-
certified beverages, dairy
and food products trusted by
generations.
F&NHB boasts a portfolio of more than 30 brands that are leaders in
many segments. The brands include 100PLUS, BORNEO SPRINGS
Natural Mineral Water, F&N Fun Flavours, F&N SEASONS, OYOSHI, F&N
Magnolia, FARMHOUSE, F&N ICE MOUNTAIN, as well as a wide range of
condensed and evaporated milk products under F&N, TEAPOT, GOLD
COIN, Cap Junjung, Ideal and Carnation brands.
Through its subsidiary, Sri Nona Foods, the Group produces the iconic
NONA brand of ketupat and sauces, alongside a variety of well-
loved confectionery and snack brands, including the flagship LOT
100. Together, F&NHB offers over 200 products across Malaysia and
Thailand, catering to a wide spectrum of consumer needs.
With F&N AgriValley, F&NHB aims to make quality fresh milk affordable
and accessible to all Malaysians.
F&NHB is a constituent of FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia (F4GBM)
Index for its strong commitment to responsible business practices
on environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters. The Group
employs over 3,700 people across its operations in Malaysia, Brunei,
Thailand and Indochina.
Sharing Enjoyment,
Spreading Goodness
OVERVIEW OF F&N SECTION
1 2 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 5
GLOBAL VALUES
Our Global Values serve as a compass for our actions and describe how
we behave in our organisation. They include:
VISION
To be a stable and sustainable food
and beverage (F&B) leader in the
ASEAN region.
MISSION
To be ASEAN’s leading provider
of quality and innovative
products that consumers
choose and trust.
We leverage the
power of inherent
strengths and
diversity to create
inclusive synergies
and commit to team
goals.
COLLABORATION
We are passionate
about applying new
ideas and seizing
opportunities to
make a positive
impact on our
organisation and
around the world.
CREATING
VALUES
We embrace our
stakeholders’
perspectives with
good intentions
and right mindsets
to create long-
term, sustainable
partnerships.
CARING FOR
STAKEHOLDERS
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
6
F&N AT A GLANCE
Leading food and beverage company in the ASEAN region with
market-dominating brands.
>RM5 billion
annual turnover
categories
Brands in
>30
14
Halal-Certified
Products
100%
>3,700
Workforce of
employees
Export market
93
countries worldwide
OVERVIEW OF F&N SECTION
1 2 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 7
F&N AT A GLANCE
13 manufacturing facilities
FOOD
• Rawang
(4 sites)
DAIRY
• Pulau Indah
• Rojana
• Wang Muang
Extensive network coverage with
>230,000
outlets in Malaysia, Thailand, Cambodia
and Laos
25 OFFICES
across Malaysia, Thailand, Brunei,
Cambodia and U.A.E
FTSE4GOOD
BURSA MALAYSIA
INDEX
Top 1% in the global Food & Beverage
Supersector
MINERAL
WATER
• Bentong
• Matang
BEVERAGES
• Shah Alam
• Kuching
• Kota Kinabalu
(2 sites)
TOP 5 COMPANIES
among global beverage sector in S&P Global
Corporate Sustainbility Assessment 2023
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
8
GROUP FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS FY2024
Revenue
RM5,245.6
million
PBT on Revenue
Dividend per Share
Net Assets per Share
Basic Earnings per Share
Share Capital
Shareholders’ Equity
Return on
Shareholders’ Equity
Market
Capitalisation
Debt to Equity Ratio
Profit before Tax (PBT)
RM697.0
million
Profit for the Year
RM544.3
million
* Included proposed final dividend of
33.0 sen per share, which will only be
recognised in the financial statements
upon shareholders’ approval.
Operating Profit
RM 709.5
million
OVERVIEW OF F&N SECTION
1 2 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 9
GROUP FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS FY2024
Revenue
(RM million)
Total 5,245.6
2,950.8
305.4
(3.9)
(41.9)
3.0
2,291.0
0.8
449.9
13.3%
RM816.8 million
RM9.75
15.2%
63.0 sen*
RM3,576.0 million
148.2 sen
RM10,644 million
(as at 12 November 2024)
21.3%
By Operating Segments
F&B MALAYSIA
F&B THAILAND
F&B Malaysia
F&B Malaysia
F&B Thailand
F&B Thailand
Property
Property
Others
Others
Operating Profit
(RM million)
Total 709.5
Revenue
RM 2.95
billion
Revenue
RM 2.29
billion
Operating Profit
RM 305.4
million
Operating Profit
RM 449.9
million
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
10
OUR AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
Graduates’
Choice Award
2024 (GCA)
• Top 3
Employers of
Choice for
Graduates
to Work for
in 2023
within the
Fast-Moving
Consumer
Goods
category
Malaysia Best Employer Brand Awards 2024
• Promoting Health in the Workplace
(F&N East Malaysia)
Employee Experience
Awards 2024
• Award for
Excellence in
Training (F&NHB)
• Award
for Talent
Management
(F&NHB)
• Best Employer
Brand Award
(F&NHB)
• Award for
Best HR
Strategy in
Line with
Business
(Sri Nona)
• Gold Award for
Innovative and
Sustainable Office
Design
• Silver Award for
HR communication
strategy
• Silver Award for
Best Rewards
and Recognition
Programme
• Bronze Award for
Best Hybrid Work
Model
HR Asia Best Companies to
Work for in Asia Award 2023
• Best Employers to Work for
HR Excellence Award
2023
• Bronze Award for
Excellence in Digital
Transformation
OVERVIEW OF F&N SECTION
1 2 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 11
OUR AWARDS AND RECOGNITION
Experts’ Choice Awards
• Marketing Magazine Asia
- Top 10 Raya TVC 2024
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD F&N DAIRIES (THAILAND) LIMITED
100PLUS
PwC Malaysia’s Building Trust Awards 2023
• FBM Mid 70 Index category
• Special mentions for Public Trust Perception Analysis
• Special mentions for ESG Reporting Benchmarking
Analysis
The Edge ESG Awards 2023
• Gold award for Consumer Products
and Services Sector
National Corporate
Governance & Sustainability
Awards
• Excellence Award Top 50
Putra Brand Awards
• Gold Winner for Beverage
(Non-alcoholic)
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
12
OUR AWARDS AND RECOGNITION FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD F&N DAIRIES (THAILAND) LIMITED
100PLUS
Thailand’s National Safety Award 2024
• Gold Award for Wang Muang Plant
• Silver Award for Rojana Plant
CSR-DIW Continuous Award 2024
Zero Accident Award 2024
Thailand Labor Management
Excellence Award 2024
Green Industry level 4 Award
S&P GLOBAL ESG SCORE 2023
In 2024, we have been selected as a member of the
Sustainability Yearbook 2024 by S&P Global, ranking
among the top 5 Beverage companies globally. Our
performance saw further improvement, with our
percentile rising to 96th percentile from 95th percentile
in 2022 (Score date: February 2024).
FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia
We are one of the 120 constituents of the FTSE4Good Bursa
Malaysia for the sixth year running, scoring 4.5 out of 5.0
in the latest review. This positions F&NHB within the Top
1% globally in our FTSE Industry Classification Benchmark
Supersector. Additionally, we are also a proud constituent
of the FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Shariah Index for the
fourth consecutive year.
ESG INDICES & RATINGS
OVERVIEW OF F&N SECTION
1 2 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 13
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA PROPERTY
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND
CORPORATE STRUCTURE
as at 15 November 2024
Awana Citra Sdn Bhd
Borneo Springs Sdn Bhd
PT Cocoaland Indonesia
Sri Nona Industries Sdn Bhd
Sri Nona Food Industries Sdn Bhd
Edaran NONA Sdn Bhd (formerly known as
Lee Shun Hing Sauce Industries Sdn Bhd)
Cocoaland Holdings Berhad
F&N Beverages Manufacturing Sdn Bhd
100% F&N Properties Sdn Bhd
100%
F&N Dairies (Thailand) Limited
100%
F&N Foods (Cambodia) Co., Ltd.
100%
Nuvak Company Sdn Bhd
100%
Lettricia Corporation Sdn Bhd
70%
Greenclipper Corporation Sdn Bhd
100%
Tropical League Sdn Bhd
100%
Utas Mutiara Sdn Bhd
100%
Vacaron Company Sdn Bhd
50%
100%
F&N Beverages Marketing Sdn Bhd
100%
Fraser & Neave (Malaya) Sdn Bhd *
100%
F&N Dairies Manufacturing Sdn Bhd
100%
F&N Dairies (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd
100%
F&N Dairies Distribution (Singapore) Pte Ltd
100%
Premier Milk (Malaya) Sdn Berhad
100%
F&N Marketing (B) Sdn Bhd
100%
100%
10%
Sri Nona Food Manufacturing Sdn Bhd
100%
Sri Nona Foods Sdn Bhd
100%
CCL Food & Beverage Sdn Bhd
100%
乐一百贸易（深圳）有限公司
(Lot 100 Food Co. Ltd.)
100%
PT Cocoaland Indonesia
90%
100%
100%
100%
100%
F&N International Market Sdn Bhd @
Fraser and Neave MENA DWC-LLC
50.1%
100%
OTHERS
Ladang Permai Damai Sdn Bhd
Fraser & Neave (Malaya) Sdn Bhd *
100%
Elsinburg Holdings Sdn Bhd #
100%
F&N Capital Sdn Bhd
100%
Usahaniaga Abadi Sdn Bhd
100%
F&N AgriValley Sdn Bhd
100%
100%
Dagang Sejahtera Sdn Bhd
65%
Notes:
* Classified under Food & Beverages Malaysia and Others segments.
# In the process of member’s voluntary winding up.
@ On 1 October 2024, Fraser & Neave (Malaya) Sdn Bhd (“F&NM”, a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company) entered into a share purchase agreement with F&N International Market Sdn Bhd (“F&NIM”, a 50.1%
subsidiary of the Company) to transfer its entire stake of 300,000 shares, representing 100% of the issued share capital in Fraser and Neave MENA DWC-LLC (“F&N MENA”), a company incorporated in the United
Arab Emirates to F&NIM for a total consideration of AED1.00 (“Share Transfer”). Completion of the F&N MENA Share Transfer is subject to, inter alia, the receipt of relevant regulatory approvals following which
F&N MENA will become a wholly-owned subsidiary of F&NIM.
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
14
OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE
Canada
United States
Central America
South America
Contribution of FY2024 Export Revenue
by Segment
21% 21% 21%
Group Revenue F&B Malaysia F&B Thailand
Expanding our
brands to
93 countries
OVERVIEW OF F&N SECTION
1 2 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 15
OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE
Europe
Africa
Middle East
Central Asia
South Asia
Oceania
East Asia
South East Asia
Condensed and
evaporated milk
Export revenue
exceeded
RM1.1 billion
in FY2024
Top exported
products
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
16
OUR BRANDS AND PRODUCT CATEGORIES
Isotonic &
Electrolyte Drink
Water & Energy
Liquid Milk Asian Drinks
Juice Cordial
Carbonated
Soft Drinks
Milk Tablets
Tea
Packaged Food
Condensed &
Evaporated Milk
Soya
Capturing Value through Comprehensive Product Offerings
Pure Enjoyment,
Pure Goodness
OVERVIEW OF F&N SECTION
1 2 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 17
OUR BRANDS AND PRODUCT CATEGORIES
https://my.fnlife.com/
https://nomaroi.com/
Our Online Stores
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
18
NutriWell
SOY MILK WITH
OAT & QUINOA
AND NutriWell
SOY MILK WITH
OMEGA FROM
FLAXSEED
– 180ML
OUR MARKET-LEADING POSITIONS AND NEW PRODUCT UNIVERSE
F&N SEASONS
ICE LEMON TEA ZERO
– 1.5 LITRE
NEW PRODUCTS
F&N SEASONS
BOTANICALS
LEMONGRASS
GINGER – 300ML
F&N SEASONS
BOTANICALS
HIBISCUS
– 300ML
F&N SEASONS
BARLEY
– 300ML
NEW PACK
SIZE OR
PACKAGING
100PLUS ZERO
– 325ML
F&N ORANGE
CRUSH
– 180ML
F&N SEASONS
APPLE FLAVOURED
DRINK
– 1 LITRE
F&N SARSI
CLASSIC
– 180ML
F&N SEASONS
LYCHEE FLAVOURED
DRINK
– 1 LITRE
BORNEO SPRINGS
NATURAL MINERAL
WATER
– 330ML
OVERVIEW OF F&N SECTION
1 2 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 19
NUMBER
NUMBER
1
1
* Based on Retail Index Service for the 52-weeks period ending 31st July 2024 in Total Malaysia Market. (© 2023, NIQ.)
^ F&N Dairies (Thailand) Limited’s calculation based in part on data reported by NielsenIQ through its Retail Index
Service for the Condensed Milk Category for the period from August 1, 2023 to Jul 31, 2024 for Total Thailand market.
(Copyright © 2024, NielsenIQ (Thailand) Limited.)
^^ F&N Dairies (Thailand) Limited’s calculation based in part on data reported by NielsenIQ through its Retail Index
Service for the Liquid Milk Category (Sterilized Milk segment) for the period from August 1, 2023 to Jul 31, 2024 for
Total Thailand market. (Copyright © 2024, NielsenIQ (Thailand) Limited.)
OUR MARKET-LEADING POSITIONS AND NEW PRODUCT UNIVERSE
MALAYSIA
THAILAND
F&N SEASONS
ICE LEMON TEA
– 1.5 LITRE
F&N SWEETENED CONDENSED
MILK WITH CALCIUM
– 1 KG POUCH
OYOSHI ORIGINAL
GREEN TEA
– 250ML
ISOTONIC &
CARBONATED
SOFT DRINKS *
EVAPORATED
MILK *
STERILISED
MILK ^^
SWEETENED
CONDENSED
MILK *
CONDENSED
MILK ^
F&N SEASONS
ROSE SOYA
– 1 LITRE (LIMITED
EDITION)
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
20
OUR VALUE CHAIN
The preparation,
production, and
packaging of our
diverse product
range depend on
a robust network
of raw materials,
equipment, and
goods and services.
We work closely with suppliers to ensure their
goods and services meet our internal stringent
requirements and supports external social,
environmental, and ethical standards. We upkeep
robust risk management mechanisms to manage
issues associated with the commodities upon which
we rely, ensuring the sustainability of our business.
In FY2024, we partnered with over 2,000 global
and local suppliers, ensuring a resilient and efficient
supply chain. These partnerships span wide
industries, including manufacturers, wholesalers,
retailers, importers/merchants, contractors, and
professional services providers. Our strategic
procurement efforts saw a total expenditure of over
RM5 billion.
SOURCING PRODUCTION
The production process throughout our operations
is standardised in accordance with international
standards. We strive for eco-efficient processes
to provide good value, while minimising negative
environmental and social impacts. We strive to
optimise resource use and consider the impacts of
water consumption, waste, effluents, and emissions
at all production stages.
OVERVIEW OF F&N SECTION
1 2 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 21
OUR VALUE CHAIN
DISTRIBUTION MARKETING & SALES
We fully integrate our distribution system
to enhance efficiency to our customers.
We focus on improving our processes through
digital technologies to ensure efficient energy
management in our transportation, while ensuring
the safety of our personnel and local communities.
Responsible marketing and sales practices are of
great importance to F&NHB. We engage regulators
and customers to improve our marketing practices
when communicating value – e.g. nutritional
information to our consumers. Conversations with
our stakeholders enable us to innovate better,
providing healthier product options that are desired.
POST-CONSUMPTION PACKAGING
MANAGEMENT
We minimise the impact of post-consumer waste
through research and development to deliver
innovative packaging that is sustainable and meets
the needs of our consumers. Beyond applying
the Circular Economy principles through F&NHB,
we promote environmental awareness within
communities where we operate.
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
22
KEY MILESTONES
The Singapore and Straits
Aerated Water Company
was founded by our
founding fathers,
John Fraser and David
Chalmers Neave.
The first F&N soft drinks
plant in East Malaysia was
opened in Kuching.
F&N restructured its dairy
operations under
F&N Dairies (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd.
F&N celebrated its 100th
anniversary and introduced
the iconic 100PLUS brand
to the market, which soon
became the No. 1 Isotonic
Drink in Malaysia and
Singapore.
The Kuala Lumpur plant
commenced its operations.
By this year, F&N had branches across
the peninsular, including Kuala Lumpur,
Melaka, Seremban, Ipoh and Penang.
Soft drinks plant relocated to
Shah Alam on 23 March 1996.
The Group’s glass, dairies
and soft drinks operation in
Malaysia were incorporated
under the umbrella of
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd.
F&N’s property division
started construction on
Fraser Business Park in
Sungai Besi, Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia.
F&NHB acquired the
BORNEO brand of mineral
water business in
East Malaysia.
The Singapore and Straits Aerated
Water Company went public under
its present name, Fraser and Neave,
Limited on 27 January 1898.
1883
1898
1966
1989
1983
1962
1913 1996
2004
F&N Dairies (Thailand)
Limited was established.
2009
The dairy manufacturing
plant in Petaling Jaya
ceased operations after
52 years.
2012
2006
The official opening of
dairy manufacturing plant
in Rojana, Thailand.
2011
The official opening of
dairy manufacturing plant
in Pulau Indah, Malaysia.
2013
OVERVIEW OF F&N SECTION
1 2 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 23
KEY MILESTONES
The official launch of
first-of-its-kind UHT Line
at beverage manufacturing
plant in Kuching, Malaysia.
2017
The official launch of Cold-
aseptic Filling PET line at
beverage manufacturing
plant in Shah Alam,
Malaysia.
2018
The official launch of
F&N Life, our flagship
online store.
The commissioning of our
first Solar Photovoltaic
System at dairy
manufacturing plant in
Rojana, Thailand.
F&NHB acquired three
F&B companies – Sri Nona
Food Industries, Sri Nona
Industries and Lee Shun Hing
Sauce for up to RM60 million,
to establish Halal food as our
new pillar of growth.
The official launch of
F&N Nomaroi, our flagship online
store for Thailand Market.
The commissioning of our
Solar Photovoltaic System at 3
manufacturing plants in Malaysia –
Shah Alam,
Pulau Indah and Bentong.
F&NHB acquired the entire equity
interest in Cocoaland Holdings Bhd
for RM488.15 million, to expand
into more Halal food segments.
The groundbreaking
ceremony of the
Group’s integrated
dairy farm in Gemas,
Negeri Sembilan,
Malaysia
Launch of BORNEO
SPRINGS Natural
Mineral Water in
October.
Celebrating F&N’s
140th anniversary
Land preparation began in F&N AgriValley.
The groundbreaking ceremony of our
new manufacturing plant in Cambodia’s
Suvannaphum Special Economic Zone.
F&NHB completed the
acquisition of Ladang Permai
Damai, to embark on the
upstream fresh milk business
for downstream production
and distribution of fresh milk.
The official opening of liquid
milk and plant-based beverage
manufacturing plant in
Wang Muang, Thailand.
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
24
CHAIRMAN’S
MESSAGE
Dear shareholders & stakeholders,
It gives me great pleasure to pen a few thoughts on F&NHB’s
performance in the financial year ended 30 September 2024
(FY2024).
After the fanfare of our 140th anniversary in FY2023, this
year could easily have been less exciting. Yet, reality proved
otherwise. FY2024 was another eventful year in which we further
strengthened the Group at a fundamental level, putting in place
the building blocks to spur greater growth.
Even more encouraging, our actions and achievements
have further entrenched our commitment to delivering
Pure Enjoyment, Pure Goodness in a sustainable manner,
ensuring that our development unfolds responsibly.
During the year, we identified opportunities to capture value
from our existing operations for the benefit of the business as
well as for our expanding network of stakeholders. In leveraging
these, we have further strengthened our relationships with our
shareholders, our customers, partners, employees and society
at large.
Y.A.M. TENGKU SYARIF BENDAHARA PERLIS SYED BADARUDIN
JAMALULLAIL IBNI ALMARHUM TUANKU SYED PUTRA JAMALULLAIL
Chairman
KEY MESSAGES 2
1 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 25
SECTION
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
CAPTURING VALUE FOR THE FUTURE
We made significant strides this year, three of which
stand out in terms of creating business value for the
future.
Having acquired Sri Nona and Cocoaland in FY2022, we
focused on streamlining and standardising operations
and digital systems for both businesses under one
entity, befitting a dynamic, future-ready business. Doing
so allows for a more unified way of working, improved
operational efficiency and decision-making. At the same
time, six key brands, including crowd-favourites LOT 100,
KOKO JELLY and COCOPIE, underwent a brand refresh,
boasting new improved appearance and packaging.
Our regional footprint expansion was solidified with
the groundbreaking of our new manufacturing plant in
Cambodia’s Suvannaphum Special Economic Zone. This
milestone is a key part of our growth strategy to enhance
our presence in Indochina, localise our operations,
improve supply chain stability and create jobs, positively
impacting the local community. This expansion reflects
our dedication to sustainable growth and contribute to
the socio-economic development of the areas we serve.
In Gemas, we have made steady progress on
F&N AgriValley, having laid the foundations for the farm.
Despite recent setback that delayed the arrival of our
first batch of heifers, I remain confident of achieving our
ambition in contributing towards food security for the
nation in line with Malaysia Madani.
CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS
The F&N brand has grown from strength to strength
over the last 141 years because we have never wavered
in delivering on our promise of Pure Enjoyment,
Pure Goodness. From the beginning, F&N has delighted
consumers with products that are as nutritious as they
are delicious. Recently, we have been placing greater
emphasis on the goodness of our products to play our
part in nurturing a healthier nation.
“Our regional footprint
expansion was solidified
with the groundbreaking
of our new manufacturing
plant in Cambodia’s
Suvannaphum Special
Economic Zone.”
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
RM697.0
million
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
148.2 sen
DIVIDEND FOR THE YEAR
63 sen
per share *
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
RM544.3
million
* Included proposed final dividend of 33.0 sen per
share, which will only be recognised in the financial
statements upon shareholders’ approval.
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
26
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
Meanwhile, F&N Dairies Thailand (FNDT) responded
to the growing trend for wellness and healthier
products by launching a new formulated Magnolia
Ginkgo UHT, now with double the amount of Ginkgo
and more Vitamin B12 content. In addition, FNDT
introduced NutriWell Soy Milk UHT in two flavours -
Flaxseed Oil and Oat & Quinoa, each high in protein,
vitamins and fibre.
Another way in which we create societal value
is through promotion of the Halal industry,
ensuring inclusivity in the food and beverage
(F&B) market. Beyond our products, we
continue to serve as thought leaders in the Halal space,
collaborating with stakeholders like Halal Development
Corporation Berhad (HDC) to raise awareness of the
quality and diversity of Halal offerings. This year, we
took part in HDC’s World Halal Business Conference
during Malaysia International Halal Showcase (MIHAS)
2024, exchanging knowledge as a panellist in the topic
of Building a Sustainable Future Through Halal Economy.
In April, we participated in the Halal Business Linkage
and Business Matching event, a platform organised by
HDC to foster partnerships between large local and
multinational companies and small and medium-sized
enterprises (SMEs). At the event, more than 15 SMEs
engaged with the Group as potential vendors during
the Business Matching segment. Meanwhile, the Group
continues to mentor six SMEs under the Halal Sourcing
Programme in collaboration with HDC, with four SMEs
being qualified as our vendors.
We also extended our 100PLUS partnership with the
National Sports Council (NSC) for another five years until
2028, continuing our role as the exclusive Official Isotonic
and Electrolyte Sponsor since 2000. The extension gives
us the opportunity to continue to contribute towards
Malaysian sports and promote a healthier lifestyle among
all Malaysians.
This year, in conjunction with the launch of our wellness
campaign Jom Sihat, Kekal Cergas, we debuted F&N
SEASONS Ice Lemon Tea Zero Sugar, adding to our
already extensive Healthier Choice portfolio. We also
introduced 100PLUS ZERO in cans, making them more
accessible to consumers.
In support of Malaysians’ well-being, we distributed
100PLUS during the nationwide heatwave from April
to June, providing hydration at major highways as
Malaysians balik kampung during the holy month of
Ramadan.
Our employees will always be one of our most important
stakeholders, and we prioritise their well-being
through both professional and personal initiatives.
To promote healthy lifestyles, we held various sports
tournaments, weekly workouts and health talks.
We also continued to provide complimentary influenza
vaccination to more than 1,200 employees from 19
locations nationwide this year.
Today, as we rapidly digitalise our operations, we ensure
all employees are up to speed with the skills required
to adapt to new ways of working. About 100 employees
underwent AI training this year as part of Gen-AI adoption
programmes. In the coming year, our goal is to ensure
that every executive in our workforce understands the
fundamentals of Gen-AI, how it can be leveraged in our
workplace, and the importance of data security and
protection.
“In support of Malaysians’
well-being, we distributed
100PLUS during the
nationwide heatwave from
April to June, providing
hydration at major highways
as Malaysians balik kampung
during the holy month of
Ramadan.”
KEY MESSAGES 2
1 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 27
SECTION
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
“In February, we awarded
a total of RM260,000
to 89 children of our
employees for their
outstanding academic
and extra-curricular
accomplishments.”
Just as we support and nurture our employees,
they contribute wholeheartedly to our community
programmes which serve to uplift the marginalised and/
or underprivileged, as well as to offer a lending hand to
victims of natural disasters.
In East Malaysia, our teams reached out to over 60 flood-
affected homes in Kuching and Kota Kinabalu, distributing
our products such as F&N Ice Mountain drinking water,
F&N SEASONS Soybean milk, F&N Magnolia UHT, 100PLUS
ZERO, and Sri Nona Ketupat when they grappled with a
sudden flood.
In FY2024, we positively impacted over 100,000 lives
within the less fortunate community through our social
initiatives. Many of these activities were conducted in
collaboration with partners like Yayasan Bursa Malaysia,
A programme close to my heart is the F&N Chairman’s
Award, which celebrates the academic and extra-
curricular accomplishments of our employees’ children.
In February, we awarded a total of RM260,000 to 89
school students for outstanding performance in the
Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia (SPM), International General
Certificate of Secondary Education (IGCSE) and tertiary
education.
the Ministry of Education (MOE), MySkills Foundation,
Mydin, the National Athletes Welfare Foundation (Yakeb),
and the National Sports Council.
As we grow our presence in East Malaysia, we would like
to make a meaningful contribution to local communities
there. In 2024, we partnered with the Bung Jagoi
Development Committee (JADC) to plant 200 trees in the
Bidayuh village of Bau, Kuching - a prelude to our larger
collaboration on water conservation at Bung Jagoi Heritage
Village, Sarawak. This will ensure access to clean water
and support ecotourism, benefitting the Jagoi Bidayuh
community. Meanwhile in Kota Kinabalu, we collaborated
with the Kota Kinabalu Industrial Park (KKIP) Investors
Council (KIC) in a programme to protect and preserve
Sungai Telipok, which flows in the vicinity of KKIP.
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
28
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
In Thailand, we expanded our support for Wat Kok
Mayom School, located near our Rojana factory
by donating 20 sets of computers to the school.
This contribution is designed to enhance educational
opportunities for local students, providing them with
essential technology and resources to foster their
academic growth and development.
As we develop the farm at F&N AgriValley, we are also
strengthening our ties with the local community around
Gemas, Negeri Sembilan to better understand their needs
and contribute to the local economy and environment.
To date, we have engaged with over 20 institutions,
including local schools, Pejabat Daerah Kecil dan Tanah
Gemas, Tampin District Office and Royal Malaysia Police,
through various activities ranging from friendly sports
matches and roundtable discussions to educational talks
for children.
Our performance this financial year reaffirms our
resilience in an ever-evolving environment. We achieved
a commendable profit and maintained a strong cash
position despite increased start-up costs and taxes.
It gives me pleasure to share that the Board has decided
to offer a final single tier dividend of 33 sen per share,
subject to shareholders’ approval at the forthcoming
Annual General Meeting. The total dividend for the year
would amount to 63 sen per share (FY2023: 60 sen per
share excluding an additional special dividend of 17 sen
per share), bringing the total dividend payout for FY2024
to RM231.1 million.
CAPTURING VALUE THROUGH SUSTAINABILITY
At F&NHB, we firmly believe that embracing
sustainability enables us to capture value not only
for ourselves and our shareholders but also for our
stakeholders, community and the environment in
the long run. Our objective is to ensure that every
decision we make considers our environmental and
social impact. Over the past few years, F&NHB has
made significant investments to enhance and adopt
greener practices, reinforcing our commitment to a
sustainable future for all.
We continue to make progress in aligning with the
Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures
(TCFD) recommendations to address our climate
change risks and opportunities. Now in our third
year of TCFD, we are also looking at transition
opportunities such as increased availability of low-
carbon technologies particularly renewable energy.
This year, recognising that dairy farm operations
will introduce fresh environmental concerns, a
materiality assessment was conducted to identify
and address key issues related to dairy farming.
A carbon projection study to estimate the farm’s
carbon footprint is also in progress, following which
we will create a customised decarbonisation strategy
to further reduce our carbon impact.
We have maintained our commitment to renewable
energy by increasing our solar photovoltaic (PV)
capacity throughout our operations. This year, we
added over 6.38 MWp solar PV panels at five of our
plants in Malaysia, further reducing our greenhouse
gas (GHG) emissions by 6,600 MT CO
2
e annually
while delivering savings of up to RM3.9 million per
year.
“The total dividend for the
year would amount to 63
sen per share bringing the
total dividend payout to
RM231.1 million.”
KEY MESSAGES 2
1 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 29
SECTION
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
Additionally, we have implemented an internal carbon pricing initiative, an essential
tool that drives accountability and advances carbon reduction efforts across our
business units. By assigning a cost to carbon emissions, this initiative encourages
more efficient and sustainable practices, reinforcing our dedication to creating a
low-carbon future. Meanwhile, broad-based training on ESG is progressing well with
the Board and Management undergoing a session on IFRS Standards.
Our commitment to build a “better business,” contribute to a “better planet,” and
nurture a “better society” extends beyond our backyard to our external stakeholders.
Through our F&N Business Partner Award Programme, we continue to support and
uplift our business partners, helping them enhance their quality of service and
encouraging alignment with our values and sustainability goals. To date, this annual
programme has empowered 19 local suppliers in Malaysia to grow with F&NHB and
become regional suppliers.
In Thailand, we have been actively building the capabilities of over 2,000 farmers
from 10 milk cooperatives through our Farming Excellence System since 2013.
This programme consists of capacity-building initiatives, supply of equipment and
technology, as well as regular audits to improve the farmers productivity, quality, and
sustainability practices as part of a circular economy approach.
This year, we supported the Lam-Phaya Klang Dairy Cooperative at Saraburi Province
by providing a Somatic Cell Counter to help enhance fresh milk quality. This initiative
contributes to the cooperative’s efforts in improving milk production standards,
ensuring higher quality and safety for consumers. Additionally, our team in Thailand
further reinforced our environmental commitment by planting 450 trees and 1,200
seed balls in clay soil at Salakpra Wildlife Sanctuary, Kanjanaburi province.
“We have been actively building the
capabilities of over 2,000 farmers from 10
milk cooperatives in Thailand through our
Farming Excellence System since 2013.”
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
30
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
The achievements that F&NHB is enjoying today are
the result of not only the dedication of everyone in the
Group, but also the invaluable contributions and support
of our stakeholders. I would therefore like to take this
opportunity to thank our numerous business partners,
suppliers, and distributors as well as our customers and
consumers, and especially our shareholders for being
with us over the years.
I feel privileged to work alongside an astute management
team as well as to have the support of a dedicated and
diverse Board. I would like to thank the entire leadership
team for steering the Group through various challenges
without losing our direction as we grow our brands
and capture value for everyone. Most of all, a heartfelt
appreciation to all our employees for their hard work and
full-hearted support of F&NHB’s vision.
This year, we also bid farewell to Mr. David Siew, who
will be leaving after the Annual General Meeting upon
completing his nine-year term as an Independent Non-
Executive Director. On behalf of the Board, I would like to
extend our deepest gratitude for his dedicated service
and invaluable contributions over the past nine years. We
wish him every success in his future endeavours.
To all our stakeholders, I would like to reaffirm F&NHB’s
commitment to sustainable growth which will enable us
to create even more value for you. It has been a very
progressive year in this regard, and we look forward to
seeing the fruit of our labour in the near future.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Y.A.M. TENGKU SYARIF BENDAHARA PERLIS
SYED BADARUDIN JAMALULLAIL
IBNI ALMARHUM TUANKU SYED PUTRA JAMALULLAIL
Chairman
AWARDS & RECOGNITION
We are driven to excellence in our operations to create
value for the Group and our valued stakeholders; and
it is always uplifting when our efforts are recognised.
During the year, we were honoured with awards
validating our corporate governance, sustainability
efforts and human resources practices as well as our
brand performance.
F&NHB was among the Top 50 companies awarded
an Excellence Award organised by Minority
Shareholders Watch Group at its National Corporate
Governance & Sustainability Awards (NACGSA) 2024.
As a result of transparency and integrity brought
about by good governance, as well as greater
alignment with the TCFD, we also secured a win at
the PwC Malaysia's Building Trust Awards 2023 in
the FBM Mid-70 Index category, with two special
mentions for PwC Malaysia’s Public Trust Perception
Analysis and ESG Reporting Benchmarking Analysis.
Our commitment to empowering employees through
a supportive work environment, continuous training,
and active engagement was also recognised. These
included four wins at the Employee Experience
Awards 2024, among these are a Gold award for our
Innovative and Sustainable Office Design and; two
Silver Awards for Best Rewards and Recognition
Programme, and our HR communication strategy;
At the Malaysia Best Employer Brand Awards 2024,
F&NHB was recognised for Excellence in Training and
Talent Management; while F&N Beverages Marketing Sdn
Bhd (East Malaysia) was honoured for Promoting Health
in the Workplace; and Sri Nona Food Manufacturing Sdn
Bhd received the Award for Best HR Strategy in Line with
Business.
Meanwhile, it was with pride to note that the Group has
risen from being among the Top 5 Employers of Choice
for Graduates to Work for in the Fast-Moving Consumer
Goods category to the Top 3 Employers of Choice at the
Graduates’ Choice Award 2024.
Among our brands, 100PLUS was once again the Gold
Winner in the Non-Alcoholic Beverage category at Putra
Brand Awards 2023, also known as The People’s Choice
award. This affirms the deep relationship that has been
formed with consumers, which is something we truly
value and will continue to develop.
Meanwhile, FNDT clinched five awards, including the
CSR-DIW Continuous Award 2024 by the Department of
Industrial Works, Zero Accident Award 2024 by Thailand
Institute of Occupational Safety and Health and the
Green Industry Level 4 by the Department of Industrial
Works. These awards are testament to our focus on the
health and safety of our employees and the way we work.
KEY MESSAGES 2
1 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 31
SECTION
Q&A WITH OUR CEO
FY2024 was a forward-looking year in which we captured value while channelling our capital into areas for
growth. A great deal of effort and resources went into developing our dairy and Halal food pillars, both of
which demonstrate promising returns and value.
We have integrated Sri Nona and Cocoaland into one entity, Sri Nona Foods. In FY2024, we focused on
standardising operations within our food pillar and with other existing units of F&NHB for greater operational
efficiency and synergy.
We also established a new subsidiary in Cambodia, which we recognise as being a young and fast-growing
market.
This year required a more strategic approach to managing our finances. With the start-up investments in
F&N AgriValley and the expiration of certain tax incentives, we placed greater focus on financial vigilance.
In Thailand, we are proactively managing the gradual reduction of capital expenditure rebates, ensuring
we remain efficient in value capture as we transition to the full phase-out next year. In FY2024, we
incurred an additional RM32.4 million in withholding tax on dividends from Thailand alone.
Our exports were challenged by geopolitical tensions which impacted global trade and
logistics this year. Nevertheless, we successfully navigated these challenges by maintaining
an effective country mix and leveraging a robust domestic market.
Throughout FY2024, F&NHB maintained growth across our existing food and beverage
operations while successfully integrating new businesses and setting up our agriculture
pillar.
Overall, we are pleased with the Group’s performance as we achieved very commendable
results and maintained a strong cash position against a less-than-conducive backdrop
for the industry.
LIM YEW HOE
Chief Executive Officer
Q
How would you sum up the financial year 2024
for F&NHB?
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
32
F&NHB sustained its growth for FY2024 with revenue growing
by 4.9% to RM5.25 billion, up from RM5.0 billion last year,
primarily fuelled by higher domestic sales from F&B Malaysia
and F&B Thailand, and exports to Cambodia. Beverages, water
and dairy products were key performance drivers this year.
Group operating profit for FY2024 increased by 10.4% to
RM709.5 million, compared to RM642.9 million in the previous
year, while Group profit before tax improved by 11.6% over last
year, attributed to higher profits from both F&B Malaysia and
F&B Thailand, despite adjustments of non-operating items,
restructuring costs, and start-up costs for F&N AgriValley.
F&B Malaysia’s full year revenue grew by 3.5% to RM2.95
billion, mainly driven by strong domestic sales from festive
demand and sustained momentum across all channels.
This was supported by successful market penetration and
demand-generation campaigns, such as the F&N Rasa Pasti
Gempak, Kipid 100 and Magnolia Garfield campaigns.
Excluding one-off non-operating items, adjusted operating
profit for F&B Malaysia rose 33.4% to RM305.6 million on the
back of higher revenue, improved margins from favourable
product/country mix and lower input costs (except sugar, rice,
gelatine and cocoa powder). This year, we have clearly seen
the economic advantages of the restructuring and strategic
refocusing efforts implemented in recent years.
Q Could you elaborate on F&NHB’s financial results for the year?
GROUP REVENUE
RM5.25
billion
FY2023: RM5.0 billion
+4.9%
+11.6%
GROUP OPERATING PROFIT
RM709.5
million
FY2023: RM642.9 million
+10.4%
GROUP PROFIT BEFORE TAX
RM697.0
million
FY2023: RM624.7 million
While F&B Malaysia’s export were affected by the Red
Sea shipping crisis and higher freight charges, the
decline in the African and American markets was offset
by increased sales in the Middle East and North Africa
(MENA) region and Greater China. Despite challenges,
we expanded our beverage presence with the launch of
100PLUS in Sri Lanka, Australia, Hong Kong, and China,
along with dairy products in the Philippines and China. We
also collaborated closely with key accounts and potential
customers to develop new recipes and packaging tailored to
meet local market needs.
F&B Thailand recorded RM2.29 billion in revenue for FY2024,
reflecting a 6.7% increase over last year (5.7% in THB). This
was mainly driven by export sales to Cambodia following
a highly successful nationwide promotion. Domestic sales
were partly dampened by a limited supply of fresh milk and
margin protection initiatives for certain products.
Excluding the impairment loss on plant and equipment in
previous year, F&B Thailand’s adjusted operating profit for
FY2024 grew by 18.9% (17.8% in THB) to RM449.9 million.
This compared well with RM378.3 million in FY2023, due to
higher volume, lower commodity prices and supply chain
savings and partially offset with higher advertising and
promotions spending to support new products.
Q&A WITH OUR CEO
KEY MESSAGES 2
1 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 33
SECTION
In FY2024, we concentrated on establishing the groundwork for F&N AgriValley and made significant strides
in the construction of the farm. Our investment strategy is centered on three core objectives:
Together, these efforts will deliver world-class fresh milk to Malaysian consumers at affordable prices.
1 2 3
Q Please tell us more about the development of F&N AgriValley.
To build the world’s
best dairy barns,
ensuring maximum
comfort for our
cattle.
To import
the highest-
performing dairy
cows globally,
minimising the
need for additional
barns.
To grow our own
crop to provide the
best possible feed
at the lowest costs.
However, in late October 2024, we experienced a setback
that prevented the arrival of the first batch of heifers
from the USA, following the suspension of breeding cattle
importation by the Department of Veterinary Services
due to Avian flu outbreak concerns. We selected USA
cows because they represent the finest Holstein breed in
the world. Their loss was not only a setback for F&N but
also a loss for Malaysia as a whole.
No doubt, the Group is disappointed by this recent
development, especially having taken every precautionary
measure to ensure the cattle is disease-free and in
compliance with the protocols established between the
governments of the USA and Malaysia. While the Group
explores alternative sources for the cattle, we continue
to focus on the remaining components of the integrated
farm.
Q&A WITH OUR CEO
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
34
I’m pleased to share that in FY2024, we achieved our goal of having at least two-
thirds of our total ready-to-drink portfolio endorsed as ‘healthier choice’ in Malaysia
and Thailand, thanks to concerted efforts over the years to reducing the sugar,
fat and sodium content across our products. In fact, over 90% of our products
sold today contain zero to 5% sugar. This has been made possible through focus
by our R&D team on innovating recipes that stay true to our brand promise of
Pure Enjoyment, Pure Goodness.
In September 2024, we reinforced our commitment to consumer well-being
with our wellness campaign, Jom Sihat, Kekal Cergas, in collaboration with
Mydin. The campaign stressed the importance of leading a balanced
lifestyle and making healthier food choices, showcasing all our
healthier options. In conjunction with this campaign, we
launched F&N SEASONS Ice Lemon Tea Zero sugar in
Malaysia, a new addition to our extensive portfolio of
Healthier Choice products.
To meet the increased demand for healthier
products among Thais, FNDT launched NutriWell
Soy Milk UHT WITH OMEGA FROM FLAXSEED and
OAT & QUINOA. The beverage is specially crafted
using a patented extraction technology that
maximises nutrition from soybeans.
We also refreshed the packaging of several
products in our Healthier Choice portfolio
to enhance their functionality for different
occasions. 100PLUS ZERO is now available in
325ml cans for on-the-go consumption, and F&N
SEASONS Apple and Lychee in 1 litre beverage
carton.
“We also refreshed the packaging of several
products in our Healthier Choice portfolio
to enhance their functionality for different
occasions.”
In East Malaysia, 100PLUS served as the official drink for the Agenda Nasional Malaysia
Sihat – Sabah Maju Jaya event in June 2024. Initiated by the Ministry of Health, the
programme promoted an active lifestyle for Malaysians of all ages.
Meanwhile, in Brunei, F&N supported the 15th anniversary celebration of the country’s
Health Promotion Centre by distributing BORNEO SPRINGS Natural Mineral Water and
F&N SEASONS Soya to over 800 students.
Q
No doubt, fresh milk from F&N AgriValley
will be a star addition to your Healthier
Choice portfolio. What other advances have
you made in providing consumers with
healthier products?
Q&A WITH OUR CEO
KEY MESSAGES 2
1 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 35
SECTION
Supporting grassroots development is a big part of our
mission, too. For over 20 years, 100PLUS has partnered
with the Badminton Association of Malaysia (BAM),
nurturing young talent through the 100PLUS Junior Elite
Tour, which has helped shape national stars like Tan Wee
Kiong, Goh V Shem, and Goh Liu Ying.
100PLUS also has long-standing active commitment
to developing junior golf in Malaysia through the
100PLUS SRIXON Junior Championship, which provides
a competitive international platform for Malaysian junior
golfers to test their abilities against peers from Asia-
Pacific.
In addition to serving as the official hydration partner
for major football and futsal events across the country,
we also support youth development initiatives in primary
schools, where we focus on nurturing young talent
through the Liga Bola Sepak Kementerian Pendidikan
Malaysia (KPM) 100PLUS, an annual competition held
from June to November 2024, which this year saw
enthusiastic participation by 26 schools.
Notably, 100PLUS extended its partnership with the
National Sports Council (NSC) as the exclusive Official
Isotonic and Electrolyte Sponsor for the next five years.
Thanks to all these dedicated efforts, 100PLUS retained
its position as the top brand in the isotonic and carbonated
soft drinks category.
“Back home, 100PLUS
was proud to be a GOLD
Sponsor of the SUKMA and
PARA SUKMA XXI Sarawak
2024, an extensive event
held across nine Sarawak
divisions.”
100PLUS has a deeply entrenched legacy and interest in championing the local sports community and proudly
supporting our nation’s athletes at every level. This year, the brand continued to make its presence felt at various
events both locally and internationally.
Following the Paris 2024 Olympics, 100PLUS honoured national shuttlers and 100PLUS Brand Ambassadors Lee Zii
Jia, Aaron Chia and Soh Wooi Yik, with cash incentives for their smashing performance on the world stage.
Back home, 100PLUS was proud to be a GOLD Sponsor of the SUKMA and PARA SUKMA XXI Sarawak 2024, an
extensive event held across nine Sarawak divisions. We have actively supported major sports events across Malaysia,
including the Powerman Malaysia 2024 Duathlon, Standard Chartered Kuala Lumpur Marathon, Bursa Bull Charge
2024, Sukan Sabah 2024, and the REDLINE Fitness Games. These initiatives reflect our ongoing commitment to
fostering a more active community.
Q
100PLUS is a clear leader in the isotonic segment, partly
because of its support of the development of sports and
athletes in Malaysia. How did the brand strengthen its ties to
sports in FY2024?
Q&A WITH OUR CEO
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
36
Q&A WITH OUR CEO
Other than the launch campaign of NutriWell Soy Milk
UHT, FNDT celebrated TEAPOT’s 15th anniversary with
a nationwide promotional campaign that rewarded
both operators and consumers with lucky draw prizes.
To strengthen TEAPOT’s brand and to drive usage, we
launched a new communication initiative to engage
beverage and bakery operators, highlighting the
unique qualities of TEAPOT Extra 1 litre and TEAPOT
Evaporated Milk, tailored to meet their specific needs.
As a result of successful brand outreach initiatives,
total TEAPOT grew 40% compared to the condensed
milk market growth of 9%, while TEAPOT Sweetened
Condensed Milk grew 23% compared to market
growth of 5%, contributing to TEAPOT securing the
No. 2 position in the total condensed milk market. It is
also worth noting that sales for TEAPOT Evaporated
Creamer UHT milk in 1 litre pack grew from zero to
1 million cartons per year within two years due to
consistent brand building investments year after year,
demonstrating not only the strength of our brands,
but effective planning and execution by the team.
FNDT also focused on strengthening the Carnation
brand and driving usage among in-home consumers
and F&N operators by enlisting local celebrity Mike
Pattaradet in a campaign to encourage home users
to use Carnation Evaporated Milk as a healthier
substitute for coconut milk in popular home-cooked
Thai recipes, as well as Carnation Sweetened
Condensed Milk in beverages.
To promote the product among operators, Carnation
collaborated with restaurants and cafes to create
special menus utilising the product, supported by
social media Key Opinion Leaders (KOLs) and a reward
programme.
We successfully integrated Sri Nona and Cocoaland
into a single entity, which entailed standardising
operations, systems and restructuring human capital
and management. At the same time, we refreshed
several brands, such as LOT 100, COCOPIE and
ROTONG, which now sport a new appearance and
packaging. Additionally, Sri Nona is now leveraging
F&N’s distribution network, enabling us to widen the
distribution of our culinary products.
Rising commodity prices, such as that for rice, gelatine,
and cocoa powder, required a careful recalibration of
pricing for certain products, all while keeping a keen eye
on consumer spending trends. Despite this, our food
segment sustained healthy profits, thanks to strong
margin management and operational efficiency.
Looking ahead, we will focus on amplifying our distribution
efforts to make our products even more accessible,
especially in East Malaysia where we see strong
potential for Sri Nona’s culinary products. Following the
brand refresh, we will strengthen brand identity of our
products and harness data analytics to enhance decision
making, gain consumer insights and optimise distribution
strategies.
Q
In FY2023, you had begun
the process of integrating
Sri Nona and Cocoaland.
Any updates on this front?
Q
What are the highlights
of F&N Dairies Thailand
(FNDT) in FY2024?
KEY MESSAGES 2
1 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 37
SECTION
Q&A WITH OUR CEO
“TEAPOT Evaporated
Creamer UHT Milk in 1 litre
pack grew its volume to
one million cartons per year
within two years due to
consistent brand buildup
investments year after year.”
There are primarily two objectives for export. The first
is to utilise excess capacity domestically to achieve
greater economies of scale. The second is to expand
overseas export operations to a level that enables
local production. Cambodia aligns with this second
objective.
This investment is a natural progression of our strategy
to grow our export pillar, and Cambodia has proven
to be one of our more successful export markets.
By setting up a manufacturing plant in the country,
we can localise our operations and reduce not only
export costs from Thailand, but our carbon footprint
associated with transporting to the country as well.
Today, Cambodia is powered by cross-border trade.
By setting up a plant, we have better control and visibility
from factory to shop floor, increasing efficiencies in
supplying to the market. At the same time, it would
free up capacity in our existing manufacturing plants
to further grow in Malaysia, Thailand and other export
markets. Indeed, we believe there are significant
opportunities for growth in Cambodia.
Localising some production is not the only thing we
will do. Our Cambodia team will be expanded, and
with that, we will have more resources to bring more
of our portfolio of products including Halal food and
confectionery into the market.
Cambodia is not the first of our foreign subsidiaries
but is the first we have set up in a while. We plan to
replicate the same concept in other suitable countries
in the near future.
Q
In February 2024, F&NHB
announced it is investing
into a manufacturing
plant in Cambodia. Talk us
through the rationale for
this move?
Cambodia delivered strong results this year, with revenue
growth exceeding 40%, driven by a successful nationwide
campaign that prepared the market ahead of establishing
our subsidiary.
Finally, it was encouraging to see increased cost
efficiencies across our Thai operations, which helped
to boost profits. In particular, the team successfully
reduced distribution costs while benefitting from lower
input costs due to a decrease in the price of commodities
(except for sugar and fresh milk).
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
38
Q&A WITH OUR CEO
“Indeed, our primary
objective from the outset
has been to make fresh
milk more accessible and
affordable for all Malaysians,
thereby contributing to the
country’s food security.”
Self-sufficiency at the farm will allow us better control
on costs thereby keeping the price of our fresh milk
affordable. Indeed, our primary objective from the
outset has been to make fresh milk more accessible and
affordable for all Malaysians, thereby contributing to the
country’s food security.
This ambition to nurturing future generations is what
drives the enthusiasm among everyone at F&NHB
for the dairy farm, and we are all united in our efforts to
turn this dream into reality.
For ESG, we firmly believe in the principle of doing
what we say by taking actionable steps now that
demonstrate our dedication to sustainability and
accountability, rather than merely outlining long-term
goals.
In this context, while none of our peers have
accomplished this, we have achieved 100% RSPO
certification. Since 2020, F&NHB has ensured that
all palm oil used is RSPO-certified, primarily through
RSPO credits. For 2024, we utilised 80% Certified
Sustainable Palm Oil and the remaining 20% with
RSPO credits. Our goal is to reach 100% RSPO-
certified palm oil usage by 2025.
Furthermore, we have invested significantly on solar
energy. In 2024, we expanded the solar photovoltaic
(PV) roof panels at five of our plants in Malaysia,
which will generate an additional 6 million kWh of
electricity annually - equivalent to about 29,000 trees
in CO
2
offset.
As we prepare to enter the dairy sector through
F&N AgriValley, we recognise that we are still in the
learning phase. However, our goal is to establish an
integrated dairy farm that is both self-sufficient and
sustainable. The farm will feature a biodigester where
cattle waste will be used to fuel internal operations,
reducing our electricity consumption and carbon
emissions. We also plan to incorporate solar power, so
the farm runs on renewable energy. Additionally, that
will be a few reservoirs that will collect and channel
rainwater for our cattle.
Q
F&NHB is gaining
recognition for your
sustainability/ESG
programmes. How have
you further strengthened
your sustainability
platform in FY2024?
KEY MESSAGES 2
1 4
3 5 6 7 8 9 39
SECTION
Q&A WITH OUR CEO
LIM YEW HOE
Chief Executive Officer
We expect our margins will remain tight in FY2025 given
the full removal of tax rebates in Thailand and higher
start-up costs for our dairy farm. Nevertheless, we are
confident of making up for the increase in expenditure
as we continue to capture value by optimising our assets
and operations in Malaysia and Thailand.
It is unfortunate our plans to contribute to enhancing the
nation’s food security in line with the Malaysia Madani
framework were delayed. We are actively exploring
options.
Despite the temporary setback, I am confident in the
Group’s financial strength, solid cash flow position and
strategic plans moving forward. Our ongoing investments,
such as new lines for carbonated beverages and drinking
water in Butterworth, sterilised milk filling and packing line
in Pulau Indah, as well as a new chocolate manufacturing
line in Rawang, are aligned with the Group’s long-term
growth strategy. This complements existing operations
and positions the Group to capture value for the future.
Meanwhile, the development of our dairy manufacturing
plant in Cambodia is also on track to bolster our presence
in that market.
As we look ahead, the Group is committed to driving
growth through the strategic objectives of ‘Reach
Competitively’ and ‘Digital’ for Growth while remaining
vigilant and agile in response to market shifts, geopolitical
uncertainties and macroeconomic changes.
In this year’s Employee Town Hall, themed Future Now,
I emphasised the need for the adoption of AI and
automation to flatten our command chain, value chain
and supply chain. Streamlining these processes will
allow us to enhance operational efficiency, improve our
responsiveness to market changes, and foster a more
collaborative work environment. This strategic focus will
empower our teams to make quicker decisions, drive
innovation, and better serve our customers, ultimately
positioning us for sustained growth and success in an
increasingly competitive landscape.
F&NHB is at a very exciting point in our business evolution,
as we venture into the agriculture segment that is new to
us. We recognise that it will bring various challenges; yet
we remain confident in making a success of our fresh milk
pillar as we have been thorough in doing our groundwork.
Our people will be critical in the next phase of our
onward journey, as they have been up to now. And
we are committed to providing them with all the
training and technology support they need to grow
professionally and, in turn, grow our business effectively.
Our employees have always risen to the occasion in the
past, and we have no doubt that they will continue to
prove their mettle in the current scenario.
I would like to thank everyone for their hard work and
commitment to our goals and vision for the Group. As always,
our Board of Directors has been a pillar of strength, guiding
the Group as we explore new territory. Thank you to each
Director for your wise counsel and objectivity.
I would be remiss if I did not also acknowledge the
contributions of our external stakeholders, from our
shareholders to our business partners and customers. Rest
assured that as we enter a new phase in our ongoing journey,
we will make every effort to capture value for F&NHB and in
the process create greater value for you.
Q
What is the outlook and
what are your priorities
for F&NHB in FY2025?
Q Any concluding remarks?
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
40
VALUE CREATION BUSINESS MODEL
VALUE CREATION BUSINESS MODEL
Inputs
Resources We Use
Our Business
How We Create Value
Capturing
Value
through Integrated
Business Model
Our
Business
Food &
Beverages
Malaysia
Food &
Beverages
Thailand
Property &
Others
3
Strategic
Domains
Our
Value Chain
How We
Conduct
Business
BUILD - Building new
capabilities and business
opportunities
UNLOCK - Unlocking
potentials of the Group to
create maximum value
STRENGTHEN - Strengthening
core businesses for market
leadership positions
• >3,700 employees
• 28% of employees are female
• 46% of female representation in managerial
positions
• 4 women directors on Board
HUMAN CAPITAL
As at 30 Sep 2024
• RM816.8 million in share capital
• RM3,576.0 million in shareholder’s equity
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
• Equity from >30 well-loved brands
• New product formulations and recipes
• Innovative process and technology
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
• 13 production plants
• 25 offices in Malaysia, Thailand, Brunei,
Cambodia and United Arab Emirates
• RM5.47 billion worth of assets
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
• Engaged with > 2,000 local and global
suppliers across our supply chain
• > 230,000 outlets in Malaysia, Thailand, Laos
& Cambodia
• 53,000 hawkers in Thailand, Laos & Cambodia
SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
• > 1.1 billion MJ of energy consumed
• > 45.7 million MJ of solar energy generated
• > 3.1 million m3 water consumed
• Sourced raw materials that are sustainable
NATURAL CAPITAL
Production
Post-
consumption
Packaging
Management
Sourcing
Marketing &
Sales
Distribution
Read more in
“Our Value Chain” on
pages 20 to 21.
Read more in “Strategic Performance
Review” on pages 52 to 53.
VALUE CREATION AT F&N 3
1 4
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 41
VALUE CREATION BUSINESS MODEL
Outputs
Value Created
HUMAN CAPITAL
• Paid RM383.2 million in total employee remuneration & benefits
• Employed 382 new employees
• Provided training and development to employees
- Executives : 34 average training hours
- Non-executives : 12 average training hours
• Awarded RM260,000 to 89 children of employees under
F&N Chairman’s Award
Sup
Emp
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
• Revenue : RM5,245.6 million
• Profit before Tax : RM697.0 million
• Profit for the Year : RM544.3 million
• Dividend per Share : 63.0 sen*
• Total Dividend Payout : RM293.4 million
• Economic Value Retained : RM249.3 million
Reg
S&I
• F&N Introduced various innovative solutions for our customers
in 93 countries nationwide
• Launched 14 new products and packaging formats
• 82 products endorsed with Healthier Choice Logo
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL S&I Con
• Capital investment of >RM1.5 billion over past five years
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
D&T
S&I Con
• Energy Intensity (MJ/MT) : 867.74
• GHG Emissions Intensity (MTCO
2
e/MT) : 0.064
• Water Intensity (m3/MT) : 2.37
• Solid Waste Recycling Rate : 94%
• % of Recyclable Packaging : 98%
• % of Recycled Content in Packaging : 25%
NATURAL CAPITAL S&I Com Reg
• Social Investment of >RM1.5 million
to support >100,000 beneficiaries
SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL D&T Con Com Sup
Mission
To be ASEAN’s leading
provider of quality and
innovative products
that consumers
choose and trust.
Vision
To be a stable and
sustainable food and
beverage (F&B) leader
in the ASEAN region.
Core Values
Supported by
Strong Governance &
Effective Board Leadership
Collaboration
Creating Values
Caring for Stakeholders
CORE AREAS OF
SUSTAINABILITY
• Responsible Business Practice
• Responsible Product Stewardship
• Responsible Supply Chain
• Create Value for Society
• Empower Our People
• Operational Eco-efficiency
• Value Chain Impacts
OPERATING
ENVIRONMENT
• Moderating Inflation & Cost of Living
• Increasing Health-consciousness
• Greater ESG Stakeholder Expectations
• Maintaining an Edge in Digital Era
Distributors and
Trade Customers
D&T
Consumers
Con
Regulators
Reg
Shareholders
and Investors
S&I
Suppliers
Sup
Employees
Emp Communities
Com
* Included proposed final dividend of 33.0 sen per share, which will only be recognised
in the financial statements upon shareholders’ approval.
Read more in our 2024
Sustainability Report.
Read more in “Market Review”
on pages 44 to 45.
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
42
At F&NHB, we are dedicated to fulfilling the changing needs and
preferences of our consumers with an ever-expanding portfolio of
Halal-certified food, beverages, and dairy products. Whether it’s a
refreshing beverage, a wholesome meal, or a versatile snack, we offer
a wide variety of food and beverages for every occasion, helping our
customers make choices that align with their values and well-being.
Capturing Value
for our Consumers
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 43
MARKET REVIEW
The global economy is projected to
slow slightly from 3.3% in 2023 to 3.2%
in 2024. As in past years, emerging
markets and developing countries
are expected to grow faster than
advanced economies, with a forecasted
growth rate of 4.2% compared to
1.8%. However, these regions will
likely encounter greater challenges,
including geopolitical instability, supply
chain disruptions, and climate-related
events.1
Cushioning these headwinds, emerging economies in Asia are experiencing accelerated demand for semiconductors
and electronics, driven by significant investments in artificial intelligence (AI). Within the region, both Malaysia and
Thailand are projected to see substantial increases in economic growth.
The tourism sector is expected to be a key driver of export growth for ASEAN countries in the medium term. As household
incomes rise in major Asian consumer markets, international tourism is projected to grow, boosting travel to ASEAN
destinations. This trend will benefit ASEAN economies where tourism plays a significant role in GDP, including Thailand,
Cambodia, and the Philippines.2
Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) cites strong domestic demand and expansion in exports as two key pillars responsible for
current growth in the local economy. The Malaysian Government is expecting gross domestic product (GDP) growth to
come in at between 4.8% and 5.3%3, up from 3.7% in 2023. In Thailand, the Finance Ministry is looking at growth of 2.7%
compared to a more subdued 1.9% in 2023 with various government measures implemented to spark economic activity.4
1 IMF’s World Economic Outlook, October 2024
2 https://www.oecd.org/content/dam/oecd/en/publications/reports/2024/05/economic-outlook-for-southeast-asia-china-and-india-2024_dfbc30c0/3bbe7dfe-en.pdf
3 https://www.straitstimes.com/business/malaysia-s-economic-growth-beats-estimates-in-third-quarter
4 https://www.reuters.com/markets/asia/thai-economy-expected-grow-3-next-year-finance-ministry-says-2024-10-31/
STRATEGIC REVIEW
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
44
MARKET REVIEW
KEY MARKET TRENDS OUR RESPONSE
• We continue to track consumer sentiment in our key
markets to price our products accordingly, while
keeping customers’ affordability as our top priority.
• Continue to drive operational efficiency and energy
savings, which helped to mitigate rising commodity
and energy costs to maintain sustainable margins and
keep our prices affordable.
• We have been actively reducing sugar content across
our ready-to-drink beverage range, achieving 53%
reduction in the sugar index since 2015. Today, more
than 90% of our ready-to-drink products contain less
than 5g sugar per 100ml.
• We surpassed our 2025 target ahead of schedule, with
Healthier Choice options now making up at least two-
thirds of our ready-to-drink portfolio.
• F&N Group has set 12 goals for 2025, with significant
progress made, including achieving six of the 12 goals
ahead of schedule. We also benchmark ourselves
against global indices such as FTSE4GOOD and S&P
Corporate Sustainability Assessment.
• We ensure 100% of the palm oil used by F&NHB
is RSPO-certified, reflecting our commitment to
sustainable sourcing across the supply chain.
• Protecting our data, as well as that of stakeholders,
we have established a comprehensive cybersecurity
framework encompassing employee training, targeted
phishing and crisis simulations, proactive risk
assessments, and robust technological safeguards.
MODERATING INFLATION AND COST OF LIVING
Following the pandemic-induced spike in inflation to 3.38% in 2022, the cost of goods in Malaysia has been
moderating. Inflation averaged 2.49% in 2023 and headline inflation (including food and energy prices) is
expected to fall within the range of 2.0%-3.5% in 2024, with BNM not expecting it to exceed 3.0%5. Inflation
for the first half of the year came in at 1.8%, but this is likely to increase as a result of the diesel subsidy
implemented in June 2024 and spillover effects of global commodity prices. Despite stabilising inflation,
Malaysians remain concerned about the prospects of price increases and personal income6. Meanwhile, in
Thailand headline inflation from January to October was 0.26% and is expected to be below 0.5% for the full
year, according to the Commerce Ministry.7
INCREASING HEALTH-CONSCIOUSNESS
People the world over have been becoming more health conscious over the years, but the trend has accelerated
since Covid-19 and is seen most prevalently among the younger age brackets. According to a recent McKinsey
Future of Wellness report, Gen Z-ers (born between 1997 and 2012) and millennials (1981-1996) are purchasing
more wellness products and services than older generations. This is because of more knowledge as well as
having lived through the pandemic. An Asia-Pacific Health Priority Survey conducted by a herbal company
confirmed a similar trend across ages in Malaysia. According to this study, about 75% of Malaysians are more
focused on living a healthy, active lifestyle, and achieving a holistic approach to health. It added that about 79%
of Malaysian respondents became more health conscious following the pandemic.8
GREATER ESG STAKEHOLDER EXPECTATIONS
Among the most pressing global issue today is the sustainability of our planet. Following centuries of
unchecked development, not only is the global temperature rising (resulting in extreme climate events such
as floods, droughts, bush/forest fires, etc), we are also accumulating islands of plastic waste in our oceans.
At the same time, economic development has been uneven, with a disproportionate share of the benefits of
commerce and industry going to a small segment of the global population. Recognising the need for more
responsible and equitable socio-economic development, not only governments but also investors, shareholders,
consumers, employees and communities at large are demanding greater focus and investment by companies
on environmental and social matters, accompanied by stronger governance.
MAINTAINING AN EDGE IN DIGITAL ERA
As the business environment in Malaysia becomes more dynamic and competitive, it has become critical for all
companies to integrate modern digital tools into daily operations to thrive. While the benefits of AI, machine
learning (ML), automation, business intelligence (BI) and other technologies are evident in the way they are
driving efficiencies and enhancing internal as well as external communication, including sales and marketing,
there are also challenges. Key among these are: 1) ensuring the digital competencies of employees; 2) ensuring
the integrity and security of data; and 3) having in place a coherent digital plan to ensure investments made
are part of a well thought-out strategy.
5 https://theedgemalaysia.com/node/723065
6 https://www.nst.com.my/business/corporate/2024/06/1064502/consumer-demand-seen-stay-expansionary
STRATEGIC REVIEW
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 45
MARKET REVIEW
• Introduced smaller pack sizes with proportionately lower prices, and value packs such as FARMHOUSE milk twin packs, economical 1.75 litre soft drinks and condensed milk in 2.5kg pouch
to cater to different needs of our customers and consumers.
• Maintaining brand excitement with engaging promotions, campaigns, and new flavours tailored to evolving tastes, reinforcing our promise of pure enjoyment.
• To help employees manage rising living costs and inflation, F&NHB offers a flexible benefits scheme, allowing them to allocate funds across options tailored to their needs. Additionally,
we have extended free annual health screenings to more employees to further support their well-being.
• We also support our suppliers through the F&N Business Partner Award Programme, helping them improve service quality and expand their reach within the region.
• To meet growing demand for zero-sugar options as well as healthier and nutritional beverages, we introduced 100PLUS ZERO and F&N SEASONS Ice Lemon Tea Zero in Malaysia, and
launched NutriWell SOY MILK WITH OAT & QUINOA and NutriWell SOY MILK WITH OMEGA FROM FLAXSEED in Thailand.
• For our indulgent series, we introduced smaller pack sizes so consumers can continue to enjoy our products in smaller portion per serving.
• We ran a wellness campaign, Jom Sihat, Kekal Cergas, to inspire healthier lifestyles and food choices and continue to champion local sports community and support our nation’s athletes
at every level through 100PLUS.
• In Thailand, we educated students on the benefits of milk through a nationwide initiative, distributing F&N Magnolia UHT milk to over 500 schools.
• The F&N AgriValley dairy farm is being developed as part of our mission of ensuring all Malaysians have access to quality, nutritious and affordable fresh milk.
• Since 2013, over 2,000 farmers from 10 milk cooperatives in Thailand have benefited from our Farming Excellence System. In Malaysia, we mentor Small and Medium Enterprises,
providing halal-related technical advice and knowledge transfer to enhance their capabilities.
• F&NHB is reducing reliance on fossil fuels through renewable energy. The rooftops solar photovoltaic systems installed to date are projected to reduce our annual GHG emissions by
20,000 MT CO
2
e.
• We take a proactive stance in strengthening our climate-related disclosures by alignment with the TCFD framework ahead of the stipulated date. This year, we also introduced internal
carbon pricing to further drive accountability and accelerate carbon reduction efforts.
• At our dairy farm, we are conducting a materiality assessment to address key ESG issues, as well as a carbon projection study to develop a tailored decarbonisation strategy.
• Recycled materials now constitute 25% of our packaging, with a goal for all beverage and dairy packaging to be 100% recyclable by 2025 (2024: 98%). We also promote community
recycling through initiatives such as our nationwide School Recycling Programme and reverse vending machines.
• We are extending the use of digital technologies to our supply chain. In Thailand, for example, we have developed a digital platform to help our dairy suppliers (farmers) to enhance their
milk quality while promoting traceability from farm to factory.
• We are venturing into AI-based technology to determine optimal production quantities and timing, enabling us to adjust our production schedules and significantly reduce waste from
unsold products.
• To ensure our employees are up to speed with digital technology, we are increasing our investment into digital training programmes, especially in areas such as AI and BI.
7 https://www.reuters.com/markets/asia/thai-inflation-quickens-oct-still-below-central-bank-target-2024-11-06/
8 https://thesun.my/malaysia-news/79-malaysians-more-health-conscious-after-pandemic-survey-AA11339393
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
46
Material Issues Key Risks
2 Product & Service Labelling
12 Human Capital Development
13 Packaging
10
Community Development
& Inclusive Growth
8 Nutrition
5 Economic Performance
14 Water Stewardship
15 Waste Management
16 Energy
17 Climate Change
18 Biodiversity
11
Employee Safety, Health
& Well-being
9 Human Rights
6 Policy & Regulations
7 Innovation
1 Product Quality & Safety
4 Governance & Ethics
3 Supply Chain Stewardship
Economic
Social
Environment
1
2
3
4
5
6
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
7
B
C
D
E
F
N
H
G
I
J
K
L
M
O
P
A
B Other Financial Risks
A Significant Increase in
Commodity Prices
D
Inability to Anticipate/
Respond Timely to
Changing Consumer Needs
C Strategic Risk Involving
New Business Investment
Financial/
economic
Strategic
Governance &
Ethics
Reputational
Operational
Corruption, Fraud, Pilferage &
Ethical Risks
Risk from Disruptive Digital
Technology & Innovation
Managing Stakeholders,
Expectations & Perceptions
Non-compliance with
Laws, Rules, Regulations
& Standards
F
E
H
G
Cyber Threats &
Data Security Risk
Health, Safety
& Security
Supply Chain Risks
Talent Management &
Succession Planning
N
M
P
O
Political/International
Instability & Geopolitical Risk
Environmental Damage
Product Quality & Standards
Infectious Disease
J
I
L
K
STRATEGIC REVIEW
KEY RISKS AND MITIGATION
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 47
17 Climate Change 15 Waste Management 18 Biodiversity
16 Energy
13 Packaging
Material Issue
18 Biodiversity
Material Issue
Addressing Our Risks & Opportunities
Risk
Rising concerns associated with environmental impact such as extreme weather events, water-related risks, waste and pollution risks, and biodiversity loss.
Risk
Commodities and material prices are influenced by the global and local supply and demand, weather conditions as well as regulatory changes imposed by the government. As such,
any significant increase in prices of commodities and materials could impact the cost and profitability of our products.
Mitigation actions
At F&N, we recognise the role of business in protecting the environment. The transition to a circular economy offers opportunities to create business value as well as minimise
environmental impacts.
• We are guided by our Environmental, Safety and Health Policy, which ensures all major plants in the group are ISO 14001:2015 (environmental management system) certified.
• Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) elements are considered and integrated into our business strategies, including capital expenditure investment(s) to ensure business
resiliency.
• Various environmental-related sustainability targets and metrics have been established, monitored, tracked and reported on periodic basis.
• We undertake Environmental Impact Assessments prior to any project.
• We partner with local communities to protect and preserve the environment.
• We strive for zero waste as well as zero pollution through continuous improvement of our environmental management system.
Mitigation actions
• Commodities and materials price risk is managed through forward purchase of key commodities, active monitoring of commodities price trends, and vigilant sales forecasting and
production planning.
• In addition, we source from multiple suppliers and origin of commodities/materials as listed in our approved vendors list to enable us to respond ably in the event of shortage in
supply and/or increase in price.
• We also hedge our purchases using our enlarged and collective purchasing capability.
• Price adjustment would be considered as last resort to protect profitability of the products.
Extreme weather events and other environmental concerns (emerging risk)
Significant increase in commodity prices (emerging risk)
Economic Performance
5
KEY RISKS AND MITIGATION
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
48
Material Issue
Product Quality & Safety
1 8 Nutrition
Material Issue
Economic Performance
5
Risk
In times of foreign currency market volatility, the Group is exposed to the risk of fluctuations in foreign exchange rates against the local currency due to:
• Importation of materials for production;
• Exports of goods are traded in foreign currency; and
• Overseas operations are valued in foreign currencies.
Risk
As a player in the food and beverage industry, the Group is exposed to risks associated with product quality and standards as product safety and quality are of paramount importance
to the Group.
The exposure in product quality and standards may bring serious ramifications in terms of financial impact as well as reputational impact.
Mitigation actions
• The Group is guided by the Group Treasury Policy, which outlines the policy in hedging the identified and committed foreign exchange exposure.
• Typically, at least 60% of our forex requirements are hedged to manage fluctuating prices of commodities as well as forex movements.
• Exports serve as additional natural hedge to cushion the impact of depreciating local currencies.
Mitigation actions
• Quality assurance cycle begins with suppliers’ pre-qualification and approval, source or origin of raw materials, manufacturing facilities and procedures, up to the distribution and
storage of our products.
• Comprehensive policies and procedures established on processing, packaging and storage, equipment and plant sanitisation as well as employee personal hygiene to prevent
contamination.
• Compliance with stringent quality systems in place such as ISO22000, Food Safety System Certification 22000 and HACCP Certification by Ministry of Health.
• Contingency plans on product traceability and product recall/withdrawal should such circumstances arise.
Exposure to fluctuations in exchange rates
Product quality and standards
KEY RISKS AND MITIGATION
STRATEGIC REVIEW
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 49
Material Issue
Economic Performance
5 Innovation
7
Material Issue
Supply Chain Stewardship
3
Risk
Consumers are becoming more informed on nutritional facts of their diet and adoption of active/healthy lifestyles. This risk relates to the Group’s ability to stay competitive and relevant
to consumer needs by building competitive advantage through innovation.
Should we fail to address the shift in the consumer trends nimbly and effectively, it may result in financial as well as reputational impact in the longer term.
Risk
The Group is exposed to risks associated with anticipated or unanticipated disruption to the supply chain and normal operations of the Group which could be due to internal or external
factors such as extreme weather events, infectious diseases, etc.
Mitigation actions
• Prioritise Research & Development initiatives via continuous consumer insight analysis on developing new products and further improve our product offerings in food & beverages
to meet consumers’ demand for healthier choices which are in line with the rising health and wellness as well as eco-friendly packaging trend, without compromising on taste.
• Continuous improvement on the offerings of healthier choice products in our innovation roadmap with target to offer a healthier option in every product category that we are in.
• Introduce new pack size as part of our portion control commitment catering to evolving purchasing habits.
• Promote active lifestyles through programmes that target schools and communities.
Mitigation actions
• Ensure sufficient inventory supply of key materials as well as finished goods to minimise implications to the operations.
• Regular engagement with internal and external stakeholders by taking into account the demand and supply planning (aided by technology) to ensure resilience in the supply of
materials amidst supply chain disruptions.
• Group Business Continuity Management Framework (BCMF) has been established which sets out the policies and procedures in relation to response, recovery and restoration of
business in the event of a crisis or disaster.
• Business Continuity Plans (BCP) are in place and are tested in accordance with the BCMF.
• Maintain healthy cashflow positions during crisis.
Ability to anticipate/respond timely to changing consumer needs (emerging risk)
Supply chain risks
Human Rights
9 14 Water Stewardship 17 Climate Change
16 Energy 18 Biodiversity
KEY RISKS AND MITIGATION
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
50
Material Issue
Governance & Ethics
4
Risk
Amid the evolving technology-reliant business environment, the Group is exposed to cyber security threats from cyber criminals which may compromise data integrity and even
leakage of confidential and sensitive information which is valuable to the Group.
Mitigation actions
• The Group has developed Cybersecurity Framework to provide guidance to businesses on managing cyber security risks.
• Regular trainings and phishing tests via e-Learning platform and constant updates related to cyber threats are provided to all employees to assess and maintain awareness level.
• Completion of trainings and phishing tests failure rate are factors considered in employees’ performance review.
• Implementation of Data Leakage Protection solutions to mitigate cyber threats and data security risks.
Cyber threats and data security risks
Material Issue
Product Quality & Safety
1 Product & Service Labelling
2
Managing stakeholders’ expectations of ESG components
Managing stakeholders' expectations of ESG components, such as human rights, Halal assurance, community development, and inclusive growth, amidst a landscape in which ESG is
growing in importance and the reporting standards are continuously evolving.
Mitigation actions
• Proactive stakeholder engagements including shareholders & investors, customers, suppliers, regulators, communities, and employees.
• Full commitment from our Board of Directors in implementing our strategic initiatives as well as sustainability priorities.
• Policies and procedures are established, supported by dedicated resources to implement the framework, and uphold the various compliance standards, including Halal Governance
and Assurance Framework.
• Stringent compliance with various compliance standards along our entire value chain, from sourcing of raw materials to delivery of products.
• Close monitoring of news published in the media and response procedures are in place to address circumstances should it occur.
Managing stakeholders’ expectations and perceptions
9 Human Rights 10 Community Development & Inclusive Growth 13 Packaging 14 Water Stewardship
17 Climate Change
KEY RISKS AND MITIGATION
STRATEGIC REVIEW
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 51
Material Issue
Governance & Ethics
4
Risk
The Group could be exposed to governance and ethics-related risks such as fraud and corruption practices involving employees and/or external stakeholders which eventually may
result in financial losses and reputational repercussions.
Mitigation actions
• Top-level commitments from the Board and Senior Management on zero-tolerance towards unethical practices.
• Awareness training programme for employees via e-learning platform designed to enhance awareness in protecting the interest of the Group.
• Whistleblowing channel is available for internal employees as well as the public to escalate concerns or report to the Receiving Officer should there be any incident detected.
Fraud and corruption risks
Material Issue
Strategic risks involving new business investments
Mitigation actions
• Cost-benefit analyses are undertaken and financial viability of business investments are diligently assessed with in compliance with investment guidelines.
• Integrating ESG components in business investment valuations to better capture and manage the full range of risks posed by ESG factors.
• Verification, investigation and audit of investment opportunity involving subject matter experts to confirm all relevant facts and financial information are true and the potential
business investment meets business objectives before proceeding with new investments.
• Transparent governance by monitoring project progress to ensure the commitment on strategic and financial returns where the new business investments established are met.
• Post-Implementation Review (PIR) is conducted at an interval required by the policy after completion of the project. The PIR is conducted to assess actual financial performance
against the original feasibility study assumptions besides update on the status of meeting the business objectives.
Economic Performance
5 Product Quality & Safety
1 Product & Service Labelling
2 9 Human Rights
10 Community Development & Inclusive Growth 13 Packaging 14 Water Stewardship 17 Climate Change
KEY RISKS AND MITIGATION
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
52
STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE REVIEW
STRATEGIC DOMAINS
PASSION 2025
GLOBAL VALUES:
BUILD
Building new
capabilities and
business
opportunities
STRENGTHEN
Strengthening our
core businesses for
market leadership
positions
UNLOCK
Unlocking potentials
of the Group to
create maximum
value
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 53
STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE REVIEW
FY2024 Key Highlights Priorities for 2025
• Channeled our capital into growth to develop our Dairy and Halal food pillars.
• Concentrated on establishing the groundwork for F&N AgriValley and made significant
strides in the construction of the Group’s integrated dairy farm in Gemas, Negeri
Sembilan.
• Focused on standardising operations within the food pillar and alignment with other
existing units of F&NHB for greater operational efficiency and synergy.
• Established a new subsidiary a manufacturing plant in Cambodia to enable us to
localise our operations and compete competitively.
• Fulfilling our ambition to deliver the key milestones of the integrated dairy
farm in capturing opportunities in liquid milk and supporting the National
Food Security Agenda in dairy & beef.
• Maintaining a balanced focus on optimising the current businesses and
growth initiatives in agriculture through F&N AgriValley, as well as bolstering
our market presence in Cambodia.
• Adoption of technology, AI and automation to flatten our command chain,
value chain and supply chain.
• Continue to enhance route-to-market capabilities and optimising operational
efficiencies while remaining vigilant and agile in response to market shifts,
geopolitical uncertainties and macroeconomic changes as we integrate
ESG elements as part of strategic management, where applicable.
• Continue to strengthen our stewardship in our core categories through
transformative projects to accelerate high growth via effective brand
portfolio management.
• Maintaining an active participation in industry policymaking to reinforce
Halal thought leadership and support the Halal ecosystem by mentoring
SMEs through capacity-building programs.
• Unlocking opportunities through new capital expenditures, including a
carbonated beverages and drinking water line in Butterworth, a sterilised
milk filling and packing line in Pulau Indah, and a chocolate manufacturing
line in Rawang.
• Transitioning to next-level of strong governance company and establish
programmes to improve operational efficiency, empower our employees,
strengthen stakeholders’ engagement and deliver sustainable business
values.
• Unlocking values via effective financing and capital management strategies.
• Sustained growth in FY2024 with revenue growing by 4.9% to RM5.25 billion, up from
RM5.0 billion last year, primarily fuelled by higher domestic sales from F&B Malaysia
and F&B Thailand, and exports to Cambodia.
• Maintained market leaderships in core categories across Malaysia and Thailand.
• Successfully navigated challenges posed by geopolitical tensions which impacted
global trade and logistics this year by effectively managing a well-balanced country
mix for Exports business.
• Our continuous effort in marketplace, workplace and environment continue to be
validated through numerous awards and recognitions in Malaysia and Thailand.
We remain a constituent of the F4GBM for the sixth consecutive year, ranking in the
Top 1% globally within our FTSE Industry Classification Benchmark Supersector.
• Various capital investments had been completed and begun its contribution to the
Group through cost savings.
• Unlocked potentials within the existing talent pool to support future business
expansion, fostering a more efficient, agile and focused organisation.
• Established strategic collaborations with key suppliers to achieve common
partnership goals.
• Achieved financial vigilance amidst the start-up investments in F&N AgriValley and
the expiration of certain tax incentives through smart capital management.
COLLLABORATION, CREATING VALUES & CARING FOR STAKEHOLDERS
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
54
STRATEGIC REVIEW
F&NHB has adopted a two-tier Halal management structure to
embed the Halalan Tayyiban guidelines and the Halal assurance
system requirements across our operations at the Group level:
• Group Halal Council: Established in 2016, this council sets
policies and strategies with the support of the Halal Affairs
Department which acts as a secretariat to ensure effective
implementation across the organisation.
• Internal Halal Committee: Each site has its committee
responsible for overseeing all matters related to Halal
compliance in the supply chain, from the procurement of
ingredients and raw materials, management of manufacturing
facilities and personnel involved in production processes, to
the storage, warehousing and transportation of our products.
ENSURING HALAL COMPLIANCE & INTEGRITY ACROSS
OUR VALUE CHAIN
100% of our products are Halal-certified by the relevant authorised certification bodies:
• Department of Islamic Development Malaysia (JAKIM)
• Majelis Ulama Indonesia (MUI)
• Central Islamic Council of Thailand (CICOT)
Our Shah Alam, Pulau Indah and Rawang plants are awarded the Whitelist status by JAKIM,
in which Halal applications and approval are fast-tracked.
Malaysian Halal Management System (MHMS) version 2020 is implemented to maintain and
ensure the sustainability of Halal production processes.
• A pool of qualified Halal Executives is maintained to implement a robust HAS.
• Internal Halal Audits are conducted for all of our plants.
• Our Halal Risk Management plan for all plants is updated to meet MHMS version 2020
requirements.
Additionally, we conduct porcine analysis on our products and ingredient, providing an extra
layer of Halal assurance.
Any used equipment or machines purchased for our plants undergoes Shariah sertu cleansing
to maintain the Halal integrity of our products.
To ensure Halal compliance downstream our supply chain, Halal awareness trainings are
mandatory for our key transporters and distributors.
• We have conducted Halal audits on all our distributors to ensure that different aspect of
our supply chain adheres to Halal compliance.
Our Halal Policy is available here: https://www.fn.com.my/halal-policy/
2
STRENGTHENING
OUR HALAL
ECOSYSTEM
ESTABLISHING GROUP HALAL COUNCIL (GHC)
F&N is committed
to be a leading
producer of Halal
products.
Halal Policy and Resources Made Available to
Ensure Highest Level Of Integrity to Stakeholders.
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 55
STRATEGIC REVIEW
100% Halal-certified Products
CULTIVATING INTERNAL HALAL CULTURE
3
JAKIM MUI CICOT
We continuously strengthen our employee’s Halal awareness and
understanding through:
• Scheduled Halal Awareness Programmes: Organising scheduled
training sessions, engaging contests and interactive quizzes
designed to deepen Halal knowledge across the organisation.
• Mandatory Halal awareness training for all employees,
supplemented by an online refresher course every three years.
• The trainings are delivered in multiple languages, including
the native languages of our foreign employees, ensuring
comprehensive understanding.
• Employees with a responsibility in Halal matters also attended
a series of professional trainings related to Halal internal audits
and assurance.
• Professional Training for Employees with Halal
Responsibilities: Focused on Halal internal
audits and assurance processes to enhance
competency in Halal management.
• Strict Prohibition of Non-halal Food and
Beverages: Ensuring that the entire
site of all our facilities, including
factory premises, offices and
canteens, maintain a Halal-compliant
environment.
We facilitate positive collaborative engagement with Halal authorities such as JAKIM, Halal Development
Corporation Berhad (HDC) and various State Islamic Religious Councils.
We actively engage with the Department of Malaysia standards through Federation of Malaysian
Manufacturers (FMM) to provide our input towards developing Halal-related standards to, such as:
• Shariah sertu cleansing standards.
• Malaysian Standard 1514 Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP for Food) - Halal Industrial Park -
General Requirements and Guidelines.
To further propel the Halal ecosystem, we partner HDC on the Halal Sourcing Partnership Programme, a
capacity-building programme aimed at:
• Sharing Halal industry best practices - providing technical advice and knowledge transfer to small
and medium enterprises (SMEs).
• Coaching the SMEs to elevate their capability to be qualified as Halal vendors for multinational
companies.
Through the programme, we have provided mentorship to 16 SMEs who have high potential to elevate
their business capacity.
• In 2024, four SMEs have been onboarded as our vendors, and we continue to mentor six SMEs under
the Halal Sourcing Partnership Programme.
• In 2024, we participated in the Halal Business Linkage and Business Matching event, a platform to
promote partnerships between large local and multinational companies with SMEs.
- More than 15 SMEs were engaged as potential vendors during the Business Matching
segment.
• In 2023, we hosted a pitching session aimed at recruiting potential suppliers through
the programme.
- A total of 14 SMEs actively engaged in this pitching session, demonstrating
their interest in becoming our potential partners in our ongoing journey.
• In 2021, we successfully onboarded one SME as our ingredient supplier for
F&N Kurma Madu Cordial.
We also actively participate in knowledge-sharing sessions such as:
• World Halal Business Conference Australia 2022
• World Halal Forum 2023
• World Halal Business Forum 2024
4 FACILITATING EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT TO UPLIFT HALAL ECO-SYSTEM
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
A constituent of the FTSE4Good
Bursa Malaysia Shariah (F4GBMS) Index
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
56
BUSINESS REVIEW
SUCHIT RIEWCHAROON
Managing Director,
F&N Dairies (Thailand) Limited
NG ENG CHEANG
Commercial Advisor
(Foods & East Malaysia and Brunei)
(Retired on 30 November 2024)
JORDAN NG BOON LEONG
Managing Director,
Beverages & Dairies (Peninsular Malaysia)
1 2 3
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 57
BUSINESS REVIEW
GRAHAM LIM
Managing Director,
Commercial Operations
(East Malaysia & Brunei)
LAI MING KONG
Managing Director,
International Markets Development
DATO’ RAFFIQ BIN MD ARIFF
Managing Director,
Foods & Industry Engagement
4 5 6
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
58
Thailand’s gross domestic product (GDP) expanded by 3% in the third quarter (3Q) of 2024, up from 2.2% in the previous
quarter.This growth was fuelled by higher government and private consumption,overall investment,along with a resurgence
in tourism that is projected to reach pre-pandemic levels by mid-2025.1
+6.7%
+18.9%
REVENUE
RM2.29
billion
FY2023: RM2.15 billion
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
RM449.9
million
FY2023: RM378.3 million
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND
BUSINESS REVIEW
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 59
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1: CAPTURING VALUE FOR CONSUMERS
Key initiatives Achievements
Strengthen brands in existing and
new markets
• Amplified communication through impactful campaigns, including the eight-month Carnation Rewards initiative
for condensed and evaporated milk and the nationwide TEAPOT 15th anniversary campaign.
• As a result, solidified Carnation’s position as No. 1 in evaporated milk and sweetened condensed milk market,
while TEAPOT secured the second spot in canned milk segment.
• Extensive promotions in Cambodia, including a loyalty campaign, TV commercials and on-ground activation
fuelled double-digit growth for condensed milk and BEAR BRAND Sterilised Milk.
Capture new markets and
demonstrate brand relevancy
• In response to the trend for healthy products, FNDT launched the NutriWell SOY MILK series and an enhanced
formula for Magnolia Ginkgo UHT.
• TEAPOT launched a two-pronged communication campaign targeting beverage operators and bakery operators
underlining the products’ unique selling propositions.
Domestically, F&N Dairies Thailand (FNDT) faced limited supply of fresh milk in the
first half of FY2024 and conducted margin protection initiatives for certain products.
However, strong revenue growth in Cambodia, exceeding 40%, more than compensated
these impacts. This success was driven by an expanded distribution network, successful
nationwide promotions and the full-year contribution of BEAR BRAND sales, following
the exclusive manufacturing and distribution rights secured during FY2023. As a result,
F&B Thailand increased its revenue by 6.7% (5.7% in THB) over last year, outpacing the
market.
In addition to revenue growth, strategic efforts to enhance cost efficiencies across
our Thai operations contributed to profit improvements. Notably, the team successfully
reduced distribution costs, and improved manufacturing efficiency by leveraging
automated systems and robotics. This has ensured consistent product quality and
streamlined operations. As a result, F&B Thailand’s adjusted operating profit for FY2024
rose by 18.9% (17.8% in THB).
Thai consumers are particularly focused on health issues, more than the global average.
In Thailand, health concerns significantly influence beverage choices, with consumers
seeking low, no, and reduced sugar options, as well as products fortified with vitamins
and minerals.2 Catering to an increasingly health-conscious consumer base, in October
2024, F&B Thailand launched NutriWell SOY MILK WITH OAT & QUINOA and OMEGA
FROM FLAXSEED. Additionally, a more concentrated formula for Magnolia Ginkgo UHT
Milk was introduced, offering twice the amount of ginkgo per pack.
FNDT continued to dominate the canned milk segment, with Carnation maintaining its
pole position and TEAPOT securing second place, a result of consistent and effective
marketing strategies that reinforced brand loyalty and market leadership.
1 https://www.reuters.com/markets/asia/thai-q3-gdp-grows-30-yy-fastest-pace-two-years-2024-11-18/
2 https://www.innovamarketinsights.com/trends/food-trends-in-thailand/
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
60
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3: CAPTURING VALUE FOR PLANET AND COMMUNITY
Key initiatives Achievements
Promoting nutrition
• Reached out to 500 schools nationwide to educate students on the essential health benefits of milk through interactive
experiences.
• Distributed more than 500,000 cups of F&N Magnolia UHT milk to students, fostering healthier dietary habits.
Fostering environmental stewardship
• More than 360 participated in a tree-planting initiative at Salakpra Wildlife Sanctuary, planting 450 trees and 1,200
seed balls to reinforce our green commitment.
• Partnered with the Lam-Phaya Klang Dairy Cooperative in Saraburi Province, providing a Somatic Cell Counter to
boost productivity and quality.
• Enhanced the livelihood of milk farmers through upskilling to achieve higher quality and yield through sustainable
practices in dairy farming.
Supporting sustainable farming
practices
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2: CAPTURING VALUE FOR OUR FUTURE
Key initiatives Achievements
Expand capacity to
support future growth
• Setting up a subsidiary and manufacturing plant in Cambodia to better serve the growing market. This will allow
us to reduce not only export costs from Thailand, but our carbon footprint from transportation.
• Freed up capacity in existing manufacturing plants to further grow in Thailand and other export markets.
• Expanded the use of automated systems and robotics in manufacturing processes to improve operational
efficiency, ensure consistent product quality, and support scalable future growth.
Enhance workforce productivity
Expanding markets
• Implemented a one-year structured training for new employees, resulting in greater competency and performance
across operations.
• Our Cambodia team will be strengthened to unlock the market’s full potential including introducing broader range
of products from our portfolio.
• Leveraged existing networks to introduce Sri Nona products in Thailand, creating new opportunities for market
expansion.
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND
BUSINESS REVIEW
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 61
Challenge Mitigating Actions
Economic slowdown in Laos
and Cambodia,coupled with
competitive pricing from players
in the market and currency
fluctuation.
Evolving trend for health and
wellness options in food and
beverage
• Continue to strengthen brand awareness through targeted consumer campaigns and loyalty strategies to maintain growth across all
product categories. Develop innovative products to capture new usage occasions and new consumer segments.
• Introduce health-focused innovations and enhance engagement activities aimed at promoting nutrition among youth, fostering
awareness and healthy habits early on.
In FY2025, F&N Dairies Thailand will focus on further strengthening its relationship with key stakeholders. This will be achieved through targeted consumer engagement
activities, enhanced operator training to deepen product knowledge, and an expanded loyalty programme for hawkers to build stronger ties with this vital customer group.
Under the strategic direction of ‘Reach Competitively,’ we will continue to expand our distribution coverage to reach a wider customer base while enhancing in-store
execution through initiatives aimed at improving salesforce productivity and efficiency.
The team will also increasingly utilise advanced data analytics as part of the ‘Digital for Growth’ strategy, which will play a critical role in monitoring and tracking salesforce
KPIs, enabling real-time insights to drive improvements in performance and efficiency.
Following the launch of NutriWell SOY MILK UHT, efforts to expand the reach and sales of these products will be intensified. Additionally, the development of our dairy
manufacturing plant in Cambodia is also on track to bolster our presence in that market.
While the absence of Board of Investment (BOI) tax incentives in Thailand may pressure profit margins, these efforts, combined with a disciplined focus on operational
excellence, will ensure our competitiveness in the market.
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND
Challenges & their mitigation
Outlook
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
62
CARNATION
The focus of Carnation for the year was on encouraging
home consumption of its suite of products, with the aim of
leading in this segment the way it has done in the out-of-
home segment.
To appeal to in-home consumers and to drive trial among
new users, Carnation introduced a special promo premium
pack – each comprising two tubes of sweetened condensed
milk and a silicone tumbler. The promotion, from February to
July 2024, was accompanied by celebrity KOL endorsements
on TikTok, YouTube and Facebook.
Meanwhile, to encourage consumption of Carnation
Evaporated Milk at home, the team shared ideas on
how it can be used in various recipes, including as a
substitute to coconut milk. During the campaign, from
June to August 2024, local brand ambassador and actor
Mike Pattaradet promoted Carnation Evaporated Milk
as every family’s must-have ingredient to enhance any
in-home cooking menus.
To boost the brand power of Carnation (Sweetened Bevarage
Creamer and Extra) among food service operators, multiple
operator campaigns were organised using TV programmes,
collaborating with restaurants and cafes to create a “special
menu” for “deliciousness”, promoted by KOLs on multiple
social media platforms.
Finally, to firmly entrench Carnation as the No. 1 canned
milk, a nationwide campaign named Carnation Reward, Hai
Laek Hai Lun, Taen Kham Khopkhun Chak Thi Nueng Khwam
Aroi was held to entice greater purchase of the brand by
offering more than 8 million Baht in rewards.
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND
BUSINESS REVIEW
Marketing Highlights
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 63
It was a successful year for TEAPOT, whose overall growth was
supported by various campaigns, beginning with a nationwide
promotion to celebrate its 15th anniversary in Thailand from
October 2023 to February 2024. During this campaign, TEAPOT
rewarded its users with the opportunity to win attractive prizes
in an extensive lucky draw. The campaign was a success, having
generated 2% growth in sales versus previous period and 8%
increase in participating rate versus previous campaigns.
FNDTranatwo-prongedcommunicationcampaigntostrengthen
TEAPOT’s unsweetened portfolio and to promote usage of
TEAPOT Extra UHT 1 litre and TEAPOT Evaporated Milk can.
The team ran fresh communication campaigns targeting
TEAPOT Extra at beverage operators and evaporated cans at
bakeries. The TEAPOT Evaporated Milk campaign extolled the
convenience of the UHT 1 litre Prisma Briks with caps, its use in
various beverages, and added value of the larger 1 litre packs.
The campaign for TEAPOT Evaporated Milk, meanwhile, focused
on its suitability for baking as it ensures softer dough and
cakes that rise while lending baked items a delectable aroma.
The campaign leveraged social media such as Facebook,
YouTube and Tiktok and featured reviews by KOLs,
supplemented by product sampling and baking workshops.
Towards our financial year end, from July to September 2024,
TEAPOT launched a Use More, Get More rewards campaign
for its loyal food and beverage operators enabling them to
collect and redeem points as well as stand the chance to win
attractive prizes.
TEAPOT TEAPOT
celebrates
15th
anniversary
in Thailand
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
64
In October 2024, NutriWell made its debut
in Thailand as a premium soya milk brand,
featuring UHT soya milk made from a patented
Nutri-Extract fresh-squeezing process.
The technology guarantees a creamier,
smoother texture with maximum nutrition
from whole soybeans. Two variants were
introduced – Flaxseed Oil and Oat & Quinoa –
both packed with natural goodness.
NutriWell Flaxseed Oil drink, containing
omega oil and Vitamin B1, promotes a healthy
nervous system and blood circulation while
NutriWell Oat & Quinoa variant uses quality
oats from Sweden and tri-coloured quinoa
which, together boast 6g of fibre (equivalent
to two oranges or 200g of strawberries).
Both variants are as delicious as they
are nutritious, and are a part of the
Healthier Choice range.
NutriWell
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND
BUSINESS REVIEW
Marketing Highlights
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 65
F&N MAGNOLIA
BEAR BRAND introduced a new communication campaign in
February 2024, encouraging consumers to take greater control over
their health and well-being with the wholesome goodness of milk.
The campaign, under the message “Express your care every day,
no need to wait”, utilised TV and online commercials as well as
in-store displays, targeting larger group of consumers up to 55 years
old, as well as young families. Meanwhile, BEAR BRAND Gold
continued to strengthen its health value proposition,
stressing the brain, bone and beauty benefits of milk
via online communication and strategic messaging by
influencers. This was accompanied by on-ground and
in-store sampling throughout the year.
BEAR BRAND
Since F&N Magnolia Ginkgo UHT was launched in 2015, the
brand has grown steadily in popularity. To further enhance
its growth, a new Double Ginkgo formula was introduced in
White Malt and Chocolate flavours in February 2024. The
new beverages contain 5,400 mcg of ginkgo compared to
2,700 mcg previously, and 35% of Thai Recommended Daily
Intake (RDI) of Vitamin B12.
At the same time, F&N Magnolia continued with its Tasty
Goodness campaign online and offline, together with targeted
sampling activities in schools and in-store. This led to F&N
Magnolia UHT priced at 10 Baht growing double-digit year-
on-year.
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
66
+3.5%
REVENUE
RM2.95
billion
FY2023: RM2.85 billion
+33.4%
ADJUSTED OPERATING PROFIT
RM305.6
million
FY2023: RM229.1 million
Despite weaker consumer sentiment and geopolitical factors, F&B Malaysia successfully captured opportunities from
festive demand and effective country mix for our exports. Through vigilance and adaptability, we sustained growth across
our existing food and beverage operations while integrating new businesses. Our efforts were anchored on four strategic
objectives: capturing value for our customers, consumers, future growth, and our planet and community.
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
BUSINESS REVIEW
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 67
In this process, F&B Malaysia emphasised the critical role of data analytics, technology, and AI to gain deeper insights into customer needs, enabling more informed decisions and
streamlined operations for greater efficiency.
Our manufacturing team leveraged automation to enhance productivity, while our marketing and sales teams turned to e-commerce and a digitalised work environment to deliver
quicker and more enhanced customer service, reducing cost and expanding market reach. Internally, there was greater emphasis on people development via training and mentoring
to enhance leadership skills, streamline processes and foster closer collaboration.
In the Halal food segment, the integration of Sri Nona and Cocoaland into Sri Nona Foods was completed successfully. The merged business unit has embarked on an ongoing digital
transformation to unlock further efficiencies and growth potential.
The Group also continues to invest in its core food and beverage businesses in Malaysia, alongside the development of a large-scale integrated dairy farm, to drive sustainable growth
and capture long-term value for all.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1: CAPTURING VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS
Key initiatives Achievements
Increase efficiencies through
digitalisation
• Deployed SAP in Sri Nona Foods for more efficient decision-making, consumer insights, and accurate forecasting.
• Introduced an e-order app for retailers, improving efficiency and optimised productivity of sales team visits.
• AI integration across operations further enhanced data analysis, decision-making, and cost optimisation.
Create synergies between Sri Nona
Foods and F&N’s distribution network
• Leveraging F&N’s distribution system, culinary and confectionary products are now available in more stores and
in previously underserved areas.
• Intensified marketing efforts for Sri Nona Foods in East Malaysia, leveraging on Cocoaland’s strong presence.
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2: CAPTURING VALUE FOR OUR FUTURE
Key initiatives Achievements
Expand production capacity to
support future growth
• Consolidated manufacturing of Sri Nona products under one roof at the Rawang plant, resulting in expanded
capacity and cost efficiency.
• Invested in new chocolate manufacturing line in Rawang; new carbonated soft drinks and drinking water line in
Penang; and new sterilised canned milk filling and packing line in Pulau Indah.
Equipping employees to be
future-ready
• Implemented mentorship programs involving senior leaders from Malaysia and Thailand to elevate leadership
skills.
• More than 100 employees received AI training to equip them with the skills needed to leverage generative AI and
data security tools, fostering a culture of digital readiness within the Group.
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
68
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3: CAPTURING VALUE FOR OUR CONSUMERS
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 4: CAPTURING VALUE FOR OUR PLANET AND COMMUNITY
Key initiatives
Key initiatives
Achievements
Achievements
Differentiated product offerings
Reduce environmental footprint
• Expanded our product line with the introduction of the F&N SEASONS Botanical Range, which includes F&N SEASONS
Barley (300ml), F&N SEASONS Botanicals Hibiscus (300ml), and F&N SEASONS Botanicals Lemongrass Ginger
(300ml).
• As part of this year’s Ramadan offerings, we introduced the limited-edition F&N SEASONS Rose Soya.
• Launched BORNEO SPRINGS Natural Mineral Water, with its 100% recyclable packaging and bio-based cap made
from sugarcane.
• Invested RM18.5 million into Phase 2 of solar roof project, adding over 6.38 MWp solar PV panels at five of our plants
in Malaysia. Reduced our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 6,600 MT CO
2
e annually while delivering savings of up
to RM3.9 million per year.
• Partnered Bung Jagoi Development Committee to implement environmental and social programmes in the Bidayuh
village of Bau, Kuching.
• Collaborated with Kota Kinabalu Industrial Park (KKIP) and Environment Protection Department in environmental for
the conservation of Sungai Telipok.
Foster collaboration with our
community
• Extended our School Recycling Programme collaboration with SWCorp to foster recycling awareness among
schoolchildren and the public. To date, over 7.5 million kg of recyclables has been collected from primary and
secondary schools across Malaysia.
• Reached out to over 100,000 beneficiaries, including underprivileged children and senior citizens, through various
outreach activities across Malaysia.
• Engaged with over 20 institutions in Gemas, Tampin, including local schools, Pejabat Daerah Kecil dan Tanah Gemas,
Tampin District Education Office and Royal Malaysia Police to better understand their community needs.
Differentiated pack size
• Expanded new packaging options across our F&N SEASONS and OYOSHI ranges to enhance value and convenience
to our consumers. The latest additions in FY2024 include F&N SEASONS Apple flavoured drink and F&N SEASONS
Lychee flavoured drink in 1 litre, alongside F&N SEASONS Ice Lemon Tea in 1.5 litre.
• Reinforced 100PLUS as the official hydration partner in various sports and festive-related events, including during
Ramadan, supported by a creative campaign.
• Advocate a healthier and active lifestyle among customers with the Jom Sihat, Kekal Cergas wellness campaign.
• Launched two zero sugar offerings: 100PLUS ZERO in cans for on-the-go hydration, and F&N SEASONS Ice Lemon
Tea Zero in 1 litre size.
• Under Food Pillar, rebranded Lot 100 to modernise brand and appeal to target audience.
Strengthen F&N brands,including
brands’ role in health,wellness and
hydration
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
BUSINESS REVIEW
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 69
Challenge Mitigating Actions
Price sensitivity among consumers
Export market volatility
In FY2025, F&B Malaysia will intensify efforts to expand its reach more competitively by driving consumer-focused innovations, enhancing route-to-market capabilities, and leveraging
its robust distribution network and diverse product portfolio. Strategic investments in digital tools, AI, and automation will continue to streamline operations, improve efficiencies, and
enhance decision-making, ensuring cost optimisation and operational effectiveness.
Additionally, the added capabilities from our planned capital expenditures will enhance production efficiency, support future growth, and enable us to capture emerging opportunities
across our markets.
We remain committed to advancing the remaining components of the integrated farm, which we aim to make it self-sufficient and sustainable. Backed by strong cash flow from our
established operations and Group cash balances exceeding RM1 billion, we are well-capitalised to stay agile in navigating market shifts, geopolitical uncertainties, and macroeconomic
changes.
• Targeted promotional campaigns, including free sampling and discounts during festive periods, were rolled out to encourage trial and
repeat purchases. Launched new pack sizes, such as that for 100PLUS ZERO Sugar to provide convenience for consumption on-the-
go, and F&N Sweetened Condensed Milk with Calcium 1kg pouch for customers looking for even more value-for-money.
• Optimised export country mix to reduce dependency on high-risk markets, redirecting efforts to more stable and strategically important
regions.
• Localised marketing campaigns were conducted to bolster demand in priority export markets, while partnerships with international
distributors were strengthened to ensure consistent supply.
• Monitor geopolitical developments closely to adapt strategies and minimise risks proactively.
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
Challenges & their mitigation
Prospects
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
70
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
BUSINESS REVIEW
Marketing Highlights
100PLUS, the No. 1 isotonic beverage in Malaysia,
continued to highlight its energising and hydrating
properties this year with a myriad of activities. During
the holy month of Ramadan, 100PLUS ran a Pasti Stedi
campaign featuring a humorous TV commercial that
played on the concept of feeling pancit (zapped of
energy) while fasting. Visually depicting how the brand
gives you second wind, the advertisement was named a
Top 10 Raya TVC of 2024 at the Expert Choice Awards.
The 100PLUS team also collaborated with Mydin to
distribute bubur lambuk and 100PLUS ACTIVE while
helping to keep balik kampung folks hydrated with
100PLUS ACTIVE giveaways at R&R stations along our
highways.
Due to effective promotion and the adoption of a
healthier lifestyle among Malaysians, 100PLUS ZERO has
been so successful since its debut in 2020 the brand
extended its packaging from the take-home PET format
to single-serve 325ml cans. As the undisputed market
leader within the Zero sugar segment of carbonated soft
drink isotonic segment since January 2024, 100PLUS
ZERO, now in 325ml cans, will further strengthen our
market leadership and drive on-the-go consumption.
To promote the importance of
hydration and to help keep everyone
cool during the heatwave from April to June
2024, 100PLUS was also distributed at high
traffic areas like mosques, Muzium Negara and
various R&R spots, reaching out to close to 5,000
consumers.
Further deepening its link with sports, 100PLUS rallied
support for our athletes taking part in international
competitions with the KIPID100 Malaysia campaign,
which encouraged everyone to give their 100%
in everything they do and to celebrate their daily
wins, no matter how small. During the campaign,
consumers stood a chance to win a trip to Paris and
exclusive sports merchandise with a national contest
with every purchase of large or small PETs. During the
Olympic Games Paris 2024, 100PLUS celebrated the
achievements of brand ambassadors Men’s Doubles
Aaron Chia and Soh Wooi Yik and Men’s Single Lee
Zii Jia and thanked them for their perseverance and
winning spirit with a bonus payout after the Games.
Back home, 100PLUS featured prominently at the
Malaysia Open 2024. The brand was also a GOLD
partner of SUKMA XXI Sarawak 2024 and PARA
SUKMA XXI Sarawak 2024. In addition, 100PLUS
supported Powerman Malaysia 2024, Malaysia’s
premier duathlon; Standard Chartered Kuala
Lumpur Marathon, and REDLINE Fitness Games,
an exhilarating gamified functional fitness race.
Supporting young golfers from across Asia-Pacific,
the brand joined forces with SRIXON to showcase
their skills.
100PLUS not only promotes athletes but also
encourages activities that elevate local sports.
Since 2006, the brand has been supporting the
Sportswriters Association of Malaysia (SAM) Awards,
recognising that sports coverage is an important part
of promoting sports and sporting success.
100PLUS
The No. 1
isotonic
beverage in
Malaysia
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 71
F&N SEASONS brought to market a variety of
new and interesting flavours during the year
to keep enticing consumers with great taste
and goodness. The ball got rolling in October
2023, when F&N SEASONS Apple and Lychee
were launched in value-add 1 litre format.
In November, the highly popular Ice Lemon
Tea in 1.5 litre value pack was introduced,
accompanied by an engaging Jom Segarkan
dengan SEASONS 360 consumer campaign
to heighten brand awareness. For Ramadan,
a limited-edition Rose Soya was introduced in
1 litre beverage carton, ensuring those fasting
could enjoy the much-coveted beverage
flavour during the holy month. This was
followed by the launch of an inspired range of
Botanicals that capture the essence of Asian
cuisine. The expertly crafted limited-edition
beverages come in Hibiscus, Lemongrass
Ginger and Barley flavours.
As the financial year ended, F&N SEASONS
contributed to the Group’s first ever Wellness
Campaign Jom Sihat, Kekal Cergas with the
launch of F&N SEASONS Ice Lemon Tea Zero
Sugar Limited Edition, supporting the adoption
of a healthier lifestyle nationwide.
Enticing
consumers with
great taste and
goodness
F&N
SEASONS
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
72
BORNEO SPRINGS
Launched in November 2023, BORNEO SPRINGS Natural Mineral Water is sourced from the rainforests in the
foothills of Mount Serapi and features 100% recyclable high-density polyethylene (HDPE) packaging and plant-
based Bonsucro-certified sugar cane-derived caps, both of which reduce carbon emissions by up to 28% during
production. The product received recognition for its exceptional quality and eco-friendly packaging when F&NHB
inked an agreement with Resorts World Genting (RWG) at the inaugural Genting SustainBiz F&B Expo.
F&N FUN
FLAVOURS
Following the relaunch in FY2023, F&N Fun Flavours returned in FY2024
with its Rasa Pasti Gempak campaign, focusing on the refreshing and
delicious taste of the products. This year’s campaign featured new TV
commercials, point of sale marketing and out-of-home promotional
materials as well as the use of KOLs to promote F&N carbonated soft
drinks. With a new look, a new attitude to attract new audience, F&N’s
Fun Flavours are here to “GEMPAK-kan” the market by satisfying Gen Z’s
taste buds with exceptional taste and sensation when consuming this
carbonated soft drink.
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
BUSINESS REVIEW
Marketing Highlights
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 73
CARNATION
Already the No.1 evaporated creamer in Malaysia,
Carnation further strengthened its leadership
with a New Richer Twists For A Blooming Year
(新花样) campaign during the Lunar New Year.
The campaign aimed at driving innovation and
versatility within the category by offering a
range of inspiring recipes with a touch of aroma,
richness and creaminess to curate tasty culinary
experiences. Among the inspiring recipes include
the sublime Golden Lobster with Truffle Sauce,
prominently featured in our communication and
point-of-sale material. The campaign delivered
impressive results, as F&NHB saw an increase in
sales volume by 8% and value by 17% compared to
the previous year’s CNY celebrations.
Another successful campaign, Terima KaC, was
run in conjunction with Parents Day, encouraging
younger target audience to demonstrate their filial
love and appreciation by cooking for their parents
using Carnation to add aroma, richness and
creaminess to their dishes. The campaign led to a
23% increase in sales volume and 20% increase by
value. The campaign also led to a boost in brand
awareness among younger target audience by an
impressive 14% from the previous campaign.
Last but not least, Carnation also partnered
with the famous South Korean food company
Nongshim to create recipes that blend
Carnation Evaporated Creamer with
Nongshim’s instant Shim ramyun
noodles. The collaboration resulted
in a 4% increase in trialists which
reflected on the
successful recruitment
of new users.
OYOSHI
In conjunction with Chinese New Year 2024, OYOSHI further boosted its market
growth with a limited-edition Green Tea 250ml pack range featuring the iconic
Neko Cat, an omen of good luck, to drive stronger festive relevance.
This year, as the official partner of Nihon Matsuri, an eight-day Japanese festival
that attracted thousands of visitors, OYOSHI Malaysia engaged with consumers
at their drink stations, offering samples and sales opportunities. Additionally,
OYOSHI partnered the annual Bon Odori Festival in Johor, delighting attendees
with high-quality Japanese green tea, helping the brand secure the No. 2 spot in
the green tea segment in the country by volume share.
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
74
Bringing smiles to
consumers of all ages
F&N Magnolia leveraged the festive seasons to highlight the goodness and taste of its dairy products.
In conjunction with Deepavali 2023, F&N Magnolia Milk Malaysia launched a consumer contest offering
prizes worth RM40,000, including a Magnolia gold bar. During Ramadan, the brand partnered with
Gardenia in Program Cahaya Ramadan Gardenia 2024 during which about 30,000 units of Gardenia
Original Classics White Loaf and 30,000 units of F&N Magnolia UHT Full Cream 1 litre were distributed
to 20 mosques across Peninsular Malaysia for sahur.
Adding an element of fun to the brand, F&N Magnolia launched a limited-edition Garfield packaging
inclusive of a free Garfield bag with every purchase. The accompanying in-store activations and social
media blitz significantly boosted brand awareness while bringing a smile to consumers of all ages.
F&N MAGNOLIA
TEAPOT went to town with creative promotions,
adorning the walls of popular restaurants such as
Soong Kee and Yut Kee in Kuala Lumpur. Revolving
around the theme of Spill the Tea, the murals
reinforce TEAPOT’s brand in a playfully engaging
manner, encouraging consumers to take pictures of
themselves with the brand in the background. At the
same time, our sweetened condensed milk brand
also enhanced its signage in popular coffeeshops.
Among others, Kedai Kopi New Hollywood and Kedai
Kopi Kong Heng in Ipoh, and Kuala Lumpur’s Tang
City Food Court now proudly feature the iconic
TEAPOT logo.
TEAPOT
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
BUSINESS REVIEW
Marketing Highlights
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 75
F&N
CANNED MILK
F&N Dairies continued to warm Malaysians’ hearts with its
Mengisi Hati Setiap Hari campaign, further strengthening
F&N as a brand of love and care. The message was conveyed
via a TV commercial featuring a mother prepare and serve
a meal for her daughter who has to work late into the night.
The advertisement, aired on national television and digital
platforms, reached 8.6 million viewers nationwide and helped
to increase top-of-mind recall of F&N Canned Milk to 45%.
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD • ANNUAL REPORT 2024
76
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
BUSINESS REVIEW
Marketing Highlights
Following the revamp of its packaging labels, Sri Nona Food Confectionery
launched an extensive campaign from July to August 2024 to create awareness
of its refreshed key brands, namely LOT 100, HAYOCO, KOKO JELLY, COCOPIE,
ROTONG and GOLDEN Ring. Promoters at stores nationwide encouraged
consumers to try various Sri Nona products while offering attractive gifts for
every purchase made.
At the same time, a Sri Nona Roving truck went around Klang Valley targeting
commercial areas, educational institutions and even pasar pagi and pasar
malam to reach out to consumers. At each stop, consumers who visited the
truck were offered Sri Nona confectionery goodie bags at incredible value.
The campaign was also complemented with a TikTok Pasti Stedi
Challenge, which saw engagement rates three times above the
benchmark.
The LOT 100 team supplemented the onground activations with
a TV commercial featuring LOT 100 FRUITY GUMMY and LOT
100 SOUR+ GUMMY, its first TVC in almost a decade. This was
supplemented by digital ads on Meta and YouTube, as well as
collaboration with influencers and media owner such as MGAG, KL
Foodie, Eat Pray Love and Ilham. In store, vibrant and attractive point-
of-sale material adorned stores, supplemented by a total of 600 sessions of
promoters in Peninsular and East Malaysia, to convert new consumers.
Meanwhile, to develop the ROTONG snacks market in Peninsular Malaysia, the
team worked with Aeon to place the products prominently in supermarkets
nationwide. Each outlet also organised sampling sessions
in August 2024 to increase brand awareness as
well as to encourage shoppers to try our best-
selling ROTONG Cuttlefish. In addition,
Limited Edition ROTONG Rendang was
given away with the purchase of three
packets of ROTONG.
COCOALAND
SRI NONA
FOOD CONFECTIONERY
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 4
1 3
2 5 6 7 8 9 SECTION 77
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
NONA
NONA started the year with a Semudah Cara,
Seenak Rasa NONA campaign in October 2023
featuring a live cooking demonstration by celebrity
chef Ili Sulaiman, who produced five-course meals
using NONA’s Ketupat and Oyster Sauces along with
desserts and canapes with NONA angkwe, jellies
and powder. KOLs created attractive content around
these dishes, enhancing the brand’s visibility.
Further creating brand awareness, more than 50
sampling sessions were conducted at hypermarkets
Mydin, Econsave and NSK, with Ili Sulaiman
conducting a live cooking demo at Mydin USJ, and
no fewer than 2,300 samples given away across five
Mydin locations. Shoppers responded positively,
expressing confidence in trying NONA products, and
appreciating the food samples, attractive packaging
and easy-to-make recipes at reasonable prices.
In November and December 2023, a digital
campaign was carried out featuring 11 video recipes
to demonstrate how everyday Malay dishes can be
In January and February 2024, the spotlight was turned on
NONA’s range of Lee Shun Hing cooking sauces – specifically
the Vegetarian and Mushroom Oyster Sauces – via A Majestic
Feast in the Year of the Dragon, with Healthier Flavours
of Lee Shun Hing campaign. This was supported by the
Econsave Exclusive Contest, Buy, Snap, Redeem, featuring
eight simple digital cooking video recipes and offering up
to RM16,000 in e-wallet prizes. The campaign reached 5.71
million consumers online.
LEE SHUN HING
enhanced with NONA products. Meanwhile, viewers
were encouraged to take part in the National Contest
Promo to stand a chance of win a 50g Habib Gold
Bar worth RM16,000, among other attractive prizes.
During Raya, NONA engaged 30 KOLs to produce
branded content featuring 15 iftar recipes and 15
Raya recipe ideas. With cooking KOL Khairul Aming
as the face of the campaign, the brand reached
close to 15 million views. Meanwhile, a nationwide
Raya Contest was also held offering prizes up to
RM140,000, including a grand prize of 180x Cosmic
Cookware Sets and weekly e-wallet prizes of RM10
for 500 winners.
These campaigns contributed to significant year-
on-year growth of sales volume across the NONA
range from March to June 2024, and especially in
the desserts category which grew by a healthy 63%.
This was followed by growth of the Ginger Beverage
(31%), Sesame Oil (30%), Cooking Sauce (24%) and
Ketupat (17%).
