To be a stable and sustainable
Food & Beverage leader in the
ASEAN region.
Our
Vision
To be ASEAN’s leading owner
and provider of quality and
innovative products that
consumers choose and trust.
To support our mission, we are
guided ﬁrmly by our commitment
to create value for our
stakeholders by ensuring that our
corporate actions positively
impact socio-economic and
environmental factors.
Our
Mission
COLLABORATION
We leverage the power of inherent strengths
and diversity to create inclusive synergies
and commit to team goals.
CREATING VALUES
We are passionate about applying new
ideas and seizing opportunities to create
positive impacts.
CARING FOR STAKEHOLDERS
We embrace our stakeholders’ perspectives
with good intent to bring them into our
long-term sustainability efforts.
Our Global Values serve as
a compass for our actions
and describe how we
behave in our organisation:
Values
Our About Us
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
(F&NHB) is a Malaysian-incorporated and
Shariah compliant company listed on Bursa
Malaysia’s Main Board. The Group has an
annual turnover of RM4 billion from its core
businesses in the manufacture, sales and
marketing of beverage, dairy and food
products. With a rich heritage spanning 138
years, F&NHB is today synonymous with
quality and Halal products that are trusted
by generations.
F&NHB boasts a portfolio of 22 brands
which are leaders in many segments such
as; 100PLUS, F&N Fun Flavours, F&N
SEASONS, OYOSHI, F&N Magnolia,
FARMHOUSE, F&N ICE MOUNTAIN;
Condensed and Evaporated Milk under
F&N, TEAPOT, Gold Coin, Cap Junjung,
IDEAL and CARNATION brands; as well as
NONA brand of ketupat and sauces.
F&NHB is a constituent of FTSE4Good
Bursa Malaysia (F4GBM) Index for its strong
commitment to responsible business
practices on environmental, social and
governance (ESG) matters. The Group
employs 2,500 people across its operations
in Malaysia, Brunei, Thailand and Indochina.
Welcome to Fraser & Neave
Holdings Bhd’s Annual Report
for the financial year 2021
For this ﬁnancial year 2021, Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd has
incorporated some elements of integrated reporting approach.
We trust that transparency and well-balanced reporting is the
way to understanding the Group’s process and businesses.
Through the changes we have instituted into our reports this
year, and aligning with the principles of integrated reporting,
we hope to provide a clear account of what we believe value
creation means for our stakeholders.
Annual Report
Provides a comprehensive
assessment of the Group’s
performance and ﬁnancial
statements for 2021.
Sustainability Report
Delivers a balanced report on our e orts
to create value for stakeholders and
conducting business in a responsible
manner. The report complies with the
Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards
and Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Main Market Listing Requirements in
relation to Sustainability Statements in
Annual Reports.
Further information can also be
found on our website:
https://www.fn.com.my/
We value and appreciate all feedback to
help make our future reports more relevant
to our stakeholders.
+603-9235 2288
Communications, Corporate A airs
and Sustainability Department
No. 3, Jalan Metro Pudu 1
Fraser Business Park
o Jalan Yew, 55100 Kuala Lumpur
Malaysia
groupcomms@fn.com.my
FEATURE IN THIS ANNUAL REPORT
Follow the steps below to scan the
QR code reader in 3 easy steps
S T E P 0 1
S T E P 0 2
S T E P 0 3
Download the “QR Code Reader” on App
Store or Google Play
Run the QR Code Reader app and point
your camera to the QR Code
Get access to the soft copy of our
reports and contact information
About
This Report
Read the full version of F&NHB Annual
Report 2021 and Sustainability Report 2021
here https://www.fn.com.my/investors/ar2021/
Indicates where more details can be
accessed elsewhere in this report
CROSS REFERENCES
REGULATIONS COMPLIED
• Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
• Companies Act 2016
• Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance
• International Integrated Reporting Framework
• Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (MFRS)
DIRECTORS’ APPROVAL
The Board acknowledges and approves its responsibility to
ensure the integrity of the Annual Report. In the Board’s opinion,
the report addresses all material issues and matters and fairly
presents the Group’s performance for the ﬁnancial year 2021.
ASSURANCE
• Internal controls and management assurance
• Compliance and internal audit reviews
• External audit by KPMG PLT on ﬁnancial information
• External audit by Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance on
selected Environment and Social disclosures
• Board approval assisted by the Board Committees
OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Shareholders and
Investors Communities
Employees Regulators
Distributors and
Trade Customers Suppliers
Consumers
W E C R E A T E V A L U E T H R O U G H 6 C A P I T A L S
Financial
Capital
Intellectual
Capital
Human
Capital
Manufactured
Capital
Social &
Relationship
Capital
Natural
Capital
* Material issues with 2025 targets
Economic
Governance & Ethics
Policy & Regulation
Economic Performance
Product Quality & Safety*
Product & Service Labelling
Innovation*
Supply Chain Stewardship*
Social
Nutrition*
Community Development & Inclusive Growth*
Human Capital Development*
Employee Safety, Health & Well-being*
Human Rights
Environment
Packaging*
Water Stewardship*
Climate Change*
Energy*
Waste Management
Biodiversity
OUR MATERIAL MATTERS
006 Facts at a Glance
008 Group Financial Highlights 2021
010 Our Awards & Recognitions
011 Corporate Structure
012 Our Global Presence
014 Our Product Categories
015 Our Winning Brands
016 Our Market Leading Positions
018 Our New Products
020 Our Value Chain
022 Key Milestones
01
Overview of F&N
024 Chairman’s Message
030 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
040 Supporting COVID-19 Recovery
02
Key Messages
042 Value Creation Business Model
03
Value Creation at F&N
04
A. Strategic Review
046 Market Review
048 Stakeholder Engagement
052 Material Matters
056 Key Risks and Mitigation
060 Strategic Performance Review
062 Key Performance Indicators
064 Strengthening our Halal Ecosystem
B. Business Review
068 Food & Beverages Thailand
076 Food & Beverages Malaysia
C. Financial Review
084 Five-Year Group Financial Summary
085 Five-Year Group Financial Highlights
086 Simpliﬁed Group Statement of
Financial Position
087 Group Segmental Analysis
088 Statement of Value Added
089 Group Quarterly Financial
Performance
090 Financial Calendar
092 Investor Relations
093 Share Price Movements
Management Discussion
& Analysis
Chairman’s
Message pg 24
To be held
virtually
Monday,
17 January 2022
10:00 a.m.
Annual
General
Meeting
60th
…… Our Vision | Our Mission
…… Our Values | About Us
002 About This Report
Inside
This Report
96 Corporate Information
97 Board Composition
98 Proﬁle of Board of Directors
110 Management Team
112 Proﬁle of Chief Executive Officer
112 Proﬁle of Key Senior Management
119 Organisation Structure
05
Leadership
122 Chairman’s Introduction to
Corporate Governance
123 Corporate Governance Overview
Statement
134 Nominating Committee Report
136 Audit Committee Report
139 Statement on Risk Management
and Internal Control
144 Statement on Directors’
Responsibility
145 Additional Compliance Information
06
Governance
Supporting COVID-19
Recovery pg 40
COVER RATIONALE
As a forward-looking organisation, we
are always preparing for challenges
and building for the future through
co n t i n u o u s i m p rove m e n t s a n d
investments. Having come through a
very challenging period brought on by
the COVID-19 pandemic, we are ready
to reimagine with passion our business
strategies to fuel further growth and
innovation.
Our journey forward will be driven by
our PASSION 2025 roadmap which will
set out our strategies, initiatives and
goals for our brands, our people as
well as new additions to our portfolio.
We will continue to focus on process
improvements and digitalisation, and
pursue opportunities as we evolve and
build a stronger, more sustainable
organisation.
The F&N brand is very much embedded
within the fabric of Malaysian lives and
we will continue to passionately serve
products that delight and resonate with
our consumers, now and in the future.
150 Sustainability Statement
07
Sustainability at F&N
248 Shareholdings Statistics
251 List of Properties
254 Corporate Directory
256 Notice of Annual General Meeting
260 Statement Accompanying Notice of
Annual General Meeting
261 Letter of Nomination
262 Administrative Details
• Proxy Form
09
Additional Information
160 Directors’ Report
166 Statements of Financial Position
167 Statements of Proﬁt or Loss
168 Statements of Other Comprehensive
Income
169 Statements of Changes in Equity
172 Statements of Cash Flows
175 Notes to the Financial Statements
243 Statement by Directors
243 Statutory Declaration
244 Independent Auditors’ Report
08
Financial Statements
REIMAGINE
WITH PASSION
Facts
at a Glance
22
brands
14
categories
in
Beverage
Shah Alam,
Kuching,
Kota Kinabalu Dairy
Pulau Indah,
Rojana,
Pak Chong
Mineral
Water
Bentong,
Matang Packaged
Food
Kepong
cutting-edge
plants
9
06
Extensive network
coverage with
Outlets in Malaysia,
Thailand, Cambodia
and Laos
>230,000
RM
4
annual
turnover
billion
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Overview of F&N
07
Food and
beverage
powerhouse
in the ASEAN region with
market-leading brands
Workforce
people
2,500
85
Export market
countries worldwide
Halal-certiﬁed
products
100%
Trusted by
generations
138years
RM4,130.9
REVENUE
MILLION
107.8
BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE
SEN
RM479.4
PROFIT BEFORE TAX (PBT)
MILLION
<1%
DEBT TO EQUITY RATIO
RM2,819.0
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
MILLION
RM9.76
MARKET CAPITALISATION
BILLION
AS AT 15 NOVEMBER 2021
RM7.69
NET ASSETS PER SHARE
14.0%
RETURN ON SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
RM816.8
SHARE CAPITAL
MILLION
60.0
DIVIDEND PER SHARE
SEN
11.6%
PBT ON REVENUE
RM395.1
PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
MILLION
EQUITY
08
Group
Financial Highlights 2021
REVENUE:
RM2,130.5
million
OPERATING
PROFIT:
RM97.7
million
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
REVENUE:
RM1,994.4
million
OPERATING
PROFIT:
RM369.4
million
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND
Segments
By Operating
Others
F&B Thailand
F&B Malaysia
52%
48% 21%
78%
1%
RM4,130.9
million
RM472.3
million
Revenue Operating Proﬁt
R
R
Segments
48%
RM4,130
million
Revenu
Overview of F&N
09
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Our Awards
& Recognitions
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD
Halal Food and Beverage Excellence Award
The World Halal Excellence Awards 2020
F&N DAIRIES (THAILAND) LIMITED
Thailand Best Halal Company of the Year 2020
Central Islamic Council of Thailand
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD
Silver Award for Best Sustainability Reporting
National Annual Corporate Report Awards (NACRA 2020)
100PLUS
Gold in the Non-Alcoholic Beverage category
(5th consecutive year)
Putra Brand Awards
F&N TEH TARIK
Silver Award for Excellence in Event Marketing (Virtual)
Marketing Excellence Awards 2020
F&N TEH TARIK
Gold Award in the Most Creative – Experiential category
Gold Award in the Most Effective Use – Audio category
Silver Award in the Most Creative – Audio category
MARKies Awards 2021
MARKETPLACE
AWARDS
F&N DAIRIES MANUFACTURING SDN BHD
(PULAU INDAH)
Exceptional Achievement Award
State Award (Selangor)
2019/20 Prime Minister’s Hibiscus Award
F&N BEVERAGES MANUFACTURING SDN BHD
(SHAH ALAM)
Notable Achievement Award
2019/20 Prime Minister’s Hibiscus Award
F&N BEVERAGES MANUFACTURING SDN BHD
(KUCHING)
Merit Award under the Medium Enterprise Category
(Manufacturing sector)
9th Sarawak Chief Minister’s Environmental Award 2019/2020
F&N DAIRIES (THAILAND) LIMITED
The Prime Minister’s Best Industry Award 2020
Ministry of Industry Thailand
ENVIRONMENT
AWARDS
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD
Top 5 Malaysia’s Most Attractive Graduate Employers to
Work For in 2021
– Fast Moving Consumer Goods category (FMCG)
Graduates’ Choice Award 2020 (GCA)
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD
Silver Award under the Excellence in HR Communication Strategy
HR Excellence Awards 2020 Malaysia
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD
Award for Best HR Strategy in line with Business
Award for Excellence in HR through Technology
Awards for Managing Health at Work
Organisation with Innovative HR Practices
Asia’s Best Employer Brands 2021
F&N DAIRIES (THAILAND) LIMITED
Health Promotion Enterprise Awards
Association for the Development of Environmental Quality
F&N DAIRIES (THAILAND) LIMITED
Thailand Labor Management Excellence Award 2020
Department of Labor Protection and Welfare,
Ministry of Labour Thailand
F&N DAIRIES (THAILAND) LIMITED
CSR-DIW Continuous Award 2020
Ministry of Industry Thailand
WORKPLACE
AWARDS
ESG INDICES
& Ratings
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD
A Proud Constituent of
FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index
FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Shariah Index
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD
86th Percentile in the Beverages Industry
S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment
(Score Date: November 12, 2021)
FRASER & NEAVE GROUP
No. 1 Asian Company
WWF’s Palm Oil Buyers Scorecard 2021
010
Corporate
Structure
as at 15 November 2021
100%
F&N Beverages Manufacturing Sdn Bhd
100%
Borneo Springs Sdn Bhd
100%
F&N Beverages Marketing Sdn Bhd
100%
F&N Dairies Manufacturing Sdn Bhd
100%
F&N Dairies Distribution (Singapore) Pte Ltd
100%
F&N Marketing (B) Sdn Bhd
100%
Fraser & Neave (Malaya) Sdn Bhd*
100%
Fraser and Neave MENA DWC-LLC
100%
Lion Share Management Limited
100%
F&N Dairies (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd
100%
Premier Milk (Malaya) Sdn Berhad
100%
Awana Citra Sdn Bhd
100%
Sri Nona Industries Sdn Bhd
100%
Sri Nona Food Industries Sdn Bhd
100%
Lee Shun Hing Sauce Industries
Sdn Bhd
100%
F&N Dairies (Thailand) Limited
100%
F&N Properties Sdn Bhd
100%
Greenclipper Corporation Sdn Bhd
100%
Nuvak Company Sdn Bhd
100%
Utas Mutiara Sdn Bhd
100%
Tropical League Sdn Bhd
70%
Lettricia Corporation Sdn Bhd
50%
Vacaron Company Sdn Bhd
100%
Fraser & Neave (Malaya) Sdn Bhd*
100%
F&N Capital Sdn Bhd
100%
Elsinburg Holdings Sdn Bhd
100%
F&N AgriValley Sdn Bhd
27.19%
Cocoaland Holdings Berhad
Property
Others
Malaysia Thailand
Food &
Beverages
Food &
Beverages
Note:
* Classiﬁed under Food & Beverages Malaysia and Others segments.
Overview of F&N
011
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Our
Global Presence
012
Canada
Europe
Middle
East
South
Asia
Central
Asia
Central
America
Africa
South
America
United
States
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Export
Highlights
85
Export market
countries worldwide
3New
export
countries in FY2021
Condensed and
Evaporated Milk
Products
Exported
Top
013
Overview of F&N
F&B
MALAYSIA
24%
F&B
THAILAND
19%
Contribution of Export Revenue to
Segment Revenue FY2021
22%
Group Revenue
INNOVATION
in packaging
format catering
to the different
needs of our
consumers
Our ﬁrst
subsidiary in
Dubai is fully
operational
East Asia
South
East
Asia
Oceania
Our
Product Categories
014
Isotonic
Liquid Milk
Soya
Carbonated Soft Drinks
Asian Drinks
Tea
Juice
Condensed & Evaporated Milk Water & Energy
Milk Tablets
Cordial Packaged Food
Our
Winning Brands
015
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Overview of F&N
Our Market
Leading Positions
…Isotonic
Segment of the
CSD category
… Tea Segment
of the Asian
Drinks category
… Sweetened
Condensed Milk
category
… Evaporated Milk
category
MALAYSIA
…Sweetened
Condensed Milk
category
…Evaporated
Milk category
THAILAND
ONE
NUMBER
^ F&N Dairies (Thailand) Limited ranked ﬁrst as a manufacturer
in both value share and volume share in total Condensed
Milk Market since 1 August 2016 to 30 September 2021. The
Nielsen retail index report covers Supermarkets, Hypermarkets,
Convenience Stores and Traditional Trades.
* Based on Retail Index Service for the 12 months ending July
2021 in Total Malaysia. (© 2021 Nielsen Consumer LLC.)
016
pure enjoyment,
pure goodness
Overview of F&N
017
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Our
New Products
1 F&N Sparkling
– Apple Barley*, Espresso*, Honey Lemon
2 est Cola Brown Sugar*
3 F&N ICE MOUNTAIN Mineral Water 6L*
4 F&N Bandung*
5 Sun Valley Cordial – Kurma & Madu, Mango
6 Gold Coin Juara Sweetened Creamer
Malaysia
1 TEAPOT SCM Stand-up Pouch 500g
2 TEAPOT SCM Duo Sachet 25g
3 TEAPOT SCM Squeezable Tube
– Strawberry Yogurt
4 F&N Magnolia Lactose-free Milk
170ml/180ml
5 BEAR BRAND Gold – Acerola Cherry
6 BEAR BRAND Sterilised Milk Can 150ml
7 F&N Magnolia Choc Malt
– Reformulated with 50% less sucrose
*Endorsed with Healthier Choice Logo
Thailand est Cola
Brown Sugar
F&N
Ice Mountain
Mineral
Water
6l
F&N Sparkling
F&N
Bandung
1
2
3
4
5
6
F&N ICE
MOUNTAIN
Mineral
Water 6L
g
Sun Valley
Cordial
– Kurma
& Madu,
Mango
Gold Coin Juara
Sweetened Creamer
018
1
2
3
5
4
6
7
TEAPOT SCM
Stand-up
Pouch 500g
TEAPOT SCM
Duo Sachet 25g
TEAPOT SCM
Squeezable Tube
Strawberry Yogurt
BEAR BRAND
Gold Acerola
Cherry
F&N Magnolia
Lactose-free Milk
170ml/180ml
BEAR BRAND
Sterilised Milk Can 150ml
F&N
Magnolia
Choc Malt
Overview of F&N
019
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
The preparation, production and packaging of our beverages and dairy products require a range of raw
materials, equipment, and other goods and services. During the past year, we engaged with over 2,700
global and local suppliers across our supply chain, including manufacturers, wholesalers, retailers,
importers/merchants, contractors and professional services providers. We spent a total of RM3.37 billion
on products and services provided by our suppliers.
SOURCING
We work closely with our suppliers
to ensure their goods and services
meet external quality,
environmental and social
standards, in addition to our
stringent internal standards. This
helps to ensure that our products
are safe and of high quality. To
ensure the sustainability of our
business, we have risk
management mechanisms in place
to manage issues associated with
the commodities upon which we
rely.
PRODUCTION
We have implemented a
standardised safe production
process, in accordance with
international standards, throughout
all of our operations. We strive for
eco-efficient processes, in which
we provide good value and
maximum beneﬁt without polluting
the environment and surrounding
communities. We strive to optimise
resource use and consider the
environmental and social impacts
of water consumption, waste,
effluents and emissions at all
production stages.
DISTRIBUTION
We have a fully integrated and
extensive distribution system and
network to ensure that our
products are efficiently
distributed to our consumers.
Our focus is to minimise the
environmental and social impacts
from transportation by managing
our energy use, while ensuring
the safety of our personnel and
local communities. We are also
continuously improving our
processes and implementing
digital technologies to increase
efficiency.
020
Our
Value Chain
MARKETING AND SALES
Responsible marketing and sales practices are
of great importance to F&NHB. We
demonstrate consumer and societal
responsibility by providing healthier product
options and informative product labels. We
also seek feedback from our customers on our
products to improve our marketing practices
and, most importantly, to create sustainable
value for consumers and for our business.
POST-CONSUMPTION
PACKAGING MANAGEMENT
We minimise the impact of post-consumer
waste through research and development
to deliver innovative and environmental-
friendly packaging. We are continuously
seeking out sustainable packaging that
also meets the needs of our consumers.
In addition to applying Circular Economy
principles throughout F&NHB, we promote
environmental awareness with
communities where we operate.
Overview of F&N
021
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
The Singapore and Straits Aerated
Water Company was founded by
our founding fathers, John Fraser
and David Chalmers Neave.
F&N celebrated its 100th
anniversary and introduced
the iconic 100PLUS brand
to the market, which soon
became the No. 1 Isotonic
Drink in Malaysia and
Singapore.
The Singapore and Straits Aerated
Water Company went public under
its present name, Fraser and Neave,
Limited on 27 January 1898.
Soft drinks plant relocated to
Shah Alam on 23 March 1996.
The Group’s glass, dairies and
soft drinks operation in
Malaysia were incorporated
under the umbrella of Fraser
& Neave Holdings Bhd.
F&N restructured its dairy
operations under F&N
Dairies (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd.
F&N’s property division started
construction on Fraser Business
Park in Sungai Besi, Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia.
By this year, F&N had branches
across the peninsula, including
Kuala Lumpur, Melaka,
Seremban, Ipoh and Penang.
The Kuala Lumpur
plant commenced its
operations.
The ﬁrst F&N soft drinks
plant in East Malaysia
was opened in Kuching.
1883
1983
1898
1996
1989
2004
1913
1962
1965
which soon
o. 1 Isotonic
sia and
022
Key
Milestones
F&N Dairies (Thailand)
Limited was established.
The official opening of
dairy manufacturing plant
in Rojana, Thailand.
The dairy manufacturing plant
in Petaling Jaya ceased
operations after 52 years.
The official launch of F&N Life,
our ﬂagship online store.
The commissioning of our ﬁrst
Solar Photovoltaic System at
dairy manufacturing plant in
Rojana, Thailand.
F&NHB acquired three F&B
companies – Sri Nona Food
Industries, Sri Nona Industries
and Lee Shun Hing Sauce for
up to RM60 million, to
establish Halal food as our
new pillar of growth.
The official opening of dairy
manufacturing plant in Pulau
Indah, Malaysia.
The official launch of ﬁrst-of-its-
kind UHT Line at beverage
manufacturing plant in Kuching,
Malaysia.
Celebrating 135th anniversary
of F&N. The official launch of
Cold-aseptic Filling PET line at
beverage manufacturing plant in
Shah Alam, Malaysia.
2009
2011
2012
2020
2021
2013
2017
2018
Overview of F&N
023
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Y.A.M. TENGKU SYARIF BENDAHARA PERLIS
SYED BADARUDIN JAMALULLAIL
IBNI ALMARHUM TUANKU SYED PUTRA
JAMALULLAIL
Chairman
024
Chairman's
Message
Dear Shareholders and Stakeholders,
As I write this message, in October 2021, the pandemic in Malaysia and Thailand
seems to be gradually abating. New infections and morbidity numbers are trending
down, and the Malaysian government has just opened up inter-state travel. In other
words, there are good reasons to be hopeful after more than a year-and-a-half of
economic as well as social restrictions.
For us at Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd (F&NHB), the ﬁnancial year that has just
ended (FY2021) was our ﬁrst full year of operations impacted by COVID-19. And, yet,
the Group has continued to deliver – not just financially but also in terms of
contributions to our key stakeholders and society at large.
Amidst a highly challenging operating landscape, we maintained market leadership
in our key categories. We remained steadfast in our long-term priorities and
launched a fourth business pillar – Halal Packaged Food – with the acquisition of
Sri Nona Companies. More importantly, we were able to ‘Reimagine’ the way we
operate to be more efficient while placing the well-being of our people and
community above all else. Continuing to live our Global Values of Caring for
Stakeholders, Collaboration and Creating Values, we have strengthened the Group
at a fundamental level such that, as soon as the economy picks up, we will be ready
to accelerate our growth once again.
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Key Messages
025
A key focus area has been to hasten the nation’s recovery from the
pandemic by supporting the Government’s efforts in vaccinating the
country. We encouraged our employees and those of our trade
partners to be vaccinated through our employees’ vaccination
programmes; and as of August 2021, we reached 90 per cent full
vaccination at the workplace. We also supported the government’s
vaccination programme via a #HidratkanDiriSihatkanBadan campaign,
which saw F&NHB distribute one million bottles of the nation’s
preferred isotonic beverage, 100PLUS, at major vaccination centres.
This was our way of promoting the immunisation programme while
ensuring people maintained optimal hydration throughout the critical
period.
Further nurturing our stakeholder ecosystem, we have been motivated
to show our gratitude for the tireless devotion of the country’s
frontliners and support communities that are most affected by the
pandemic. Since its outbreak in March 2020, we have distributed over
two million products to various beneﬁciaries nationwide. During the
month of Ramadhan this year, F&N products were distributed via our
‘Keberkatan Plus Plus’ programme to 20,000 beneﬁciaries, including
B40 families and 100 underprivileged homes. In Thailand, we took
care of our community of 20,000 hawkers by giving them F&N
products to help them tide over the year.
As a food and beverage (F&B) manufacturer, our consumers are our
raison d’etre – hence ensuring we live up to our brand promise of
‘Pure Enjoyment. Pure Goodness’ will always be a top priority. Along
with greater health-consciousness, we have been placing increasing
focus on healthier products. Among others, we have invested
signiﬁcantly into lowering the sugar content of our portfolio without
compromising on taste. This year, with the launch of F&N Sparkling,
F&N Bandung and est Cola Brown Sugar in Malaysia, as well as BEAR
BRAND GOLD Acerola Cherry and a 50 per cent lower-sugar, low-fat
F&N Magnolia Choc Malt Milk in Thailand, we now have no less than
69 products endorsed with the Healthier Choice logo.
Efforts to optimise our product portfolio are integral to maximising our
proﬁts, hence also shareholder value creation. And it pleases me to
share that, despite the tough operating environment, the thought that
went into our products, our route-to-market and marketing efforts all
combined to enable us to offer the same dividends that we did the
previous ﬁnancial year. In June, we paid out an interim single-tier
dividend of 27.0 sen per share, translating into RM99 million. At our
upcoming annual general meeting (AGM), the Board will be proposing
a ﬁnal dividend of 33.0 sen per share. In respect of ongoing SOPs,
this year’s AGM will be held virtually, as was the AGM for FY2020.
Finally, my account of value creation would not be complete without
also mentioning a programme close to my heart: The F&NHB
Chairman’s Award. This is presented annually to children of employees
who achieve outstanding academic and extra-curricular performance.
And it gives me great pleasure to share that, in 2021, we handed out
cash prizes totalling RM218,100 to 73 deserving children.
CREATING VALUE
I truly believe that ever y cloud has a silver lining. Although the pandemic severely
disrupted businesses everywhere, it also led to a great deal of introspection and the
realisation that corporations like F&NHB are part of wider ecosystems on which we are
dependent. Our sustainability rests on the sustainability of this ecosystem. Acknowledging
this, we have spent a great deal of time and resources during the year building the
resilience of our ecosystem by caring and creating value for the people within it.
And it pleases me to share that,
despite the tough operating
environment, the thought that went
into our products, our route-to-
market and marketing efforts all
combined to enable us to offer the
same dividends that we did the
previous financial year.
026
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
SUSTAINABILITY AT THE CORE
Given the massive changes and challenges brought about by COVID-19,
in FY2021, we re-assessed our material matters and refreshed our
materiality matrix. We also outlined a new set of sustainability targets
to be achieved by 2025.
Among these is the goal to achieve 100 per cent physical Roundtable
on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO)-certiﬁed palm oil by 2025. This is an
ambitious target, but one that we are conﬁdent of meeting given the
progress made on this front. Having reached a key milestone in 2020
of purchasing RSPO credits for 100 per cent of our palm oil requirement,
we have begun our transition with 20 per cent uptake of physical
RSPO certiﬁed palm oil and 80 per cent in credits this year.
F&N Group also scored the highest among 12 Asian companies
included in the WWF Palm Oil Buyers Scorecard (POSB) 2021 and
ranked 46 out of 142 global respondents. This is something we can
justiﬁably be proud of and will continue to work on over the next few
years.
Our materiality matrix now includes four new material matters, among
which is Human Rights. Although there is minimal risk of human rights
violation in our Malaysian and Thai operations, we recognise that such
risks may exist within our extended supply chain. We have conducted
a human rights risk assessment to obtain greater clarity on the totality
of our risks across our value chain, following which we have developed
a Human Rights Policy and a due diligence manual.
Another global issue on which we are placing greater emphasis is
waste management, and specifically that of plastic. Towards this
end, we are a founding member of the Malaysia Recycling Alliance
(MAREA), comprising companies in the fast-moving consumer
goods (FMCG) industry, which seeks to find sustainable solutions
to the management of post-consumption packaging. F&NHB is
also further strengthening our environment, social and governance
(ESG) understanding and performance by joining the CEO Action
Network (CAN), an informal coalition of CEOs and Board members
focused on sustainability advocacy, capacity building, and
performance.
Finally, we are cognisant of the need to nurture greater gender
diversity in decision-making positions. Towards this end, we made
a positive step forward by welcoming another female member to
our Board this financial year. At the management level, women
already make up 45 per cent of the total, far exceeding the 30%
baseline.
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Key Messages
027
AWARDS
Enhanced focus on creating ESG value saw F&NHB emerge as a top quintile company
in our very ﬁrst S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA), hitting 86th
percentile and ranking among the top 10 companies in the beverages industry*. We were
also included in the FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index 2021 for the third year in a row,
and made it into the newly-introduced FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Syariah Index. The
latter reﬂects investments made into ensuring all our products are halal, and that our
value chain is Syariah-compliant.
Efforts to decrease our carbon footprint and enhance our waste management have led
to several environmental awards. F&N Dairies Thailand received the prestigious Prime
Minister’s Best Industry Award 2020, while in Malaysia, the Group was recognised with
three awards at the Prime Minister’s Hibiscus Award 2019/2020. The Pulau Indah Plant
won an Exceptional Achievement Award and the State Award for Selangor, while our
plant in Shah Alam won a Notable Achievement Award. Meanwhile, our plant in Kuching
won a Merit in the Medium Enterprise Category at the Sarawak Chief Minister’s
Environment Award 2019/2020.
It was also very heartening to be recognised for the quality of our sustainability reporting
when our Sustainability Report 2019 won Silver at the National Annual Corporate Report
Awards (NACRA) 2020. Efforts to connect more with our employees during the pandemic
have not gone unnoticed, as F&NHB received the Silver Award under the Excellence in
HR Communication Strategy in HR Excellence Awards 2020 Malaysia.
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
Our performance overall in FY2021 is indicative of organisational resilience that has
been built over many years, which is the result of the contributions of various stakeholders.
I want to take this opportunity to thank everyone concerned – from our customers,
consumers, business partners and shareholders, to our employees and Directors – for
your invaluable support.
This year, we bid farewell to Dato’ Sri Johan Tazrin Bin Hamid Ngo who is leaving after
the Annual General Meeting. On behalf of the Board, I would like to record our
appreciation for his services and contribution as an Independent Non-Executive Director
for the past nine years. We wish him the best in his future undertakings.
At the same time, we welcome Dato’ Ng Wan Peng, who joined our Board on 30 July
2021. Serving as an Alternate Director to Dato’ Sri Johan Tazrin Bin Hamid Ngo, Dato’
Ng brings with her vast experience in IT and digitalisation, which will be very relevant
as F&NHB navigates the Industrial Revolution 4.0.
To the entire F&NHB family, I would like to express my sincere gratitude for your hard
work and commitment to the Group at a time when your support was most needed. Our
ability to get through perhaps the most demanding year boils down to your tenacity and
resilience. As mentioned earlier, the signs are there of a better tomorrow. We can
therefore expect many fresh opportunities to come our way. Let us work together to
make the most of these as we continue to delight our consumers and add value to all
our other stakeholders.
Y.A.M. Tengku Syarif Bendahara Perlis
Syed Badarudin Jamalullail
Ibni Almarhum Tuanku Syed Putra Jamalullail
Chairman
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
million
RM479.4
-8.3%
BASIC EARNINGS
PER SHARE
sen
107.8
-3.7%
DIVIDEND
FOR THE YEAR
per share
60sen
*2021 S&P Global Corporate Sustainability Assessment (Score date: Nov 12, 2021)
028
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Key Messages
029
Chief Executive
Ofﬁcer’s
Statement
Dear Shareholders and Stakeholders,
The year 2021 has been exceedingly difficult, with the prolonged pandemic situation and geopolitical
tensions. All that, plus rising oil prices, saw the industry contending with a signiﬁcantly higher cost of
production with surges in commodity prices, particularly sugar, palm oil and milk-based commodities,
and exacerbated by an increase in supply chain costs.
Movement restrictions that escalated into total lockdown during the year also meant reduced workforce
at our plants. Couple that with supply chain disruptions, exports were constrained. Consumer demand
was also adversely affected by dining-in prohibition at food and beverage outlets and restricted
operating hours for convenience stores.
Our focus within this scenario has been to ensure business continuity. We took immediate steps to
intensify safety and preventive measures to safeguard our people, adjust our sales & marketing
initiatives according to the new operating landscape and meet the shift in consumer consumption
behaviour, as well as ensure continued supply and availability of our products with our trade partners.
Key to our longevity has been our capacity for constant self-adaptation and evolving through more
than a century of change, fuelled by the passion and commitment of our people. This same spirit
navigated us to deliver another resilient performance for the ﬁnancial year ended 30 September 2021
(FY2021).
Guided by our Global Values of Creating Values, Collaboration and Caring for Our Stakeholders, we
have entrenched our business sustainability by ensuring we remain relevant to the people that matter.
So, while it was a tough year, it was also rewarding; and it gives me pleasure to describe our initiatives
in more detail in the following pages.
030
LIM YEW HOE
Chief Executive Officer
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Key Messages
031
CREATING VALUES: FOR US
& OUR STAKEHOLDERS
We have always taken pride in being innovative in marketing, which to
us is about connecting in an authentic manner with our customers and
consumers. In Thailand, we have established strong ties with hawkers
by supporting them with collaterals and decorations that are both
functional and attractive, thus also increasing our brand visibility. We
maintain close contact with these hawkers via a Line app which, to
date, has attracted close to 20,000 members.
For consumers, our focus has shifted from advertising to increasing
brand loyalty through value-add promotions. We are also engaging
more meaningfully with consumers on social media. For example, in
Malaysia, we presented 100PLUS-sponsored virtual workouts to help
our consumers stay active during the MCO. Almost all our product
launches this ﬁnancial year were also carried out on social media,
accompanied by value-add promotions or activities.
REIMAGINING THE WAY WE WORK
BUILDING OUR FOURTH PILLAR OF GROWTH
MEETING OUR CUSTOMERS AND CONSUMER NEEDS
At the onset of the pandemic in 2020, the Group was conscious that
COVID-19 disruptions would permanently change our market
environment. This has compelled us to reset and ‘reimagine’ our
business strategies in preparation for the future.
We undertook several ‘Reimagine’ projects geared towards building
new capabilities and revenue streams; uplifting our productivity and
proﬁt; while improving our cost-efficiency. Values to be extracted from
these projects would be instrumental in delivering sales and cost
savings in future. At the same time, we reorganised our structure to
be aligned with the business needs and opportunities presented by
COVID-19 and digital technology. This step-change will deliver a more
efficient, agile and focused organisation and set a foundation of
sustainable growth for the business.
The turmoil caused by the pandemic underlined the urgency of
collective action to address increasingly critical global issues. The
Group has always sought to be environmentally and socially
responsible. This year, we refreshed our materiality matrix to better
reﬂect current global imperatives. We have also set new sustainability
commitments for 2025 and entered new partnerships to further
strengthen our environmental, social and governance (ESG) platforms.
Amidst COVID-19 disruptions, we have remained steadfast in pursuing
our long-term strategic priorities. With the acquisition of Sri Nona
Companies in January 2021, we have diversiﬁed into food and become
leaders in the ketupat and halal oyster sauce categories. Our latest
investment not only adds an established Malaysian household food
brand to the Group’s portfolio but will also serve as a platform to
expand into more halal food segments and to meet the rising demand
for convenience and ready-to-eat food products.
We are excited about the potential of building Halal Packaged Food
into another growth pillar like Exports, which now generates almost
RM900 million in revenue for the Group. With our robust R&D
capabilities, we are conﬁdent that our new assets will help us grow
our halal food categories, complement our offerings, introduce more
innovative products, and increase our proﬁt margin in the long run.
Sri Nona contributed positively in FY2021, and we believe there is
much more potential to be realised. Leveraging partnerships within the
Group, we seek to expand Sri Nona’s route-to-market coverage and
create supply chain synergies. In fact, since October this year, we
have started to distribute Sri Nona products via F&N Beverages
Marketing channels in areas not covered by existing distribution. We
are also looking into our production capacity to support the expansion
of Sri Nona’s product range.
We are excited about the
potential of building Halal
Packaged Food into another
growth pillar like Exports,
which now generates almost
RM900 million in revenue for
the Group
032
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
To address weak consumer sentiment and tightened purse strings, we
launched value buys such as smaller-sized packs and value-priced
items while creating a presence in the economy segment In Cambodia
and Laos with Gold Coin sweetened beverage creamer. On packaging,
this year saw us introduce F&N ICE MOUNTAIN Mineral Water in 6L
bottles for consumption at home in Malaysia; and TEAPOT 500g
pouch catering to foodservice channel, TEAPOT 25g duo sachets, and
mini packs of F&N Magnolia lactose-free milk for those on the go in
Thailand.
Partnering with major e-commerce players such as Lazada and
Shopee, our products are now accessible practically anywhere in the
region. Meanwhile, we continue to expand our offerings and explore
different order fulﬁlment options in our ﬂagship online store, F&N Life
in Malaysia, and nom aroi in Thailand.
COLLABORATION TO UNLOCK VALUE:
INTERNALLY & WITH OUR PARTNERS
UNLOCKING VALUE THROUGH PARTNERSHIPS
Part of our value creation efforts is to seek collaboration that drives
greater outcomes. Through collaboration, we strengthen our
relationships and safeguard our supply chain while further enhancing
the commercial and operational aspects of our business.
The success of F&N Teh Tarik’s virtual launch last year is a testament
that the team is connecting effectively with consumers through its
online activations. Not only was the experiential marketing campaign
recognised as the most creative and innovative at the MARKies
awards 2021, within a year of its launch, F&N Teh Tarik, together with
our other tea brands made F&N No. 1 in the Tea segment within the
Asian Drinks category in Malaysia.
A portfolio that resonates with consumers underpins our sustainable
growth. Altogether 13 new products were introduced this year,
including F&N Sparkling, F&N Bandung CSD and est Cola Brown
Sugar in Malaysia; as well as BEAR BRAND GOLD Acerola Cherry and
a 50 per cent lower-sugar, low-fat F&N Magnolia Choc Malt Milk in
Thailand. We also offer new products that cater to a growing range of
dietary preferences, such as F&N Magnolia Lactose-free Milk and
100PLUS Zero.
In Thailand, we have been working with several dairy farmers’
cooperatives since 2013 to improve their productivity and milk quality.
This year, we contributed a Grass/ Corn Silage Bundling machine and
a Tiller Fertiliser machine to Thepsathit Dairy Cooperative in
Chaiyaphum Province. This initiative reduces cow feed costs by
reusing cow waste as fertiliser for corn and corn silage fermentation.
At the same time, the team developed a new method of milk
transportation to simplify running routes, minimise our environmental
impact and monitor raw milk data in real-time. This will help the
farmers reduce more than 200,000kg of CO
2
emissions per year.
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Key Messages
033
Another outcome from a strategic collaboration with our supplier is the setting up of a plant in Selangor by leading aluminium can manufacturer,
Baosteel Group, from China. The plant will not only ensure a stable supply of cans at a lower cost for the Group but will enhance the supply
chain for the industry as a whole. Additionally, we are linking our polyethylene terephthalate (PET) bottle supplier with a resin manufacturer to
manufacture recyclable PET. This will greatly support the government’s plastic waste management initiatives.
Within our organisation, we are facilitating greater integration by bringing our team together under one roof. Employees currently based at several
offices in Kuala Lumpur are expected to relocate to the Shah Alam office in mid-2022. With everyone working in the same place, we hope to
enhance productivity and outcomes through enhanced internal communication and collaboration.
Operationally, we have accelerated our digital journey and intensiﬁed the adoption of more systems driven by the latest technology under a
Workplace 4.0 transformation. The idea is to evolve into a smart hybrid workplace where we achieve more with less; greater productivity at lower
cost. This applies to our entire value chain, from procurement to manufacturing, marketing, sales and support functions.
As a leading manufacturer of halal products, F&NHB has a role in facilitating
the Halal Industry Development in Malaysia apart from maintaining halal
integrity throughout the supply chain. Through the Halal Sourcing
Partnership Programme, we partner with the Halal Development Corporation
Berhad (HDC) in capacity-building programmes designed to help small and
medium enterprises (SMEs) qualify as halal vendors for multi-nationals. This
year, we successfully onboarded two companies as our suppliers and are
in the midst of developing more.
To further enhance the management of post-consumer consumption waste,
we have teamed up with other industry leaders to establish the Malaysian
Recycling Alliance (MAREA). The aim is to develop solutions for the
sustainable management of post-consumer packaging waste through a
multi-stakeholder approach. We are also a member of the CEO Action
Network (CAN), an informal peer-to-peer coalition of CEOs and leaders in
Malaysia. Through CAN, we hope to drive progress in ESG through
collective commitment and knowledge exchange with similar-minded
organisations in the country.
INDUSTRY COLLABORATION IN UPLIFTING SUSTAINABILITY
To ensure that the
well-being of Malaysians are
protected during this critical
period, we further
encouraged the public to
stay hydrated by distributing
more than one million bottles
of 100PLUS at major
vaccination centres
034
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
CARING FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS
We ﬁrmly believe that economic value extraction should not be at the
expense of society. This underlines our investments into ESG, which
we do not approach as being separate from our operations but
integral to it.
Underlining our commitment to contributing towards a better society,
this year, we conducted our inaugural Human Rights Due Diligence
process to understand potential human rights issues faced by
stakeholder groups across our value chain. This resulted in the
development of relevant policies and procedures which will help us
ensure the rights of all our stakeholders are respected.
People’s health and well-being are taken seriously at F&NHB, given
that ‘we are what we eat/ drink’. This has seen us continuously reduce
the sugar content of our beverages while enhancing their health
beneﬁts by incorporating nutritional ingredients. We have achieved a
signiﬁcant reduction, cutting the sugar content in our total beverages
by 61 per cent since 2004. More than 90 per cent of our ready-to-
drink products sold today have less than 5g sugar per 100ml.
This year, we directed our brand communications on promoting an
active lifestyle and optimal hydration. To ensure that the well-being of
Malaysians are protected during this critical period, we further
encouraged the public to stay hydrated by distributing more than one
million bottles of 100PLUS at major vaccination centres such as Putra
World Trade Centre (PWTC), Malaysia International Trade and Exhibition
Centre (MITEC) and PPV Bukit Jalil via the #HidratkanDiriSihatkanBadan
campaign.
Responding to communities’ needs, the Group distributed over two
million products to various beneficiaries nationwide in FY2021,
including food banks and non-governmental organisations (NGOs).
During Ramadan, F&N products and daily essentials were distributed
to 20,000 beneficiaries nationwide, including 100 underprivileged
homes through the ‘Keberkatan Plus Plus’ programme. In Thailand, we
took care of our community of 20,000 hawkers by giving them various
F&N products for encouragement during this difficult period. Meanwhile,
we worked closely with government agencies to expedite the
vaccination programme for our people and supply chain community
through our employees’ vaccination programme. Our employees also
receive three days of additional paid leave to attend to their vaccination.
A BETTER SOCIETY
We care for the environment because it has a direct impact on
society’s well-being. All our capital expenditure projects have their
environmental objectives apart from achieving operational and cost
efficiencies. In April 2020, we commissioned the 1MWp solar panelled
roof of our plant in Rojana. Meanwhile, we are installing perhaps one
of the biggest rooftop solar photovoltaic (PV) systems in Malaysia at
our Shah Alam, Pulau Indah and Bentong plants, with a total capacity
of 10MWp. Once completed in 2022, we will replace 20 per cent of
our electricity needs with clean energy in Malaysia. In fact, solar
power generated in Shah Alam will be sufficient for our entire 100PLUS
direct line production, while that in Pulau Indah will be able to account
for all our pasteurised products.
Given the nature of our business, waste management is another key
sustainability area for us. Over the years, we have been reducing the
volume of materials used in packaging. Today, we have committed to
having 100 per cent recyclable packaging and 25 per cent recycled
content in our beverage and dairy product packaging by 2025.
Since the F&N school recycling programme’s inception in 2007, 756
schools nationwide have been involved and a total of 4,760 tonnes of
recyclable waste has been saved from going into landfills. The
programme this year was very much scaled-down due to school
closures. With the gradual reopening of schools, we aim to expand the
programme to more schools and extend 5R awareness to the
community once the situation permits.
CIRCULARITY & ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Key Messages
035
PERFORMANCE REVIEW
Contributions from diversiﬁed products and geographical presence
were key to the Group’s resilient performance for the year, while
prudent cost management partially mitigated higher input costs.
Strong brand performance, especially in Dairies, together with double-
digit growth in Exports and maiden contribution from our new Halal
Packaged Food pillar, enabled us to produce a commendable ﬁnancial
scorecard. Group revenue grew by 3.6 per cent from RM3.99 billion in
FY2020 to RM4.13 billion despite the tough environment.
However, increasing costs attributed to commodity and freight,
restructuring and COVID-related expenses, and a lower share of proﬁt
from an associate – were reﬂected in our bottom line. Excluding one-
off/non-operating items in both years, including RM20.9 million
restructuring expenses this year and RM7.8 million gain on the
disposal of “TEAPOT” brand last year, Group proﬁt before tax declined
by 3.9 per cent to RM479.4 million. Meanwhile, Group net profit
declined 3.7 per cent from RM410.1 million in FY2020 to RM395.1 million,
partially mitigated by investment tax incentives at F&B Thailand and
deferred tax assets recognised for F&B Malaysia.
Concerted efforts to create value for our customers and consumers
contributed to F&NHB maintaining our market leadership in core
categories. 100PLUS remains the undisputed No. 1 Isotonic drink in
Malaysia. We are also leaders in the Tea segment of the Asian Drinks
category, Sweetened Condensed Milk and Evaporated Milk categories;
while in Thailand, we have captured the Sweetened and Evaporated
Milk categories; and in Cambodia and Laos, TEAPOT is the No. 1
Condensed Milk brand.
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
Higher sales captured in the ﬁrst nine months of the ﬁnancial year by
Food & Beverages Malaysia (F&B Malaysia) helped cushion the dip in
the fourth quarter due to the nationwide lockdown in July/August
2021.
Aided by higher exports, sustained demand in the Dairies segment
and contribution from Food business, F&B Malaysia grew its revenue
by 4.4 per cent to RM2.13 billion from RM2.04 billion in 2020. However,
operating proﬁt declined to RM97.7 million from RM144.9 million in
FY2020 due to higher input costs and restructuring expenses.
Cognisant of the economic constraints on households spending, there
was also a delay and phasing of price increase for dairy products in
Malaysia. Excluding restructuring expenses and one-off/non-operating
items in both years, operating proﬁt for F&B Malaysia declined by 15.0
per cent.
036
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
While Thailand also experienced a rise in COVID-19 infections and lockdown measures, consumer demand remained fairly resilient. Food &
Beverages Thailand (F&B Thailand) was able to sustain growth and increased its share in all core segments despite the overall market decline.
This was achieved through effective loyalty and promotion programmes and continuous efforts to expand distribution coverage. However, the
result was partly negated by unfavourable THB/MYR forex translation.
Supported by higher sales to Indochina with double-digit growth in Cambodia and higher OEM exports, F&B Thailand grew its revenue for the
year by 2.6 per cent (5.6 per cent increase in Thai Baht terms) to RM1.99 billion. However, operating proﬁt was ﬂat in Thai Baht terms due to
higher commodity costs and royalty expenses. In Ringgit terms, operating proﬁt declined 3.0 per cent to RM369.4 million from RM381.0 million
in FY2020 due to the strengthening of the Ringgit against the Thai Baht.
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND
EXPORTS
The Export business (from both Malaysia and Thailand) continued to
grow and contributed RM896 million to Group revenue this year,
fuelled by significant progress and expansion in ASEAN, Greater
China, the Middle East, and Africa. This was through efforts to expand
usage of our products via new applications in food service and
industrial channels, as well as closer collaborations with key OEM
customers to develop new products for sale in more regions.
Exports accounted for 22 per cent of the Group’s total revenue in
FY2021 and expanded its reach to 85 countries. Our focus on halal
markets continues to be fruitful as revenue from halal markets grew
about 40 per cent.
Indochina market (managed by F&B Thailand) also performed strongly,
with Cambodia and Laos collectively contributing over RM250 million
in revenue, driven by successful expansion of distribution and reach.
* Financial performance of Exports are included in F&B Malaysia and F&B Thailand
segment results.
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Key Messages
037
OUTLOOK & GOING FORWARD
As we enter FY2022, the number of daily COVID-19 cases has been
declining at an encouraging pace in both Malaysia and Thailand.
Movement restrictions are gradually easing, and there are positive
signs that the economies in both countries will pick up.
Nevertheless, the Group remains cautious given ongoing market
challenges and global uncertainties. We do not expect the market to
return to pre-pandemic conditions anytime soon and foresee that
commodity prices will remain inﬂated moving forward.
At the same time, we are prepared to ride on the encouraging return
of economic activities in Malaysia and Thailand to drive sales,
particularly for our beverages, ready-to-drink dairy business, and out-
of-home channels. We will continue to offer products that meet
consumers’ evolving needs and refine our pricing to cushion our
businesses against cost pressures. These actions, coupled with the
restructuring exercise just completed in the last ﬁnancial year, will put
us in good stead against imminent risks while keeping us on track to
drive future growth.
Exports will continue to be a key focus for both Malaysia and Thailand.
Having achieved strong growth in a full year of pandemic, we look
forward to even better performance in FY2022 when the global
landscape stabilises. We will not shy away from investing in capability
to tap into new opportunities, be it for our own branded exports or
those of key OEM customers.
With Sri Nona in our portfolio, we have good leverage to further grow
our Halal Packaged Food pillar and will be exploring various options
– organic or otherwise – towards this end. We have a RM3 billion
sukuk programme at our disposal that we can draw down when the
right opportunity presents itself. We are also investing to become a
halal thought leader, and the HDC Halal Excellence Award that we
won in FY2021 indicates that we are already making a mark in this
direction.
In 2022, the Group targets to achieve further operational and cost
efficiencies, and carbon footprint reduction with the completion of
several capex investment projects, such as the integrated warehouse
in Shah Alam, drinking water line in Kota Kinabalu, Regional Distribution
Center in Rojana, and the installation of 10MWp Solar PV systems in
Malaysia.
Our new sustainability framework towards Better Business, Better
Society and Better Planet, and commitments for 2025, will accelerate
our Economic, Social and Environmental progress to build a stronger
future for the Group, and create long-term value for our stakeholders.
As Malaysia enters the recovery phase of the pandemic, a key priority
is to assist our trade partners to recover as quickly as possible to
beneﬁt from the easing of economic activities. At the same time, we
continue to keep our people safe with proactive preventive measures
and support vulnerable groups within our community as they gradually
regain their livelihoods.
While gearing up for economic recovery, we will remain focused on
implementing our mid to longer-term strategic initiatives that will
enable us to respond to challenges and opportunities with conﬁdence
and conviction. We especially look forward to rolling out Reimagine
2.0 initiatives, which build on our PASSION 2025 roadmap, focusing
on three domains:
• Building new capabilities to enhance our business through better
products and route-to-market, as well as by partnering with
stakeholders to grow sustainably;
• Strengthening our leadership in core markets via increased focus
on our supply chain, process innovation and digitalisation, as well
as portfolio management;
• Unlocking our potential to enhance shareholder value through
strategic partnerships, improving the value of our assets, and
developing a world-class workforce.
While gearing up for
economic recovery, we will
remain focused on
implementing our mid to
longer-term strategic
initiatives that will enable us
to respond to challenges
and opportunities with
confidence and conviction
038
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
FY2021 was undoubtedly difficult in many
aspects, yet we have emerged in some ways
even stronger than before thanks to the
contributions of all our stakeholders. As always,
I would like to thank our customers and
consumers for continuing to choose F&N as
their preferred choice. I would also like to
express my appreciation to our business
partners for their cooperation and collaboration,
and our shareholders for their faith in our ability
to deliver.
On behalf of the management, I would like to
express my gratitude to our Chairman and
Directors for guiding us through a period of
great turmoil and providing a sense of stability
with their steady counsel. Most of all, Terima
Kasih, Thank You and Khob Khun Krab to all our
employees for their hard work and commitment,
which have been invaluable, not just in FY2021
but throughout the years. Let us continue to
Reimagine our company growing from strength
to strength, and realise this vision with Passion.
Together, we can achieve a better tomorrow for
everyone.
Lim Yew Hoe
Chief Executive Officer
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Key Messages
039
Since the COVID-19 outbreak a year and a half ago, the world still grapples
with the pandemic’s damaging effects on people and businesses. F&NHB
remains cautious of local and global uncertainties as the COVID-19 pandemic
situation has yet to stabilise. Despite this uncertainty, we remain committed to
pursuing sustainable and inclusive growth with our people, business partners
and the community.
Our ability to weather the challenges and navigate safely through the
uncertainty is the result of initiatives to ensure resiliency of our business and
stakeholders. Safeguarding the health and wellbeing of our people remains
pivotal, while ensuring continued availability and accessibility of our products
in the market. F&NHB will continue to closely monitor the situation and local
regulatory guidelines in our key markets to ensure timely and appropriate
mitigation measures.
Looking forward, we are confident that our long-term strategies are well
placed to manage the risk of the current landscape, while keeping us on track
for a stronger future.
040
Supporting
COVID-19 Recovery
COVID-19 RESPONSE & LEARNINGS
Business Continuity to Deliver
Shareholder Value
During 2021, F&NHB had strived to
maintain a resilient economic performance
in the face of external shocks. We worked
to maximise output despite a reduced
workforce and production hours during
the lockdown period.
Stakeholder engagement was critical for
F&NHB to address key challenges and
ensure business continuity. For example,
F&NHB maintained ongoing dialogues
with regulators, suppliers, and trade
partners to ensure operations across our
supply chain and its workforce was
compliant with regulations which avoided
unnecessary delays and disruptions.
Our Transition to the Future of Work
We will continue to suppor t our
employees as they adjust to working
remotely. F&NHB has increased our
adoption of digital tools and technologies
to replace physical meetings and reduce
business travel. Through our internal
mobile application, our employees are
kept up to date on internal company
news and relevant COVID-19 advisory
guidelines. The platform also allows our
employees quick access to relevant
resources.
F&NHB encourages our employees to
reskill and upskill with our mandatory
e-training and development courses,
enhancing their remote work capabilities.
Supporting Vulnerable Groups &
Frontline Workers
F&NHB has extended support towards
the nation’s frontline workers and
vulnerable communities’ since the
beginning of the pandemic.
To date, over 2 million products have
been distributed directly or through
charitable organisations and community
groups to beneﬁciaries nationwide. F&N
products, including 100PLUS, the nation’s
number one isotonic drink, have been
distributed to both frontline workers and
vaccine recipients. We thank and
commend the frontline heroes who have
been working around the clock to serve
their nations and those most affected by
the pandemic most affected by the
pandemic. We will continue to provide
support for as long as it’s needed.
Partnering with Suppliers to Ensure
Supply Chain Resilience & Avoid
Interruption
Through our supplier partnerships, F&N
was able to fortify our supply chain to
build resiliency and ensure minimal
disruption. The regular engagements
F&N had with our suppliers helped
ensure healthy inventory levels to outlast
the unforeseen circumstances caused by
COVID-19.
During the MCO in Malaysia, we worked
with raw and packaging material suppliers
to ensure maximum output while having
to operate under reduced production
hours and workforce as stipulated by the
authorities.
Reinforcing our Commitment to
Healthy Products & Lifestyles
We continued to introduce more healthier
products, responding to consumer
demands, even during the challenging
times of COVID-19.
F&N implemented wider activities to
encourage a healthy lifestyle during
lockdown such as sharing healthy
cooking tips and recipes using social
media platforms, and conducted virtual
fitness challenges and live workout
sessions with sports enthusiasts for
consumers to participate in. Through the
100PLUS #HidratkanDiriSihatkanBadan
campaign, the Group raised public
awareness on the impor tance of
maintaining optimal hydration levels
during the vaccination period.
Protecting the Health & Wellbeing of
Our People
We continue to enhance our safety
measures, including regular COVID-19
testing at our plants to alleviate infection
risks and ensure minimal impact to
operations. Maintaining the highest levels
of hygiene with regular cleaning and
sanitising is still a top priority at all our
premises.
Despite limitations and difficulties due to
COVID-19, F&NHB has not compromised
our on-going safety training. In 2021, we
continued to conduct annual health and
safety training sessions virtually on work
hazards and provide credible information
on COVID-related risks.
It is vital to protect our employees at all
work levels. As a primary food and
beverage (F&B) producer, we have been
working closely with various government
agencies to expedite the vaccination
process for our people and supply chain
community. As of September 2021, 98%
of F&NHB’s employees in Malaysia and
Thailand have received at least one dose
of the vaccine and 92% are fully
vaccinated. F&NHB also extended the
employee vaccination programme to our
contractors, suppliers and associated
companies.
vaccin
commend the frontlin
been working around the clock to serv
their nations and those most affected by
the pandemic most affected by the
pandemic. We will continue to provide
support for as long as it’s needed.
To manage the changing external landscape, F&NHB aims to adapt our business through the key highlights outlined below.
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Key Messages
041
INPUTS
Resources We Use
OUR BUSINESS
How We Create Value
• Responsible Business Practice
• Responsible Supply Chain
• Empower Our People
• Value Chain Impacts
• Responsible Product Stewardship
• Create Value for Society
• Operational Eco-efficiency
CORE AREAS OF SUSTAINABILITY
HOW WE CONDUCT BUSINESS
MISSION
To be ASEAN’s leading owner and
provider of quality and innovative products
that consumers choose and trust.
VISION
To be a stable and sustainable
Food & Beverage leader in the
ASEAN region.
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE
• Value Chain Impacts
• Eating in and Grabbing Out
• Always Online
• Holistic Well-being
• Growth in Halal Market
• Better Products
• Greater Efficiency
• Strong Relationships with
Key Stakeholders
Food &
Beverages
Malaysia
Food &
Beverages
Thailand
Property
& Others
OUR
BUSINESSES
Sourcing - Produ
ction - Distribution -
M
a
rketing & Sales -
- Post-c
onsumption Packaging Mana
gement
OUR
VALUE CHAIN
Read more in our Annual
Report 2021 from pages
20 to 21.
Read more in our Annual Report and Sustainability Report 2021.
KEY RISK CATEGORIES Financial/Economic Strategic
Creating Shared Value – Understanding societal needs and stakeholder expectations
– Communicating through stakeholder engagement
3 STRATEGIC DOMAINS
UNLOCK
Unleash potentials of
the Group to create
maximum value
STRENGTHEN
Strengthening the core
businesses for market
leadership positions
As at 30 September 2021
GLOBAL VALUES
Supported by Strong Governance & Effective Board Leadership
Collaboration
Creating
Values
Caring for
Stakeholders
BUILD
Create new capabilities
and business
opportunities
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
• RM816.8 million in share capital
• RM2,819.0 million in shareholder’s equity
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
• 9 production plants
• 33 offices in Malaysia, Thailand,
Brunei and UAE
• RM3.63 billion worth of assets
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
• Equity from 22 well-loved brands
• New product formulations and recipes
• Innovative process and technology
• Strategic partnerships
ThaiBev, Fraser and Neave, Limited, Nestle,
Sunkist
HUMAN CAPITAL*
• 2,496 employees
• 31% of employees are female
• 45% of female representation in managerial
positions
* Including Sri Nona’s workforce
NATURAL CAPITAL
• > 1.0 billion MJ energy consumed
• > 5.0 million MJ solar energy generated
• > 2.5 million m3 withdrawn
• Sourced raw materials that are sustainable
SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
• Engaged with > 2,700 local and global
suppliers across our supply chain
• > 227,000 outlets in Malaysia, Thailand, Laos
& Cambodia
• 40,000 hawkers in Thailand, Laos &
Cambodia
042
Value Creation
Business Model
HUMAN CAPITAL
• Paid RM289.7 million in total employee remuneration & beneﬁts
• Employed 236 new employees
• Provided training and development to employees
• Executives : 28.8 average hours
• Non-executives : 10.9 average hours
• Awarded RM218,100 to 73 children of employees under
F&N Chairman’s Award
• Recorded 0 employee work-related lost time injury, fatality and ill health
OUTPUT
Value Created
CREATING VALUES
FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
• Revenue : RM4,130.9 million
• Proﬁt before Tax : RM479.4 million
• Proﬁt for the Year : RM395.1 million
• Dividend per Share : 60.0 sen
• Total Dividend Payout : RM220.1 million
• Tax Contributed : RM84.3 million
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
• Introduced various innovative solutions for our customers
in 85 countries nationwide
• Launched 13 new products
• 69 products endorsed with Healthier Choice Logo
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
• Capital investment of RM800 million over past ﬁve years
• Renewable energy programme
• Integrated warehouse & regional distribution centre
SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
• Social investment of > RM2.5 million
• > 2 million products distributed to support community
& frontliners during COVID-19 pandemic
• Distributed > 1 million products to vaccine recipients at
major vaccination centres
NATURAL CAPITAL
• Energy Intensity (MJ/MT) : 911.00
• GHG Emissions Intensity (MTCO2e
/MT) : 0.0683
• Water Intensity (MJ/MT) : 2.29
• Solid Waste Recycling Rate : > 90%
• % of Recyclable Packaging : 97%
• % of Recycled Content in Packaging : 22%
Reputational Operational
Governance & Ethics
Creating Shared Value – Understanding societal needs and stakeholder expectations
– Communicating through stakeholder engagement
Value Creation at F&N
043
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
A. Strategic Review
• Market Review
• Stakeholder Engagement
• Material Matters
• Key Risks and Mitigation
• Strategic Performance Review
• Key Performance Indicators
• Strengthening our Halal Ecosystem
B. Business Review
• Food & Beverages Thailand
• Food & Beverages Malaysia
C. Financial Review
• Five-Year Group Financial Summary
• Five-Year Group Financial Highlights
• Simpliﬁed Group Statements of Financial Position
• Group Segmental Analysis
• Statement of Value Added
• Group Quarterly Financial Performance
• Financial Calendar
• Investor Relations
• Share Price Movements
Management
Discussion
& Analysis
Market
Review
FY2021 has been signiﬁcantly more challenging
than FY2020 for our Malaysian, Thai and Export
operations for three main reasons: Covid-19, the
increase in price of commodities, as well as that
of freight charges.
In both Malaysia and Thailand, after a period
during which Covid-19 cases seemed to be
coming under control, the numbers started
increasing again from the beginning of 2021
and then again from the middle of the year. Each
wave of the pandemic led to supply chain
disruptions, reduced production, and softened
consumer demand, the overall effect being to
dampen the economy.
Although gross development product (GDP) for
Malaysia and Thailand improved in 2021
compared to 2020 – with predicted growth
coming in at between three per cent and four
per cent in Malaysia, and one per cent in
Thailand1 – this is from a very low base in 2020,
when GDP shrunk 5.6 per cent and 6.1 per cent
in both countries, respectively. Overall, the
economies of Malaysia and Thailand have yet
to reach pre-pandemic levels.
The price of commodities, meanwhile,
increased for several reasons, including
reduced output. Reduced stockpiles of crude
palm oil in the world’s two largest producers –
Indonesia and Malaysia – led to a price rally
starting in 2020, which hit a high of RM4,572
per tonne in May 20212. The price of raw sugar
increased more than 60 per cent as of
September 2021 from end of 2020. This can be
distilled to reduced production in Brazil, the
world’s largest exporter of sugar, which was hit
by both severe drought and frost.3 Meanwhile,
as China’s economy recovers, the country has
been increasing its imports of milk, pushing up
the price of the commodity in the international
market.
As for shipping, limited capacity has been
pushing up the cost of freight since the last
quarter of 2020, the increase further
accelerating from the beginning of 2021.4
1 According to the World Bank, https://www.reuters.com/
world/asia-paciﬁc/world-bank-cuts-thai-gdp-growth-outlook-
1-this-year-2021-09-28/
2 According to the CPOC, https://www.cpopc.org/wp-content/
uploads/2021/07/2021_PALM-OIL-SUPPLY-AND-DEMAND-
OUTLOOK-REPORT-WITH-REFINITIV-1.pdf
3 https://www.wsj.com/articles/sugar-prices-soar-after-
brazilian-cold-snap-11630659234
4 According to THINK Economic and Financial Analysis,
https://think.ing.com/articles/the-rise-and-rise-of-global-
shipping-costs
Consumers’ expectations of companies have
evolved signiﬁcantly over the years. Whilst,
initially, consumers were focused on products
and the lifestyles they stood for; today, they
are more swayed by how the products were
made, and the values of the producing
companies. Consumers today actively seek
brands that play their part in making the world
cleaner, healthier, more resilient and
equitable. One of the discernible outcomes of
the global pandemic has been a greater sense
of solidarity with others – people are not only
concerned about their own well-being, but
they also want to know the society and the
planet are being cared for.
Although social restrictions are relaxing
globally, many are still wary of going out,
especially to crowded places, including
restaurants. People are cooking and eating
more at home. This has seen increased
spending on groceries and food for home
consumption. For everyday needs, people
seek convenience in food preparation, while
for those special meals, they are prepared to
splurge on more expensive ingredients. At the
same time, as people start returning to work,
demand for convenient foods and beverages
that can be consumed on-the-go will increase.
Key Trends
Our Response
• We source for raw materials that are
certiﬁed with eco-credentials, including
Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil
(RSPO), VIVE, BONSUCRO and Forest
Stewardship Council (FSC) to ensure that
they are produced in an environmentally
and socially responsible manner.
• We have increased the use of recycled
material in our packaging to 22% and aim
for all our beverage and dairy packaging
material to be 100% recyclable. To further
promote recycling and post-consumption
waste management, we are a pioneering
member of the Malaysian Recycling
Alliance, an industry coalition taking the
lead in Extended Producer Responsibility
(EPR) in Malaysia.
• This year, we have conducted a human
rights risk assessment to uphold the
human rights of all stakeholder groups
across our value chain.
• Sri Nona Companies which dominate the
ready-to-cook ketupat market, and is No.
2 in the oyster sauce segment, provide us
with a strong base to supply halal
packaged food for home consumption
and meet the rising demand for
convenience and ready-to-eat food
products. We are looking into expanding
our product range and production
capacity to support this segment.
• In line with the fact that people are
cooking more, we focused our marketing
efforts on in-home consumption, and
especially our dairy products as these
have multiple applications in food
preparation.
• For consumption on-the-go, we
introduced TEAPOT 25g duo sachets; and
mini packs of F&N Magnolia lactose-free
milk.
VALUE CHAIN IMPACTS EATING IN & GRABBING OUT
046
S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
One of the most discernible changes brought
about by Covid-19 has been a surge in online
shopping. Although this is a global
phenomenon, market observers have
identiﬁed Asia-Paciﬁc as the region that will
see the greatest growth in online purchases.
According to Forrester, e-commerce in the
region will grow from USD1.5 trillion in 2019 to
USD2.5 trillion in 2024, at a compound annual
growth rate (CAGR) of 11.3 per cent. Of
particular note, the fastest growing
purchasing category will be groceries, which
is expected to see a CAGR of 30 per cent.5
Other than shopping, people are also looking
at online platforms for information,
entertainment and to connect with others who
are like-minded.
5 https://www.forrester.com/press-newsroom/online-
retail-will-reach-us2-5-trillion-in-asia-paciﬁc-by-2024/
In recent years, there has been mounting
evidence that the food and drinks we
consume have an effect not only on our
physical health but also our mental and
emotional well-being. With the pandemic, and
an increase in psychological stress, demand
for food that is calming while being nutritious
has been on the rise. At the same time, for
ethical and health reasons, more people are
converting to a plant-based diet. While they
seek products that will enhance their well-
being, consumers are also wary of false
promises and seek science-based evidence
to support claims made by F&B brands.
The halal market has been growing steadily
over the last few years, with the food and
beverage segment widely acknowledged as
being one of the fastest-growing consumer
markets globally. According to Research and
Markets, from 2015 to 2020, global halal F&B
grew by USD412.33 billion, and that it will
continue to expand at a CAGR of seven per
cent up to the year 2026.6 The research
organisation further notes that, as Asia Paciﬁc
has the highest Muslim population in the
world, this region contributes to almost 90 per
cent of the total halal market share.
6 https://www.prnewswire.com/news-releases/global-
halal-food--beverage-market-report-2021-market-grew-
by-over-400-billion-during-2015-2020---market-
analysis--forecasts-2015-2026-301348307.html
• We continue to expand our offerings and
explore different order fulﬁlment options
in our ﬂagship online store, F&N Life in
Malaysia, and nom aroi in Thailand. This
ﬁnancial year, we have added an e-order
platform for customers, making it easier
for them to replenish their stocks.
• We have leveraged digital tools and social
media to enhance our consumer/
customer engagement. For example, in
Malaysia, we partnered with eWallet
platforms like Touch ‘n Go and Boost to
offer value-add promotions and presented
100PLUS-sponsored virtual workouts to
help our consumers stay active during the
MCO.
• In Thailand, we continue to build hawkers’
loyalty using our LINE app, which has
attracted close to 200,000 members.
Meanwhile, our internal ‘Fraserian
Connect’ app has become the key
communication platform with our
employees.
• Focus on reducing the sugar content of all
our beverages since FY2004 has resulted
in a 61 per cent reduction in our sugar
index from then up to FY2021. This year,
we increased the portfolio of products
that carry the Healthier Choice (HC) logo
in Malaysia and Thailand to 69.
• We further affirmed our commitment to
promoting healthy lives and lifestyles with
F&N Group’s Nutrition Guidelines, based
on the World Health Organisation’s
recommendations. With that, we commit
to having all our products free from trans-
fatty acids, and >70% of our products
should contain less than 5% added sugar.
• We also cater to consumer preferences
that have become more diverse through
alternative options such as F&N Magnolia
Lactose-free Milk and 100PLUS Zero.
• This ﬁnancial year, we expanded into halal
packaged foods with the acquisition of Sri
Nona Companies. We are keen to grow
this new business pillar further both
organically and with further investments.
• All our products are halal-certiﬁed. Our
strict Halal standards and robust
assurance system have enabled Shah
Alam and Pulau Indah plant to be awarded
the Whitelist status by JAKIM, in which
Halal applications and approval are fast-
tracked.
• Efforts to promote halal F&B led to F&NHB
winning the Halal Food and Beverage
Excellence Award at the World Halal
Conference 2020 organised by HDC,
while FNDT was named Thailand Best
Halal Company of the Year 2020 by the
Central Islamic Council of Thailand.
F&NHB is also one of the 54 constituents
in the newly introduced FTSE4Good
Bursa Malaysia Shariah (F4GBMS) Index.
ALWAYS ONLINE HOLISTIC WELL-BEING GROWTH IN HALAL MARKET
Management Discussion
& Analysis
047
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT &
VALUE CREATION
We engage with our stakeholders in
various ways, through which they can
voice their opinions and take part in
conversations. Stakeholder engagement
is a critical part of our planning and
strategy for sustainable value creation.
048
S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
Stakeholder
Engagement
People
Who Matters
Most
Shareholders
& Investors
Employees
Distributors
& Trade
Customers
Consumers
Communities
Regulators
Suppliers
Management Discussion
& Analysis
049
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
F&N’s stakeholders include any individual or group who is impacted by or interested in our activities. We strive to build and maintain strong
relationships, based on trust and respect, with all stakeholders. We engage with our stakeholders in various ways, through which they can voice
their opinions and take part in conversations. Stakeholder engagement is a critical part of our planning and strategy for sustainable value
creation.
We identify stakeholder groups with which to engage through consideration of individuals or groups which may have an interest in our business,
and/ or have inﬂuence over the functioning of our business. We tailor our engagement approach depending on the stakeholder groups level of
interest and inﬂuence. A summary of our engagement approach for different stakeholder groups is below.
F&N ENGAGEMENTS WITH STAKEHOLDERS
Engagement Channels and Frequency
of Engagements
Key Concerns How F&N Creates Value
for this Stakeholder
Shareholders &
Investors
• Annual General Meetings (AGMs)
• Regular face-to-face meetings &
conference calls
• Office/plant visits, as and when
required
• Investor days/brieﬁng
• Transparent & accurate disclosure
• Return on investment
• Sustainable ﬁnancial & operational
performance
• Managing our resources
effectively to maximise proﬁts
• Maintaining a strong balance
sheet
Relevant chapters: Governance &
Ethics, Economic Performance
Employees • Biennial employee engagement survey
• Annual CEO town hall/roadshow
• Annual dinner
• Festive gatherings
• Sports tournaments
• F&N Chairman’s Award
• iConnect (intranet), F&N BITES (news
update), monthly email news highlights,
digital TV, Fraserians Connect (mobile
app)
• F&N Voice WhatsApp channel
• Dialogues with unions
• Compensation & beneﬁts
• Competency development
• Senior leadership
• Learning & development
• Rewards & recognition
• Safety at work
• COVID-19 related safety
precautions and employee
wellness
• Career advancement and ability
to reach individual potential
• Boosting earning potential of
employees with training and
development
• Strict hygiene practices and
sanitary environment in the
workplace
Relevant chapters: Human Capital
Development, Employee Safety,
Health & Well-being, Human
Rights
Distributors
& Trade
Customers
• Annual customer meetings
• Annual factory visits
• Annual business planning
• Regular business development
activities
• Joint supply chain meetings
• Quarterly business reviews
• Customer appreciation events
• Latest consumer & shopper trends
• Product innovation
• Customer relationship
management
• Shopper loyalty programmes
• Improving customer service level
• Business practices & ethics
• Efficient delivery systems
• COVID-19 related payment
challenges
• Partnering with retailers on
shared opportunities
• Source of income and job
creation at our distributors
• Supporting the livelihood of
SMEs in Thailand, Laos and
Cambodia
• Case-to-case ﬂexible payment
method
Relevant chapters: Innovation,
Nutrition, Product Quality & Safety,
Product & Service Labelling
Consumers • Marketing & sales promotions
• Brand communication through
advertising
• On-going social media interactions
• On-ground events & activities
• Dedicated consumer hotline
• Product quality & safety
• Consumer health & safety
• Fair & reasonable product pricing
• Social & community engagement
• Environmentally-friendly packaging
• Launching innovative products
• Fulﬁlling consumers’ demand for
safe and quality products
• Providing accessible products
through an extensive
distribution network coverage
Relevant chapters: Innovation,
Nutrition, Product Quality & Safety,
Product & Service Labelling
050
S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Engagement Channels and Frequency
of Engagements
Key Concerns How F&N Creates Value
for this Stakeholder
Communities • Collaborations & partnerships
• Meetings
• Outreach programmes
• Meetings/dialogues with community
representatives
• Leadership programmes
• Sponsorships for more than 10
communities
• Social & environmental
responsibility
• Job opportunities for locals
• Promotion of good health &
quality of life
• Skill development in sports &
leadership
• Stimulating local economies
• Social investment in community
projects
• Nurturing local sports champion
• Advocating active lifestyles via
sports events and activities
• Supporting beneﬁciaries from
vulnerable communities
• Supporting frontliners, vaccine
recipients and community
during the COVID-19 pandemic
Relevant chapters: Community
Development & Inclusive Growth,
Human Rights
Regulators • Active collaborations, e.g. Federation
of Malaysian Manufacturers
• Meetings with government agencies
and statutory bodies
• Collaboration & partnerships with local
councils
• Good governance
• Fair labour practices
• Safety at work
• Compliance with laws &
regulations
• Water & waste management
• Environmentally friendly labelling &
packaging
• Greenhouse gas emissions (GHG)
• Recycling awareness
• COVID-19 standard operating
procedures
• Compliance with regulation to
mitigate against systemic risks
• Adhering to sustainable
practices to protect our
stakeholders
• Active industry collaboration
and knowledge exchange
• Adhering to COVID-19
guidelines and social distancing
measures
Relevant chapters: Policy &
Regulation
Suppliers • Supplier meetings
• Annual audits
• Tender Management System
• Annual supplier assessment review and
audit
• Fair & robust procurement system
• Support of local businesses
• Social & environmental
responsibility
• Ethics – anti-bribery & corruption
• Working with local suppliers
• Partnering with suppliers on
shared opportunities
Relevant chapters: Supply Chain
Stewardship, Biodiversity
Management Discussion
& Analysis
051
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
During 2020, F&N Group conducted a robust materiality assessment and stakeholder engagement to
evaluate our most important sustainability issues. This assessment was based on three steps: Identiﬁcation,
Prioritisation and Validation.
These are the key changes we made this year compared to our previous report:
• Separation of ‘Consumer Health & Safety’ into ‘Nutrition’ and ‘Product Health & Safety’
• Merged two issues – ‘Creating Value for Society’ and ‘Market Presence’ into ‘Community Development & Inclusive Growth’
• Addition of four new issues: Human Rights, Supply Chain Stewardship, Governance & Ethics, Policy & Regulation
We identiﬁed 18 material issues for F&N. Our most signiﬁcant material issues ‘Packaging’ and ‘Nutrition’ continue to be priority issues for
customers and consumers – reﬂecting two areas where our business can make signiﬁcant impacts. Material issues that are closely interconnected
are our highest priority material issues. For example, innovation and supply chain stewardship underpin our progress relating to nutrition,
packaging and water stewardship.
We will continue to review our material issues annually.
• Finally, we conducted a materiality
workshop with department heads, the
C-suite and board directors to review
and validate the prioritisation of
material sustainability issues. The
workshop involved an in-depth
discussion of each identiﬁed
sustainability issue, including the
possibility of impacts to our business
and stakeholders.
• We ﬁrst conducted a trends and peer
analysis to identify possible
sustainability issues for our business,
including noting changes since our last
assessment.
• Through a survey of peer best
practices, desktop research into
sustainability trends, and a review of
global initiatives and frameworks, we
arrived at a list of 50 sustainability
issues
• To prioritise our sustainability issues, we
engaged internal and external stakeholders.
• 954 employees were surveyed from across
our business.
• Interviews with 17 key external stakeholders
including suppliers, customers, thought-
leaders and regulators.
• Workshops with over 50 participants of
senior leaders, department heads and
subject matter experts in Malaysia and
Singapore.
• Based on the stakeholder inputs, we
reﬁned our list of issues to prioritised
issues from ‘moderate’ to ‘high’.
STEP 1: Identiﬁcation STEP 2: Prioritisation STEP 3: Validation
F&N MATERIALITY MATRIX
Supply Chain Stewardship
3.00
2.00
1.00
0.00 1.00 2.00 3.00
Degree of stakeholder concern
Impact on F&N
Packaging
Innovation
Nutrition
Water
Stewardship
Product & Service Labelling
Product Quality
& Safety
Climate Change
Waste Management
Biodiversity
Community Development
and Inclusive Growth
Human Rights
Governance
& Ethics
Policy & Regulation
Economic Performance
Human Capital Development
Energy
Employee Safety,
Health and Well-being
y
052
S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
Material
Matters
Material Issues of F&N
Opportunities for F&N
if issue is addressed
Potential Risks for F&N
if issue is not addressed
Governance & Ethics
Business policies and practices to
ensure ethical, transparent and
responsible governance.
• Upholding F&N’s reputation as a
responsible business maintains trust
amongst all stakeholders
• A reputational risk is failing to put in
place transparent and sound governance
Policy & Regulation
Regulatory compliance across our
operations and engaging with
policy-makers in a responsible and
transparent manner.
• Engaging with regulators allows F&N to
prepare for emerging legislation and
ensure compliance
• Risk of lack of preparation to comply
with emerging regulations
• Reputational risk is failing to put in
place transparent and sound policies
Economic Performance
Financial performance to deliver
shareholder value and secure
long-term viability of the company.
• Sustainable financial performance
creates long-term value for all
stakeholders
• Hinder F&N’s business continuity
Product Quality & Safety
Delivering products to consumers
which meet the highest quality and
safety standards.
• Deliver F&N’s brand promise to
consumers through product excellence
• Retain and increase market share
through product range expansion and
portfolio diversity
• Reputational risk and customer claims
arising from a break in the supply chain
or compromised packaging outside the
factory
• Regulatory changes that may affect
product recipe and/or packaging
Product & Service Labelling
Labelling our products and services
in a responsible and transparent
way for consumers.
• Meet regulatory requirements
• Meet consumer expectations relating to
product and ingredient communication
• Failure to meet stakeholder expectations
on transparency of product information
Innovation
Building competitive advantage
through innovative products and
solutions to meet consumer and
societal needs.
• Meet customer and consumer demands
and stay relevant
• Adoption of emerging and disruptive
technologies increases competitive
edge
• High investment cost in R&D and
equipment with uncertain commercial
returns
• Balancing between risk of non-
acceptance by consumers and risk of
being overtaken by competitors
Supply Chain Stewardship
Procurement policies, contractor
management and supplier
relationships which address material
issues across the value chain.
• Elevate vendors’ productivity and
performance in sustainability practices
and compliance with food safety
standards.
• Cost savings with stronger collaboration
• Establish robust policies and systems to
ensure competitive pricing and
safeguard vendors from corruption and
malpractice
• Many ESG risks are present in F&N’s
supply chain (e.g. human rights, product
quality); unethical practice leads to
regulatory violations, monetary fines
and reputational risk
• Disruption to operations
• Price fluctuation as a result of global
economic performance and foreign
exchange exposure
MATERIAL ISSUES & IMPORTANCE
Better Business
Opportunities for F&N
if issue is addressed
Potential Risks for F&N
if issue is not addressed
Management Discussion
& Analysis
053
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Material Issues of F&N
Opportunities for F&N
if issue is addressed
Potential Risks for F&N
if issue is not addressed
Nutrition
Helping consumers’ lead healthy
lives by developing nutritious and
accessible products.
• Innovation opportunity to meet customer
and consumer demands
• Transforming product portfolio towards
healthier options that contribute to
consumers’ well-being
• Regulatory risks (e.g. sugar tax) from the
markets we operate in; focusing on
Nutrition helps mitigate this
Community Development & Inclusive
Growth
Supporting economic development
and creating positive social impact
for communities connected to our
business activities.
• Investing in communities supports
n a t i o n a l s o c i a l a n d e c o n o m i c
development and ensures F&N grows
alongside society
• Working with communities strengthens
our relationships, our credibility and
presence
• Lack of community programmes and
initiatives impacts our reputation as a
corporate citizen and affects employee
morale
• Failure to balance social, economic and
environmental needs will bring ﬁnancial
implications
Human Rights
Upholding strong human rights
practices in our operations and
supply chain.
• Proactively identify and address human
rights risks in F&N’s operations and
supply chain ensures a safe workforce
• Reduce inequalities (e.g. gender
inequality)
• Improve productivity and resource
efficiency
• Human rights violations in operations
and supply chain lead to regulatory risks,
monetary ﬁnes and reputational risk
• Disruption to operations
• Demotivated and unproductive workforce
Human Capital Development
Attracting, developing, and retaining
high-performing employees, creating
an inclusive and diverse culture.
• Skilled and diverse employees allow
F&N to deliver our business strategy and
remain competitive
• Ef fective training and upskilling
programmes contribute to a high-
performance culture
• Provide job opportunities for the local
community where we operate
• Challenge to attract and retain talent
• Adapting to the rapid skill set requirement
changes of the evolving market
Employee Safety, Health &
Well-being
Improving and maintaining the
health, safety and well-being of our
employees.
• A healthy and safe workforce increases
productivity of F&N‘s operations
• Improvements in talent acquisition and
retention
• Positive employer branding
• Injuries, occupational diseases, lost days
and fatalities may result in productivity
loss, business continuity and the
company’s license to operate
• Financial and reputational risks
Opportunities for F&N
if issue is addressed
Potential Risks for F&N
if issue is not addressed
Better Society
054
S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
MATERIAL MATTERS
Material Issues of F&N
Opportunities for F&N
if issue is addressed
Potential Risks for F&N
if issue is not addressed
Energy
Minimising GHG emissions and
energy use in our operations, in line
with global climate goals.
• Reducing energy use and emissions
allows F&N to reduce costs
• Pre-empt future regulation (e.g. carbon
tax)
• Align with targets of governments and
customers
• Public pressure resulting in reputational
risks
• Rise in operational costs with stricter
regulations and energy sourcing
changes
Climate Change
Adapting our business model to
ensure resiliency to climate-related
risks.
• Meet growing expectations of investors
and regulators to assess climate-related
risks and opportunities, e.g. supply
chain disruption, market shifts or
extreme weather events
• Extreme weather events due to climate
change expose our asset s and
operations to costly damages
• Fa i l u r e t o m e e t s t a ke h o l d e r s’
expectations in managing climate
change pose reputational risks
Water Stewardship
Protecting and preserving shared
water resources.
• Efficient water management presents
cost saving opportunities for the F&N
• Enhance water security for suppliers,
increasing supply chain resilience
• Water insecurity will have a direct
impact on the F&N operations and
business as water is a key material
resource
• Regulatory risks around water as an
important national resource
Waste Management
Minimising waste and safely
disposing of hazardous materials.
• Reducing and reusing waste supports
operational efficiency, which leads to
cost savings
• Inculcate sustainable practices and
values in employees and communities
through the 3Rs: Reduce, Reuse and
Recycle
• Fa i l u r e t o m e e t s t a ke h o l d e r s’
expectations in managing our waste
impact pose reputational risks
Packaging
Developing sustainable packaging
solutions to reduce the impact of
packaging on the environment.
• Meeting customer and consumer
demands for sustainably packaged
products uplifts reputation
• Improve packaging resource efficiency
• Reduce reliance on virgin materials, and
saving costs
• Fa i l u r e t o m e e t s t a ke h o l d e r s’
expectations in managing the packaging
pose reputational risks
• Risk of competitors taking the lead and
capturing market shares
Biodiversity
Sourcing raw materials responsibly,
protecting biodiversity and
eliminating deforestation from our
supply chain.
• Mitigate reputational risks of negative
environmental practices, particularly in
our supply chain
• The move away from exploitative
processes creates a sustainable
business operation
• Fa i l u r e t o m e e t s t a ke h o l d e r s’
expectations in protecting the natural
environment and biodiversity
Opportunities for F&N
if issue is addressed
Better Planet
Potential Risks for F&N
if issue is not addressed
Management Discussion
& Analysis
055
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
MATERIAL ISSUES KEY RISKS
Economic
Social
Environment
Financial/economic
Strategic
Governance & Ethics
Reputational
Operational
Product Quality & Safety
Product & Service Labelling Other Financial Risks
Signiﬁcant Increase in Commodity Prices
Supply Chain Stewardship
Strategic Risk Involving New Business Investment
Governance & Ethics Inability to Anticipate/Respond Timely to
Changing Consumer Needs
Economic Performance
Risk from Disruptive Digital
Technology & Innovation
Policy & Regulation
Corruption, Fraud, Pilferage &
Ethical Risks
Innovation
Non-compliance with Laws, Rules,
Regulations & Standards
Nutrition
Managing Stakeholders,
Expectations & Perceptions
Human Rights
Environmental Damage
Community Development &
Inclusive Growth
Political/International Instability &
Geopolitical Risk
Employee Safety, Health & Well-being
Product Quality & Standards
Infectious Disease
Human Capital Development
Health, Safety & Security
Packaging
Cyber Threats & Data Security Risk
Waste Management
Water Stewardship
Talent Management & Succession Planning
Energy
Supply Chain Risks
Climate Change
Biodiversity
SNAPSHOT OF THE ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT PROCESS FLOW
Continuous risk assessment at
fundamental and Operations
level through its self-assessment
scorecard
Key risks, mitigating actions or
controls carried out and residual
rating are highlighted to the
Sustainability and Risk Management
Committee quarterly
Risk Identiﬁcation & Assessment
Four core response strategies:
• Accept • Avoid • Reduce • Transfer
Risk Treatment
Risk Reporting
056
S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
Key Risks
and Mitigation
ADDRESSING OUR RISKS & OPPORTUNITIES
Commodities and material prices are inﬂuenced
by the global & local supply and demand,
weather conditions as well as regulatory changes
imposed by the government. As such, any
signiﬁcant increase in prices of commodities and
materials could materially affect the cost and
proﬁtability of our products.
RISK
Link to material issues:
• Commodities and materials price risk is managed through forward purchase of key
commodities, active monitoring of commodities price trends, and vigilant sales
forecasting and production planning.
• In addition, we also source from multiple suppliers and origin of commodities/
materials as listed in our approved vendors list to enable us to respond ably in
the event of shortage in supply and/or increase in price.
• We also hedge our purchases using our enlarged and collective purchasing
capability.
MITIGATION ACTIONS
Signiﬁcant Increase in Commodity Prices (Emerging Risk)
1
In times of foreign currency market volatility, the
Group is exposed to the risk of ﬂuctuations in
foreign exchange rates against the local
currency due to:
• Importation of materials for production;
• Exports of goods are traded in foreign
currency; and
• Overseas operations are valued in foreign
currencies.
RISK
Link to material issues:
• The Group is guided by the Group Treasury Policy which outlines the policy in
hedging the identiﬁed and committed foreign exchange exposure.
• Typically, at least 60 per cent of our forex requirements are hedged to manage
ﬂuctuating prices of commodities as well as forex movements.
• Exports serve as additional natural hedge to cushion the impact of depreciating
local currencies.
MITIGATION ACTIONS
Exposure to Fluctuations in Exchange Rates
2
As a player in the food & beverage industry, the
Group is exposed to the risks associated with
product quality and standards as product safety
and quality are of paramount importance to the
Group.
The exposure in product quality and standards
may bring serious ramifications in terms of
ﬁnancial impact as well as reputational impact.
RISK
Link to material issues:
• Quality assurance cycle begins with suppliers’ pre-qualiﬁcation and approval,
source or origin of raw materials, manufacturing facilities and procedures, up to
the distribution and storage of our products.
• Comprehensive policies and procedures established on processing, packaging
and storage, equipment and plant sanitisation as well as employee personal
hygiene to prevent contamination.
• Compliance with stringent quality systems in place such as ISO22000, Food
Safety System Certiﬁcation 22000 and HACCP Certiﬁcation by Ministry of Health.
• Contingency plans on product traceability and product recall/ withdrawal should
such circumstances arise.
MITIGATION ACTIONS
Product Quality and Standards
3
Management Discussion
& Analysis
057
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Consumers are becoming more informed on
nutritional facts of their diet and adoption of
active/healthy lifestyles. This risk relates to the
Group’s ability to stay competitive and relevant
to consumer needs by building competitive
advantage through innovation.
Should we fail to address the shift in the
consumer trends nimbly and effectively, it may
result in ﬁnancial as well as reputational impact
in the longer term.
RISK
Link to material issues:
• Prioritise Research & Development initiatives on developing new products and
further improve our product offerings to meet consumers’ demand for healthier
choices such as low-sugar, non-sugar added and mid-calorie beverages, without
compromising on taste.
• Continuous improvement on the offerings of healthier choice products in our
innovation roadmap with target to offer a healthy option in every product category
that we are in.
• Introduce new pack size as part of our portion control commitment.
• Promote sports and active lifestyles through programs that target schools and
communities.
MITIGATION ACTIONS
Ability to Anticipate/Respond Timely to Changing Consumer Needs (Emerging Risk)
4
The Group is exposed to risks associated with
anticipated or unanticipated disruption to the
supply chain and normal operations of the Group
which could be due to internal or external factors
such as extreme weather events, infectious
diseases, etc.
RISK
Link to material issues:
• Group Business Continuity Management Framework (BCMF) has been established
which sets out the policies and procedures in relation to response, recovery and
restoration of business in the event of a crisis or disaster.
• Business Continuity Plans (BCP) are in place and being tested in accordance with
the BCMF.
• Regular engagement with internal and external stakeholders to ensure resilience
in the supply of materials amidst supply chain disruptions.
• Maintain healthy cashﬂow positions during crisis.
• Ensure compliance with SOPs issued by government.
MITIGATION ACTIONS
Supply Chain Risks
5
Amid the evolving technology-reliant business
environment, the Group is exposed to cyber
security threats from cyber criminals which may
compromise data integrity and even leakage of
conﬁdential and sensitive information which is
valuable to the Group.
RISK
Link to material issues:
• The Group has developed Cybersecurity Framework to provide guidance to
businesses on managing cyber security risks.
• Regular trainings via e-Learning platform and constant updates related to cyber
threats are provided to all employees to maintain awareness level.
• Implementation of Data Leakage Protection solutions to mitigate cyber threats and
data security risks.
MITIGATION ACTIONS
Cyber Threats and Data Security Risks
6
058
S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
KEY RISKS AND MITIGATION
Managing and balancing stakeholders’
expectations/perceptions in relation to
environmental, social and governance (ESG)
aspects such as human rights, Halal assurance,
community development and inclusive growth
have always been challenging as ESG topics
have rapidly climbing on the ranking of top
concerns amongst many leaders, investors, and
other stakeholders.
RISK
Link to material issues:
• Proactive stakeholder engagements including shareholders & investors, customers,
suppliers, regulators, communities, and employees.
• Full commitment from our Board of Directors in implementing our strategic
initiatives as well as sustainability priorities.
• Policies and procedures are established, supported by dedicated resources to
implement the framework, and uphold the various compliance standards, including
Halal Governance and Assurance Framework.
• Stringent compliance with various compliance standards along our entire value
chain, from sourcing of raw materials to delivery of products.
• Close monitoring of news published in the media and response procedures are in
place to address circumstances should it occur.
MITIGATION ACTIONS
Managing Stakeholders’ Expectations and Perceptions
7
The Group could be exposed to governance and
ethics-related risks such as fraud and corruption
practices involving employees and/or external
stakeholders which eventually may result in
ﬁnancial losses and reputational repercussions.
RISK
Link to material issues:
• Top-level commitments from the Board and Senior Management on zero-tolerance
towards unethical practices.
• Awareness training programme for employees designed to enhance awareness in
protecting the interest of the Group.
• Whistleblowing channel is available for internal employees as well as the public
to escalate concerns or report to the Receiving Officer should there be any
incident detected.
MITIGATION ACTIONS
Fraud and Corruption Risks
8
Rising concerns associated with environmental
impact such as biodiversity loss, waste and
pollution risks, water-related risks, and extreme
weather events.
RISK
Link to material issues:
At F&N, we recognise the role of business in protecting the environment. The
transition to a circular economy offers opportunities to create business value as well
as minimise environmental impacts.
• We are guided by our Environmental, Safety and Health Policy, which ensures all
major plants in the group are ISO 14001:2015 (environmental management system)
certiﬁed.
• We undertake Environmental Impact Assessments prior to any project; we work
with local communities to protect and preserve the environment; and
• We strive for zero waste as well as zero pollution through continuous improvement
of our environmental management system.
MITIGATION ACTIONS
Environmental Concerns (Emerging Risk)
9
Management Discussion
& Analysis
059
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
PASSION 2025 Strategic Domains
BUILD
Building New
Capabilities and
Business Opportunities
STRENGTHEN
Strengthening Our
Core Businesses for
Market Leadership
Positions
UNLOCK
Unlocking Potentials of
the Group to Create
Maximum Value
OUR VISION
To be a stable and
sustainable Food &
Beverage leader in the
ASEAN region.
OUR MISSION
To be ASEAN’s leading
owner and provider of
quality and innovative
products that consumers
choose and trust.
To support our mission, we
are guided ﬁrmly by our
commitment to create
value for our stakeholders
by ensuring that our
corporate actions positively
impact socio-economic and
environmental factors.
GLOBAL VALUES
Colllaboration, Creating
Values & Caring for
Stakeholders.
060
S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
Strategic
Performance Review
FY2021 Key Highlights
Successfully launched 13 new products in different product
categories, with ﬁve healthier options without compromising
taste.
Launched our fourth business growth pillar in Halal packaged
food business via the acquisition of Sri Nona Companies.
Built new capabilities in supply chain management via fully
integrated warehouses (equipped with ASRS) in Malaysia and
Thailand.
Began the installation of our 10MWp rooftop solar photovoltaic
(PV) systems which would supply renewable energy in Shah
Alam, Pulau Indah and Bentong manufacturing plants.
Continuous innovation across all facets of our businesses,
from new product development, channels management to
value chain activities to better serve the rapidly evolving
consumer and stakeholders needs.
Grow halal packaged food business organically and with
further investments to meet the rising demand for convenience
and ready-to-eat food segment.
Continue to explore and form new strategic partnerships/
collaboration with different stakeholders to achieve our
sustainability priorities.
Priorities for FY2022
The Group recorded revenue growth in FY2021, with Group
Export contributing close to RM900 million amidst COVID-19
disruptions.
Maintained market share leaderships in Malaysia and Thailand
within our core categories.
Rapid growth in our e-commerce business. Expanded our
products and explore different order fulﬁlment options in our
ﬂagship online store, F&N Life in Malaysia, and nom aroi in
Thailand.
Our continuous effort in the marketplace, workplace and
environment received external validation through numerous
awards and recognitions in Malaysia and Thailand.
Continue to drive market leadership through transformative
projects to strengthen our brand portfolio management.
Continue to drive Exports in Malaysia and Thailand and build
on the positive momentum in halal markets.
Achieve operational and cost efficiencies across our value
chain, including reﬁning pricing, demand planning, procurement,
manufacturing, and logistics & distribution, and newly
completed capex projects.
Safeguard the health & well-being of our people and assist
our trade partners to get back on track with the easing of
economies.
Unlocked value through a strategic collaboration with our
aluminium can supplier that will result in a stable supply and
lower cost for the Group.
Realigned our structure with the business needs and
opportunities presented by COVID-19 and digital technology to
become a more efficient, agile and focused organisation.
Streamlined systems and processes that improved productivity,
as well as generated cost savings and better business insights.
Leveraging on sukuk programme to fund the acquisition if
suitable opportunity is available.
Create a smart hybrid workplace that facilitates greater
integration and collaboration when our team are housed under
one roof in Shah Alam.
Continue to review our governance efforts and establish
strong governance programme to improve operations,
empower our employees, strengthen stakeholder engagement
and deliver business value.
Management Discussion
& Analysis
061
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Key Performance
Indicators
2019
410.2
2020
410.1
2021
395.1
Proﬁt After Tax (RM million)
2019
54
2020
54
2021
56
Dividend Payout Ratio (%)
target ratio:
not lower than 50%
2019
16.2
2020
15.2
2021
14.0
Return on Shareholders’ Equity (ROE) (%)
Objective: Maximise value creation and provide good returns to
shareholder.
F&N is focused on building a stronger and
more sustainable business for the future
through continued focus on profitable
growth, sustainable cost structure, and
organisation excellence.
Here are several ﬁnancial and operating
metrics that help us to measure our
effectiveness in creating value for our
people and stakeholders while we expand
our portfolio and reach.
HOW WE TRACK OUR PROGRESS
Complementing these metrics are 12
F&N Group Sustainability targets to be
achieved by 2025 that track our ESG
performance in three primary themes of
sustainable value creation. These 2025 targets
will drive our ambition for Better Business through
responsible business fundamentals; a Better Society
by caring for the well-being of people and
communities; and a Better Planet through circularity
& environmental protection initiatives.
Refer to page 152 for a summary of the targets
and progress to date.
SUSTAINABLE PRACTICES
FINANCIAL INDICATORS
062
S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
2019
4.08
2020
3.99
2021
4.13
Revenue (billion)
2019
18.4
2020
18.3
2021
17.2
OPEX* as percentage of NSR (%)
2019
1,594
2020
1,525
2021
1,655
Revenue over Full Time Equivalent (FTE) (RM 000)
Objective: Ensure sustainable revenue growth and increase the
Company’s efficiency and cost competitiveness.
2019
22.14
2020
19.04
2021
18.07
Average Training Hours per Employee
target:
at least 12 training
hours per employee
2019
44
2020
45
2021
45
Women in Management (%)
2019
41
2020
47
2021
69
No. of Healthier Choice Products
Objective: Build capability of our talents and product innovation
to maintain our competitive edge.
OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE ORGANISATIONAL CAPABILITY
* Comprise distribution, marketing and administrative expenses.
Management Discussion
& Analysis
063
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
F&N DAIRIES (THAILAND) LIMITED
Thailand Best Halal Company of the Year 2020
Central Islamic Council of Thailand
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD
Halal Food & Beverage Excellence Award
World Halal Excellence Awards 2020
Halal Development Corporation Berhad
RECOGNITION TOWARDS
OUR HALAL COMMITMENT
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD
A proud constituent of the newly introduced
FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Shariah
(F4GBMS) Index
ESTABLISHING GROUP
HALAL COUNCIL (GHC)
F&N IS COMMITTED TO
BE A LEADING
PRODUCER OF HALAL
PRODUCTS.
Halal policy and resources
made available to ensure
high level of integrity
to stakeholders.
The Group
Halal Council is
assisted by
the Halal Affairs
Department
A dedicated
Internal Halal
Committee is set
up in each of our
manufacturing
plants
The internal
Halal Committee
is responsible for all
matters pertaining to halal
compliance in our supply chain,
from material selection to
the storage and
transportation of
our products
• F&NHB established a Group Halal
Council in 2016 to embed the Halalan
Toyyiban guidelines, extending it into
our operations and our engagement
with consumers and society.
1
064
S t r a t e g i c R e v i e w
Strengthening our
Halal Ecosystem
ENSURING HALAL COMPLIANCE
& INTEGRITY ACROSS OUR
VALUE CHAIN
CULTIVATING INTERNAL
HALAL CULTURE
FACILITATING EXTERNAL
ENGAGEMENT TO UPLIFT
HALAL ECOSYSTEM
1
Regular Halal
awareness
programme,
including collaterals,
contests
and quizzes
Regular training
in Good
Manufacturing
Practices and Good
Hygiene Practices
Prohibition of
non-Halal foods and
drinks within the
factory premises,
including office
and canteen
2
3
• We continuously strengthen our
employee’s Halal awareness and
understanding through:
1
• All employees in Malaysia
u n d e r g o m a n d a to r y H a l a l
aw a re n e s s t r a i n i n g , w h i l e
employees managing Halal
matters also attended a series of
professional training related to
H a l a l i n te r n a l a u d i t s a n d
assurance.
2
• We facilitate positive collaborative
engagement with Halal authorities
such as JAKIM, Jabatan Agama
Islam Selangor (JAIS) and Halal
Development Corporation Berhad
(HDC).
Partner with JAKIM and JAIS in
community outreach programmes.
• We are actively engaging with the
Department of Malaysia standards
through Federation of Malaysian
Manufacturers to provide our input
towards developing Halal related
standards to, such as:
Sertu standards.
Malaysian Standard 1514 Good.
Manufacturing Practice (GMP for
Food).
• To fur ther propel the Halal
ecosystem, we partner HDC on the
H a l a l S o u r c i n g P a r t n e r s h i p
Programme, a capacity-building
programme aimed at:
sharing Halal industry best
practices.
providing technical advice and
knowledge transfer to small and
medium enterprises (SMEs).
coaching the SMEs to elevate
their capability to be qualiﬁed as
Halal vendors for multi-national
companies.
Through the programme, we have
success full y onboarded t wo
companies as our suppliers and are
in the midst of developing more.
• We also actively participate in
knowledge-sharing forums such as:
SC – HDC FORUM 2021.
17th Malaysia International Halal
Showcase (MIHAS).
1
2
3
4
• Our Halal Affairs Department and
Internal Halal Committee are responsible
for Halal compliance through our value
chain, from material selection to
production, storage and transportation
of products to our consumers.
• All our products are Halal-certiﬁed by
the relevant authorised certification
bodies:
Department of Islamic Development
Malaysia (JAKIM).
Majelis Ulama Indonesia (MUI)
Central Islamic Council of Thailand
(CICOT).
• Our Shah Alam and Pulau Indah plant
are awarded the Whitelist status by
JAKIM, in which Halal applications and
approval are fast-tracked.
• Halal Assurance Management System
(HAS) is implemented and maintained to
ensure effectiveness of halal production
processes.
A pool of qualiﬁed Halal Executives is
established to implement a robust
HAS.
Internal Halal Audits are conducted
for all our plants.
• We perform scheduled porcine analysis
for our all products to validate our HAS.
No traces of porcine were detected.
• Used equipment or machines brought
into our factories underwent sertu
cleansing (Shariah cleansing) to maintain
Halal integrity of our products.
• Our Halal Risk Management plan for all
plants is updated to meet new Malaysian
Halal Management System (2020)
requirements.
• To ensure Halal compliance downstream
our supply chain, halal awareness
trainings are conducted for our key
transporters.
Halal audits were also conducted on
our distributors.
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Management Discussion
& Analysis
065
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
Suchit Riewcharoon
Managing Director
F&N Dairies (Thailand) Limited
Bryan Lee Chee Kong
Director
Domestic Commercial Operations
(East Malaysia & Brunei)
066
Business
Review
Bart Lim Siang Chin
Managing Director
International Markets Development
Malaysia
Tony Chan Chwee Wan
Chief Operating Officer (Sri Nona) Managing Director
Commercial Operations
(Peninsular Malaysia)
Graham Lim
Management Discussion
& Analysis
067
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd Annual Report 2021
