A N N U A L R E P O R T 2 0 2 3
FRASER & NEAVE
HOLDINGS BHD
196101000155 (4205-V)
FORWARD
TOGETHER
As we build new businesses and
look into integration for further
efficiencies, we continue to stay
focused in providing Pure Enjoyment,
Pure Goodness through our core
business of beverages by innovating
our product portfolio, delivering
new and unique offerings that cater
to ever-changing needs, to ensure
continuous growth and relevance.
RE-ENERGISING
CORE
BUSINESS FOR
GROWTH AND
EXPANSION
F&N is committed to continue serving
our customers with better value-add
and nutritious products, as we
strengthen our portfolio of dairy
products by expanding into upstream
production of fresh milk and building
capabilities of farmers to meet the
demands of our consumers.
FULFILLING
THE NEED FOR
INNOVATIVE
DAIRY
PRODUCTS
FOSTERING
THE GROWTH
OF OUR HALAL
FOOD PILLAR
To achieve our ambition of becoming
a leading food and beverage company
in the region, we will strengthen our
Halal food pillar and maximise the
synergies between our traditional
beverage and food businesses,
creating a fuller food and beverages
portfolio and enhancing the Group’s
foray into overseas markets.
F&N’s goal for an integrated dairy farm
goes beyond a resilient supply chain; it
signifies our commitment to long-term
business stability. Our vision is to bring
fresh milk to every Malaysian home in the
most sustainable manner while catalysing
growth in the dairy and agriculture sectors.
Our focus on sustainable agriculture isn’t
just strategic; it’s our contribution to
Malaysia’s journey towards a more resilient
and sustainable food supply.
CULTIVATING
INNOVATIVE
SUSTAINABILITY
IN AGRICULTURE
140TH CELEBRATION
In commemorating F&NHB’s 140th anniversary, we extend our celebration to include the heartbeat
of our success - our consumers, customers, and dedicated employees across Peninsular and
East Malaysia. This milestone is a celebration of resilience and a reaffirmation of our unwavering
commitment to delivering Pure Enjoyment, Pure Goodness, ensuring that the legacy we build
today resonates with generations for years to come. As we move forward together, sustainability
remains at the core of our journey, not just in business but as contributors to greater social and
environmental well-being.
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
Annual Report 2023
Cover Rationale
14 Basis of This Report
16 About F&NHB
17 Vision | Mission | Global Values
126 Corporate Governance Overview
Statement
137 Nominating Committee Report
139 Audit Committee Report
143 Statement on Risk Management and
Internal Control
149 Statement on Directors’
Responsibility
150 Additional Compliance Information
18 F&N At A Glance
20 Group Financial Highlights FY2023
22 Awards & Recognitions
23 Corporate Structure
24 Our Global Presence
26 Our Brands and Product Categories
28 Our Market-Leading Positions and
New Product Universe
30 Our Value Chain
32 Key Milestones
56 Value Creation Business Model
34 Chairman’s Message
42 Chief Executive Officer’s Statement
Read the full version of F&NHB Annual Report 2023 and Sustainability Report
2023 here
OVERVIEW OF F&N KEY MESSAGES
VALUE CREATION AT F&N
GOVERNANCE
12
In our “Forward Together” theme, we celebrate 140 years of
diversity, collaboration, and innovation. Central to the design are four
distinctively coloured circles, interlocking to form an unbreakable
bond. This symbolises the different business pillars within the
Group and unity and teamwork that have propelled our company's
success over a century and a half. By visually interconnecting the
circles, we emphasise the importance of teamwork and showcase
the collective effort that goes into moving the Company forward
together. As we continue to move forward together, we do so with
a deep sense of responsibility and a commitment to positively
impacting the world, honouring our rich history while forging a
sustainable and innovative path for the future.
98 Corporate Information
99 Board Composition
100 Profile of Board of Directors
112 Management Team
114 Profile of Key Senior Management
122 Organisation Structure
C. Financial Review
88 5-Year Group Financial Summary and
Highlights
90 Simplified Group Statement of Financial
Position
91 Group Segmental Analysis
92 Statement of Value Added
93 Group Quarterly Financial Performance
94 Financial Calendar
95 Investor Relations
96 Share Price Movement
A. Strategic Review
58 Market Review
60 Key Risks and Mitigation
64 Strategic Performance Review
66 Strengthening our Halal Ecosystem
B. Business Review
70 Food & Beverages Thailand
76 Food & Beverages Malaysia
MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
153 Sustainability Statement
SUSTAINABILITY AT F&N
LEADERSHIP
THIS REPORT
285 Shareholdings Statistics
288 List of Properties
292 Corporate Directory
294 Notice of Annual General Meeting
298 Administrative Details
• Proxy Form
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION
168 Directors’ Report
178 Statements of Financial Position
180 Statements of Profit or Loss
181 Statements of Other Comprehensive
Income
182 Statements of Changes in Equity
185 Statements of Cash Flows
189 Notes to the Financial Statements
278 Statement by Directors
279 Statutory Declaration
280 Independent Auditors’ Report
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
13
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
BASIS OF THIS REPORT
Annual Report 2023
Communications, Corporate Affairs and Sustainability Department
No. 1 Jalan Bukit Belimbing 26/38, Persiaran Kuala Selangor,
Seksyen 26, 40400 Shah Alam, Selangor, Malaysia
+603-5101 4288
groupcomms@fn.com.my
Annual Report provides a comprehensive
assessment of the Group’s performance and
financial statements for FY2023.
Sustainability Report 2023
Sustainability Report delivers a balanced report on our
efforts to create value for stakeholders and conducting
business in a responsible manner. The report complies
with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards and
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad Main Market Listing
Requirements in relation to Sustainability Statements in
Annual Reports.
For this financial year 2023, Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd has incorporated some elements
of integrated reporting approach. We trust that transparency and well-balanced reporting is
the way to understanding the Group’s process and businesses. Through the changes we have
instituted into our reports this year, and aligning with the principles of integrated reporting, we
hope to provide a clear account of what we believe value creation means for our stakeholders.
We value and appreciate all feedback to help make our future reports more relevant to our stakeholders.
Annual Report 2023
Welcome to Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd’s
Annual Report for the financial year 2023.
14
Shareholders and Investors
Employees
Distributors and Trade Customers
Consumers
Communities
Regulators
Suppliers
OUR STAKEHOLDERS
Indicates where more details can be accessed elsewhere in this report
CROSS REFERENCES
• Internal controls and management assurance
• Compliance and internal audit reviews
• External audit by KPMG PLT on financial information
• External audit by Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance on selected
Environment and Social disclosures
• Board approval assisted by the Board Committees
ASSURANCE
• Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
• Companies Act 2016
• Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance
• International Integrated Reporting Framework
• Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards (MFRS)
REGULATIONS COMPLIED
The Board acknowledges its responsibility to ensure the integrity of the Annual
Report. In the Board’s opinion, the report addresses all material issues and
matters and fairly presents the Group’s performance for the financial year 2023.
DIRECTORS’ APPROVAL
We Create
Value Through
6 Capitals
S&I
Emp
D&T
Con
Com
Reg
Sup
NATURAL CAPITAL
INTELLECTUAL
CAPITAL
FINANCIAL
CAPITAL
HUMAN CAPITAL
MANUFACTURED
CAPITAL
SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP
CAPITAL
15
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
Annual Report 2023
ABOUT F&NHB
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
(F&NHB) is a Malaysian-incorporated
and Shariah-compliant company
listed on Bursa Malaysia’s Main
Board. The Group has an annual
turnover of RM5 billion from its core
businesses in the manufacture,
sales and marketing of beverage,
dairy and food products. With a rich
heritage spanning 140 years, F&NHB
is today synonymous with quality
and Halal products that are trusted
by generations.
F&NHB boasts a portfolio of more than 30 brands that are leaders in
many segments. The brands include 100PLUS, F&N Fun Flavours, F&N
SEASONS, OYOSHI, F&N Magnolia, FARMHOUSE, F&N ICE MOUNTAIN;
Condensed and Evaporated Milk under F&N, TEAPOT, Gold Coin, Cap
Junjung, IDEAL and CARNATION brands; as well as NONA brand of
ketupat and sauces.
In November 2022, F&NHB completed the acquisition of entire equity
interest in Cocoaland Holdings Bhd, adding a range of established
Malaysian confectionery and snack brands to the Group’s portfolio.
With the Ladang Permai Damai acquisition, F&NHB is also on track to
embark on the upstream fresh milk business for downstream production
and distribution of fresh milk.
F&NHB is a constituent of FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia (F4GBM)
Index for its strong commitment to responsible business practices
on environmental, social and governance (ESG) matters. The Group
employs over 3,800 people across its operations in Malaysia, Brunei,
Thailand and Indochina.
16
VISION
To be a stable and sustainable
food and beverage (F&B)
leader in the ASEAN region.
MISSION
To be ASEAN’s leading
provider of quality and
innovative products that
consumers choose and trust.
GLOBAL VALUES
Our Global Values serve as a
compass for our actions and
describe how we behave in
our organisation, they include:
We leverage the power of inherent
strengths and diversity to create
inclusive synergies and commit to
team goals.
We are passionate about applying
new ideas and seizing opportunities
to make a positive impact on our
organisation and around the world.
We embrace our stakeholders’
perspectives with good intentions and
right mindsets to create long-term,
sustainable partnerships.
COLLABORATION
CREATING VALUES
CARING FOR STAKEHOLDERS
17
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
Annual Report 2023
OVERVIEW OF F&N
18
F&N AT A GLANCE
Food and beverage powerhouse in the
ASEAN region with market-leading brands
Annual Turnover
RM5
billion
over
• Pulau Indah
• Rojana
• Wang Muang
Dairy
• Bentong
• Matang
Mineral Water
• Rawang
(4 sites)
Food
13
cutting-edge
plants
• Shah Alam
• Kuching
• Kota Kinabalu
(2 sites)
Beverage
>30
Brands in
14
categories
19
Trusted by
generations for
Halal-certified
products
100%
people
workforce
>3,800
>230,000
GLOBAL
TOP 6
COMPANIES
among Beverages sector in
S&P Global ESG Score 2022
Extensive network
coverage with
outlets in Malaysia,
Thailand, Cambodia
and Laos
FTSE4GOOD
BURSA MALAYSIA
4.6 out of 5 rating
Top 1
percent in the Global Food &
Beverage Supersector
93
countries
Export market
worldwide
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
Annual Report 2023
OVERVIEW OF F&N
20
GROUP FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS FY2023
PBT ON
REVENUE
12.5%
DIVIDEND
PER SHARE *
77.0 sen
NET ASSETS PER
SHARE
BASIC EARNINGS
PER SHARE
RM9.11
146.5 sen
SHAREHOLDERS’
EQUITY
RM3,343.2
million
MARKET
CAPITALISATION
RM9,939.7
million
SHARE
CAPITAL
RM816.8
million
RETURN ON
SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY
16.2%
DEBT TO EQUITY
RATIO
23.0%
(As at 15 November 2023)
* Included proposed final dividend of 33.0 sen per share and special dividend of 17.0 sen per share,
which will only be recognised in the financial statements upon shareholders’ approval.
RM5,001.4
million
RM624.7
million
RM542.0
million
RM642.9
million
REVENUE
PROFIT BEFORE TAX (PBT) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR
OPERATING PROFIT
20
21
2,851.5
(9)
204.3
2,146.2
2.9
0.8
371.8
75.8
BY OPERATING
SEGMENTS
OPERATING PROFIT
(RM MILLION)
REVENUE
(RM MILLION)
REVENUE REVENUE
RM2.85 RM2.15
billion billion
OPERATING PROFIT OPERATING PROFIT
RM204.3 RM371.8
million million
Food & Beverages
Malaysia
Food & Beverages
Thailand
TOTAL
5,001.4
TOTAL
642.9
F&B Thailand
F&B Malaysia
Property
Others
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
Annual Report 2023
OVERVIEW OF F&N
22
AWARDS AND RECOGNITIONS
MARKETPLACE
WORKPLACE
ESG INDICES & RATINGS
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD
HR Excellence Awards 2022 Malaysia
• Bronze Award for Excellence in HR Communication
Strategy
Graduates’ Choice Award 2023​ (GCA)
• Top 5 Graduates’ Choice of Employer to Work For
Employee Experience Awards
• Gold Award for Best HR Digital Transformation Strategy
• Silver Award for Best Onboarding Experience
A Proud Constituent of
FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index
(5th consecutive year)
ESG Rating 4.6 out of 5.0.
Top 1% within the global FTSE F&B
Supersector
(Consumer Goods, Foods & Beverage)
FTSEGood Bursa Malaysia Shariah Index
(3rd consecutive year)
95th Percentile in the
Beverages Industry
S&P Global Corporate
Sustainability Assessment
2022
(Score Date: April 21, 2023)
F&N DAIRIES (THAILAND) LIMITED
CSR-DIW Continuous Award 2023
• Ministry of Industry Thailand
Thailand’s National Safety Award 2023
• Ministry of Labour Thailand
Thailand Labour Management Excellence Award 2023
• Ministry of Labour Thailand
FRASER & NEAVE HOLDINGS BHD
The Edge ESG Awards 2023
• Gold Award for Consumer Goods & Services Sector
National Annual Corporate Report Awards (NACRA 2022)
• Platinum Award for Best Sustainability Reporting
World Halal Excellence Award 2022 (WHEA 2022)  
• Halal Innovation Excellence Award
2021 Asean Corporate Governance Scorecard Award (ACGS)  
• ASEAN Asset Class PLCs
100PLUS
Putra Brand Awards
• Beverage – Non Alcoholic (Platinum Winner)
Kantar Worldpanel’s Brand Footprint Award for 2023
• Top Growing Brand in 2022
F&N DAIRIES (THAILAND) LIMITED
Thailand Kaizen Award 2023  
• Genba Kaizen Golden Award
23
CORPORATE STRUCTURE
as at 15 November 2023
Note:
* Classified under Food & Beverages Malaysia and Others segments.
@ Effective equity interest owned by the Group is 100%; with 27.62% held by F&NHB and the balance 72.38% held by Awana Citra Sdn Bhd
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA
F&N Beverages Manufacturing Sdn Bhd
100%
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND
F&N Dairies (Thailand) Limited
100%
Awana Citra Sdn Bhd
100%
Borneo Springs Sdn Bhd
100% Sri Nona Industries Sdn Bhd
100%
F&N Beverages Marketing Sdn Bhd
100% Sri Nona Food Industries Sdn Bhd
100%
F&N Dairies Manufacturing Sdn Bhd
100% Lee Shun Hing Sauce Industries Sdn Bhd
100%
F&N Dairies Distribution (Singapore) Pte Ltd
100% Cocoaland Holdings Berhad
72.38%@
F&N Marketing (B) Sdn Bhd
100% Sri Nona Food Manufacturing Sdn Bhd
(formerly known as Cocoaland Industry
Sdn Bhd)
100%
Fraser & Neave (Malaya) Sdn Bhd *
100%
CCL Food & Beverage Sdn Bhd
100%
Fraser and Neave MENA DWC-LLC
100%
Sri Nona Foods Sdn Bhd
(formerly known as L.B. Food Sdn Bhd)
100%
F&N Dairies (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd
100%
PT Cocoaland Indonesia
10%
Premier Milk (Malaya) Sdn Berhad
100%
乐一百贸易 (深圳) 有限公司 Lot 100 Food Co. Ltd.
100%
PT Cocoaland Indonesia
90%
Cocoaland Holdings Berhad
27.62%@
PROPERTY OTHERS
F&N Properties Sdn Bhd
100% Fraser & Neave (Malaya) Sdn Bhd *
100%
Greenclipper Corporation Sdn Bhd
100% F&N Capital Sdn Bhd
100%
Nuvak Company Sdn Bhd
100% Elsinburg Holdings Sdn Bhd
100%
Utas Mutiara Sdn Bhd
100% F&N AgriValley Sdn Bhd
100%
Tropical League Sdn Bhd
100% Usahaniaga Abadi Sdn Bhd
100%
Lettricia Corporation Sdn Bhd
70% Dagang Sejahtera Sdn Bhd
65%
Vacaron Company Sdn Bhd
50% Ladang Permai Damai Sdn Bhd
100%
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
Annual Report 2023
OVERVIEW OF F&N
24
OUR GLOBAL PRESENCE
Canada
United States
Central America
South America
Africa
Europe
Contribution of Export Revenue to
Segment Revenue FY2023
F&B
MALAYSIA
F&B
THAILAND
GROUP
REVENUE
23%
17%
21%
25
Middle East
South Asia
Central Asia
East Asia
Oceania
South East Asia
Export market
Top exported
products
Condensed and
evaporated milk
MALAYSIA
THAILAND
Export revenue grew
by 22% and crossed
RM1.0 billion
mark in FY2023
countries worldwide
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
Annual Report 2023
OVERVIEW OF F&N
26
Pure Enjoyment,
Pure Goodness
F&N’s products make the perfect accompaniment
to any occasion, be it a session at the gym or a
glamorous celebration.
OUR BRANDS AND PRODUCT CATEGORIES
Tea
Packaged Food
Carbonated
Soft Drinks
Milk Tablets
Juice
Cordial
Liquid Milk
Asian Drinks
Isotonic
Water & Energy
27
https://my.fnlife.com/
https://nomaroi.com/
Our
Online
Store
Condensed &
Evaporated Milk
Soya
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
Annual Report 2023
OVERVIEW OF F&N
28
Products and Packaging
Formats launched in...
OUR MARKET-LEADING POSITIONS
AND NEW PRODUCT UNIVERSE
NEW
MALAYSIA
LOT 100 Kurma
Gummy Raya Edition
– 125g
Ketupat Wangi
NONA
– 400g, 780g
TEAPOT UHT
Evaporated Creamer
– 1L
100PLUS ZERO – 1.75L
100PLUS PRO
High Protein
– 500ml
28
29
Condensed Milk ^
Evaporated Milk ^
Sterilised Milk ^^
Ready-to-drink Tea
Carbonated Soft Drinks
Evaporated Milk
Sweetened Condensed Milk
THAILAND
* Based on Retail Index Service for the 52-weeks period ending 30th July
2023 in Total Malaysia Market. (©️ 2023, NielsenIQ)
^ F&N Dairies (Thailand) Limited’s calculation based in part on data reported
by NielsenIQ through its Retail Index Service for the Condensed Milk
Category for the period from August 1, 2020 to July 31, 2023 for Total
Thailand market. (Copyright ©️ 2023, NielsenIQ (Thailand) Limited.)
^^ F&N Dairies (Thailand) Limited’s calculation based in part on data reported
by NielsenIQ through its Retail Index Service for the Liquid Milk Category
for the period from August 1, 2020 to July 31, 2023 for Total Thailand
market. (Copyright ©️ 2023, NielsenIQ (Thailand) Limited.)
MALAYSIA
Our Market-
Leading
Positions
TEAPOT Sweetened
Condensed Milk
Nom Yen Flavoured
– 150g
NUMBER ONE *
NUMBER ONE
THAILAND
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
Annual Report 2023
OVERVIEW OF F&N
30
OUR VALUE CHAIN
We work closely with suppliers to
ensure their goods and services meet
our internal stringent requirements and
supports external social, environmental,
and ethical standards. We upkeep robust
risk management mechanisms to manage
issues associated with the commodities
upon which we rely, ensuring the
sustainability of our business.
The production process throughout
our operations is standardised in
accordance with international standards.
We strive for eco-efficient processes
to provide good value, while minimising
negative environmental and social
impacts. We strive to optimise resource
use and consider the impacts of water
consumption, waste, effluents, and
emissions at all production stages.
PRODUCTION
SOURCING
The preparation,
production, and
packaging of our
products require
a range of raw
materials, equipment,
and other goods and
services. In FY2023,
we engaged with
over 2,000 global
and local suppliers
across our supply
chain including
manufacturers,
wholesalers, retailers,
importers/merchants,
contractors, and
professional services
providers. We spent a
total of RM3.17 billion
on procuring products
and services.
31
We fully integrate our distribution system
to enhance efficiency to our customers.
We focus on improving our processes
through digital technologies to ensure
efficient energy management in our
transportation, while ensuring the safety
of our personnel and local communities.
Responsible marketing and sales
practices are of great importance to
F&NHB. We engage regulators and
customers to improve our marketing
practices when communicating value
– e.g., nutritional information to our
consumers. Conversations with our
stakeholders enable us to innovate
better, providing healthier product
options that are desired.
We minimise the impact of post-consumer
waste through research and development
to deliver innovative packaging that is
sustainable and meets the needs of our
consumers. Beyond applying the Circular
Economy principles through F&NHB, we
promote environmental awareness within
communities where we operate.
POST-
CONSUMPTION
PACKAGING
MANAGEMENT
MARKETING
AND SALES
DISTRIBUTION
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
Annual Report 2023
OVERVIEW OF F&N
32
KEY MILESTONES
The Singapore and
Straits Aerated
Water Company
was founded by our
founding fathers,
John Fraser and
David Chalmers
Neave.
The Singapore and
Straits Aerated
Water Company
went public under
its present name,
Fraser and Neave,
Limited on 27
January 1898.
1898
1913
1962
1966
1800 1900 2000
1996
1989
2004
By this year, F&N
had branches
across the
peninsula, including
Kuala Lumpur,
Melaka, Seremban,
Ipoh and Penang.
The Kuala
Lumpur plant
commenced its
operations.
The first
F&N soft
drinks plant
in East
Malaysia
was opened
in Kuching.
F&N celebrated
its 100th
anniversary and
introduced the
iconic 100PLUS
brand to the
market, which
soon became the
No. 1 Isotonic
Drink in Malaysia
and Singapore.
F&N restructured
its dairy operations
under F&N Dairies
(Malaysia) Sdn Bhd.
Soft drinks plant
relocated to Shah
Alam on 23 March
1996.
The Group’s glass,
dairies and soft drinks
operation in Malaysia
were incorporated
under the umbrella
of Fraser & Neave
Holdings Bhd.
F&N’s property division
started construction on Fraser
Business Park in Sungai Besi,
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
1883
1983
33
2009
2006
2013
2020
2021
2022
2023
2018
2017
2011
F&NHB acquired
the BORNEO
brand of mineral
water business in
East Malaysia.
F&N Dairies
(Thailand)
Limited was
established.
The official
opening
of dairy
manufacturing
plant in Rojana,
Thailand.
The official launch
of first-of-its kind
UHT Line at beverage
manufacturing plant in
Kuching, Malaysia.
The official
launch of
Cold-aseptic
Filling PET line
at beverage
manufacturing
plant in Shah
Alam, Malaysia.
The official launch of F&N Life,
our flagship online store.
The commissioning of our first
Solar Photovoltaic System at
dairy manufacturing plant in
Rojana, Thailand.
F&NHB
acquired three
F&B companies
– Sri Nona Food
Industries, Sri
Nona Industries
and Lee Shun
Hing Sauce for
up to RM60
million, to
establish Halal
food as our
new pillar of
growth.
The commissioning of our Solar
Photovoltaic System at 3 manufacturing
plants in Malaysia – Shah Alam, Pulau
Indah and Bentong.
The official launch of F&N Nomaroi,
our flagship online store for Thailand
Market.
The groundbreaking ceremony of
the Group’s integrated dairy farm in
Gemas, Negeri Sembilan, Malaysia
The official opening of
dairy manufacturing
plant in Pulau Indah,
Malaysia.
Celebrating
F&N’s 140th
anniversary
The official opening of liquid milk and
plant-based beverage manufacturing
plant in Wang Muang, Thailand.
F&NHB completed the acquisition
of Ladang Permai Damai, to embark
on the upstream fresh milk business
for downstream production and
distribution of fresh milk.
F&NHB acquired the entire equity
interest in Cocoaland Holdings Bhd for
RM488.15 million, to expand into more
Halal food segments.
2012
The dairy
manufacturing plant in
Petaling Jaya ceased
operations after 52
years.
34
Chairman’s
Message
It is always a pleasure to pen my message for Fraser
& Neave Holdings Bhd (F&NHB)’s annual reports. This
year, I do so with added pride as 2023 marks F&N’s 140th
anniversary. This milestone not only commemorates
our legacy but also celebrates the enduring relationship
cultivated with Malaysians. Beautifully encapsulated by
our nationwide campaign “Kisah Kita… Selamanya”, the
theme signifies the ways in which we have been there with
Malaysians, and for Malaysians, celebrating their cherished
moments for as long as any of us can remember.
Dear Shareholders & Stakeholders,
The celebration doesn’t just stop here in Malaysia, as
we commemorate TEAPOT’s 15th anniversary in Thailand,
Cambodia and Laos in October 2023. Since its introduction
in 2007, TEAPOT has become the No. 1 condensed milk in
Cambodia and Laos since 2020 and the second largest brand
in the evaporated milk category in Thailand since 2022.
These achievements will make the celebrations all the more
meaningful for our customers and consumers alike.
Amid the celebrations, it was an opportune time for me to
reflect on how the Group has evolved and innovated with
the latest technologies while remaining conscious about
contributing to the community and environment. Present in
93 countries, F&N truly understands our consumers and is
committed to delivering Pure Enjoyment, Pure Goodness for
generations to come.
KEY MESSAGES
Annual Report 2023
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
35
Y.A.M. TENGKU SYARIF BENDAHARA PERLIS
SYED BADARUDIN JAMALULLAIL
IBNI ALMARHUM TUANKU SYED PUTRA JAMALULLAIL
Chairman
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
KEY MESSAGES
Annual Report 2023
36
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
* Includes proposed final dividend of 33.0 sen
per share and special dividend of 17.0 sen
per share, which will only be recognised in
the financial statements upon shareholders’
approval.
BETTER TOGETHER AS ONE
A key success of F&NHB has been our continuous growth. This financial year, we focused
on integrating our two latest businesses, Cocoaland and Sri Nona, with F&N for better
operational and commercial synergies. Combining Cocoaland’s confectionary leadership
with Sri Nona’s Halal products will pave the way for a robust Halal food pillar, an initiative
that aligns with our commitment to catering to diverse consumer needs.
Through F&N AgriValley, we are developing Ladang Permai Damai to become an integrated
dairy farm with a crop plantation. Our goal to produce 200 million litres of milk annually for
local and international markets while achieving self-sufficiency in cattle feed is progressing
steadily. The dairy farm not only reduces our reliance on imported milk but also contributes
significantly to the local agricultural industry, in line with the Malaysian Government’s
aspiration to enhance food security. We held the ground-breaking ceremony in June 2023
and are on track towards completing Phase 1 by 2025.
As always, the Board is fully supportive of Management’s growth plans. Indeed, the Board
dedicates a couple of days every year to brainstorm with Management and discuss the way
forward during our strategy retreats. At the latest retreat, we identified opportunities for new
growth and strategies that set the course ahead in the mid to longer term. Underlying our
discussions, we bore in mind the importance of staying true to our global values of caring for
stakeholders, collaboration and creating value as we move Forward Together.
PROFIT
BEFORE TAX
RM624.7
million
PROFIT FOR
THE YEAR
RM542.0
million
BASIC
EARNINGS
PER SHARE
146.5
sen
DIVIDEND
FOR THE YEAR
77 sen
per share *
37
CREATING STAKEHOLDER VALUE
The common denominator in our global values is value creation for
our stakeholders. This principle has guided us and continues to be
our North Star in all decisions.
Living up to our promise of Pure Enjoyment, Pure Goodness, we
continue to delight our customers with products that are good for them.
This year, we introduced the brand-new 100PLUS PRO High Protein to
boost athletes’ performance and recovery. As with last year, we also
promoted the importance of staying hydrated on World Hydration Day.
This is especially important as the temperature keeps rising along
with incidents of severe dehydration. Meanwhile, nearly two-thirds of
our ready-to-drink portfolio today carries the Healthier Choice Logo,
closing the gap to meeting our 2025 sustainability targets.
Living up to our promise
of Pure Enjoyment, Pure
Goodness, we continue to
delight our customers with
products that are good
for them.
In relation to our business partners, we continue to add value to our
customers. This is especially true in Thailand, where we have reached
out to more than 50,000 hawkers through our Hawker Management
Programme over the last decade. The holistic programme enables us
to engage regularly with operators, leveraging technology to manage
customer relations, as well as track and analyse data. F&N Dairies
Thailand also raises the visibility of hawkers through stall decorations,
regular updates on the latest promotions and product recipes so that
they stay top of mind with consumers.
We continue to build on the Halal Sourcing Partnership programme
launched with Halal Development Corporation Berhad (HDC) in FY2019.
To date, we have mentored 16 small and medium-sized enterprises
(SMEs) to qualify as Halal vendors for large and multi-national companies
(MNCs). Of those, two have progressed to become registered Halal
suppliers, including some partnering with F&NHB.
For the second consecutive year, F&NHB participated in the World
Halal Business Conference Australia 2022, which focused on Halal
requirements and sustainability. We also continued to promote the
integration of environmental, social and governance (ESG) principles
in the Halal industry via the Halal Sector Forum 2023. Organised by
HDC in conjunction with the Malaysia International Halal Showcase
(MIHAS) 2023, the forum aimed to promote sustainability and ethical
practices in the Halal market.
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
KEY MESSAGES
Annual Report 2023
38
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
Our engagements with Halal authorities are not just limited to
Malaysia. To support the growth of the regional Halal industry, we
also engage with international Halal bodies, such as Majelis Ulama
Indonesia and the Central Islamic Council of Thailand (CICOT), to
ensure Halal compliance and to build a common synergy between
Halal authorities in this region.
To ensure deeper understanding of the Halal concept, we have also
instituted comprehensive training for all employees on the subject,
including tailored training conducted in the native languages of our
foreign workers.
Recognising that our employees are our most valuable assets, we
continue to prioritise their well-being. In July 2023, we provided free
influenza vaccinations to over 1,000 employees nationwide. We also
continued with a project close to my heart, the Chairman’s Award,
which inspires all-round excellence among our employees’ children.
This year, RM206,000 in cash was awarded to 71 secondary
and tertiary students who produced outstanding academic and
extracurricular results.
To reinforce our role in building a better society, we leveraged on
festive seasons to reach no fewer than 500 beneficiaries, including
orphans, disabled and senior citizens in 14 homes, extending
donations of essential items such as F&N products, kitchen
equipment and clothing.
We also maintained F&NHB’s tradition of supporting our national
athletes while promoting sports generally. This year, we proudly
welcome two new 100PLUS ambassadors – Olympic silver medallist
and professional track cyclist Dato’ Mohd Azizulhasni Awang and
rising badminton star Ng Tze Yong.
As for our shareholders, I am pleased to share that F&NHB’s robust
performance allowed us to distribute an interim dividend of 27 sen per
share in June 2023. Additionally, we are proposing a special dividend
of 17 sen per share over and above a final dividend of 33 sen per
share for the financial year. This brings the total dividend payout for
FY2023 to RM282.4 million, which is 28.3% higher than FY2022.
SUSTAINABILITY-DRIVEN BUSINESS GROWTH
Emerging from the pandemic, our resolution to build a sustainable
future has only strengthened. The Board, through the Sustainability
& Risk Management Committee (SRMC), is ensuring the seamless
integration of ESG considerations in all our strategies and decision-
making processes. Strengthening our sustainability platform through
robust governance, accountability and training is our core focus area.
To ensure ESG principles are ingrained in our business, we have
amplified our organisation-wide awareness training. In FY2023, the
Board and Senior Management underwent training on sustainable
agriculture in line with our mission to establish one of the most
sustainable dairy farms in the country. Meanwhile, all executives
were trained on the significance of sustainability and environmental
preservation to our business. We aim for every employee to undergo
ESG training by 2025.
39
In managing and mitigating climate change, we have aligned ourselves
with the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD).
Following the identification of material transition drivers and physical
climate-related risks in our operations and supply chain, we initiated
the process of quantifying these key risks through scenario analysis
this year. Our objective is to present a comprehensive TCFD report
ahead of Bursa Malaysia’s 2025 deadline.
On the ground, we continue to reduce our carbon footprint through
various initiatives. Notably, the rooftop solar photovoltaic (PV)
system installed at our Shah Alam plant is not only one of the biggest
in Malaysia but also supplies over half of the electricity needed to
produce 100PLUS. This achievement is highlighted with a “Solar”
emblem on our 100PLUS packaging to signify our commitment to
renewable energy sources. Plans are underway to extend solar roof
systems to our other facilities.
In managing and
mitigating climate change,
we have aligned ourselves
with the Task Force on
Climate-Related Financial
Disclosures (TCFD).
This year, we also went nationwide with our School Recycling
Programme, attracting the involvement of over 1,400 primary and
secondary schools throughout every state in Malaysia.
Meanwhile, the team in Thailand conducted a water conservation
initiative at the Chet Sao Noi Waterfall National Park, which provides
water for the Wang Muang plant. This was to prevent soil erosion,
thus helping to prevent forest fires in the dry season.
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
KEY MESSAGES
Annual Report 2023
40
CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE
AWARDS & RECOGNITION
At F&NHB, integrating sustainability principles into our operations
is driven by a deep-rooted sense of responsibility. It is truly
gratifying to receive ongoing recognition by industry experts that
not only attest to our dedication to excellence, but also serve
as vital tools to communicate our commitment towards a better
business, a better planet, and a better society to our stakeholders.
In FY2023, we were honoured to receive the Gold Award for
Consumer Products and Services at The Edge Malaysia ESG
Awards 2023. In our second S&P Global Corporate Sustainability
Assessment (S&P CSA), we were ranked sixth out of 101 companies
in the beverages industry globally.
In terms of employee relations, we made our mark at the
Employee Experience Awards (Malaysia), winning Gold for Best
HR Digital Transformation Strategy and Silver for Best Onboarding
Experience. We were also voted among the Top 5 Graduates’
Choice of Employer to Work For in 2023, particularly in the Fast-
Moving Consumer Goods category at the Graduates' Choice
Award 2023 (GCA).
Notably, our operations in Thailand continued to receive
accolades for their outstanding dedication to employee safety, as
well as community development through its Farming Excellence
programme with local Thailand-based milk cooperatives.
F&N Dairies Thailand received Thailand’s National Safety Award
2023 and CSR-DIW Continuous Award 2023 from the Ministry
of Industry Thailand and the Thailand Labour Management
Excellence Award 2023 by the Department of Labor Protection
and Welfare, Ministry of Labour Thailand.
Our robust ESG platform has consistently earned us a place as a
constituent of the FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index (F4GBM) for
the fifth year running, with an improved rating of 4.6 out of 5.0
and reaching the 100th percentile in June 2023. F&NHB is also a
constituent of the FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Shariah (F4GBMS)
Index for the third consecutive year, a testament to our ethical
and Shariah-compliant business practices.
Our collective efforts for the Halal industry and community
earned us the prestigious Halal Innovation Excellence Award at
the recent World Halal Excellence Award 2022 (WHEA 2022).
Underlining our commitment to sound governance practices,
F&NHB was included in the ASEAN Asset Class by meeting the
standards set by the ASEAN Capital Markets Forum (ACMF) in its
2021 ASEAN Corporate Governance Scorecard (ACGS).
Meanwhile, the quality of our sustainability reporting continues
to be best-in-class and saw us win the Platinum award for the
second consecutive year at the National Annual Corporate Report
Awards (NACRA) 2022.
41
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
The fact that F&NHB has grown from strength to strength over the last 140 years bears testimony not only to the strategic acumen of the
succession of leadership at the helm of the Group but also to the strength of the partnerships we have built with countless stakeholders
who have contributed to our business successes. I want to take this opportunity to thank all these stakeholders, from our consumers and
customers to our business partners, shareholders, employees and directors.
With profound sadness, we mourn the loss of our former Non-Independent Non-Executive Director Dato’ Jorgen Bornhoft. On behalf of the
Board and management team, I would like to offer our deepest condolences to the family of Dato’ Bornhoft. In his tenure as a Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director for nine years and eight months, Dato’ Bornhoft had played a critical role in helping steer the organisation.
Separately, we would like to welcome Mr Michael Chye as a Chief of Beer Product Group at Thai Beverage Public Company Limited, the Chief
Executive Officer at BeerCo Limited, the Legal Representative/ Chairman of the Board of Management at Vietnam F&B Alliance Investment
Joint Stock Company, and the Legal Representative at Vietnam Beverage Company Limited. He also sits on the Board of Vinamilk (Vietnam
Dairy Products Joint Stock Company).
We have achieved a great deal since our humble beginnings as a manufacturer of carbonated soft drinks. Nevertheless, we have a vision of
accomplishing much more. With the unwavering support of all our internal as well as external stakeholders, we can reach far greater heights
as we move Forward Together as one.
Y.A.M. TENGKU SYARIF BENDAHARA PERLIS
SYED BADARUDIN JAMALULLAIL
IBNI ALMARHUM TUANKU SYED PUTRA JAMALULLAIL
Chairman
42
The financial year ended 30 September
2023 (FY2023) was one of celebration.
We celebrated F&N’s 140th anniversary;
and we celebrated the coming together as
ONE Group, including our recent acquisitions
of Cocoaland and Sri Nona. And perhaps more
significantly, we celebrated the strength of
our fundamentals, which provided us the
resilience to weather another challenging year
and perform even better than we did in FY2019,
pre-Covid.
Dear Shareholders & Stakeholders,
KEY MESSAGES
Chief Executive
Officer’s
Statement
F&NHB recorded an 11.9% increase in revenue year-on-year due to recovery across all our markets including
exports, consistent marketing and promotional activities, and targeted price management strategies.
The return of international tourists and out-of-home consumption post-pandemic in Thailand was an
added advantage.
While certain commodity prices stabilised during the year, others, like tin plates/cans and palm oil remained
high in 2023. Meanwhile, sugar prices escalated. To prop up our bottom line, we continued to rein in our
costs and were pleased to reap the rewards of energy efficiencies brought about by our solar installations.
We also saw operational savings from greater automation within our warehouses in Thailand and Malaysia.
In Exports, we benefited from stabilising shipping costs.
Strategically, we did not just celebrate the past 140 years of successes but remained focused to enhance
our stability and sustainability in the food and beverages (F&B) business and contribute to greater social
and environmental well-being.
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
Annual Report 2023
43
43
LIM YEW HOE
Chief Executive Officer
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
KEY MESSAGES
Annual Report 2023
44
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
Our 140th anniversary celebrations were an opportunity for unity and gratitude, especially as it coincided with an uplifting year.
A series of dinners with employees was held in Peninsular and East Malaysia, starting with Kota Kinabalu and Kuching in August
2023, culminating in a “grand finale” in Kuala Lumpur on 18 November. The latter was indeed significant as it was the first time we
brought together 3,000 employees including migrant workers from all over Peninsular Malaysia; and 50 colleagues from Thailand.
And living up to our corporate value of caring for stakeholders including past contributors, we also invited dozens of retired board
members, senior management and representatives of the F&N Alumni Club to join us for the celebration.
Externally, under the theme “Kisah Kita… Selamanya”, we commemorated our anniversary with campaigns and roadshows across
the country. To express our appreciation for the enduring support from our customers and consumers throughout the years, we
organised various campaigns offering attractive prizes, such as limited-edition Vespa scooters.
A 140-YEAR SUCCESS STORY
45
NEW DEVELOPMENTS
We have always believed in operating as a united organisation,
recognising that synergies between our business units place us in a
stronger position to overcome challenges and drive further growth.
At the CEO Townhall in June 2023, I reiterated why F&NHB was “Better
Together as One”. And why, as we build our fourth pillar of Halal
food, it is critical that we maximise the synergies that Cocoaland and
Sri Nona have with each other as well as between both businesses
and the Group. Cocoaland’s strength as a confectioner complements
Sri Nona’s Halal food products, and there is potential to use its four
manufacturing sites to expand Sri Nona’s offerings. At the same time,
brands from the two new business units can leverage the Group’s
well-established route-to-market, not just locally but internationally.
Both business units have already begun contributing to the Group’s
revenue, and we expect to see meaningful growth in this business
pillar in the coming years.
Meanwhile, we are building a dairies vertical as we advance towards
becoming a leading fresh milk producer in Malaysia. Following the
acquisition of Ladang Permai Damai in October 2022, we held the
ground-breaking ceremony of our integrated dairy farm in Gemas,
Negeri Sembilan on 15 June 2023. Once phase 1 of the farm is fully
completed, we will be producing 100 million litres of fresh milk yearly.
Eventually, the farm will double its production to 200 million litres,
catering to both domestic and international markets. We are making
good progress with the farm, having completed the site clearance
upon obtaining approval of our Environmental Impact Assessment.
NEW INNOVATIONS
In recent years, we have embarked on various capital expenditure
(Capex) projects aimed at expanding our manufacturing and
warehouse capabilities and enhancing the efficiency of these
facilities. During the year under review, we made significant progress
with the completion of several initiatives, which contributed to
operational efficiency and energy savings, mitigating some of the
impact of higher input costs and rising energy expenses.
In Peninsular Malaysia, we completed all reparation works at our
integrated warehouse in Shah Alam, which had been previously
affected by floods. We also commercialised an automated ketupat
line for NONA in Rawang. Over in East Malaysia, we operationalised
a new drinking water line at the Kota Kinabalu Industrial Park (KKIP)
and a new mineral water line in Matang.
In Thailand, the much-awaited RM128 million liquid milk and plant-
based beverage factory in Wang Muang commenced operations
in October 2022, marking a strategic shift towards the liquid milk
segment as we reduce our reliance on condensed milk in line with
market trends and preferences.
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
KEY MESSAGES
Annual Report 2023
46
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
STAYING CLOSE TO OUR
CONSUMERS
While developing our business, F&NHB continues to stay close
to our consumers. Indeed, our evolution is tailored to meet their
ever-changing needs.
As more Malaysians lead an active lifestyle, we expanded into
sports nutrition with the introduction of 100PLUS PRO High Protein.
Packed with electrolytes, Vitamin B, protein, and branched-chain
amino acids (BCAA), this non-fizzy isotonic drink has been crafted
to provide energy during strenuous exercise and facilitate muscle
recovery post-training. I am proud to share that Malaysia’s elite
sportsmen and women were among the first to enjoy our designer
sports drink and 100PLUS ACTIVE Powder at the 19th Asian Games
and 4th Asian Para Games Held in Hangzhou.
Along with more frequent heat waves, we partnered with ASTRO
and OMNIA Radio cruiser to provide the public nationwide with
relief from the heat with Malaysia’s leading isotonic drink, 100PLUS.
We further stressed the importance of staying hydrated with
roadshows in conjunction with World Hydration Day 2.0, allowing
participants to enjoy various activities and stand a chance to win
exclusive prizes, including jerseys autographed by badminton icon
Datuk Wira Lee Chong Wei.
Our initiatives to bring the 100PLUS brand closer to consumers
over the years resulted in it winning the Platinum Award in the
Non-Alcoholic Beverage category at the Putra Brand Awards 2022,
as well as the Top Growing Beverage Brand 2022 Award in the
annual Kantar’s Brand Footprint Award.
In Thailand, we hit the sweet spot with the launch of TEAPOT
Evaporated Creamer UHT milk in 1L pack. Developed specifically with
heavy users such as F&B outlets in mind, sales have grown by more
than five times following its launch due to its usage convenience and
more economical price.
As part of our continuous commitment to amplify the benefits
of milk in Thailand, F&N Magnolia has introduced the “Tasty
Goodness” campaign through a multi-faceted approach, blending
both offline and online channels – promoting the pure goodness of
milk for the health of the entire family. Various sampling activities
were conducted in educational institutions and corporate offices
to encourage the trial of our UHT milk, which is enriched with
essential nutrients.
47
For better engagement with the farmers, we leverage a dedicated
mobile app that assesses adherence to Good Manufacturing Practice
(GMP), the physical properties of raw milk, and monitors the wait
and delivery time to F&N Dairies Thailand (F&NDT). This has helped
reduce the delivery time of milk by a significant 70%.
Further enhancing delivery times, we extended THB1.1 million in
assistance towards the development of a milk collection centre
(MCC) for the Khao Yai Milk Cooperative in Nakhon Ratchasima.
The MCC became operational in August 2023.
Meanwhile, to enhance water security for milk farmers in Saraburi
Province, we also provided solar-powered water pumps to enable
farmers to cultivate their own feed for their cattle while fostering
sustainability in their operations. Notably, the solar cell water
pumps helped farmers reduce their expenses, contributing to their
economic well-being.
DEVELOPING OUR BUSINESS
PARTNERS
Towards the end of FY2022, we established the F&N Business
Partner Award Programme to help our suppliers elevate the quality
of their services and grow regionally with F&N. Thirty-eight suppliers
participated in this year’s programme, and the Gold Award winner
was honoured at the award ceremony in Bangkok on 7 October 2023.
In Thailand, we continue to build the capability of more than 2,000
farmers who supply our dairy operations through the Farming
Excellence System. During the year, we conducted a comprehensive
four-month programme on good agriculture and farming practices.
We also established a learning centre at our manufacturing plant to
create awareness of sustainable manufacturing practices.
In Thailand, we continue to build
the capability of more than 2,000
farmers who supply our dairy
operations through the Farming
Excellence System.
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
KEY MESSAGES
Annual Report 2023
48
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
ENHANCING OUR SOCIAL
IMPACT
Beyond delivering value to consumers and fostering strong
partnerships, we also play our part in contributing to a better
society through initiatives targeted at enhancing the well-being of
communities and our employees.
This year, we were very pleased to fully resume our festive community
outreach activities. We were heartened to touch the lives of over 500
beneficiaries, including students from less privileged backgrounds,
orphans, individuals with disabilities and senior citizens. This was
made possible through donations, as well as the dedicated time and
effort of our enthusiastic volunteers.
For over a decade, we have instilled environmental awareness among
students through our annual nationwide school recycling programme.
In this regard, we have forged strategic collaboration with GRAB
Malaysia, KLEAN, and MRANTI to introduce 18 cutting-edge AI-powered
Reverse Vending Machines across key locations in the Klang Valley.
We strongly believe that the community at large will be agents of
change that will work towards building a greener nation.
Contributing to a healthier society, we continue to grow our range
of healthier options, ending the year with 65 products, constituting
64% of our total ready-to-drink (RTD) beverage and dairy portfolio
endorsedwiththeHealthierChoiceLogo(HCL)inMalaysiaorThailand.
We are steadily progressing towards our goal of having healthier
options making up two-thirds of our entire ready-to-drink portfolio
by 2025. Notably, we also introduced our sugarless 100PLUS ZERO
in a new 1.75L pack size, catering to the value-conscious consumer.
Meanwhile, through 100PLUS, we continue to promote sports
development in the country as the hydration partner to the Football
Association of Malaysia (FAM), the Badminton Association of Malaysia
(BAM), the Malaysian Hockey Confederation and the National Sports
Council. 100PLUS is also the official beverage partner of the Johor
Darul Takzim and Selangor Football Club.
As with the community, we were delighted to be able to fully
resume our employee engagement platforms post-pandemic. At the
same time, we continue to place great emphasis on the safety and
health of our employees, providing them with flu vaccinations and
organising various health and safety programmes. This included
Safety, Health and Environment (S.H.E) programmes at our offices
and factories in both Malaysia and Thailand to raise awareness
about the importance of safety, health, and the environment in the
workplace. Partly thanks to our concerted efforts to foster a culture
that emphasises safe behaviour among employees, we recorded
zero lost time due to accidents in FY2023.
Central to well-being is a sense of safety from all forms of
harassment. This year, we also rolled out an enhanced Prohibiting
Sexual Harassment Policy across all our offices in Malaysia.
To maintain high levels of motivation and enhance our employees’
professional development, we have also stepped up various training-
related initiatives. Among others, we introduced a comprehensive
F&N Leadership and Management Potential Unleashed (LAMPU)
Programme, which consists of modules on critical thinking,
communication skills, personal development and leadership style.
Through this programme, we seek to realise the leadership potential
of our talent.
49
SUSTAINABILITY AT THE CORE
OF OUR BUSINESS
As a responsible manufacturer, we recognise our duty to
minimise emissions and play our role towards the transition to net
zero. Investments made in recent years to replace fossil fuels
with solar energy demonstrate our commitment in this regard.
Besides operating one of the largest solar PV rooftop systems
in Malaysia, we have implemented similar systems in our plants in
Thailand. Plans are underway to extend solar roof systems to more
facilities, including our factories in Rawang as we also explore other
avenues to take our low-carbon journey further.
Recognising the growing interest from investors and stakeholders in
our efforts to mitigate climate change and manage associated risks,
we are progressively developing our Task Force on Climate-Related
Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Our aim is to be fully compliant with this
framework ahead of Bursa Malaysia’s stipulated deadline of 2025.
To maintain an environmentally responsible supply chain, we have
been conscious of using sustainably produced palm oil. In this regard,
I’m proud to share that we are the first company in Malaysia to back
100% of the palm oil used in our product with RSPO credits. Our goal
is to transition to 100% RSPO physically certified palm oil by 2025.
In 2023, the Group utilised 60% Certified Sustainable Palm Oil, while
the remaining 40% was through RSPO credits.
At our integrated farm, we are pioneering a comprehensive ‘farm-to-
bottle’ concept by incorporating animal feed cultivation and a milk
processing facility within the dairy barn’s vicinity. This innovative
approach will allow us to produce not just the freshest milk but also
in the most sustainable manner. The Group will also be able to reduce
our overall carbon footprint by reducing the need to import milk.
It is heart warming to see our sustainability efforts continue to be
recognised. Among the notable achievements this year include
being ranked among the top six out of 101 beverage companies
assessed globally in the 2022 S&P Global Corporate Sustainability
Assessment. Additionally, we have not only maintained our inclusion
in the FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia Index and the FTSE4Good Bursa
Malaysia Shariah Index, but we have also risen to the top 1% within
our Supersector in the most recent FTSE4GOOD ESG rating.
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
KEY MESSAGES
Annual Report 2023
50
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
PERFORMANCE REVIEW
After three years of positive but subdued performance due to
COVID-19, it was a cause for celebration to see that excluding
contributions from Cocoaland, our numbers exceed our top and
bottom lines pre-pandemic. This was the result of contributions by
all our business units, which are now reaping the benefits of a steady
strengthening of operational efficiencies amid the challenging years.
Given the environment of high commodity prices, we reviewed our
sales and marketing strategies, going back to basics as we focused
on our core brands. In addition to demonstrating our commitment
to delivering Pure Enjoyment, Pure Goodness via our anniversary
campaign, we intensified our consumer engagement via brand
investment activities focusing on F&N Carbonated Soft Drinks,
F&N Magnolia, F&N SEASONS, 100PLUS, F&N Teh Tarik and NONA
Ketupat, among other products.
Leveraging the return of tourists and out-of-home consumption,
the team in Thailand focused on driving distribution and excellence
in in-store execution together with brand building and consumer
engagement. It also built on its strong relationship with hawkers via
loyalty programmes and various brand engagement campaigns to
boost sales, among which is the TEAPOT “Colour Your Life” campaign.
The campaign also introduced its latest brand ambassador, the
charismatic Thanapob Leeratanakajorn, to enhance brand visibility.
New to our portfolio during the year included 100PLUS PRO High
Protein, NONA Ketupat Wangi Haruman Pandan, LOT 100 Kurma
Gummy and a new packaging format for TEAPOT Evaporated Creamer
UHT 1L in Malaysia. In Thailand, we unveiled our latest addition to the
TEAPOT Sweetened Condensed Milk (SCM) Tube Nom Yen Flavour,
inspired by the popular Thai pink milk.
Concerted efforts to create value for our customers and consumers
contributed to F&NHB maintaining our market leadership in core
categories. 100PLUS remains the undisputed No. 1 isotonic drink in
Malaysia, where we are also leaders in the RTD tea segment, SCM
and evaporated milk categories. In Thailand, we are No.1 in the total
sweetened and evaporated milk categories, while in Cambodia and
Laos, TEAPOT is the No. 1 condensed milk brand.
51
GROUP PERFORMANCE
For the financial year, the Group’s revenue grew by 11.9% from RM4.47 billion in FY2022
to RM5.0 billion as sales volume picked up along with market recovery. Revenue growth
also reflected successful price management strategies implemented the previous year,
contributions by Cocoaland and a rebound in exports to Africa, ASEAN, and Greater China.
Revenue from Exports grew by 22% to reach RM1.0 billion in FY2023, making up a significant
21% of the Group’s total revenue, up from 19% in FY2022. The Group now exports to 93
countries, with key products being SCM and evaporated milk.
On the back of higher revenue, the Group’s profit before tax (PBT) grew by 37.6% to RM624.7
million from RM454.1 million in FY2022. Excluding one-off non-operating items – mainly
from fair value gain on the revaluation of equity interest in Cocoaland before the privatisation
exercise – the Group’s PBT grew by 21.3% from RM472.9 million to RM573.9 million.
This result was also attributed to a concerted focus on margin improvement, operational
excellence, supply chain management and sustainability initiatives, which helped to mitigate
the impact of higher input costs and rising energy expenses. Consequently, the adjusted Group
profit after tax for the year grew by 22.4% to RM489.7 million from RM399.9 million in FY2022
despite RM29.9 million higher interest costs to finance the recent strategic acquisitions.
REVENUE
PROFIT BEFORE TAX
RM5.0
billion
RM624.7
million
FY2022: RM4.47 billion
FY2022: RM454.1 million
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
KEY MESSAGES
Annual Report 2023
52
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
Recovery in out-of-home consumption together with increased sales during the festive seasons led to a 17.9% growth
in revenue at F&B Malaysia to RM2.85 billion. Revenue was further boosted by contributions from Cocoaland and strong
recovery in Exports in certain regions along with the growth of the business-to-business (B2B) channel.
The new drinking water line in Kota Kinabalu Industrial Park (KKIP) contributed to higher water sales (Ice Mountain and
Borneo). At the same time, perennial favourites, like F&N SEASONS and carbonated soft drinks also recorded increased sales
volume during the year.
Revenue
RM2.85 billion
17.9%
Adjusted Operating Profit
RM229.1 million
22.9%
Underpinned by higher revenue, operating profit for F&B Malaysia (excluding one-off non-operating items) rose 22.9% to
RM229.1 million compared to RM186.4 million in FY2022, partially offset by higher advertising and promotional spending
and higher commodity costs.
Food & Beverages Malaysia (F&B Malaysia)
53
Revenue
RM2.15 billion
4.8%
Adjusted Operating Profit
RM378.3 million
37.1%
Focusing on efficient route-to-market and in-store execution, along with consistency in brand building and consumer
engagement, F&B Thailand ended the year with revenue increasing by 4.8% (1.7% in Thai Baht) to RM2.15 billion from RM2.05
billion in FY2022. Supported by the recovery in tourism and out-of-home consumption, the result also benefitted from a
favourable THB to MYR translation.
Strategic measures to manage price, better discount management and a strong market lead in the sweetened condensed and
evaporated milk category helped moderate the increased input and packaging costs and higher advertising and promotions
expenditure. The same pricing and discounting discipline also extended to Cambodia and Laos, where we also observed
meaningful improvements in margins. Indochina margin improvements helped moderate the reduced orders from international
export key accounts.
Driven by operational efficiencies and better margin management, F&B Thailand achieved solid margin recovery from the
second quarter onwards and saw its operating profit excluding one-off non-operating items grow stronger by 37.1% (33.0%
in Thai Baht) to RM378.3 million compared to FY2022.
Exports ex-Malaysia
Our Exports team has adeptly leveraged our business intelligence tools to navigate the headwinds posed by the increased
cost of commodity prices and competition. This, together with the strengthening of our key accounts management, enabled
us to tap into recovering markets such as Africa, ASEAN, and China.
Focusing on product application, we achieved solid growth in the B2B channel while expanding the distribution of our own-
brand product in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, as well as China. In addition to contributions from Cocoaland,
Exports benefitted from tactical pricing and a strategic portfolio mix.
Food & Beverages Thailand (F&B Thailand)
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
KEY MESSAGES
Annual Report 2023
54
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER’S STATEMENT
OUTLOOK AND GOING FORWARD
The coming financial year is likely to remain volatile due to ongoing
geopolitical issues with the prices of commodities and other goods
and services remaining high. Yet, we believe we have developed
strong fundamentals to navigate future uncertainties.
The Group has managed to maintain growth in its existing food and
beverage business while integrating new businesses and setting up
its agriculture pillar. This is a testament to our people’s adaptability,
and our resilience as an organisation.
With our dairy farm in Gemas, we are suitably prepared to support
the Malaysian Government in its ambition to create food security.
We also have big plans for developing our Halal food pillar, leveraging
the strengths of Cocoaland and the synergies with NONA and
the Group.
In East Malaysia, we also look forward to the recovery in tourism
and a concomitant increase in investment into the region.
In Thailand, we will capitalise on the tourism resurgence while
continuing to meet customers’ and consumers’ needs with thoughtfully
curated products. We also want to improve our penetration drive into
more rural retailers so as to benefit from the digital wallet initiative
proposed by the new Thai Government whereby all Thais aged 16
and above get 10,000 Baht.
As I write, we are gearing up to celebrate TEAPOT’s 15th anniversary
in Thailand, Cambodia and Laos starting October 2023.
We are also optimistic about sustaining the momentum in Exports,
given the gradual reopening of the global economy post-pandemic.
Growth in ASEAN and China will have particularly positive spinoffs for
F&NHB as they represent our key markets.
We will continue to rein in our costs focusing on digitalisation to reduce
manual labour and the use of natural resources while enhancing
productivity. Concurrently, we will continue to strengthen our
sustainability platform. Investments made to date have ensured that
we integrate environmental and social principles into our operations
for optimum long-term outcomes. This is part of our commitment to
creating real value for the wide range of stakeholders who are part of
the F&N ecosystem.
Our focus in FY2024, as in FY2023, will be on strengthening our
existing brands. We are excited about the launch of BORNEO SPRINGS.
Complementing the pristine water sourced from a 130-million-
year-old forest, we have designed the packaging to be optimally
eco-friendly, featuring FSCTM-certified paper and bottle caps made
from sugar cane. We believe BORNEO SPRINGS has the potential to
become a flagship product going forward.
55
LIM YEW HOE
Chief Executive Officer
ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
It was simply fantastic to be able to celebrate our 140th anniversary
in a year that was very positive for F&NHB. For this, there are many
parties to thank.
As always, I would like to acknowledge our shareholders for your
trust in our ability to deliver; our business partners and suppliers
for sharing our vision and values and being there with us on our
growth journey; our customers for your consistent support over the
years; and, of course, our consumers who truly are top of mind in
everything we do. Our success depends on continuously delivering
our promise of Pure Enjoyment, Pure Goodness to you.
It is also with heartfelt gratitude that I would like to thank the entire
F&NHB family. It is because of your unfailing commitment to the
Group that we have been able to get to where we are today. Thank
you to all our directors for your steady guidance and confidence in
the team. Most of all, thank you, terima kasih and kop khun krub
to all our employees for your determination and dedication to the
Group’s ongoing journey. With your continued support, we will reach
greater heights as we move Forward Together into what promises to
be a very exciting future.
VALUE CREATION BUSINESS MODEL
THROUGH OUR VALUE CREATION BUSINESS MODEL
DELIVERING ON
DELIVERING ON
HUMAN CAPITAL
• >3,800 employees
• 27.1% of employees are female
• 46.3% of female representation in
managerial positions
• 4 women directors on Board
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
As at 30 Sep 2023
• RM816.8 million in share capital
• RM3,343.2 million in shareholder’s equity
SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
• Engaged with > 2,000 local and global suppliers
across our supply chain
• > 230,000 outlets in Malaysia, Thailand, Laos &
Cambodia
• 53,000 hawkers in Thailand, Laos & Cambodia
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
• Equity from >30 well-loved brands
• New product formulations and recipes
• Innovative process and technology
• Strategic Partnerships
ThaiBev, Fraser and Neave, Limited, Nestlé, Sunkist
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
• 13 production plants
• 25 offices in Malaysia, Thailand, Brunei and
United Arab Emirates
• RM5.11 billion worth of assets
NATURAL CAPITAL
• > 1 billion MJ energy consumed
• > 42.9 million MJ solar energy generated
• > 2.7 million m3 water consumed
• Sourced raw materials that are sustainable
Food & Beverages Malaysia
OUR BUSINESSES
Food & Beverages Thailand
Property & Others
Sourcing
Distribution
Production
Marketing & Sales
Post-consumption
Packaging Management
Read more in
“Our Supply Chain”
on pages 22 and 23.
INPUTS - RESOURCES WE USE OUR BUSINESS - HOW WE CREATE VALUE
VISION
To be a stable and sustainable
food and beverage (F&B)
leader in the ASEAN region.
MISSION
To be ASEAN’s leading provider of
quality and innovative products that
consumers choose and trust.
CORE VALUES
SUPPORTED BY STRONG GOVERNANCE &
EFFECTIVE BOARD LEADERSHIP
CORE AREAS OF SUSTAINABILITY
• Responsible Business Practice
• Responsible Product Stewardship
• Responsible Supply Chain
• Create Value for Society
• Empower Our People
• Operational Eco-efficiency
• Value Chain Impacts
COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE
• Better Products
• Greater Efficiency
• Strengthen Relationships
with key stakeholders
OUR
VALUE
CHAIN
HOW WE CONDUCT BUSINESS
Collaboration
Creating Values
Caring for Stakeholders
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
VALUE CREATION AT F&N
Annual Report 2023
56
VALUE CREATION AT F&N
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
• Revenue : RM5,001.4 million
• Profit before Tax : RM624.7 million
• Profit for the Year : RM542.0 million
• Dividend per Share : 77.0 sen *
• Total Dividend Payout : RM220.1 million
• Economic Value Retained : RM316.8 million
INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
• Introduced various innovative solutions
for our customers in 93 countries
nationwide
• Launched 6 new products
• 82 products endorsed with
Healthier Choice Logo
MANUFACTURED CAPITAL
• Capital investment of > RM800 million
over past five years
- Renewable energy programme
- Shah Alam Integrated Warehouse,
Malaysia
- Rojana Distribution Centre, Thailand
- Fresh milk line in Rojana, Thailand
- Drinking water line in Kota Kinabalu
Industrial Park, Malaysia
- Water packing line in Matang, Malaysia
OUTPUTS - VALUE CREATED CREATING VALUES FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS
3 STRATEGIC DOMAINS
BUILD
Building new capabilities and
business opportunities
UNLOCK
Unlocking potentials of the
Group to create maximum value
STRENGTHEN
Strengthening core businesses
for market leadership positions
3
2
1
OPERATING ENVIRONMENT
• Inflation & Increased Cost of Living
• Effects of Climate Change
• Waste Management & Conscious Consumption
• Employee Engagement & Well-being
OUR STRATEGY
OUR STRATEGY
HUMAN CAPITAL
• Paid RM372.4 million in total employee remuneration & benefits
• Employed 696 new employees
• Provided training and development to employees
- Executives : 32.9 average hours
- Non-executives : 11.7 average hours
• Awarded RM206,000 to 71 children of employees under F&N Chairman’s Award
NATURAL CAPITAL
• Energy intensity (MJ/MT) : 898.30
• GHG Emissions Intensity (MTCO
2e
/MT) : 0.065
• Water Intensity (m3/MT) : 2.36
• Solid Waste Recycling Rate : 88%
• % of Recyclable Packaging : 98%
• % of Recycled Content in Packaging : 25%
SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
• Social investment of > RM1 million to support
> 100 beneficiaries
Distributors and
Trade Customers
D&T
Consumers
Con
Communities
Com
Suppliers
Sup
Distributors and
Trade Customers
D&T
Shareholders
and Investors
S&I
Consumers
Con
Shareholders
and Investors
S&I
Consumers
Con
Regulators
Reg
Shareholders
and Investors
S&I
Suppliers
Sup
Employees
Emp
Shareholders
and Investors
S&I
Communities
Com
Regulators
Reg
* Included proposed final dividend of 33.0 sen per share and
special dividend of 17.0 sen per share, which will only be
recognised in the financial statements upon shareholders’
approval.
57
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
58
MARKET REVIEW
A. Strategic Review
In May 2023, the World Health
Organization (WHO) declared that
COVID-19 “no longer constitutes
a public health emergency of
international concern”. Yet, the global
macroenvironment is far from being
optimally healthy. Added to the long-
term effects of the pandemic, the
Russia-Ukraine conflict continues to
rage, there is now instability in Gaza,
and we are experiencing more and
more climate changes. Economically,
persistent inflation has resulted in
interest rate hikes.
The International Monetary Fund, in
its World Economic Outlook released
in October 2023, predicts that global
growth will slow down to 3.0% in
2023 and 2.9% in 2024 from 3.5%
in 2022 – rates that fall short of the
3.8% average from 2000 until 2019.
This deceleration is expected to
be most pronounced in advanced
economies, dropping from 2.6% in
2022 to 1.5% in 2023 and 1.4% in
2024. In contrast, emerging nations
will experience a significantly more
muted slowdown, from 4.1% in 2022
to 4.0% in both 2023 and 2024.
In Malaysia, Bank Negara forecasts
that the economy will benefit from
robust domestic demand, the
implementationofmajorinfrastructure
projects as well as recovering tourism
to expand between 4.0% and 5.0%.
Nevertheless, this is a marked
slowdown compared to the growth
of 8.7% in 2022, reflecting external
headwinds.
While Thailand is expected to
experience a slower growth rate than
Malaysia – at 2.7% in 2023 – this is
higher than its economic expansion
of 2.6% in 2022. The slight increase
will be driven by private consumption
as tourism in the country recovers.
Meanwhile, the Thai Baht has been
strengthening since 2022 due to
growth initiatives announced by the
government.
INFLATION & INCREASED COST OF LIVING
Inflation in Malaysia has been increasing in the last few years, from -1.14% in 2020 to
+2.48% in 2021 and +3.38% in 20221. According to Bank Negara, core inflation in 2023
has been moderating, from 3.6% in the first quarter of the year to 2.8% in the second
quarter. However, inflation remains higher than the long-term pre-pandemic average of
2.0% from 2011-20192. In Thailand, meanwhile, headline inflation is expected to average
1.2% in 2023 as a result of measures to manage energy prices and improvements in
global supply chains3. Along with inflation and a higher cost of living, consumers are
more wary of how they spend their money. Other than essentials, consumers seek value
in their purchases. Businesses, meanwhile, have been impacted by increasing cost of
commodities and energy resulting in a higher cost of production for manufacturers and
higher cost of operations more generally.
EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE
Climate change is no longer a distant threat. The effects of increasing levels of carbon
dioxide and other greenhouse gases (GHGs) in the atmosphere is already being felt as
we experience more and more unexpected as well as unprecedented climate events.
In recent years, the world has been recording all-time-high temperatures, intense
wildfires, more severe and prolonged droughts, hurricanes and floods. In response,
governments are pledging to reduce their GHG emissions while investors and other
stakeholders are requiring companies to make known their stand on climate change and
their approach, if any, on mitigating and managing the phenomenon. As the situation
becomes more urgent, companies are also being pressured into outlining programmes
being undertaken to achieve any targets that have been set.
WASTE MANAGEMENT & CONSCIOUS CONSUMPTION
Other than GHG emissions, a key environmental issue today is excessive consumption which
leads to the depletion of natural materials/resources as well as the accumulation of waste
that poses a threat to sustainability if it is not managed properly. Landfills are overflowing,
and the development of more units would require more land, an increasingly precious
natural resource. Meanwhile, indiscriminate disposal of plastics leads to blocked drains,
polluted rivers and flotsam in the oceans, posing a threat to marine life. Manufacturers are
under the spotlight as to how they manage their production and packaging in a manner that
is optimally protective to the environment. They are also being held accountable for post-
consumption waste management.
EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT & WELL-BEING
Following the Great Resignation that unfolded in the immediate aftermath of Covid-19, the
workplace today is experiencing another phenomenon – the Great Reflection. Perhaps as
a result of the work-from-home phase the world has gone through, people today are more
aware of what they want from their places of employment, and are more determined to be
in a workplace that ticks the right boxes4. Most importantly, according to leading human
resources consultancy Gartner, employees feel a need to be valued at work. There are five
main aspects to this, namely the need to: 1) feel a greater sense of connection with work;
2) have greater autonomy at work; 3) being given personal growth opportunities; 4) being
cared for holistically; and 5) feel invested in the company’s purpose.
1 https://www.macrotrends.net/countries/MYS/malaysia/inflation-rate-cpi
2 Economic and Financial Developments in Malaysia in the Second Quarter of 2023, BNM, https://www.bnm.gov.my/-/
qb23q2_en_pr
3 https://www.imf.org/en/News/Articles/2023/11/08/pr23384-thailand-imf-staff-completes-2023-article-iv-mission
4 Employees seek personal value and purpose at work. Be prepared to deliver., Gartner, https://www.gartner.com/en/
articles/employees-seek-personal-value-and-purpose-at-work-be-prepared-to-deliver
KEY MARKET TRENDS
59
• The completion of certain capex projects in recent years contributed positively in terms of operational efficiency and energy savings, which
helped the Group mitigate higher commodity and energy cost.
• We continued to offer consumers value deals, such as twin packs for FARMHOUSE milk and economical 1.75L packs for various soft drinks,
which was extended to our sugarless 100PLUS ZERO in Malaysia.
• In Thailand, we have also been diligent about offering value to our customers by giving more for less and catering to their specific
needs. For example, TEAPOT Sweetened Evaporated Milk (2 in 1) 1L were highly sought after by hawker customers to gain savings.
Meanwhile, we kept them updated with new application and recipes to further boost their product offering.
• To support our suppliers, we established the F&N Business Partner Award Programme to help them enhance their service and expand into
the region with F&N.
• We have embarked on a phased implementation of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) ahead of Bursa
Malaysia’s stipulated reporting timeline. In FY2023, we quantified material physical risks and key transition risks through scenario analysis.
• We are intensifying efforts to rely less on fossil fuels for energy to reduce the Group’s GHG emissions. Following the installation of rooftop
solar PV system in our Malaysia and Thailand facilities, plans are underway to extend solar roof systems with total capacity of 6.38 MWp
to more facilities including our factories in Rawang in FY2024.
• We were the first company in Malaysia to back 100% of the palm oil used in our products with RSPO credits, with a goal to transition to
100% physically certified palm oil by 2025. We currently utilised 60% Certified Sustainable Palm Oil, while the remaining 40% was through
RSPO credits.
• To support our climate change efforts, we have amplified our sustainability awareness training across the Group, and aim for every
employee to undergo ESG training by 2025.
• We have increased the use of recycled material in our packaging to 25% and aim for all beverage and dairy packaging to be 100% recyclable
by 2025 (2022:98%). Our new BORNEO SPRINGS is packed in FSCTM-certified paper cartons with caps made from sugar cane.
• We manage food surplus by channelling them to charitable organisations and communities in need. Since 2019, we have established a
partnership with Yayasan Food Bank Malaysia to support the programme Food Bank Siswa.
• To inculcate environmental awareness among the community at large, we collaborated with GRAB Malaysia, KLEAN and MRANTI to introduce
18 cutting-edge AI-powered Reverse Vending Machines across key locations in the Klang Valley.
• We took the school recycling programme nationwide this year, attracting the involvement of 1,300 primary and secondary schools
throughout every state in Malaysia. To date, the F&N School Recycling programme has collected over 9,000 MT recyclables, preventing
them from going to landfill while educating schoolchildren the importance of 5R.
• Respecting employees’ desire for better work-life balance, we have maintained a hybrid work arrangement.
• To engender a greater sense of connectedness, we have resumed employee engagement platforms that had been suspended during the
pandemic, and are introducing more programmes such as bowling tournament, and creating an engaging communication platform via
Fraserian Connect, our award-winning mobile app.
• We are enhancing employees’ safety and health via programmes such as the Safety, Health and Environment month, mental health
awareness initiatives, and the provision of free influenza vaccinations to over 1,000 employees nationwide.
• To create a sense of personal safety and well-being, we rolled out an enhanced Prohibiting Sexual Harassment Policy across all our offices
in Malaysia.
OUR RESPONSE
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
60
KEY RISKS AND MITIGATION
A. Strategic Review
Material Issues
2
12
13
10
8
5
14
15
16
17
18
11
9
6
7
1
4
3
Product & Service Labelling
Human Capital Development
Packaging
Community Development
& Inclusive Growth
Nutrition
Economic Performance
Water Stewardship
Waste Management
Energy
Climate Change
Biodiversity
Employee Safety, Health
& Well-being
Human Rights
Policy & Regulations
Innovation
Product Quality & Safety
Governance & Ethics
Supply Chain Stewardship
1
2
3
4
5
6
B
C
D
E
F
N
H
G
I
J
K
L
M
O
P
18
17
16
15
14
13
12
11
10
9
8
Economic
Social
Environment
A
7
Key Risks
B Other Financial Risks
A Significant Increase in
Commodity Prices
D
Inability to Anticipate/
Respond Timely to
Changing Consumer Needs
C Strategic Risk Involving
New Business Investment
F Corruption, Fraud, Pilferage
& Ethical Risks
E Risk from Disruptive Digital
Technology & Innovation
H Managing Stakeholders,
Expectations & Perceptions
G
Non-compliance with
Laws, Rules, Regulations
& Standards
J Political/International
Instability & Geopolitical Risk
I Environmental Damage
L Product Quality & Standards
K Infectious Disease
N Cyber Threats &
Data Security Risk
M Health, Safety
& Security
P Supply Chain Risks
O Talent Management &
Succession Planning
Financial/
Economic
Strategic
Governance &
Ethics
Reputational
Operational
61
Addressing Our Risks & Opportunities
Risk Mitigation actions Material Issue
Extreme Weather Events and Other Environmental
Concerns (Emerging Risk)
Rising concerns associated with environmental
impact such as extreme weather events, water-
related risks, waste and pollution risks, and
biodiversity loss.
At F&N, we recognise the role of business in protecting the environment.
The transition to a circular economy offers opportunities to create
business value as well as minimise environmental impacts.
• We are guided by our Environmental, Safety and Health Policy, which
ensures all major plants in the group are ISO 14001:2015 (environmental
management system) certified.
• Environmental, Social & Governance (ESG) elements are considered
and integrated into our business strategies, including capital
expenditure investment(s) to ensure business resiliency.
• Various environmental-related sustainability targets and metrics have
been established, monitored, tracked and reported on periodic basis.
• We undertake Environmental Impact Assessments prior to any project.
• We partner with local communities to protect and preserve the
environment.
• We strive for zero waste as well as zero pollution through continuous
improvement of our environmental management system.
Climate Change
Packaging
Waste
Management
Energy
Biodiversity
Significant Increase in Commodity Prices
(Emerging Risk)
Commodities and material prices are influenced
by the global & local supply and demand, weather
conditions as well as regulatory changes imposed by
the government. As such, any significant increase in
prices of commodities and materials could materially
affect the cost and profitability of our products.
• Commodities and materials price risk is managed through forward
purchase of key commodities, active monitoring of commodities price
trends, and vigilant sales forecasting and production planning.
• In addition, we also source from multiple suppliers and origin of
commodities/materials as listed in our approved vendors list to enable
us to respond ably in the event of shortage in supply and/or increase
in price.
• We also hedge our purchases using our enlarged and collective
purchasing capability.
• Price adjustment would be considered as last resort to protect
profitability of the products.
Biodiversity
Economic
Performance
Exposure to Fluctuations in Exchange Rates
In times of foreign currency market volatility, the
Group is exposed to the risk of fluctuations in foreign
exchange rates against the local currency due to:
• Importation of materials for production;
• Exports of goods are traded in foreign currency;
and
• Overseas operations are valued in foreign
currencies.
• The Group is guided by the Group Treasury Policy which outlines
the policy in hedging the identified and committed foreign exchange
exposure.
• Typically, at least 60 per cent of our forex requirements are hedged to
manage fluctuating prices of commodities as well as forex movements.
• Exports serve as additional natural hedge to cushion the impact of
depreciating local currencies.
Economic
Performance
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
62
KEY RISKS AND MITIGATION
A. Strategic Review
Risk Mitigation actions Material Issue
Product Quality and Standards
As a player in the food & beverage industry, the
Group is exposed to the risks associated with
product quality and standards as product safety and
quality are of paramount importance to the Group.
The exposure in product quality and standards may
bring serious ramifications in terms of financial
impact as well as reputational impact.
• Quality assurance cycle begins with suppliers’ pre-qualification and
approval, source or origin of raw materials, manufacturing facilities and
procedures, up to the distribution and storage of our products.
• Comprehensive policies and procedures established on processing,
packaging and storage, equipment and plant sanitization as well as
employee personal hygiene to prevent contamination.
• Compliance with stringent quality systems in place such as ISO22000,
Food Safety System Certification 22000 and HACCP Certification by
Ministry of Health.
• Contingency plans on product traceability and product recall/
withdrawal should such circumstances arise.
Product Quality
& safety
Nutrition
Ability to Anticipate/ Respond Timely to Changing
Consumer Needs (Emerging Risk)
Consumers are becoming more informed on
nutritional facts of their diet and adoption of active/
healthy lifestyles. This risk relates to the Group’s
ability to stay competitive and relevant to consumer
needs by building competitive advantage through
innovation.
Should we fail to address the shift in the consumer
trends nimbly and effectively, it may result in financial
as well as reputational impact in the longer term.
• Prioritise Research & Development initiatives on developing new
products and further improve our product offerings in food & beverages
to meet consumers’ demand for healthier choices which are in line with
the rising health and wellness trend, without compromising on taste.
• Continuous improvement on the offerings of healthier choice products
in our innovation roadmap with target to offer a healthier option in
every product category that we are in.
• Introduce new pack size as part of our portion control commitment.
• Promote active lifestyles through programs that target schools and
communities.
Innovation
Economic
Performance
Supply Chain Risks
The Group is exposed to risks associated with
anticipated or unanticipated disruption to the supply
chain and normal operations of the Group which
could be due to internal or external factors such as
extreme weather events, infectious diseases, etc.
• Ensure sufficient inventory supply of key materials as well as finished
goods to minimise implications to the operations in the event of
disruption.
• Regular engagement with internal and external stakeholders to ensure
resilience in the supply of materials amidst supply chain disruptions.
• Group Business Continuity Management Framework (BCMF) has been
established which sets out the policies and procedures in relation to
response, recovery and restoration of business in the event of a crisis
or disaster.
• Business Continuity Plans (BCP) are in place and being tested in
accordance with the BCMF.
• Maintain healthy cashflow positions during crisis.
Supply Chain
Stewardship
Energy
Climate Change
Biodiversity
Human Rights
Water
Stewardship
Cyber Threats and Data Security Risks
Amid the evolving technology-reliant business
environment, the Group is exposed to cyber security
threats from cyber criminals which may compromise
data integrity and even leakage of confidential and
sensitive information which is valuable to the Group.
• The Group has developed Cybersecurity Framework to provide
guidance to businesses on managing cyber security risks.
• Regular trainings via e-Learning platform and constant updates related
to cyber threats are provided to all employees to maintain awareness
level.
• Implementation of Data Leakage Protection solutions to mitigate cyber
threats and data security risks.
Governance &
ethnics
63
Risk Mitigation actions Material Issue
Managing Stakeholders’ Expectations and
Perceptions
Managing and balancing stakeholders’ expectations/
perceptions in relation to environmental, social and
governance (ESG) aspects such as human rights,
Halal assurance, community development and
inclusive growth have always been challenging as
ESG topics have rapidly climbing on the ranking of
top concerns amongst many leaders, investors, and
other stakeholders.
• Proactive stakeholder engagements including shareholders & investors,
customers, suppliers, regulators, communities, and employees.
• Full commitment from our Board of Directors in implementing our
strategic initiatives as well as sustainability priorities.
• Policies and procedures are established, supported by dedicated
resources to implement the framework, and uphold the various
compliance standards, including Halal Governance and Assurance
Framework.
• Stringent compliance with various compliance standards along
our entire value chain, from sourcing of raw materials to delivery of
products.
• Close monitoring of news published in the media and response
procedures are in place to address circumstances should it occur.
Product Quality
& Safety
Community
Development &
Inclusive Growth
Packaging
Climate Change
Water
Stewardship
Human Rights
Product & Service
Labelling
Fraud and Corruption Risks
The Group could be exposed to governance and
ethics-related risks such as fraud and corruption
practices involving employees and/or external
stakeholders which eventually may result in financial
losses and reputational repercussions.
• Top-level commitments from the Board and Senior Management on
zero-tolerance towards unethical practices.
• Awareness training programme for employees via e-learning platform
designed to enhance awareness in protecting the interest of the
Group.
• Whistleblowing channel is available for internal employees as well
as the public to escalate concerns or report to the Receiving Officer
should there be any incident detected.
Governance &
ethnics
Strategic Risks Involving New Business
Investments
• Cost-benefit analysis will be undertaken and financial viability of
business investments are diligently assessed in compliance with
investment guidelines.
• Integrating Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) factors in
business investment valuations to better capture and manage the full
range of risks posed by ESG factors.
• Verification, investigation and audit of investment opportunity
involving subject matter experts to confirm all relevant facts and
financial information are true and the potential business investment
meets business objectives before proceeding with new investments.
• Keep track on tasks and follow ups to ensure relevant regulatory
requirements where the new business investments are established are
met.
• Post-Implementation Review (PIR) is conducted at an interval required
by the policy after completion of the project. The PIR is conducted
to assess actual financial performance against the original feasibility
study assumptions besides update on the status of meeting the
business objectives.
Product Quality
& Safety
Integration and
synergies
Community
Development &
Inclusive Growth
Packaging
Climate Change
Water
Stewardship
Human Rights
Product & Service
Labelling
Economic
Performance
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
64
STRATEGIC PERFORMANCE REVIEW
A. Strategic Review
BUILD
Building new capabilities and business opportunities
PASSION
PASSION
2025
2025
STRATEGIC DOMAINS
FY2023 Key Highlights
Expanded into sports nutrition with 100PLUS PRO
High Protein, formulated to facilitate after-sports
recovery. Gained positive momentum with our NPDs
introduced such as 100PLUS ZERO and the TEAPOT
Evaporated Creamer UHT milk in 1L in Thailand.
Expanded production capacity - drinking water
production plant at Kota Kinabalu Industrial Park, a
new mineral water line in Matang and an automated
ketupat line for Sri Nona in Rawang.
F&N Agrivalley launches its foray into the upstream
fresh milk business with a groundbreaking ceremony
of the Group’s integrated dairy farm in Gemas, Negeri
Sembilan.
Creation of new business growth in our Halal Food Pillar
with maiden contribution from Cocoaland companies this
financial year.
Priorities for 2024
Continue to prioritise innovation across all facets of our
businesses, from new product development, channels management
to value chain activities to address the untapped market demand.
Fulfilling our ambition to deliver the key milestones of the integrated dairy
farm in capturing opportunities in liquid milk and supporting the National
Food Security Agenda in dairy & beef.
Fostering growth in halal food pillar and extracting business synergies from the
integration of Sri Nona and Cocoaland for further value mining.
65
STRENGTHEN
Strengthening our core businesses for market leadership positions
Unlocking potentials of the Group to create maximum value
UNLOCK
FY2023 Key Highlights
Various capital investments had been completed and begun its contribution to the Group
through cost savings.
Unlocked potentials among the existing talent pool and enhanced our leadership development
programme to support new business and future expansion.
Strategic collaborations with key suppliers to achieve common partnership goals. E.g. F&N
Business Partner Award Programme.
Leveraged on sukuk financing to unlock future business growth as well as diversifying our business
risks.
Priorities for 2024
Unlocking opportunities through strategic partnerships collaboration with various stakeholders for value
creation towards business, environmental and social goals.
Transitioning to next-level of strong governance company and establish programmes to improve operations, empower
our employees, strengthen stakeholders’ engagement and deliver business values.
Unlocking values via effective financing and capital management strategies.
FY2023 Key Highlights
Group revenue for the year crossed RM5 billion, underpinned by a positive recovery across all markets, effective
price and channel management strategies, and contribution from Cocoaland.
Our export business contribution surpassed RM1bil mark, supported by a robust recovery in exports to
Africa, ASEAN and Greater China regions with global footprint expanded to 93 countries.
Defended market share leaderships in Malaysia and Thailand within our core categories.
Our continuous effort in marketplace, workplace and environment received external validation
through numerous awards and recognitions in Malaysia and Thailand, including becoming Top 1
percentile in of Global Food & Beverage Sector in FTSE4Good Index.
Obtained extended rights from Nestlé to distribute BEAR BRAND sterilised milk in Cambodia.
Priorities for 2024
Continue to strengthen our stewardship in our core categories and find new growth
potential through transformative projects to accelerate high growth via brand portfolio
management.
Continue to leverage on digital and integrating technologies within our operations to
strengthen our route-to-market strategies while achieving cost effectiveness.
Continue to drive operational efficiency, commercial excellence and fiscal discipline
across our value chain from raw materials, production, marketing & sales, and post-
consumption packaging management as we integrate ESG elements as part of
strategic management, where applicable.
Continue to participate in industry policy making and strengthen our Halal thought
leadership in the Industry.
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
66
STRENGTHENING OUR HALAL ECOSYSTEM
F&N IS
COMMITTED
TO BE A
LEADING
PRODUCER
OF HALAL
PRODUCTS.
Halal Policy and Resources
made available to ensure
highest level of integrity to
stakeholders.
ESTABLISHING
GROUP HALAL COUNCIL (GHC)
F&NHB has adopted a 2-tier halal management structure to embed the
halalan tayyiban guidelines and the Islamic Shariah Law requirements,
across our operations at the Group level:
• F&NHB established a Group Halal Council in 2016 to embed the
halalan tayyiban guidelines, extending it into our operations and
our engagement with consumers and society.
• The Group Halal Council is assisted by the Halal Affairs
Department.
• A dedicated Internal Halal Committee is set up in each of our
manufacturing plants.
• The Internal Halal Committee is responsible for all matters
pertaining to Halal compliance in our supply chain, from the
procurement of ingredients and raw materials, management of
manufacturing facilities and personnel involved in production
processes, to the storage, warehousing, and transportation of
our products.
1
100% of our products are Halal-certified by relevant authorised
certification bodies including:
• Department of Islamic Development Malaysia (JAKIM).
• Majelis Ulama Indonesia (MUI).
• Central Islamic Council of Thailand (CICOT).
Our Shah Alam and Pulau Indah plant are awarded the Whitelist status by
JAKIM, in which Halal applications and approval are fast-tracked.
Halal Assurance Management System (HAS) version 2020 is implemented
to maintain and ensure the sustainability of Halal production processes.
• A pool of qualified Halal Executives is maintained to implement a
robust HAS.
• Internal Halal Audits are conducted for all of our plants.
We perform porcine analysis for our products and ingredients as further
assurance of Halal.
Used equipment or machines brought into our factories undergo Shariah
sertu cleansing to ensure Halal integrity of our products.
Our Halal Risk Management plan for all plants is reviewed to meet Halal
Assurance Management System (HAS) 2020 requirements.
To ensure Halal compliance downstream our supply chain, Halal
awareness training are conducted for our key transporters, distributors
and suppliers.
• We have conducted Halal training on 100% of our transporters to
ensure Halal compliance.
• Halal audits are also conducted on our distributors to ensure Halal
compliance further downstream in our supply chain.
• Specifically, this year we conducted Halal audits on our potential
recyclable PET bottle suppliers.
ENSURING HALAL COMPLIANCE
& INTEGRITY ACROSS OUR
VALUE CHAIN
2
Annual Report 2023
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
RECOGNITION TOWARDS OUR
HALAL COMMITMENT
67
JAKIM
(Malaysia)
MUI
(Indonesia)
CICOT
(Thailand)
We continuously strengthen our employee’s Halal awareness and
understanding through:
• Scheduled Halal Awareness programmes, including training,
contests and quizzes .
• Scheduled training in Good Manufacturing Practices and Good
Hygiene Practices.
• Prohibition of non-Halal foods and drinks within the factory
premises, including the office and canteen.
Various trainings were organised to expand internal capacity:
• 100% of our employees, including newcomers undergo mandatory
Halal awareness training within 3 months.
• This year, we have extended our Halal awareness training
programme to our foreign employees in their native language.
• > 1,700 employees attended Halal-related training this year.
• Employees with responsibilities in Halal matters also attended a
series of professional training related to Halal internal audits and
assurance.
CULTIVATING INTERNAL
HALAL CULTURE
3
We facilitate positive collaborative engagement with Halal authorities
such as JAKIM, Jabatan Agama Islam Selangor (JAIS) and Halal
Development Corporation Berhad (HDC).
• Partner with JAKIM and JAIS in community outreach programmes.
We actively engage with the Department of Malaysia standards through
Federation of Malaysian Manufacturers (FMM) to provide our input
towards developing Halal-related standards, such as:
• Sertu standards.
• Malaysian Standard 1514 Good Manufacturing Practice (GMP
for Food) - Halal Industrial Park - General Requirements and
Guidelines.
To further propel the Halal eco-system, we partner HDC on the Halal
Sourcing Partnership Programme, a capacity-building programme aimed
at:
• sharing Halal industry best practices - providing technical advice
and knowledge transfer to small and medium enterprises (SMEs).
• coaching SMEs to elevate their capability to be qualified as Halal
vendors for multinational companies.
Through the programme, we have provided mentorship to 16 SMEs who
have high potential to elevate their business capacity.
• In 2021, we successfully onboarded one SME as our ingredient
supplier for F&N Kurma Madu Cordial.
• In 2023, we hosted a pitching session aimed at recruiting potential
suppliers through the programme. A total of 14 SMEs actively
engaged in this pitching session, demonstrating their interest in
becoming our potential partners in our on-going journey.
• We are in the midst of developing more Halal SMEs to become our
suppliers or co-manufacturers.
We also actively participate in knowledge-sharing sessions such as:
• World Halal Forum 2023.
• World Halal Business Conference Australia 2022.
• Halal Sector Forum 2023.
We also support HRDCorp by providing our input towards the
development of Industrial Skills Framework for Food & Beverages –
Food Manufacturing, particularly in career development related to Halal
Industry.
FACILITATING EXTERNAL
ENGAGEMENT TO UPLIFT HALAL
ECO-SYSTEM
4
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
• Halal Innovation Excellence
Award
World Halal Excellence Award
2022 (WHEA 2022)  
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
• A constituent of the
FTSE4Good Bursa Malaysia
Shariah (F4GBMS) Index
100% HALAL- CERTIFIED
PRODUCTS
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
68
BUSINESS REVIEW
1 2 3
SUCHIT
RIEWCHAROON
Managing Director,
F&N Dairies (Thailand) Limited
NG
ENG CHEANG
Managing Director,
Commercial Operations Malaysia
GRAHAM
LIM
Managing Director,
Commercial Operations
(East Malaysia & Brunei)
69
4 5 5
DATO’ RAFFIQ
BIN MD ARIFF
Managing Director,
Foods and Industry Engagement
BRYAN LEE
CHEE KONG
Managing Director,
Cocoaland
(Retired on 31 October 2023)
LAI
MING KONG
Managing Director,
International Markets Development
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
70
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND (F&B THAILAND)
B. Business Review
The operating environment in Thailand presented both challenges and opportunities
which F&B Thailand was able to manage to its advantage. Despite high commodity prices
and a shortage of milk, the team recorded a much improved performance year-on-year
due to the pick-up in tourism as well as in consumer sentiment. This was complemented
by a further strengthening of stakeholder relationships, especially with hawkers as well
as with suppliers, namely dairy farmers, and route-to-market strategies.
In response to increased health awareness among Thais, F&B Thailand boosted
its fresh milk supply with full operationalisation of the Wang Muang dairy plant in
October 2022. It also launched new products such as TEAPOT UHT Evaporated
Creamer 1L and TEAPOT Sweetened Condensed Milk (SCM) Tube Nom Yen Flavour
– the former designed specifically to meet the needs of F&B operators, and the
latter to provide more exciting flavours for home consumption. In Cambodia and
Laos, the team focused on enhancing its brand awareness product usages, and
hawker visibility.
As a result of its focused route-to-market strategies and in-store execution
alongside consistent brand building and consumer engagement, F&B Thailand
maintained its leadership in the SCM and evaporated milk segments in Thailand, as
well as in the condensed milk segment in Cambodia and Laos. Further entrenching
its position in Cambodia, F&B Thailand obtained extended rights to distribute BEAR
BRAND sterilised milk in the country in addition to manufacturing the milk.
F&B Thailand also worked more closely with its export customers to identify new
growth opportunities and better demand forecast, resulting in enhanced export
performance for the year.
Enhance domestic sales
through strengthening
brand visibility
Recruit new users
via new product
development
Further deepen the
Indochina and export
markets
Reap more cost savings
from increasing
operational efficiencies
Key
Focus
Areas
71
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1 : ENHANCE REVENUE
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2 : ACHIEVE COST EFFICIENCIES & REDUCED CARBON FOOTPRINT
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
Meet changing
consumer trends
• The RM128 million liquid milk and plant-based manufacturing facility in Wang Muang became fully
operational in October 2022, increasing fresh milk production capacity in line with growing demand.
• For home consumption, introduced TEAPOT SCM Tube Nom Yen Flavour, strengthening F&B Thailand’s
leadership in the flavoured sweetened condensed milk.
Manufacturing
and energy
efficiencies
• Full automation of the 2kg pouch SCM and 1kg evaporated milk lines reduced the need for manual line
operators thus increasing labour productivity.
• Reformulated TEAPOT with more readily available ingredients to ensure steady supply to the market.
• Achieved economies of scale by nearing full-capacity production of TEAPOT and Carnation UHT
Evaporated Creamer 1L at the Wang Muang plant at 100,000 cases a month.
• Switching from fossil fuel to renewable (solar) energy led to 6% reduction in electricity consumption,
exceeding the targeted savings.
• Innovative project to improve energy and water efficiency, with 40% energy reduction, 8% water reduction
and 10% renewable energy.
Enhance marketing
and distribution
efficiencies
• Excellent in-store execution and strengthened relations with distributors and retail outlets resulted in
increased sales for TEAPOT.
• Customised promotions for condensed milk in the modern trade contributed to F&B Thailand maintaining
its No.1 position in the total SCM and evaporated milk categories.
Grow Indochina
and Export
markets
• Retained condensed milk market leadership in Cambodia and Laos via enhanced brand-building for
TEAPOT along with greater brand visibility at more than 10,000 outlets where TEAPOT is available.
• Mobilised exclusive distribution sales team in Cambodia, covering more than 8,000 outlets in 25 provinces.
• Obtained extended rights from Nestlé to distribute BEAR BRAND sterilised milk in Cambodia.
• Expanded the export network to China, the Middle East and Central West Africa.
• Embarked on aggressive drive to capture new business opportunities from new export customers.
Key Initiatives
Key Initiatives
Achievements
Achievements
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
72
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3 : STRATEGIC RELATIONSHIPS
The return of domestic and international tourists to Thailand will stimulate further private consumption in the country, providing the
right environment for our Thai operations to achieve even greater sales volume. Various strategies have been crafted towards this end,
from developing more products that cater to changing tastes and preferences, especially in liquid milk, to intensifying relationships
with customers across the board. These strategies bode well for the Group, as we celebrate TEAPOT’s 15th anniversary in Thailand,
Cambodia and Laos starting October 2023. At the same time, in anticipation of escalating prices in commodities and energy, the team
will continue to focus on cost-saving initiatives while enhancing efficiencies across the value chain. Additionally, we will capitalise on the
Thai Government’s digital wallet initiative and improve our penetrative drive into more rural retailers.
F&B Thailand is ramping up its digitalisation and automation programmes while also continuing to develop its talent with the right skills
and competencies to fully optimise the technologies made available, among others.
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
B. Business Review
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND (F&B THAILAND)
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE (CONTINUED)
MEETING OUR CHALLENGES
PROSPECTS
Farming
Excellence System
• Conducted four-month programme on good agriculture and farming practices under the Farming
Excellence System for dairy farmers that supply F&B Thailand.
• Set up a learning centre at manufacturing plant to create awareness of sustainable manufacturing
practices.
• Invested RM150,000 in a milk collection centre in Nakhon Ratchasima which became operational in August
2023, facilitating the supply of milk from Khao Yai Milk Cooperative farmers.
Strengthen hawker
network
• Continued to build relationship with hawkers via regular visits by sales personnel.
• Maintain continuous communication and engagement, including promos and lucky draws, with customer
relationship management (CRM) system on the LINE app.
• Leverage technology to track data on hawkers, including their physical location.
Key Initiatives Achievements
Increasing cost of
goods due to higher
commodities and
energy prices
Shortage of fresh milk in
Thailand impacting cost
and capacity utilisation
at BEAR BRAND sterilised
and pasteurised milk
plant
• Created manufacturing efficiencies from
enhanced automation
• Reformulated certain products
• Leverage economies of scale in production
where possible
• Increased capacity utilisation of Wang
Muang plant by producing UHT Evaporated
Creamer.
F&B Thailand’s adjusted operating profit
(excluding one-off non-operating items) for
FY2023 grew by 37.1% (33.0% in Thai Baht)
to RM378.3 million.
Potential to diversify into plant-based
milk as well as new packaging formats for
evaporated milk.
Challenge Mitigation Efforts Results
Read more in sustainability report
73
Further strengthening TEAPOT’s image as a young and fun brand, the team also ran a “Colour up Your Life” campaign from April to
June with a new brand ambassador, Thanapob Leeratanakajorn. The well-known actor reinforced the positioning of TEAPOT – with its
continuously evolving packaging and flavours – as the brand for new generation of explorers and adventure seekers. The campaign was
carried through television commercials (TVCs) targeting F&B operators and families, as well as Facebook, YouTube, TikTok and Google.
TEAPOT also engaged key opinion leaders to review the brand in addition to organising various in-store activations.
TEAPOT
In August 2023, F&B Thailand launched a limited-edition TEAPOT SCM Tube Nom
Yen Flavour to excite the market with a new and aromatic addition to its condensed
milk tube range thus strengthen its leadership in the segment. With the promise to
turn ordinary treats into flavourful delights, the 150g easy-to-use product was a
hit with families, and contributed to higher sales of the SCM tube market during its
six-month campaign, which leveraged online and offline communication, in-store displays
and sampling booths.
73
MARKETING HIGHLIGHTS
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
74
MAGNOLIA
Building on the launch of Magnolia UHT in February 2022, the team ran a campaign in August
2023 to further underline the brand promise of “Tasty Goodness” that helps consumers stay
healthy and strong every day. The campaign highlighted the special production process and
secret recipe that lend the milk its unique sweet taste, making the experience of drinking plain
milk tastier than ever. It also reinforced the message that the milk contains a high dose of vitamin
D and calcium for enhanced immunity and the maintenance of healthy bones and teeth.
The campaign showcased the entire Magnolia range via online and off-line communication as
well as sampling activities at schools, universities and offices.
MARKETING HIGHLIGHTS (CONTINUED)
FOOD & BEVERAGES THAILAND (F&B THAILAND)
B. Business Review
75
CARNATION
To encourage home consumption, a new campaign was launched during
the year for Carnation Plus targeting families with children. The key
message was that, in addition to enhancing the flavour of drinks and
different foods, the rich and creamy flavour of Carnation brings members
of the family closer together. The campaign TVC was launched online and
offline in November 2022, utilising key opinion leaders and social media
influencers to stimulate consumption. This was complemented by below-
the-line activities such as samplings in heavy-traffic areas in partnership
with a famous dessert café. Thanks to the campaign, sales of Carnation
increased by double digits, and led to growth of the brand’s market share.
Meanwhile, Carnation further entrenched its leadership in out-of-home
consumption with the Carnation Rewards Campaign, rewarding loyal users
with points that could be used either to redeem prizes or to participate in
a lucky draw.
BEAR BRAND
A new BEAR BRAND GOLD campaign was
launched in February 2023 underlining the
proposition that the milk is good “for healthy
Brain, Bone and Beauty”. This specific health
message was communicated via TVCs
together with online and in-store media,
and further reinforced by sampling activities
that took place in offices and transit areas
in addition to retail outlets.
From March to June 2023, BEAR BRAND
also ran a “BEAR BRAND Point Rewards”
campaign enabling consumers to collect
points that could be exchanged either for
prizes or to participate in a lucky draw.
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
76
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA (F&B MALAYSIA)
B. Business Review
Despite inflationary
pressures and an
environment of high
prices, including that
of commodities that
we depend on, it was a
positive financial year
for F&B Malaysia, which
celebrated our 140th
anniversary. As in the
previous year, the team
focused on going back
to basics, enhancing
our route-to-market,
distribution and service
delivery while keeping
a close eye on meeting
consumers’ changing
needs.
While enhancing our service delivery to existing customers, our sales
force was also driven to recruit new ones. At the same time, the brand
marketing team upscaled its brand-building activities including activations,
promotions and a refresh of product packaging. The F&N Carbonated
Soft Drink range as well as F&N Magnolia and F&N SEASONS received
invigorating new looks, complemented by consumer activations. To create
further excitement for our consumers, new products were launched
– 100PLUS PRO High Protein for athletes and TEAPOT UHT Evaporated
Creamer 1L for added convenience of retail outlets, NONA Ketupat Wang
Haruman Wangi and LOT100 Kurma Gummy – the gummy being from our
latest acquisition, Cocoaland.
Enhanced sales domestically were further supported by a strong rebound
in exports. We were able to make greater inroads into Africa, China and
neighbouring ASEAN nations, focusing on product applications and further
developing our key accounts.
Internally, F&B Malaysia became a stronger, more united team upon the
move of the entire Central team to the revamped office space in Shah Alam.
Enhanced cost management
as commodity prices
continued to escalate
Back to basics in promoting
existing brands and building
relationships
More personalised customer
service through sales visits
Leveraged 140th anniversary
to promote visibility and
growth via campaigns
Create synergies between
Sri Nona and Cocoaland,
and the food pillar with
F&NHB’s other pillars
Key
Focus
Areas
77
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1 : ENHANCE REVENUE
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
Develop new Halal
food pillar
• Acquired the remaining 72.38% equity interest in Cocoaland, the leading gummies producer in Malaysia.
• A holistic approach to redefine and rehaul the entire product portfolio with the objective to become Power
Brands in their respective segments.
• Creating synergies between Sri Nona and F&NHB by leveraging the same route to market and consumption
occasions as F&N’s beverage and dairy products; as well as sharing of Cocoaland’s production capacity.
• Expanded product range by introducing NONA Ketupat Wangi Haruman Pandan and LOT 100 Kurma Gummy.
• Innovation on product development to address different segments of the consumers’ evolving needs for
functional and wellness benefits.
• Streamlining systems and processes with the rest of F&NHB Group, eg SAP, safety and quality processes,
employee benefits & governance practices.
Expand production
capacity
• RM20 million drinking water production plant at Kota Kinabalu Industrial Park (KKIP) was completed and
commercialised in November 2022, with a new mineral water line in Matang in first quarter of 2023.
• Commercialised a new RM5 million automated ketupat line for Sri Nona in Rawang.
• Plant-based beverages line in Pulau Indah plant to be ready by 2024, and will see the launch of Ömilk,
made from non-genetically modified whole oat grains.
Focus on customer
experience
• Sales team visited more retail and F&B outlets to strengthen existing customer relationships and expand
our customer network.
• Established the F&N Business Partner Award Programme to help our suppliers elevate the quality of their
services and grow regionally with F&N.
• Retained market leadership in the isotonic and carbonates soft drinks categories (with 100PLUS and F&N
Fun Flavours), as well as in the ready-to-drink milk tea segment (with F&N Teh Tarik)
Build existing
brands
• Expanded into sports nutrition with 100PLUS PRO High Protein, formulated to facilitate after-sports
recovery.
• Expanded TEAPOT portfolio with UHT Evaporated Creamer 1L.
• Increased marketing spend allowed for more ground activations including in-store events.
• Promoted all key F&N brands in Peninsular and East Malaysia in conjunction with 140th anniversary
campaign via roadshows organised at 1 Utama Shopping Centre in the Klang Valley followed by Suria
Sabah Shopping Mall in Kota Kinabalu.
• Introduced new packaging for F&N carbonated soft drinks, F&N Magnolia and F&N SEASONS.
• est COLA roadshows across East Malaysia, including smaller towns, enhanced est COLA Brown Sugar
performance.
Key Initiatives Achievements
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
78
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA (F&B MALAYSIA)
B. Business Review
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 1 : ENHANCE REVENUE (CONTINUED)
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE (CONTINUED)
Enhance export
business
• Focused on product application and key account management to achieve strong growth in the B2B export
channel.
• Promoted own brands, especially canned milk and 100PLUS, paving the way for greater penetration into
China and Middle East and North Africa (MENA).
• Explored new channels for export of Sri Nona and Cocoaland food products.
• Restructured the Dubai office, resulting in quarter-by-quarter sales growth and increased annual PBT.
• Participated in various trade fairs including the Salon International d’Alimentation (SIAL) Paris 2022, the
International Food & Hospitality Fair 2023 in New Delhi, the Gulfood 2023 Exhibition held at the Dubai
World Trade Centre, UAE and more.
Key Initiatives Achievements
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 2 : INCREASED DIGITALISATION
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 3 : ACHIEVE COST EFFICIENCIES
Deepen group
digitalisation
Invest in green
energy
• Exports team leveraged commodity prices and transport cost forecasting BI capabilities to enhance sales
and revenue.
• Plans to implement artificial intelligence (AI) in dairy farm to optimise production and efficiencies.
• Using Fraserian Connect to engage with employees and create a more energised and empowered
workforce.
• Partnering Touch ‘n Go to draw more consumers to the F&N Life platform.
• Promoting e-Route to market platform more aggressively among retailers.
• Ranked top three in Shopee’s 7th Birthday Sale and LAZADA’s 12.12 Year End Mega Sale.
• Solar photovoltaic (PV) rooftop in Bentong, Shah Alam and Pulau Indah, and warehouse automation in
Shah Alam plant contributed to enhanced efficiencies and lower operation costs.
• Plans to install PV rooftop systems at four more sites in FY2024 – at our Pulau Indah plant and three
facilities in Rawang – lending to a total of 6.38 MWp of solar capacity as we work towards reducing the
Group’s greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity by 8% by 2025, compared to 2020 levels.
Key Initiatives
Key Initiatives
Achievements
Achievements
79
BUSINESS PERFORMANCE (CONTINUED)
STRATEGIC OBJECTIVE 4 : BUILD ESG CAPABILITIES
Strengthen
environmental &
social outcomes
• Quantified material physical risks and key transition climate-related risks through scenario analysis as we
move towards full TCFD reporting.
• Board of Directors and Senior Management underwent training on sustainable agriculture, while 100% of
executives received training on environmental and broader ESG issues.
• Looking to develop recycled PET bottles, and sustainable packaging using paper cartons with sugar cane
caps for BORNEO SPRINGS.
• Took the school recycling programme nationwide and participated by more than 1,300 schools this year.
• First company in Malaysia to back 100% of the palm oil used in our products with RSPO credits, with a goal
to transition to 100% physically certified palm oil by 2025.
Key Initiatives Achievements
Challenges in FY2023, such as commodity price fluctuations and inflation, look set to persist in FY2024. Yet, F&B Malaysia is optimistic of
maintaining its growth momentum as it continues to build its core brands while continuing to strategise on its route to market, operational
efficiencies, and the creation of synergies internally as well as with suppliers, customers and distributors. As a result of the positive
outcomes in FY2023, the team is inspired to become best-in-class to sustain F&N’s leadership in all core segments.
PROSPECTS
MEETING OUR CHALLENGES
Increased cost
of goods due
to escalating
commodity prices
Multiple production
capabilities and
brands, especially
following
acquisitions
• In response to high tin prices, replaced significant
volume of tin packaging with pouches and paper
cartons. From zero paper cartons previously, we
are now producing 60,000 cases a month.
• Managed commodities and raw materials price
through forward purchase, active monitoring
of commodities price trends, and vigilant sales
forecasting and production planning.
• Reduced the impact on consumers with value deals
such as twin packs of milk and other promotions.
• Reformulated certain products to enable
consumers to enjoy great taste at more affordable
price points.
• Streamlining the brands by focusing on bestsellers.
• Simplifying the packaging to reduce material
costs.
• Optimising operational costs by streamlining
manufacturing capacity.
• F&B Malaysia’s revenue increased 17.9%
to RM2.85 billion from RM2.42 billion in
FY2022.
• F&B Malaysia’s operating profit (excluding
one-off non-operating items) increased
22.9% to RM229.1 million from RM186.4
million in FY2022.
• Plans to use Cocoaland plants to
manufacture Sri Nona and F&N products.
Challenge Mitigation Efforts Results
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
80
MARKETING HIGHLIGHTS
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA (F&B MALAYSIA)
B. Business Review
140TH ANNIVERSARY
Under the theme “Kisah Kita… Selamanya”, the Group celebrated our 140th anniversary with multiple
consumer activations, starting with a roadshow at 1 Utama Shopping Centre in August 2023. The roadshow
featured “Pekan F&N”, where consumers created memories with F&N through exciting activities and stood
a chance to win a limited edition Vespa scooter. 100PLUS ambassadors Datuk Wira Lee Chong Wei and
Dato’ Mohd Azizulhasni Awang also participated in the anniversary celebrations together with roadshow
attendees. In September, we took the celebratory roadshow to East Malaysia at Suria Sabah Shopping
Mall in Kota Kinabalu, where consumers took part in exciting activities in “Tamu F&N”.
81
100PLUS
The year was celebratory not only for the Group but also our iconic
brand 100PLUS, marking its 40th anniversary. Commemorating this
milestone, we further enhanced the isotonic drink’s portfolio with
the launch of 100PLUS PRO High Protein. Its non-fizz format makes
it easy to drink after intense physical activity, while the combination
of electrolytes, Vitamin B, 10g of protein and 2g of BCAA supports
the replenishment and recovery needs of sports enthusiasts.
This new iteration of 100PLUS was promoted among our athletes
at the inaugural REDLINE Fitness Games 2023, the 19th Asian
Games and 4th Asian Para Games.
Aside from the new variant, the team continued to highlight
100PLUS as a hydration partner through a number of activations.
Partnering ASTRO and OMNIA Radio cruiser, mass samplings were
conducted across Malaysia to provide the public with relief from the
heat wave in May-June 2023. Subsequently, we celebrated World
Hydration Day 2.0 at 1 Utama shopping mall where Malaysians
participated in various activities then quenched their thirst with
the nation’s No.1 isotonic drink. We also made our zero-calorie
100PLUS ZERO accessible in more outlets and promote trials with
the 100PLUS Jom Cuba TVC.
100PLUS has, for many years, been closely associated with
uplifting sports in the country, partnering the Badminton
Association of Malaysia (BAM), Football Association of Malaysia
(FAM), Malaysian Hockey Confederation and the National Sports
Council. It also supports national sportsmen and women through
its ambassadorship programme. This year, 100PLUS welcomed
four new ambassadors – shuttlers Ng Tze Yong, Chen Tang Jie
and Toh Ee Wei, as well as professional track cyclist Dato’ Mohd
Azizulhasni Awang aka The Pocket Rocketman.
Fraser & Neave Holdings Bhd
MANAGEMENT
DISCUSSION &
ANALYSIS
Annual Report 2023
82
FOOD & BEVERAGES MALAYSIA (F&B MALAYSIA)
B. Business Review
MARKETING HIGHLIGHTS (CONTINUED)
F&N FUN FLAVOURS
In keeping with the theme of celebration, our flagship carbonated soft drinks underwent a packaging makeover with F&N Fun Flavours
becoming even more vibrant and young as it debuted a brand-new look with attitude. Targeting the nation’s youth, our evergreen
range is set to GEMPAK-kan the market with packaging that is stylishly exciting. The campaign – Kini Lebih Gempak – was rolled out
nationwide to great success, appealing greatly to our Gen Z.
