30 31
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
TAN SRI DATUK OH SIEW NAM
Chairman
Non-independent Non-executive Director
DIRECTORS’ PROFILES DIRECTORS’ PROFILES
Qualifications and Experience
• Bachelor of Engineering (Honours) degree in Electrical
Engineering from the University of Canterbury, New Zealand.
• Assistant Controller of Telecom Malaysia for five years before
joining FFM Berhad (“FFM”) group in 1968.
• Managing Director of FFM from 1982 to 2002, and Executive
Chairman from 2002 to 2006.
• Board member of Bank Negara Malaysia from 1989 to 2015.
• Served as a member of the Capital Issues Committee and
the National Economic Consultative Council II (MAPEN II).
• Chairman of PPB Oil Palms Berhad from 2004 to 2007.
Other directorships in public companies
and listed companies
• Kuok Foundation Berhad
Date of appointment:
Director - 2 March 1988
Executive Chairman - 1 July 2004
Chairman - 1 February 2008
Gender: Male
Age: 84
Mr Lim Soon Huat
Managing Director
Non-independent Executive Director
Dato’ Capt Ahmad Sufian @
Qurnain bin Abdul Rashid
Independent Non-executive Director
Chairman of Remuneration Committee
Member of Audit and Risk Committee
Qualifications and Experience
• Bachelor of Science (Honours) degree in Statistics from
Universiti Kebangsaan Malaysia.
• Many years of management experience in the field of finance,
commodities trading, consumer goods manufacturing and
marketing, hotel investments, sugar cane plantation and
sugar milling operation.
• Held various senior executive positions in the Kuok group of
companies in Singapore, Thailand, Hong Kong, China and
Indonesia.
Other directorships in public companies
and listed companies
• Ponderosa Golf & Country Resort Berhad
• FFM Berhad
• Kuok Foundation Berhad
Date of appointment:
Director - 29 May 2008
Managing Director - 1 July 2012
Gender: Male
Age: 58
Qualifications and Experience
• Qualified as a Master Mariner with a Masters Foreign-going
Certificate of Competency from the United Kingdom in 1974.
• Diploma in Applied International Management from the
Swedish Institute of Management.
• Attended the Advanced Management Program at Harvard
University.
• Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport
and the Institut Kelautan Malaysia.
• Has over 45 years experience in the international maritime
industry.
• Former Director and Chairman of GDEX Berhad.
• Former Director and Chairman of WCT Holdings Berhad.
• Former Director and Chairman of Malaysian Bulk Carriers Berhad.
Other directorships in public companies
and listed companies
• Nil
Date of appointment:
22 June 2009
Gender: Male
Age: 73
32 33
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ PROFILES DIRECTORS’ PROFILES
Encik Ahmad Riza bin Basir
Independent Non-executive Director
Chairman of Nomination Committee
Datuk Ong Hung Hock
Non-independent Non-executive Director
Member of Nomination Committee
Member of Remuneration Committee
MR SOH CHIN TECK
Independent Non-executive Director
Chairman of Audit and Risk Committee
Member of Nomination Committee
Madam Tam Chiew Lin
Independent Non-executive Director
Member of Audit and Risk Committee
Member of Remuneration Committee
Qualifications and Experience
• Bachelor of Law (Honours), University of Hertfordshire,
United Kingdom.
• Barrister-at-Law (Lincoln’s Inn), London.
• Called to the Malaysian Bar in 1986.
• Former partner of the law firm, Riza, Leong & Partners.
• Former Managing Director of Kumpulan FIMA Berhad.
• Director of Jerneh Asia Berhad (now known as JAB Capital
Berhad) from 1996 to 2012.
• Independent director of United Plantations Berhad from
2000 to April 2022.
Other directorships in public companies
and listed companies
• Nil
Qualifications and Experience
• Bachelor of Arts (Honours), University of Malaya.
• Held executive positions in marketing in various companies
before joining FFM Berhad (“FFM”) group in 1980.
• Held various senior positions in the FFM Group, including
Managing Director and Chairman of FFM Marketing Sdn Bhd
from 1998 to 2019.
• Director of FFM from 2004 to 2019, and Managing Director
of FFM from 2011 to 2019.
Other directorships in public companies
and listed companies
• Nil
Qualifications and Experience
• Bachelor of Economics, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.
• Masters in Business Administration – International Management,
RMIT University, Australia.
• Fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants
Australia and New Zealand.
• Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants.
• Member of the Australian Institute of Company Directors.
• More than 13 years audit experience and held various senior
positions in member firms of Deloitte in Singapore, Sydney and
Kuala Lumpur.
• Former Executive Director and General Manager of CSR Building
Materials (M) Sdn Bhd.
• Former Business Director and board member of Rockwool
Malaysia Sdn Bhd.
• Former Chairman of FMM – Malaysian Insulation Manufacturers
Group.
• Former Deputy Managing Director of Saint-Gobain Malaysia
Sdn Bhd.
Other directorships in public companies
and listed companies
• FM Global Logistics Holdings Berhad
Qualifications and Experience
• Fellow member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants in
England and Wales (1975).
• Chartered Accountant – Malaysian Institute of Accountants.
• Public Accountant – Malaysian Institute of Certified Public
Accountants.
• Diploma in Applied International Management – Swedish
Institute of Management.
• Postgraduate Certificate in Banking and Finance – University
of Wales, Bangor.
• Appointed as director of Jerneh Asia Berhad (now known
as JAB Capital Berhad) (“JAB”) in 1996; and subsequently
appointed as Executive Director in 2000.
• Appointed as Managing Director of JAB group of companies
from 2005 until her retirement at end-2012.
• Held various positions in the IMC group of companies from
1991 to 2000.
Other directorships in public companies
and listed companies
• JAB Capital Berhad
• FWD Takaful Berhad
Date of appointment:
25 July 2013
Gender: Male
Age: 62
Date of appointment:
1 July 2012
Gender: Male
Age: 69
Date of appointment:
8 October 2012
Date of appointment:
25 July 2013
Gender: Male
Age: 65
Gender: Female
Age: 72
34 35
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
DIRECTORS’ PROFILES
Notes
1. All the Directors are Malaysians.
2. None of the Directors has any family relationship with any other Director
and/or major shareholder of the Company, nor any conflict of interest
with the Company.
3. Other than traffic offences, none of the Directors had any convictions for
any offences within the past five years, or any public sanction or penalty
imposed by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year.
Tengku Nurul Azian binti
Tengku Shahriman
Independent Non-executive Director
Member of Audit and Risk Committee
Ms Yip Jian Lee
Independent Non-executive Director
Qualifications and Experience
• Law degree from School of Oriental & African Studies,
University of London.
• Barrister of Law (Honourable Society of the Inner Temple).
• Independent and Non-Executive Director of Sunway REIT
Management Sdn Bhd, management company of Sunway
Real Estate Investment Trust, which is listed on the Main
Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad.
• 18 years of working experience in investment banking from
1992 to 2010. Last position was Head of Corporate Finance
in RHB Investment Bank Berhad.
• Director in Performance Management and Delivery Unit
(PEMANDU), Prime Minister’s Office from 2010 to 2018, and
a Partner/Executive Vice President of PEMANDU Associates
Sdn Bhd from 2018 to 2020.
Other directorships in public companies
and listed companies
• Dutch Lady Milk Industries Berhad
• FM Global Logistics Holdings Berhad
Qualifications and Experience
• Chartered Accountant with the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales (1981).
• Member of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants.
• Independent and Non-Executive Director of Carimin
Petroleum Berhad and FWD Takaful Berhad.
• Director of the Institute of Bankers Malaysia from 1985 to 2000.
Other directorships in public companies
and listed companies
• Carimin Petroleum Berhad
• FWD Takaful Berhad
• Professional Golf of Malaysia
Date of appointment:
1 March 2022
Gender: Female
Age: 60
Date of appointment:
2 January 2023
Gender: Female
Age: 67
36 37
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM
MR LIM SOON HUAT
Managing Director of
PPB Group Berhad
MR JEREMY GOON KIN
WAI @ JEREMY RUAN
JIANWEI
Chief Executive Officer of
FFM Berhad
MS KOH MEI LEE
Chief Executive Officer of
Golden Screen Cinemas
Sdn Bhd (GSC)
MR LOW ENG HOOI
Chief Executive Officer of
PPB Hartabina Sdn Bhd
MS OH SOK TUAN,
AMANDA
Group Chief Human Resources Officer
MS LEE MEI FONG,
AUDREY
Group Head of Sustainability
MS GOH WEI-MIN
Group Chief Risk Officer
MS YAP CHOI FOONG
Group Chief Financial Officer
MR MAH TECK KEONG
Company Secretary
MR SENG KIAN AIK
Group Head of Internal Audit
MR TEE CHIN YI
Group Head of Information Technology
38 39
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM
MR LIM SOON HUAT
Managing Director of
PPB Group Berhad
MR JEREMY GOON KIN
WAI @ JEREMY RUAN
JIANWEI
Chief Executive Officer of
FFM Berhad
MS KOH MEI LEE
Chief Executive Officer of
Golden Screen Cinemas
Sdn Bhd (GSC)
Mr Lim’s profile is set out on page 31. Year of Joining PPB Group: 2019
Male | 51
Date Appointed to the Key Senior
Management Position:
1 October 2019
Qualifications and Experience
• Bachelor of Arts (Honours) degree
in Management Science & Law from
Keele University, United Kingdom.
• Currently the Chief Sustainability
Officer of Wilmar International Ltd.
• Held several senior positions in the
Kuok group of companies since 2002
and has management experience in
edible oils processing operations,
plantation management, trading,
brand management, marketing and
sustainability.
• Serves on the boards of several
local and overseas entities amongst
them, PT Gunung Madu Plantations
(Indonesia) and Palmci, Group SIFCA
(Ivory Coast).
• Serves in various capacities in trade
organisations such as the Malaysian
Palm Oil Association, Malaysian
Palm Oil Council and Tropical Forest
Alliance 2020.
Year of Joining PPB Group: 1990
Female | 57
Date Appointed to the Key Senior
Management Position:
1 January 2002
Qualifications and Experience
• Bachelor of Business Administration
degree (Summa Cum Laude) in
Finance from the University of
Montevallo, USA.
• Held the position of the Group
Head of Corporate Affairs of PPB
overseeing the investor relations
and corporate affairs matters of
PPB Group from 2000 until 2022.
Additionally, she was the Group
Chief Sustainability Officer of PPB
from 2018 to 2022.
• Appointed as Director of GSC Group
since February 2001 and has been
Chief Executive Officer of GSC
Group since January 2002. She
also oversees the Group’s leisure
operations.
DIRECTORSHIPS IN PUBLIC
COMPANIES AND LISTED
COMPANIES
• FFM Berhad
• Rainbow Ridge Berhad
DIRECTORSHIPS IN PUBLIC
COMPANIES AND LISTED
COMPANIES
• Nil
MR LOW ENG HOOI
Chief Executive Officer of
PPB Hartabina Sdn Bhd
MS YAP CHOI FOONG
Group Chief Financial Officer
MR MAH TECK KEONG
Company Secretary
Year of Joining PPB Group: 2019
Male | 58
Date Appointed to the Key Senior
Management Position:
3 July 2019
Qualifications and Experience
• Bachelor of Science (Honours) degree
in Housing, Building & Planning and
Bachelor of Architecture degree from
the University of Science Malaysia.
• Registered architect with Board of
Architects Malaysia; and corporate
member of Pertubuhan Akitek
Malaysia.
• Has more than 30 years working
experience in property development.
• Held executive positions in major
conglomerates namely Keppel Land,
Boustead Holdings, Khazanah Group
and Shangri-La Group of companies.
Year of Joining PPB Group: 2017
Female | 58
Date Appointed to the Key Senior
Management Position:
1 November 2017
Qualifications and Experience
• Fellow member of the Association
of Chartered Certified Accountants,
United Kingdom.
• Prior to joining PPB Group Berhad
as Head of Corporate Strategy and
Planning in March 2017, she was the
Group Chief Financial Officer of RHB
Banking Group.
• Has over 30 years working
experience in auditing; finance
and accounting; corporate finance;
corporate & strategic planning; and
merger, acquisition & integration.
Year of Joining PPB Group: 1989
Male | 60
Date Appointed to the Key Senior
Management Position:
27 November 2008
Qualifications and Experience
* Associate member of The Malaysian
Institute of Chartered Secretaries
and Administrators.
* Oversees the corporate secretarial
and legal matters of PPB and various
subsidiaries, and other affiliated
companies.
DIRECTORSHIPS IN PUBLIC
COMPANIES AND LISTED
COMPANIES
• Nil
DIRECTORSHIPS IN PUBLIC
COMPANIES AND LISTED
COMPANIES
• Nil
DIRECTORSHIPS IN PUBLIC
COMPANIES AND LISTED
COMPANIES
• Nil
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM
40 41
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM
MS OH SOK TUAN,
AMANDA
Group Chief Human Resources Officer
Year of Joining PPB Group: 2019
Female | 49
Date Appointed to the Key Senior
Management Position:
15 May 2019
Qualifications and Experience
• Bachelor of Arts (Honours) degree in
Business Administration majoring in
Human Resources Management from
the University of Wales.
• 19 years of leadership experience
in multinational settings, operating
in diverse industries such as
shipping, insurance and chemical
manufacturing prior to joining PPB
Group Berhad.
• Has over 20 years of experience
in leading organisational change
encompassing people capability
enhancement, leadership and talent
development, cultural transformation
and building employer value
proposition.
MS LEE MEI FONG,
AUDREY
Group Head of Sustainability
Year of Joining PPB Group: 2023
Female | 40
Date Appointed to the Key Senior
Management Position:
3 January 2023
Qualifications and Experience
• Bachelor of Science (Honours)
degree in Industrial Biology, from the
University of Technology Malaysia.
• Oversees sustainability and CSR
initiatives of PPB Group.
• Over 18 years of sustainability
programme implementation experience
within financial institutions,
multinational companies, and not-for-
profit organisations.
DIRECTORSHIPS IN PUBLIC
COMPANIES AND LISTED
COMPANIES
• Nil
DIRECTORSHIPS IN PUBLIC
COMPANIES AND LISTED
COMPANIES
• Nil
MS GOH WEI-MIN
Group Chief Risk Officer
Year of Joining PPB Group: 2015
Female | 49
Date Appointed to the Key Senior
Management Position:
13 August 2015
Qualifications and Experience
• Bachelor of Arts (Econ) Accounting &
Finance (Honours), The University of
Manchester, United Kingdom.
• Fellow member of the Association
of Chartered Certified Accountants,
United Kingdom.
• Certified Business Continuity
Professional (CBCP).
• Over 25 years of experience
in risk management, system
implementations, business continuity,
consulting and governance. She
was formerly with government-
linked companies, one of the Big
Fours’ risk advisory consulting firm &
multinational corporation.
DIRECTORSHIPS IN PUBLIC
COMPANIES AND LISTED
COMPANIES
• Nil
MR SENG KIAN AIK
Group Head of Internal Audit
MR TEE CHIN YI
Group Head of Information Technology
Year of Joining PPB Group: 2021
Male | 50
Date Appointed to the Key Senior
Management Position:
4 January 2021
Qualifications and Experience
• Member of Institute of Internal
Auditors Malaysia, Malaysian Institute
of Accountants, Malaysian Institute
of Certified Public Accountants and
Chartered Accountants Australia and
New Zealand.
• Prior to joining PPB Group Berhad,
he has held senior positions in
Internal Audit of Sunway REIT and
AirAsia X Berhad and has worked in
professional assurance services firm,
PwC Malaysia.
• Has over 25 years of working
experience in internal and external
audit.
Year of Joining PPB Group: 2021
Male | 43
Date Appointed to the Key Senior
Management Position:
1 June 2021
Qualifications and Experience
• Master In Information & Communication
Technology Management and
Executive Master in Management
(General) from Asia E University,
Malaysia.
• Prior to joining PPB Group Berhad,
he was the Head of Information
Technology of Heineken Malaysia
Berhad.
• Has over 13 years extensive
experience in leadership roles within
Asia Pacific in driving IT strategic
transformation which includes design
and execution of digital roadmap,
IT infrastructure modernisation
projects and IT security strategy and
governance.
DIRECTORSHIPS IN PUBLIC
COMPANIES AND LISTED
COMPANIES
• Nil
DIRECTORSHIPS IN PUBLIC
COMPANIES AND LISTED
COMPANIES
• Nil
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM
Notes:
1. All the members of the key senior
management team are Malaysians.
2. None of the key senior management team
has any family relationship with any other
Director and/or major shareholder of the
Company, nor any conflict of interest with
the Company.
3. Other than traffic offences, none of the
key senior management team had any
convictions for any offences within the
past five years, or any public sanction or
penalty imposed by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year.
42 43
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
OVERVIEW STATEMENT
This Corporate Governance Overview Statement (“CGS”) provides a summary of the corporate governance practices of PPB Group
Berhad (“PPB”) and its subsidiaries (“Group”) during the financial year ended 31 December 2022 (“FY2022”) with reference to the
three Principles in the Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance (“MCCG”), viz:
(a) board leadership and effectiveness;
(b) effective audit and risk management; and
(c) integrity in corporate reporting and meaningful relationship with stakeholders.
It also highlights key focus areas and future priorities in relation to our corporate governance practices.
This statement should be read together with the Company’s Corporate Governance Report (“CGR”) for FY2022 which is based on
a prescribed format to provide a more detailed description of the Group’s corporate governance practices vis-à-vis the MCCG. The
CGR is available on the websites of Bursa Malaysia (http://www.bursamalaysia.com) and PPB (https://www.ppbgroup.com). The CGS
should also be read in tandem with other statements/reports in/issued together with the 2022 Annual Report, viz the Audit and Risk
Committee Report, Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control, and the Sustainability Report.
The Group’s governance structure during the year was as follows:
# The Group disposed of several entities in this segment during the year, and this has ceased to be one of the main business segments.
Governance Structure
Board of Directors
Management of main
business segments
Nomination Committee
Remuneration Committee
Sustainability Steering Committee
Group Integrity Steering Committee
Group Business Continuity
Management Steering Committee
Flour, animal feed,
consumer products,
livestock farming & bakery
Environmental engineering
& utilities, chemicals
trading & manufacturing#
Film exhibition &
distribution
Property investment &
development, & other
property-related services
Audit and Risk Committee
Group Internal Audit
Risk Advisory
Committee
Audit Review
Committees
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
PRINCIPLE A – BOARD LEADERSHIP AND EFFECTIVENESS
Board responsibilities
The board charter sets out matters reserved for the Board’s
decision and outlines the Board’s roles and responsibilities. The
schedule of matters for the Board’s decision includes amongst
others, the overall Group strategy and direction; major policies,
board and board committee appointments; approval of financial
statements, corporate plans and budgets, material acquisitions
and disposals of assets, and major investments. The Board
charter has been updated to include the Board’s responsibilities
on environmental, social and governance (“ESG”) matters which
are pertinent and material to the Group and its stakeholders; as
well as effective stakeholder communication and engagement.
The Board has oversight of the overall performance and control
of the Group, setting and reviewing the strategic direction of the
Group, and monitoring the implementation by management of
that strategy. Specific responsibilities are delegated to several
committees. These committees operate within Board-approved
terms of reference, and have authority to examine issues and
report to the Board with their findings and recommendations.
The roles of the Chairman and Managing Director are
separate. The non-executive Chairman’s responsibilities
include overseeing the governance process, provide board
leadership on policy formation and decision-making, as well as
ensuring that appropriate steps are taken to provide effective
communication with stakeholders. The Managing Director is
responsible for overseeing the development and operations of
the Group’s businesses, and implementing corporate strategies
and objectives adopted by the Board.
The Board sets the minimum standards of conduct and personal
behaviour; to maintain a uniform set of values and ethics within
the Group. An updated Group-wide code of ethics and code
of conduct was adopted by the Board in 2018, and embedded
in the respective Group employee handbooks. A whistleblower
policy adopted by the Company in 2015 is incorporated in
the employee handbook, and has also been adopted by the
respective business units throughout the Group. The policy
was updated in 2022 and is now known as the ‘Whistleblowing
Policy and Procedures’.
Anti-bribery and corruption
The Board is committed to complying with anti-bribery and
corruption laws in Malaysia and other countries in which the
Group operates. The ‘Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption
(“ABAC”) Policy and Procedures’ (“ABAC P&Ps”) applies to all
directors and employees of PPB Group as well as business
associates. The ABAC P&Ps is communicated to all parties with
whom the Group has business dealings, and is accessible to the
public via publication on the Group entities’ corporate websites.
It may be viewed at the Company’s website:
https://www.ppbgroup.com/index.php/governance-sustainability/
code-policies/anti-bribery-and-corruption-policy-and-procedures
The ABAC P&Ps sets out PPB’s stance against bribery and
corruption, managing conflicts of interest, policy on gifts,
hospitality and entertainment, donations and sponsorship,
handling facilitation payment requests and whistleblowing. In
2022, the Group implemented a ’No Gift Policy’. The Board is
responsible for the oversight of the ABAC/ Integrity programme,
and has delegated authority and day-to-day decisions to the
Group Integrity Steering Committee.
All Directors and employees attended the annual ABAC training
session conducted by the Company’s Risk Management and
Integrity Department during the year.
Governing sustainability
The Board has oversight responsibility to deliver sustainable
value to stakeholders through the principles, policies,
objectives and strategies of the Group. In carrying out this
responsibility, the Board is supported by the Sustainability
Steering Committee (“SSC”) which was formed in 2017. The
SSC is chaired by the Managing Director of PPB and presently
comprises the Group Head of Sustainability, PPB’s department
heads, as well as the chief executives and sustainability officers
of the business segments. The respective business units set,
monitor and review ESG/sustainability targets, and report the
performance/results achieved to the board through the SSC.
Our Group Strategic Plan (“GSP”) (2019-2023) includes
sustainability goals, strategies and plans of the various business
units. During the year, the Board adopted a 5-year sustainability
roadmap for the period from 2022 to 2026, which translates
the Group’s vision and strategy into targets and initiatives to be
achieved within the set timelines.
The roadmap and plans are under the purview of the Board and
the SSC.
Further details of the Group’s sustainability-related matters are
set out in the 2022 Sustainability Report which is available on
the websites of Bursa Malaysia (http://www.bursamalaysia.com)
and PPB (https://www.ppbgroup.com).
44 45
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Board and Committee meetings
The meetings of the Board and Board Committees held in
FY2022 and attendance record are set out below:
Meetings/ Name of Director/
Committee member
Number of meetings
Held Attended
Board of Directors
Tan Sri Datuk Oh Siew Nam 6 6
Mr Lim Soon Huat 6 6
Dato’ Capt Ahmad Sufian @
Qurnain bin Abdul Rashid
6 6
Datuk Ong Hung Hock 6 6
Mr Soh Chin Teck 6 6
En Ahmad Riza bin Basir 6 6
Madam Tam Chiew Lin 6 6
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku
Shahriman
(Appointed on 1 March 2022)
5 5
Audit and Risk Committee
Mr Soh Chin Teck 6 6
Dato’ Capt Ahmad Sufian @
Qurnain bin Abdul Rashid
6 6
Madam Tam Chiew Lin 6 6
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku
Shahriman
(Appointed on 1 April 2022)
3 3
Nomination Committee
En Ahmad Riza bin Basir 3 3
Datuk Ong Hung Hock 3 3
Mr Soh Chin Teck 3 3
Remuneration Committee
Dato’ Capt Ahmad Sufian @
Qurnain bin Abdul Rashid
1 1
Madam Tam Chiew Lin 1 1
Datuk Ong Hung Hock 1 1
In exercising their duties, directors have access to information
within the Company and the support of the company secretary.
The company secretary also updates directors on statutory,
regulatory and related governance requirements relating to the
discharge of their duties and responsibilities.
Board composition
The Board comprises a majority of independent directors; of
the eight Board members in FY2022, five are independent. The
remainder of the Board comprised two non-independent non-
executive directors, and the Managing Director. Subsequent to
the year-end, Ms Yip Jian Lee was appointed as an independent
director on 2 January 2023.
The independent directors are able to carry out their duties
and express their views unfettered by familiarity, or business or
other relationships. They provide skills, competencies as well
as broader views to enhance the Board’s effectiveness.
The Board has agreed that annual shareholders’ approval be
sought to extend the tenure of any director who has served
for more than nine years as an independent director. Dato’
Capt Ahmad Sufian @ Qurnain bin Abdul Rashid, Mr Soh Chin
Teck and En Ahmad Riza bin Basir’s tenures as independent
directors were further extended at the 53rd Annual General
Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company in 2022 until the conclusion of
the next AGM. The Nomination Committee (“NC”) and the Board
were satisfied that Dato’ Sufian, Mr Soh and En Riza are able to
exercise independent judgment and act in the best interests
of the Company, and recommended the continuation of Dato’
Sufian, Mr Soh and En Riza’s tenures as independent directors
beyond 9 years for shareholders’ approval at the 53rd AGM.
The Board strives to achieve a balance and mix of skills,
experience and perspectives amongst its directors, to
collectively bring a range of experience, business, financial
and technical expertise for effective oversight of the Group’s
businesses, and fulfil the Board’s duties and responsibilities.
Annual re-election of directors
In accordance with the Company’s Constitution, one third of
the directors retire by rotation at the AGM every year, and are
subject to re-election by members.
The NC also reviews annually the training undertaken by
Directors and recommends topics which are relevant or
of interest to the Board to keep abreast with business and
regulatory developments. In 2022, the Directors attended
PPB’s annual in-house training session for directors and senior
management, and the topics included the following :
• Outlook for markets, and long-term structural trends, and
drivers for the ASEAN economies.
• Blockchain technology, and present and future blockchain
applications.
• Overview of the Employment (Amendment) Act 2022 and
the new Anti-Sexual Harassment Act 2022.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The directors’ annual training included cyber-security awareness and updates on related issues. In addition, the following Directors
attended other training sessions during the year, and the topics included:
Name of Director Title/Topic
Lim Soon Huat • International Directors Summit 2022
Dato’ Capt Ahmad Sufian @
Qurnain bin Abdul Rashid
• International Directors Summit 2022
Datuk Ong Hung Hock • International Directors Summit 2022
Soh Chin Teck • Detecting & Deterring Financial Statement Fraud
• International Directors Summit 2022
Ahmad Riza bin Basir • International Directors Summit 2022
• Bursa Malaysia Immersive Experience – The Board Agender
Tam Chiew Lin • BNM-FIDE Forum MyFintech Week Masterclasses
• BNM’s MyFintech Week 2022
• IT Infrastructure and Cybersecurity
• BNM-FIDE Forum Dialogue : Licensing Framework for Digital Insurers and Takaful Operators
• BNM-FIDE Forum Dialogue : Climate Risk Management and Scenario Analysis
• Inflation, Looming Recession & Climate Change: A Tricky Balancing Act?
• Briefing: Module 2 Shariah Governance Code & Ethic and Business Plan
• Briefing by Ernst & Young PLT on MFRS 17
Tengku Nurul Azian binti
Tengku Shahriman
• TCFD Corporate Disclosure Training Programme 101
• Progress update meeting for Sustainable Development Solutions Network Project
• PowerTalk ESG Series #1 – Plan your ESG Journey: Lessons for the Boardroom
• International Directors Summit 2022
• Sustainable Supply Chain Financing
• Becoming a Future Focused Risk Management Committee
• Securities Commission’s AOB conversation with Audit Committees
The criteria for evaluation of candidates for appointment as directors (and senior management positions) include their qualification,
occupation, professional and business experience, and is subject to the Company/ Group’s requirements and operating environment.
Prospective candidates are not discriminated based on gender, age, cultural background etc.
The Group recognises the importance of identifying and developing potential leaders and managers to fill key positions (whether on
the board or senior management) in the Company and Group, from both internal and external sources. This is an on-going process
based on the Group’s short and longer term needs in terms of skills, expertise, knowledge and experience.
Board evaluation
Candidates for board appointments are reviewed by the NC before recommendation to the Board. The NC is chaired by Encik
Ahmad Riza bin Basir, an independent director. During the year, the NC recommended the appointment of Tengku Nurul Azian
binti Tengku Shahriman as an Independent Director. The NC assessed the proposed candidate’s character, experience, integrity,
competence and time commitment to discharge her role effectively as a director.
46 47
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
The NC reviews annually the Board size and composition, diversity (including gender diversity), as well as the mix of Directors
necessary for the successful direction of the Company and Group’s businesses. The NC also conducted a Board assessment, and
assessment of the independent directors for 2022 which covered their experience and expertise/ knowledge in the following areas:
• Business knowledge
• Accounting and financials
• Corporate governance, risk management and internal controls
• Legal and regulatory
• Human capital
• Information technology knowledge
• ESG/ sustainability matters
The assessment included a review of the directorships of each board member, and their performance and contribution to the Board
and respective Board Committees during the year. The NC also assessed the performance of the Audit and Risk Committee for
FY2022. Based on the NC’s review and recommendation, the Board is satisfied with the number and composition of its members,
and is of the view that the Board and the Board Committees have discharged their respective duties and responsibilities effectively.
Gender diversity
There is presently no formal gender diversity policy. The Board is of the opinion that it is important to recruit and retain the best
available talent, taking into account the mix of skills, experience, knowledge and independence, and based on the Group’s needs
and operating environment. Nonetheless, the Board continues to review board gender diversity, and it will continue to be one of
the factors to be considered in evaluating prospective candidates when a board vacancy arises.
Remuneration
The Board reviews the overall remuneration of executive and non-executive directors at regular intervals to attract and retain
directors with the relevant experience and expertise.
The Managing Director’s remuneration is determined after taking into account his duties and responsibilities as Managing Director
of PPB, his roles in various capacities in the main business units, and the Group’s performance for the year. For non-executive
directors, the remuneration reflects their roles and responsibilities, and the recommendation thereof is a matter for the Board as a
whole subject to shareholders’ approval.
The individual directors’ remuneration paid/ payable for FY2022 on a Group and Company basis are set out below:
GROUP
Figures in RM’000 Fees Salary Bonus Allowances
Benefits-in-
kind
Other
emoluments Total
Lim Soon Huat 30 1,200 2,300 - 36 561 4,127
Tan Sri Datuk Oh Siew Nam 500 - - 8 35 - 543
Datuk Ong Hung Hock 92 - - 12 - - 104
Dato' Capt Ahmad Sufian @
Qurnain bin Abdul Rashid
109 - - 16 - - 125
Soh Chin Teck 121 - - 24 - - 145
Ahmad Riza bin Basir 89 - - 16 - - 105
Tam Chiew Lin 106 - - 17 - - 123
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku
Shahriman
82 - - 13 - - 95
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
COMPANY
Figures in RM’000 Fees Salary Bonus Allowances
Benefits-
in-kind
Other
emoluments Total
Executive Director
Lim Soon Huat - 1,200 2,300 - 36 561 4,097
Non-executive Directors
Tan Sri Datuk Oh Siew Nam 500 - - 8 35 - 543
Datuk Ong Hung Hock 92 - - 12 - - 104
Dato' Capt Ahmad Sufian @ Qurnain
bin Abdul Rashid
109 - - 16 - - 125
Soh Chin Teck 121 - - 23 - - 144
Ahmad Riza bin Basir 89 - - 16 - - 105
Tam Chiew Lin 106 - - 17 - - 123
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku
Shahriman
82 - - 13 - - 95
The remuneration of the top five senior management of the PPB Group (excluding those who are also Directors of PPB) paid/
payable for FY2022 on an aggregated basis in RM50,000 bands is as follows:
Remuneration bands Number of senior management staff
RM1,000,001 – RM1,050,000 1
RM1,450,001 – RM1,500,000 1
RM1,650,001 – RM1,700,000 1
RM1,750,001 – RM1,800,000 1
RM1,950,001 – RM2,000,000 1
The Group senior management remuneration is commensurate with their duties and responsibilities, the performance of the
respective company or business entity, and operating environment. The Board is of the opinion that the disclosure of the senior
management’s names and remuneration components would not be in the best interest of the Group due to confidentiality, business
and personal security concerns. The above disclosure is deemed sufficient to enable stakeholders to assess senior management
remuneration vis-a-vis the Group’s performance.
PRINCIPLE B – EFFECTIVE AUDIT AND RISK MANAGEMENT
Audit and Risk Committee
The Audit and Risk Committee (“A&RC”) comprises entirely of independent directors; the A&RC Chairman is also separate from the
Chairman of the Board.
The principal functions of the A&RC include the following:
• Ensure that the financial statements comply with applicable financial reporting standards, and assess the suitability and
independence of external auditors.
• Assess the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s enterprise-wide risk management and internal control framework.
The members of the A&RC possess a mix of skills, knowledge and experience to enable them to discharge their duties and
responsibilities pursuant to the A&RC’s terms of reference, which are available on the Company’s website. An annual self and peer
evaluation of the A&RC is carried out and reviewed by the NC. The Audit and Risk Committee Report on pages 60 to 62 of the
annual report provides more details on the A&RC’s functions during the year.
48 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
ABOUT THIS STATEMENT
Our Statement details the sustainability journey of PPB Group Berhad (“PPB”) and its
subsidiaries (“the Group”), provides a summary of our key ESG activities and highlights,
and is intended to be read in conjunction with the standalone FY2022 Sustainability
Report (“the Report”).
This year, the Report incorporates the International Integrated Reporting Framework,
which includes the six essential capitals as well as our first Value Creation Model.
The Report encompasses our goals, achievements and contributions across our five
main business segments in Malaysia: Grains and Agribusiness, Consumer Products,
Film Exhibition and Distribution, Property, and Environmental Engineering and Utilities,
as well as PPB’s headquarters in Kuala Lumpur, covering the reporting period from
1 January 2022 to 31 December 2022 (“FY2022”).
REPORTING FRAMEWORK
The Report was prepared with reference to Bursa Malaysia’s Main Market Listing
Requirements and the Sustainability Reporting Guide (3rd edition). We also referred
to the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) Standards when preparing the Report and
have further aligned our ESG efforts with the United Nations Sustainable Development
Goals (“UN SDGs”).
FEEDBACK
We welcome feedback from our stakeholders to improve our sustainable reporting
and strategies.
Email corporateaffairs@ppb.com.my
Telephone no. 603-2726 0088
Office address PPB Group Berhad (Sustainability Department)
Letter Box No. 115, 12th Floor UBN Tower,
No. 10 Jalan P. Ramlee, 50250 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia.
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 49
04 GOVERNANCE
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE OVERVIEW STATEMENT
Risk management and internal control framework
Responsibility for ensuring a sound internal control system and
reviewing the effectiveness of the system lies with the Board.
The Group’s system of risk management and internal control is
designed to manage, rather than eliminate, the risk of failure
to achieve the Company’s corporate objectives and safeguard
the Group’s assets. It therefore provides reasonable but not
absolute assurance against material misstatement, fraud or
loss.
A risk management and internal control framework has been
established which covers the Group’s risk assessment process
and internal controls, with oversight and reporting on the
effectiveness of this function. There were no significant risk
management and internal control failings or weaknesses which
resulted in material losses or contingencies during the financial
year.
The Statement on Risk Management and Internal Control set
out on pages 63 and 64 of the 2022 Annual Report provides a
more detailed description of the state of risk management and
internal controls.
PRINCIPLE C – INTEGRITY IN CORPORATE REPORTING AND
MEANINGFUL RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS
Communication with stakeholders
PPB’s Corporate Disclosure Policy (“CDP”) sets out the
disclosure policies and procedures, and provides a framework
to communicate effectively with stakeholders and the public
generally. The policy may be viewed at the Company’s website:
https://www.ppbgroup.com/index.php/governance-sustainability/
code-policies/corporate-disclosure-policy
The Company seeks to provide stakeholders with timely,
accurate, clear and equal access to material information on the
Company’s performance and operations. The principal sources
of information disseminated by the Company during the year
include the annual report, quarterly investor updates, news
releases and company website.
PPB’s investor relations programme is directed at both individual
and institutional investors, with the objective to maintain
ongoing awareness of the Company’s performance amongst
shareholders, media and the investing community. This includes
twice-yearly analyst briefings after the release of the half-
yearly and final results together with media conferences. The
Company makes every attempt to meet requests for meetings
or information from the investing community.
PPB’s 2022 Sustainability Report is based on the International
Integrated Reporting Framework, which includes the six
capitals, viz natural, human, manufactured, financial, social and
relationship, and intellectual.
Conduct of general meetings
The 53rd Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) held on 12 May 2022
was conducted entirely via live streaming and online remote
poll voting. This enabled shareholders to participate and vote
remotely.
The notice of the 53rd AGM was sent to members 28 days
before the meeting together with the Annual Report. The
AGM notice sets out the resolutions to be tabled and includes
explanatory notes and other relevant information on the
matters to be discussed and decided at the AGM. Shareholders
were able to exercise their votes either in person, or appoint
a representative or proxy to attend and vote on their behalf
using remote participation and voting facilities. Voting was by
poll, conducted electronically and verified by an independent
scrutineer.
It is the Company’s practice that all Board members including
the respective chairs of the various committees attend AGMs
and are available to deal with any questions on matters under
their purview. At the meetings, shareholders can express
their views or raise questions relating to the Group’s financial
performance and business operations.
Shareholders submitted their questions both prior to the AGM,
and also in real time, using the query box during the meeting.
Questions from shareholders relating to the Company’s financial
and business operations were dealt with by the Chairman, the
Managing Director and Group Chief Financial Officer of the
Company.
The minutes of the 53rd AGM were also uploaded to PPB’s
website and can be assessed via the link below:
https://www.ppbgroup.com/images/pages/investor-relations/
annual_general_meeting/53rd_agm/53rd_AGM_minutes.pdf
FOCUS AREAS ON CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
A review of the Group Strategic Plan is underway which
includes an evaluation of the various business units and takes
into consideration inter alia, new trends and developments, and
enhanced ESG considerations. As part of our annual review, we
also look further into various other recommended corporate
governance practices which can be further strengthened, as
elaborated in our Corporate Governance Report. The Group will
continue to improve awareness, knowledge and application of
ESG considerations within the Group as an ongoing process.
This statement was approved by the Board on 23 March 2023.
PPB’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
50 51
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
PPB’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
our sustainability journey and key milestones
2016
Published 1st materiality assessment
and Sustainability Statement
2017
Established Sustainability
Steering Committee and
CSR Task Force
2020
Implemented
Human Rights
Policy in the supply
chain; adopted
ABAC Policy
& Framework;
and updated
the Group’s
Whistleblowing
Policy
2021
Developed a 5-year Sustainability
Roadmap (2022-2026); and
reviewed materiality assessment
2022
Developed new policies
on Climate Change, Waste
Management and Nutrition
2018
Adopted Sustainability Policy
and Human Rights Policy; and
was included in the FTSE4Good
Index Series
2019
Conducted 2nd
materiality assessment;
and set a Group-wide
target of zero fatalities
ABAC : Anti-Bribery and Corruption
CSR : Corporate Social Responsibility
FTSE : FTSE Russell
key highlights of fy2022
PPB’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
SUSTAINABILITY POLICY
In FY2022, we updated our Sustainability Policy which is based
on the three core aspects of Environment, Human Rights and
Labour Practices, and Ethics and Marketplace. The policy was
approved by the Board of Directors (“BoD”) in February 2023 and
is available on our corporate website at www.ppbgroup.com.
Environment
While environmental preservation has become part of the
global agenda, it has also become an essential part of our
everyday business operations which include compliance with
environmental and biodiversity regulations, considering ESG
practices in decision-making; improving operational efficiency,
conducting assessments to minimise environmental and climate
impact, as well as advocating environmental and biodiversity
awareness among stakeholders.
Human Rights & Labour Practices
The Sustainability Policy outlines our move towards a conducive
workplace for employees based on the principles of non-
discrimination, fair employment conditions, health and safety,
workplace security, privacy/data protection, no child or forced
labour or human trafficking, and community rights.
Ethics & Marketplace
We operate with a high standard of ethics, transparency and
accountability in decision-making, leadership and policy-
making, as well as in our dealings with other businesses
through the Code of Conduct and Ethics, Product Quality, Food
Safety and Halal Compliance, Clear and Transparent Labelling,
Supplier Engagement and Privacy and Data Protection.
Listed on
FTSE4Good Index Series
since 2018 and has improved overall score rating in all three
areas (i.e. environment, social and governance)
> RM4 million
invested in renewable energy
Zero
fatalities recorded
across the Group
• GSC received the Platinum award in the Entertainment Category, Putra Brand Awards
2022.
• FFM Grains & Mills (Pasir Gudang) was presented with the SIFIRI (See It, Fix It & Report It)
award by ARYZTA AG.
• Megah Rise Residensi awarded the GreenRE Gold Certification.
100%
of PPB Group’s operations
assessed for Anti-Bribery
and Corruption risks
Completed the installation of
solar panels
at two operation sites
Invested
> RM3 million
into the community
52 53
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
PPB’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY PPB’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
FC Financial Capital MC Manufactured Capital HC Human Capital NC Natural Capital IC Intellectual Capital SRC Social & Relationship
Capital
OUR INPUT OUR output
OUR BUSINESS
• Revenue: RM6.26 billion*
• Profit before tax: RM2.25 billion
• 5 new consumer products launched
• Total milling capacity of 2,820 mt/day and 66,000 mt/day for
flour and feed mills respectively
• Estimated 3.05 million broiler chicks and 20.5 million eggs monthly
• 825,979 shows screened at cinema circuit
• Various certifications achieved including HACCP, ISO, FSSC and Halal
standards
• Launched Megah Rise Mall
• Integration of competency framework as part of performance
management to strengthen people’s capabilities
• 100% employees received annual performance review
• Transparency of job opportunities across the Group to broaden career
aspiration and enhance retention of talent pool
• 46% increase in staff training hours
• Safe and conducive working environment
• Zero fatalities recorded across the Group
• Completed solar project at two operation sites
• 88% of non-hazardous waste diverted from landfill
• Water use intensity targets achieved for Property and Livestock Farming
• 24% reduction in plastic used in packaging from 2020
• GSC received the Platinum award (Entertainment Category) at the Putra
Brand Awards 2022, FFM Grains & Mills (Pasir Gudang) was presented
with the SIFIRI (See It, Fix It, Report It) award by ARYZTA AG, Megah
Rise Residensi awarded the GreenRE Gold certification
• Product innovation for consumers with special dietary restrictions
• Launched GSC Rewards for members and cinemagoers
• Engaged with more than 16,000 community members through CSR
activities
• Raising autism awareness in partnership with the National Autism Society
• Rent-free kiosks at Cheras LeisureMall in partnership with seven charitable
organisations
• Upskilling single mothers and vulnerable communities through job trainings
• Food aid programme for targeted communities and homes
• Suppliers engaged in Human Rights Policy
SRC • More than RM3 million contributed to the
community
FC • Total assets: RM28.9 billion
• Market capitalisation: RM24.8 billion
MC
• Grains & Agribusiness:
5 local flour & animal feed mills
• Consumer Products:
2 factories with 6 production lines
• Film Exhibition & Distribution:
491 screens at 52 sites
• Property:
Development projects and property/
property management services located in
northern, central and southern Peninsular
HC
• A diverse workforce of over 6,000
employees across the Group
• Average 15 hours of training per employee
• Invested more than RM586,000 in staff
engagement activities
• Updated the Human Rights Policy
NC
• 145,182,275 kWh of energy consumed
• 857,462 m3 of water used
• More than RM4 million invested in solar
energy projects
• Two new policies on Climate Change and
Waste Management which were approved
by the Board in February 2023
IC
• New policy on Nutrition which was approved
by the Board in February 2023
• R&D on healthier and more nutritious
consumer products
• Robust cybersecurity measures to protect
sensitive corporate data
VALUE CREATION MODEL
Our Vision
To be a market leader in our core
businesses reputed for our sustainable
quality products and services.
Our 5-Year
Roadmap
Our ESG Roadmap outlines
the goals and targets for
the Group to improve our
corporate procedures and
ESG performance, based on
FTSE4Good.
Our
Sustainability
Pillars
Our Mission
To strengthen our leadership position in
our core businesses in Malaysia, expand
regionally for further growth, invest in
related activities for greater synergy and
increase shareholder value, in a socially
and environmentally responsible manner
through management excellence.
Our Commitments
 Sustainability Policy
 Human Rights Policy
 Climate Change Policy
 Waste Management Policy
 Nutrition Policy
Driven by
Guided by
Aligned with
Environmental
Impact
Working
Environment
Community
Investment
* Including discontinued operations
Marketplace
Engagement
54 55
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
PPB’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE
PPB’s sustainability governance structure is the foundation of our business operations and plays an essential role in developing
our sustainable practices across all our business segments. In this three-tier structure, the Board of Directors (“BoD”), Sustainability
Steering Committee (“SSC”) and Corporate Social Responsibility (“CSR”) Task Force have their respective duties and responsibilities
which enable us to minimise risk at all levels while maintaining a dynamic, diverse and robust environment.
Board of Directors (“BoD”)
Environment Social Arts & Culture
CSR Task Force
Sustainability Streering
Committee (“SSC”)
Corporate Governance and Ethical Business Practices
PPB’s corporate governance structure incorporates various
codes and policies established to uphold ethical practices,
promote sustainability, incorporate a culture of integrity within
our workforce, and mitigate risks. As such, the Code of Conduct
and Ethics ("the Code") acts as a guideline for standards of
behaviour and our core values while the Group’s comprehensive
Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy and Procedures (“ABAC
P&Ps”) assert the Group’s zero-tolerance approach to all forms of
bribery and corruption. ABAC training is held on a regular basis,
during the onboarding of new employees or during the annual
refresher training. In 2022, 100% of the Group’s operations
were assessed for ABAC risks and we also achieved 100%
completion of the ABAC training for all employee categories in
the Group. For this reporting period, we recorded zero cases of
bribery and zero requests for facilitation payments.
Risk Management and Business Continuity
The Group’s Enterprise Risk Management (“ERM”) system
manages and monitors the Group’s operational risks.
Additionally, the Group has been implementing the Business
Continuity Management (“BCM”) programme which includes
the Emergency Response Plan, the Disaster Recovery Plan
as well as the Crises Management and Communication Plans.
In FY2022, we successfully rolled out the BCM programme
in the Property segment in the central and northern regions.
Some of the Group’s ESG-related risks include compliance with
regulatory requirements, supply chain disruption, health and
safety hazards, product safety and quality, and fluctuation of
commodity prices.
STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
Our stakeholders are a crucial part of our operations and our
ability to create and sustain long-term value is dependent on
our stakeholder relationships. For this reporting period, the
Group re-evaluated its key stakeholder groups where the
total number of stakeholder groups came up to nine (9) and
examples of engagement channels include periodic briefings
to analysts and investors, virtual or physical meetings, website,
compliance audit and others.
Employees
Financial
Institutions
Customers
Government/
Regulatory Bodies
Shareholders Local Communities
Vendors/
Suppliers
Media
Certification
Bodies
PPB’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY MATTERS AND MATRIX
In our materiality assessment, we identified and assessed key ESG matters that present the greatest opportunities and risks to our
business operations and stakeholders. A materiality matrix was then created to visualise the relative importance of these material
matters to the operations of the Group and to our major stakeholders.
Importance to the Group
Medium
Medium
Very High
Very High
Importance to Stakeholders
20
19
18
17
15
14
16
13
12
10
11
9
8
7
1
4
2
5
3
6
Environmental
Impact
12 Climate change
16 Energy efficiency
17 Waste management
18 Water management
19 Sustainable packaging
Working
Environment
2 Health and safety
8 Employee
engagement and
satisfaction
10 Talent attraction and
retention
13 Diversity and inclusion
Community
Investment
14 Nutrition, health and
wellness
15 Human rights
20 Community
engagement and
development
1 Quality and safety
3 Corporate governance
and ethical business
practices
4 Brand image and
reputation
5 Customer satisfaction
6 Economic performance
7 Data protection
9 Risk management and
business continuity
11 Supply chain
management
Marketplace
Engagement
56 57
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
PPB’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
NC NATURAL CAPITAL
At PPB, we pledge to do our part in attaining a balanced
ecosystem that contributes to a healthy environment while
investing in sustainable practices that preserve natural resources
for the present and future generations.
Climate Change
The Group conducted a carbon footprint assessment for our
most energy-intensive business segments. We adopted a
Climate Change Policy and aspire to achieve Net Zero based
on the principles of adaptation and mitigation, expand the use
of renewable energies and optimise energy efficiency within our
operations. This year, the Group recorded a combined emission
of 106,671 t.CO
2
e, with Scope 2 emissions accounting for 85%
of the total. Scope 1 emissions increased by 7,977 t.CO
2
e over
the previous year from the inclusion of two additional reporting
segments, while Scope 2 emissions increased by 35% due
mainly to the cinema division resuming full operations in the
transition to the endemic phase, as well as the opening of
cinema sites. Scope 3 emissions which cover our initial effort
in tracking business travel (employee land and air travel) made
up only 0.17% of the total Group emissions due to limited data.
Emission intensity per tonne of wheat milled, flour produced,
feed produced, as well as per show displayed a downward
trajectory due to various efforts implemented by the business
divisions.
Energy Efficiency and Adoption of Renewable Energy
EnergyuseisakeysourceofemissionsrecordedwithintheGroup.
For FY2022, the Group recorded 145,182,275 kWh of electricity
consumed which is a 22.8% increase from the previous year. We
have completed solar panel projects at two operation sites and
are planning to install three additional solar panels under the
Grains and Agribusiness and Consumer Products segments. In
the cinema division, operational processes such as switching off
lights and projectors have been automated to minimise energy
wastage and Megah Rise Residensi under the property division
successfully achieved the GreenRE Gold Standard.
Waste Management
In February 2023, the Group adopted a Waste Management
Policy which is in line with our circular economy concept. Through
this policy, we aim to inculcate a corporate culture of proper
waste management and resource recovery. Complying with the
Environmental Quality Act 1974, we have recorded zero non-
compliance for any environmental laws and regulations for the year.
In FY2022, 25,843 MT of waste was recorded, of which 99.7%
was non-hazardous waste. Hazardous waste such as waste
oil, used lubricants and used electronic parts are handled by
registered agencies, and 93.8% of this waste will be recovered,
reused or recycled. For non-hazardous waste, 88% was diverted
from landfills.
Water Management
The Group consumed a total of 857,462 m3 of water in FY2022,
which is an increase of 20.1% from the previous year. This was
mainly due to cinemas resuming full operations and the opening
of cinema sites. The water use intensity targets for the breeder
farms, layer farm and property divisions were achieved. Our
operations at FFM Sabah and FGM Kuching harvest rainwater in
water tanks equipped with meters, for landscape watering and
washing purposes.
Our bakery and food processing divisions under the Consumer
Products segment, track their levels of water discharge where
periodic performance and compliance monitoring are conducted
to ensure the effluents discharged are below the prescribed
legal requirements.
Sustainable Packaging
We take into consideration the lifecycle of our packaging which
guides us in reducing negative environmental impacts. Our
sustainable packaging approach includes reducing the amount
of plastic, cardboard and paper used. A total reduction of
779.1 MT (24.2%) of plastic and 556.5 MT (20.8%) of cardboard
have been recorded since 2020. For this reporting year,
total primary paper packaging recorded was 38.50 MT, while
secondary paper cardboard was 2,120 MT. We have converted
the majority of our cinema concessions’ conventional plastic
wares and packaging to biodegradable options.
Our sustainability achievements and highlights:
Two new policies on
Climate Change and
Waste Management
adopted in February 2023.
Completed
solar project
at two operation sites.
24%
reduction in plastic used
in packaging from 2020.
88%
of waste diverted from
landfill.
PPB’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
HUMAN CAPITAL
HC
Our sustainability achievements and highlights:
Zero
fatalities recorded
across the Group.
35%
of management
are women.
15.4
hours of training
per employee.
100%
employees received annual performance review and
RM586,858allocated for employee
engagement activities.
Our people are of the utmost importance to us, and we ensure
their safety and well-being across all our business segments
by caring for them physically and mentally and providing a safe
and healthy workplace. Additionally, we provide training and
development for them to progress in their journey with us and
have fulfilling careers.
Health & Safety
In 2022, a total of 1,781 employees received health and safety-
related training, while 315 acquired the Health and Safety
Certificate.
A total of 19 accidents were recorded in FY2022, which is a
drop of 17.4% from 2021. There were two major injuries reported
due to the employee’s failure to observe established work
procedures and preventive actions have been carried out to
mitigate future accidents.
Employee Engagement & Satisfaction
The Group has established a Human Rights Policy, with
regards to respecting the rights of our employees. Additionally,
our priority is to ensure job satisfaction through continuous
employee engagement. This year, the Group recorded a diverse
workforce of 6,007 employees, of which 74% were permanent
employees and about one-third were women. In FY2022, a total
of 161 employees took parental leave, and 159 returned to work
after their leave ended. 95% of those who took parental leave
remain employed with us 12 months after returning to work.
Talent Attraction & Retention
We provide appropriate training and development programmes
for our employees to stay relevant in the industry while ensuring a
dynamic workforce. Our training programmes include e-learning
platforms and online courses. Topics range from leadership and
role-based developments to harassment and discrimination. The
Group recorded a total of 92,419 training hours for all employees
(full-time and part-time), with 43,542 training hours conducted
virtually. This is equivalent to 15.4 hours of training per employee,
an increase from 10.5 hours per employee in 2021.
Diversity and Inclusion
The Group practises zero discrimination based on race,
religion, nationality, gender, sexual orientation or disability; and
this has been incorporated into our Human Rights Policy. Three
differently abled employees work at FFM, which make up about
0.07% of the Group’s permanent workforce. In FY2022, 35%
of management comprised of women. We are committed to
creating employment opportunities for locals where practical.
92% of our workforce are Malaysians, while the remaining 8%
comprise foreign workers.
NC Manufactured CAPITAL
MC
The Group recognises that efficient use of manufactured capital
leads to flexibility, innovation and increased efficiency. Hence,
our goal is to deliver top-quality products and services while
maintaining our dedication to sustainable practices.
Quality and Safety
The Group adheres to strict quality and safety standards to
ensure that the best products are provided to our customers. We
obtained relevant food regulations and standards certifications
including HACCP Certification (MS1480:2007), HACCP Codex
Alimentarius Certification, GMP Certification (MS1514:2009),
FSSC 22000 and ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System
(FSMS). We are Halal-certified by the Department of Islamic
Development Malaysia (JAKIM).
Our sustainability achievements and highlights:
Various
certifications
achieved including HACCP,
ISO, FSSC and Halal
standards.
Zero incidents
of non-compliance
concerning food safety
or product quality.
58 59
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
PPB’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
In increasing our financial health, we are also mindful of the
balance needed when aligning wealth performance with
sustainable growth. In terms of our economic performance, we
strive to create a business that goes beyond monetary gain and
makes a positive impact on people’s lives.
Economic Performance
While ensuring profitability, the Group also places importance
on business practices that best support sustainable economic
growth. Hence, we practise ‘financial discipline’ to include both
of these aspects to ensure business stability. PPB’s Managing
Director’s explanation of the Group’s performance and fuller
information on our economic performance can be found in the
Managing Director’s Review (pages 18-26) and audited financial
statements (pages 67-167) of PPB’s FY2022 Annual Report.
NC FINANCIAL CAPITAL
FC
Our sustainability achievements and highlights:
Total economic value generated:
RM6.26 billion*
NC social & reLATIONSHIP CAPITAL
SRC
We shape our business to embed corporate citizenship in order
to identify societal areas where we can make a positive impact
and contribute to a more sustainable environment for all.
Brand Image and Reputation
The Group has high standards for the way we are represented
and the values and practices that we follow. In FY2022, the
Group recorded zero cases of non-compliance issues with
marketing communications and labelling requirements for
our products and services across all business segments.
Various awards have been received by the Film Exhibition and
Distribution, Grains & Agribusiness and Property segments.
Customer Satisfaction
We value feedback from our customers and provide
avenues for them to express their concerns. In the Grains
and Agribusiness and Consumer Products segments, a
combined total of 326 valid customer complaints were
recorded across all divisions and branches through their
Annual Customer Survey. We received a total of 888
(per 100,000 admissions) customer feedback and 45 (per
100,000 admissions) customer complaints in our Film Exhibition
and Distribution segment through CSAT (Customer Satisfaction)
surveys via QR codes. A score of 8.6 out of 10 was received
through the Net Promoter Score (NPS) in the Property segment.
Human Rights
The Group recognises human rights as the basis of our
commitment to good workplace practices and we respect the
rights of people in all our areas of operation. FFM PI and FGM
Sarawak are members of Sedex. Our Human Rights Policy is
guided by the principles expressed in the Universal Declaration
of Human Rights and was updated in February 2023. The policy
can be accessed on our website at www.ppbgroup.com.
Supply Chain Management
At PPB, we strive to promote ESG practices among our
suppliers and work towards building a sustainable value chain.
In FY2022, about 92.5% of the suppliers we worked with were
local to our areas of operation. Our three oil palm plantations
with an average size of 291 hectares, have achieved Malaysian
Sustainable Palm Oil (“MSPO”) certification and recorded a total
production of 8,749.30 MT of fresh fruit bunches in FY2022.
The Group utilised a total of 17,435.40 MT of palm oil for our
operations, of which 3.14% were Roundtable on Sustainable
Palm Oil (“RSPO”) certified.
Community Engagement and Development
The Group contributed more than RM3 million to community
investments of which RM1.9 million (60%) was spent on COVID-
19-related initiatives. Contributions to registered non-profit
organisations amounted to more than RM1.2 million. Projects
Our sustainability achievements and highlights:
More than
RM3 million
contributed to the community.
Zero
breaches or violations
of human rights laws.
PPB’S COMMITMENT TO SUSTAINABILITY
were targeted at women and youth, indigenous communities,
local artists and vulnerable communities and families. Among
the projects were “Baking for a Better Future” to empower
women and marginalised groups with baking skills for
entrepreneurial opportunities; “Zero to Hero” for B40 groups
and other vulnerable communities equipping them with sewing
skills; an autism awareness campaign; a community charity
kiosk; as well as food aid and disaster relief.
NC INTELLECTUAL CAPITAL
IC
Our sustainability achievements and highlights:
New
Nutrition Policy
adopted in February 2023.
Launch of
GreenRE Gold
certified property
in Petaling Jaya.
New
sensory-friendly
screenings
for neurodivergent audiences on a monthly basis.
Zero substantiated complaints concerning
leaks or breaches of customer privacy and loss of
customer data.
Our intangible assets are valuable in managing the growth
of the business and contributing to the bottom line. As such,
these assets include product innovation, cybersecurity, data
protection and intellectual property.
Nutrition, Health and Wellness
We strictly adhere to Food Act Regulations such as the Malaysian
Food Act 1983 and Malaysian Code of Advertising Practice. In
February 2023, we adopted a Nutrition Policy which addresses
our commitment to enhance accessibility to nutritious food and
practise clear and transparent labelling. Our consumer-packed
flour products are enriched with vitamins and minerals and we
also offer alternative flours for those with dietary restrictions or
allergies. Our Massimo loaf comes in a choice of wheat germ,
100% whole wheat, fine wholemeal and seeded multigrain with
barley among others. An information board with nutritional
facts and allergen alerts for hot foods prepared by the cinema
division is displayed at all GSC cinema concession counters
nationwide to enable customers who are health-conscious or
have food intolerances to make better-informed choices.
Data Protection
In line with the era of digitalisation, we value the privacy and
protection of our customers’ data. Complying with the Personal
Data Protection Act 2010, PPB implements cybersecurity
practices such as cloud migration, Active Directory (AD)
harmonisation, IT Service Management (ITSM), incident
management, asset management, patch management and
standardisation of antivirus solutions and firewalls. In FY2022,
there were zero substantiated complaints concerning leaks or
breaches of customer privacy or the loss of customer data.
CONCLUSION
PPB continues to make our mark in the industry with our
contributions to social well-being, environmental health, and
a just economy. Moving forward, we aspire to strengthen
the fundamentals built in the areas of sustainability, people
and technology, in order to achieve long-term value for all
stakeholders.
* Including discontinued operations
60 61
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
COMPOSITION
The members of the PPB Group Berhad (“PPB”) Audit and Risk Committee (“A&RC”) during the financial year ended (“FYE”)
31 December 2022 comprised the following Directors:
Name of A&RC member Position Designation
Mr Soh Chin Teck Chairman Independent Non-executive
Dato’ Capt Ahmad Sufian @ Qurnain bin Abdul Rashid Member Independent Non-executive
Madam Tam Chiew Lin Member Independent Non-executive
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman
(Appointed on 1 April 2022)
Member Independent Non-executive
The Audit Committee was renamed as the Audit and Risk Committee during the year to better reflect the Committee’s oversight role
in the Group’s risk management function.
MEETINGS
The number of A&RC meetings held in 2022 and details of attendance of each committee member are as follows:
No. of meetings
Name of A&RC member Held Attended
Mr Soh Chin Teck 6 6
Dato’ Capt Ahmad Sufian @ Qurnain bin Abdul Rashid 6 6
Madam Tam Chiew Lin 6 6
Tengku Nurul Azian binti Tengku Shahriman
(Appointed on 1 April 2022)
3 3
The A&RC performed the duties specified in its terms of reference in FYE 31 December 2022 as follows:
Financial Reporting
1. At the close of each quarter, the A&RC reviewed the quarterly financial statements of PPB with the Group Chief Financial
Officer (“GCFO”) and the respective Heads of Finance of the main business units (“BU”), prior to approval by the Board,
to ensure that the condensed financial statements are in compliance with the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad and the applicable financial reporting standards. Questions and/or concerns raised by the A&RC
on the financial statements are addressed accordingly.
External audit
2. For the annual statutory audit, the A&RC together with the GCFO of PPB and the respective Heads of Finance of the BU’s,
reviewed the external auditors’ audit plan and scope of work for FYE 31 December 2022. The A&RC was also briefed on the status
of the audit and resolution of areas of audit emphasis which the external auditors noted during the course of the audit. Other
observations and opportunities for improvement, together with management’s responses, were also highlighted to the A&RC.
3. The A&RC reviewed with the GCFO and the external auditors, the audited financial statements for the year under review prior
to approval by the Board, to ensure that they were prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Companies Act 2016
and applicable financial reporting standards. The GCFO addressed all concerns from the A&RC accordingly.
4. Pursuant to the amendments to the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA) Code, the A&RC has on
15 December 2022 put in place a process and general policy to provide pre-concurrence to the external auditor on the
provision of non-audit services, and that the provision of these services would not create a threat to the external auditor’s
independence. Nevertheless, non-audit fees incurred are monitored by management, and any significant increase would be
highlighted to the A&RC with justifications. Thus far, there has not been any significant non-audit fee incurred by the Group.
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
5. The A&RC reviewed the annual assessment conducted
on the effectiveness, suitability and independence of the
external auditors.
6. The A&RC met with the external auditors without the
presence of management after the conclusion of their
audit. At the meeting, the external auditors informed the
A&RC that they are satisfied with the co-operation and
support given by management and staff of the Group in
the course of their audit.
Internal audit
7. Four Audit Review Committees (“ARC”) have been
established for each of the main business divisions in the
Group. ARC meetings are usually held quarterly before
the scheduled A&RC meetings, and chaired by PPB’s
GCFO. The ARC meetings serve as an avenue for more
in-depth discussion of issues raised in the internal audit
reports.
Senior management of the subject entity are invited
to ARC meetings to facilitate discussions and provide
further explanation, feedback, updates and action plans
on internal audit issues raised. A&RC members may
attend selected ARC meetings to seek explanations or
participate in deliberations between management and
ARC members.
8. Significant audit issues raised in ARC meetings are further
discussed at A&RC meetings and where necessary,
the A&RC may also request the chief executives of
the subsidiaries to provide further information and
explanation.
9. The A&RC reviewed the findings of PPB Internal Audit
Department (“PPBIAD”) reports and noted the discussions
at ARC meetings. Outstanding audit issues are tracked
monthly by PPBIAD until they are satisfactorily resolved.
A status report on the follow-up audit issues together
with management’s explanations on outstanding items
that are overdue, is tabled to the A&RC at the quarterly
meetings.
10. The A&RC reviewed and approved PPBIAD’s 2022 audit
plan, scope and audit approach which is guided by the
risk-based assessment approved by the A&RC.
11. At the A&RC meeting held on 24 November 2022, the
A&RC assessed the performance and competency
of PPBIAD including assessing the adequacy of their
manpower and other resources, and is satisfied with
PPBIAD’s performance and adequacy of its resources.
Related party transactions (“RPT”) and conflict of interest
(“COI”) situations
12. The A&RC noted the methods and procedures (which
are reviewed by PPBIAD) by which prices and other
terms of recurrent related party transactions (“RRPT”)
are determined, including the Group’s procedures and
processes to identify, track and monitor RRPTs.
13. The A&RC reviewed RPT issues including any COI
situations as and when highlighted in internal audit
reports.
14. The A&RC noted the RPTs and RRPTs entered into by the
Group in FYE 2022.
Risk management
15. The A&RC provided oversight, direction and resources for
the implementation of the risk management framework in
the following key areas:
a) assessing the effectiveness of the Group’s
enterprise-wide risk management framework.
b) reviewing the risk reports of the Group on a quarterly
basis.
c) ensuring the risk management activities of risk
identification, assessment, action plans and
monitoring of key risks are implemented throughout
the organisation.
d) ensuring key risks of the Group are managed
appropriately in order to assure the Board that the
residual risk ratings meet the Group’s risk appetite.
Others
16. The A&RC reviewed the Audit and Risk Committee Report,
and the Statement on Risk Management and Internal
Control for inclusion in the 2022 annual report.
INTERNAL AUDIT FUNCTION
The internal audit function of the Group is performed in-house
by staff of PPBIAD. PPBIAD reports directly to the A&RC and all
its internal auditors are free from any relationships or conflict of
interest, which could impair their objectivity and independence.
The total cost incurred by PPBIAD for the internal audit function
of the Group for FYE 31 December 2022 was about RM2.2 million.
62 63
PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE REPORT
SUMMARY OF THE WORK OF PPBIAD
PPBIAD is a corporate member of the Institute of Internal
Auditors Malaysia (“IIAM”). The activities and processes of
PPBIAD are guided by its charter and generally conform to the
‘International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal
Auditing’, ‘Code of Ethics’ and ‘Definition of Internal Auditing’
in the International Professional Practices Framework of the
Institute of Internal Auditors, as well as the annual audit plan
approved by the A&RC. PPBIAD adopts a risk-based approach
in the development of its audit plan.
During FYE 31 December 2022, PPBIAD:
Key audit areas
1. Reviewed the key risk areas identified by management
of PPB and its subsidiaries, and additional risk areas
identified by PPBIAD by testing the adequacy and
effectiveness of the key internal controls to manage
those risks, and performing root cause analysis on audit
observations.
2. Reviewed the systems in place to ensure compliance with
policies, plans, rules and regulations which may have
significant impact on PPB Group.
3. Reviewed controls to safeguard assets and where
appropriate, verified the existence of such assets.
4. Reviewed the effectiveness and efficiency of operations
and ascertained whether results are consistent with PPB’s
objectives and goals.
5. Followed up on the Company’s application of the relevant
principles and recommendations in the Malaysian Code
on Corporate Governance.
6. Reviewed RPTs and RRPTs and reported on any COI
situations identified during the course of its audit which
did not adhere to relevant policies, rules and regulations.
Reporting and communication flow
7. PPBIAD staff attended a total of 6 ARC meetings held to
discuss their audit reports.
8. The Group Head of Internal Audit (“GHIA”) met with
the A&RC Chairman on eight occasions to review key
audit issues and discussed audit-related matters prior
to scheduled A&RC meetings. At such discussions, the
A&RC Chairman may also provide guidance and support
to further improve the efficiency and effectiveness of
PPBIAD, where applicable.
9. The GHIA highlights at each A&RC meeting, critical and
important audit issues in the internal audit reports with
particular emphasis on any key unresolved issues.
Resources
10. PPBIAD’s head count as at 31 December 2022 was 9.
The GHIA, Mr Seng Kian Aik, is a member of the Institute
of Internal Auditors Malaysia, Malaysian Institute of
Accountants, Malaysian Institute of Certified Public
Accountants, and Chartered Accountants Australia and
New Zealand. All PPBIAD auditors have at least a relevant
tertiary education.
11. Staff attended relevant courses and seminars organized
by IIAM and other professional/ regulatory bodies to keep
abreast with the latest auditing techniques and regulatory
requirements.
(The terms of reference of the A&RC can be viewed on PPB’s
website at www.ppbgroup.com)
Soh Chin Teck
Audit and Risk Committee Chairman
23 March 2023
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND
INTERNAL CONTROL
PPB Board acknowledges its responsibility for establishing a sound risk management and
internal control system to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Group’s assets.
There is an ongoing review process by the Board to ensure the
adequacy and effectiveness of the system to meet the Group’s
objectives and strategies. The risk management framework and
internal control system are designed to identify, evaluate and
manage risks that may prevent the achievement of the business
objectives and strategies within the Group’s risk appetite,
rather than to eliminate risks. Therefore, it provides reasonable
assurance against material misstatement, fraud or loss.
The main features of the Group’s risk management framework
and internal control system are summarised as follows:
1. Control environment
The Group considers the integrity of staff at all levels to
be of utmost importance, and this is pursued through
comprehensive recruitment, appraisal and reward
programmes. There is a Group organisation structure
within which business activities are planned, controlled
and monitored.
The Group’s culture and values, and the standard of
conduct and discipline it expects from employees are
communicated to them via the Code of Conduct and
Ethics stipulated in the employment terms and conditions,
and supported by the incorporation of a competency
framework into the employee performance management
system.
Group-wide Integrity Steering Committees have been
established to provide oversight on matters relating to
integrity and ethics, including bribery and corruption.
2. Risk management
A formal Group-wide enterprise risk management (“ERM”)
framework has been established, which is aligned to
ISO31000: Risk Management, covering the Group’s core
business activities to identify, evaluate and manage
significant business risks faced by the Group.
This process was in place throughout the year and is
regularly reviewed and monitored by the Audit and Risk
Committee (“A&RC”) for its adequacy and effectiveness,
and reported accordingly to the Board.
The key features of the Group’s risk management
framework are:
- A formal set of risk policy and guidelines has
been established and approved by the Board and
communicated to employees throughout the Group
through risk awareness sessions and workshops;
- A risk reporting structure which outlines the lines of
reporting and responsibilities of the Board, A&RC,
Risk Advisory Committee (“RAC”) and the various
subsidiary risk committees, has been established
and approved;
- The RAC reports on the Group risk profile for
review by the A&RC, and the A&RC reports on the
significant risks and controls available to mitigate
those risks to the Board for its consideration;
- The appointment of a Group Chief Risk Officer
(“GCRO”) at the holding company (PPB Group
Berhad), Heads of Risk at the respective Business
Units (“BU”) and risk officers at the subsidiaries to
ensure leadership, direction and coordination of the
Group-wide application of risk management;
- The scope of the Group-wide risk assessment
process encompasses strategic, governance,
legal and compliance, operations, cyber, financial,
asset security, health, safety, environment and
corruption. The key risks identified in these areas
are deliberated and assessed during the risk
assessment workshops;
- The risk assessment sessions are mainly carried
out through questionnaires, meetings or facilitated
workshops by the Risk Management and Integrity
teams at the holding company/ BU Heads of Risk/
subsidiaries’ risk officers. They provide independent
assessment of new/ existing risks identified, and risk
ratings determined by the respective risk owners
based on the risk appetite set by the Board;
64 PPB Group Berhad | Annual Report 2022
04 GOVERNANCE
- The GCRO/ BU Heads of Risk/ subsidiaries’
risk officers also provide guidance to the risk
owners on the development and adoption of
appropriate management action plans to mitigate
the risks, should the control effectiveness of the
existing controls be assessed to require further
improvements;
- The heads of the BU, with assistance from their
Head of Risk and risk officers are responsible for
identifying, analysing and evaluating risks, as
well as developing, implementing and monitoring
management action plans and reporting all risks to
the GCRO, who will subsequently table the Group’s
key risks to the RAC, A&RC and Board;
- The identification and monitoring of key risk
indicators (“KRIs”) have been rolled out to the
Group, which assist risk owners to assess the risk
ratings and the need for further management action
plans to mitigate the risks should the KRIs indicate
an adverse trend; and
- Ongoing risk management education and training is
provided at management and staff levels.
As part of the Group’s effort to remain resilient during
a crisis, a Group-wide business continuity management
(“BCM”) framework has been established. This is to
provide a structured approach to assist management to
respond, recover and resume normal operations in a more
efficient and effective manner, in the event of a crisis. A
Group BCM Strategic Roadmap has been developed to
implement the BCM programme throughout the group in
phases. The BCM programme incorporates awareness
sessions, risk assessment, business impact analysis,
development of recovery strategies/ plans and cascading
of the business continuity plans (“BCPs”) to relevant staff.
The BCPs are reviewed and updated regularly to enhance
our capabilities to meet customers, regulatory bodies and
other stakeholders’ requirements.
3. Control activities
The Group has in place a system to ensure that there are
adequate and effective risk management, financial and
operational policies and procedures and rules relating to
the delegation and segregation of duties.
There are comprehensive budgets, requiring board
approval, which are reviewed on a regular basis.
4. Information and communication
There is a system of financial reporting to the Board,
based on quarterly results and annual budgets. Key risks
and operational performance indicators are regularly
monitored and reported to the Board.
Whistleblowing policies and procedures are in place
to provide a platform to report on actual or suspected
malpractice, misconduct or violation of applicable laws
and regulations in a responsible and effective manner.
5. Monitoring
Monitoring of the Group’s significant business risks is
embedded within the Group’s risk management process
described in item 2 above. A control self-assessment
system is also in place for management to monitor critical
and routine risk areas under their jurisdiction using an
internal control checklist.
The adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s risk
management, internal control and governance processes are
reviewed and monitored by the A&RC, which receives regular
reports from the internal auditors. Formal procedures are in
place for action to be taken to remedy any significant failings or
weaknesses identified in these reports.
There were no significant risk management and internal control
failings or weaknesses which had resulted in material losses or
contingencies during the financial year.
The Board has received assurance from the Group Managing
Director and Group Chief Financial Officer that the Group’s
risk management and internal control system is operating
adequately and effectively in all material aspects based on the
risk management and internal control system of the Group.
Based on the foregoing, the Board is satisfied with the adequacy
and effectiveness of the Group’s risk management and internal
control system. However, such a system is designed to manage
rather than eliminate the risk of failure. Accordingly, the system
can only provide a reasonable and not absolute assurance
against material misstatement, loss or fraud.
The Group’s system of risk management and internal control
applies principally to PPB Group Berhad and its subsidiaries.
Associates have been excluded as the Group does not have full
management and control over them.
28 February 2023
STATEMENT ON RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL
