ANNUAL REVIEW 2024
Good food Good life, everyday everywhere
Unlocking the power of food
to enhance quality of life for everyone,
today and for generations to come.
With 112 years of dedicated presence in the nation, Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad continues to pursue
our purpose to unlock the power of food to enhance quality of life for everyone, today and for
generations to come. Guided by our Good food, Good life promise, we strive to deliver Halal,
nutritious and high-quality products as well as solutions that serve the needs of Malaysians while
fostering wellbeing. As a leading food and beverage (F&B) manufacturer, our sustainable growth is
anchored in our Creating Shared Value (CSV) approach and comprehensive Environmental, Social
and Governance (ESG) framework, enabling us to make a meaningful impact on society and the
planet.
Our Business
Our Presence
Nestlé Organisation Structure
Fast Facts
Awards and Achievements
Business Value Creation Model
4 - 9
02
Creating Shared Value 10
Message from Our Chairman and Our CEO 12
15
Management Discussion and Analysis
03
Our Business Review 22
Our Product Portfolio 20
04
06 Corporate Information 60
Corporate Directory 61
Notice of Annual General Meeting 62
Proxy Form
05 Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Key Senior Management Team
44 - 54
We Are Nestlé 55
CONTENTS
01 Our Annual Reporting Suite 2
Basis of This Report 3
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
2
Our Annual Reporting Suite
At Nestlé, openness and accountability are at the heart of our commitment to good corporate governance. By delivering clear and
transparent information, we aim to uphold the trust of our shareholders and stakeholders while building confidence in our actions
and decisions.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Annual Report may contain forward-looking statements that reflect the
current views, plans and objectives relating to the operations and business
of the Company. By their nature, these statements are subject to potential
risks and uncertainties which may arise in the future and could cause
actual outcomes to differ materially from what is stated or implied herein.
The Group undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements,
whether due to new developments, future events or other factors.
REPORTING SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES
This Annual Report, covering the period from January to December 2024,
reviews the performance, activities and operations of Nestlé (Malaysia)
Berhad (Company) and its subsidiaries (Group).
ASSURANCE
• Internal controls and management assurance
• Compliance and internal audit reviews
• External audit by Ernst & Young PLT on financial information
• External audit by Ernst & Young PLT on the Nestlé in Society Report
2024
REPORTING FRAMEWORK
• Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
• Corporate Governance Guide by Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
• Companies Act 2016
• Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance
• International/Malaysian Financing Reporting
Standards
• Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards
• IFRS S1 General Requirements for Disclosure of
Sustainability-related Financial Information
• IFRS S2 Climate-related Disclosures
In line with this, our Annual Reporting Suite provides a holistic view of the Group’s performance for the financial
year through three dedicated publications: our Annual Review, Corporate Governance & Financial Report, and
Nestlé in Society Report. These reports reflect our approach to value creation, encompassing our growth strategy,
business activities, financial results, governance practices, risk management approaches, ESG agenda and
sustainability progress. This year, as part of our sustainability drive, we are taking a step further towards going
fully digital by making the Annual Report 2024 available exclusively online.
Additionally, we share quarterly financial results and material announcements to Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad. Press releases on key initiatives are also published regularly and can be accessed on our corporate
website at www.nestle.com.my.
Online Annual
Reporting Suite
Annual Review 2024
Provides an in-depth narrative on our sustainable
growth strategy, financial performance and brand
highlights during the year, as well as elaborating on
our capital management approach, value creation
efforts and holistic ESG agenda, which is further
detailed in Corporate Governance & Financial
Report 2024 and Nestlé in Society Report 2024.
Scan the QR code or visit
nes.tl/AnnualReportMY to explore our
2024 Annual Reporting Suite online.
COVER RATIONALE
At the heart of Malaysians’ lives are moments of connection – this is what
our 2024 cover visuals celebrate through a first-person perspective that
invites readers to relive their own cherished memories with Nestlé. From
enjoying a cup of NESCAFÉ in precious moments with family, to sharing
a heartwarming bowl of MAGGI with friends, to children’s excitement at
the iconic MILO truck, these images place readers within familiar scenes
of togetherness. Through this shared perspective, we illustrate how our
brands are trusted companions in Malaysian daily life, embodying our
Good food, Good life promise across homes and communities nationwide.
Annual Review 2024
3
Basis of This Report
This report features the Message from Our Chairman and Our
Chief Executive Officer (CEO), offering perspectives on our
strategies for creating value. This is complemented by the
Management Discussion and Analysis section, which examines
our financial and operational performance in detail, alongside
our sustainability advancements, as elaborated on further in our
Nestlé in Society Report.
Additionally, the Business Review section spotlights relevant
initiatives undertaken by our diverse brands and business units.
This Annual Review was approved by the Board of Directors of
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad (Board) on 14 March 2025.
As a key publication, the 2024 Annual
Review provides a comprehensive
overview of our priorities, growth
strategies and business performance for
the year. It highlights pivotal operational,
marketing and sales initiatives that have
driven our progress.
ICONS IN THIS REPORT
Annual Review 2024
Corporate Governance & Financial Report 2024
Nestlé in Society Report 2024
Directs readers to pages or other supplementary
reports with more information
AR
CGFR
NIS
Nestlé in Society Report 2024
Focuses on our sustainability
achievements, detailing material
issues, our progress in key ESG
areas and the measures taken to
contribute positively to society
and the environment.
Corporate Governance & Financial Report 2024
Presents the Group’s financial
statements, a thorough account
of our corporate governance
practices,insightsintothepotential
risks we face and our strategic risk
management framework.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
4
Our Business
OUR PRESENCE
For 112 years, Nestlé has
been part of Malaysia’s
journey. We have earned
and upheld the trust of
consumers by consistently
delivering on our promise
of Good food, Good life
through a broad range of
products that meet diverse
needs. Made in Malaysia, by
Malaysians, for Malaysians,
this is supported by
our robust nationwide
infrastructure, comprising
six manufacturing facilities
and 61 strategically
located sales offices across
Malaysia. Guided from our
headquarters in Selangor,
we remain unwavering in
our commitment to provide
Malaysians with Halal,
nutritious, high-quality
products that satisfy their
taste preferences while
adapting to changing
lifestyles, now and for the
future.
Sales Offices
Head Office Factories Others
Selangor
Head Office
3 Factories
11Sales Offices
1 NESPRESSO Nano Boutique
1 Nestlé Distribution Centre
Kuala Lumpur
2 Sales Office
1 NESPRESSO Boutique
1 NESPRESSO Nano Boutique
Negeri Sembilan
2 Factories
3 Sales Offices
Melaka
2 Sales Offices
Johor
8 Sales Offices
Perak
6 Sales Offices
Penang
5 Sales Offices
1 NESPRESSO Nano Boutique
Kedah
3 Sales Offices
Pahang
6 Sales Offices
Terengganu
1 Sales Office
Kelantan
4 Sales Offices
Sarawak
1 Factory
6 Sales Offices
Sabah
4 Sales Offices
Sarawak
Sabah
Melaka
Kedah
Perak
Johor
Pahang
Terengganu
Kelantan
Negeri Sembilan
Kuala Lumpur
Selangor
Penang
Annual Review 2024
5
Our Business
NESTLÉ ORGANISATION STRUCTURE
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Juan Aranols
Business Executive Officer, NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL
Yit Woon Lai
Business Executive Officer, NESTLÉ HEALTH SCIENCE
Pang Raei Sze
Business Executive Officer, NESPRESSO
Floriane Novello
Business Executive Officer, Nestlé Breakfast Cereal
Philip Joe
Business Executive Officer, MILO
Ng Su Yen
Business Executive Officer, Foods
Ivy Tan Link Cheh
Business Executive Officer, Coffee
Raef Labaki*
Business Executive Officer, Ready-to-Drink
Norkhayati Mohamed Hashini
Business Executive Officer, Nestlé Nutrition
Yeoh She Shiang
Business Executive Officer, Ice Cream
April Wong Poh Keng
Business Executive Officer, Confectionery
Carlota Casellas
Chief Financial Officer
Syed Saiful Islam
Executive Director of Legal & Secretarial
Tengku Ida Adura Tengku Ismail
Executive Director of Technical & Production
Xolile White
Executive Director of Supply Chain
Anurag Dwivedi
Executive Director of Human Resources
Carmen Melissa Antonio
Executive Director of Corporate Affairs
Raja Nurmaria Murni Raja Nur Azmi
Executive Director of Sales
Timothy Ross Aird
Marketing Communications Director
Raef Labaki*
Head of Innovation, Insights & Marketing Excellence
Lam Pui Yuee
REGIONALLY & GLOBALLY MANAGED BUSINESSES
LOCALLY MANAGED BUSINESSES
CORPORATE FUNCTIONS
* Raef Labaki in a dual role, effective April 2024
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
6
Our Business
FAST FACTS
Our
Portfolio
Head Office
in Bandar Utama,
Petaling Jaya,
Selangor
Turnover of
RM6.2 billion
in 2024
100%
Malaysian manufacturing
workforce
Operates
6 Factories
and
1 National
Distribution Centre
Extensive range of over
500 Halal-certified,
made-in-Malaysia
products, with Malaysian-
favourite brands such as MILO,
MAGGI, and NESCAFÉ
Largest Halal
producer in the Nestlé
world, exporting to over
50
countries worldwide
Publicly
listed
on Bursa Malaysia
since 1989
FOODS COFFEE
RE
ADY-TO-DRI
NK
CO
NFECTIONE
RY
NUTRITION
HE
ALTH SCIEN
CE
NESTL
É
PROFESS
IONAL
MILO
ICE CREAM
5,036
employees
as of December 2024
Operating commercially in
Malaysia since
1912
Market capitalisation of
RM23.4 billion
as at 31 December 2024
Over
RM14 million
contributed to community and
relief efforts in 2024
Over
90%
of our products are
made in Malaysia,
by Malaysians,
for all Malaysians
Annual Review 2024
7
Our Business
AWARDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
1. The Star ESG Positive Impact Awards 2024
Nestlé Malaysia continued to demonstrate its environmental responsibility, securing a Silver in the
Waste Management category of the ESG Positive Impact Awards, organised by The Star Media Group.
The awards recognised the Company’s exemplary KITAR Recycling Programme, which addresses
solid waste challenges in Malaysian suburbs with door-to-door collection utilising motor sidecars,
reaching approximately 9,200 households during the year in efforts to enhance recycling practices.
4. National Corporate Governance & Sustainability Awards 2024 (NACGSA)
Nestlé Malaysia was ranked 36th in the Excellence Award 2024 – Top 50 at NACGSA 2024, organised
by the Minority Shareholders Watch Group. This prestigious accolade recognises Malaysia’s top PLCs
for outstanding corporate governance and sustainability achievements, reaffirming Nestlé Malaysia’s
leadership in transparency, accountability and responsible business practices.
7. SEEK People & Purpose Awards 2024
Nestlé Malaysia secured the Platinum Award in the FMCG sector at the SEEK People & Purpose
Awards organised by JobStreet. Special recognition was given to Nestlé for its inspiring
purpose-driven initiatives, which emphasise creating meaningful opportunities for employees
through impactful human resources practices that strive for excellence.
8. Kantar Brand Footprint Award 2024
Nestlé Malaysia demonstrated its continued leadership in the FMCG sector, earning top recognition
in the Kantar Asia Brand Footprint Report 2024. MILO was celebrated as the Most Chosen Brand
in the Beverages category in Malaysia, reflecting its deep resonance with consumers. Alongside
this, MAGGI maintained its position as the No. 1 FMCG Brand in Malaysia for an outstanding
12 consecutive years, cementing its status as a trusted household brand.
9. Most Loved Grocery Brand Partner 2024
Nestlé Malaysia was recognised as the Most Loved Grocery Brand Partner at the first Lazada Seller
Summit 2024. The award reaffirmed the Company’s strong e-commerce collaboration with one of
Southeast Asia’s leading platforms, driven by the aim to deliver consistent quality and excellent
customer service.
5. Graduates’ Choice Award (GCA) 2024
Selected once again as the number one employer in the Fast-Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG)
sector of the noteworthy GCA 2024, Nestlé Malaysia remained a company of choice for graduates.
The awards, a leading graduate employer branding accolade in Asia Pacific, are entirely determined
by university student votes.
6. Malaysia’s 100 Leading Graduate Employer Award (M100) 2024
Nestlé Malaysia retained its top ranking as preferred employer in the FMCG sector of the M100 for
the 12th year in a row. The awards are chosen annually through Malaysia’s Graduate Barometer for
identifying key recruitment trends and is a long-standing endorsement of Nestlé’s solid reputation
and appeal among the country’s future job seekers.
2. Most Supportive Corporate Partner Awards 2024
Nestlé Malaysia was honoured to be named Most Supportive Corporate Partner by The King’s Trust
International for its significant efforts to uplift Malaysian youth through the TEAM Programme, in
collaboration with Selangor Youth Community. The partnership focuses on environmental awareness
and sustainable practices among the young, with Nestlé strengthening its commitment by signing a
Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) to expand the initiative.
3. The Edge Malaysia ESG Awards 2024
Nestlé Malaysia was honoured with the Silver Award in the Consumer Products and Services sector
at The Edge Malaysia ESG Awards 2024. The Edge Malaysia ESG Awards aimed at acknowledging
public-listed companies (PLCs) and asset management firms that are leaders in the ESG space.
8
7
6
5
2
3
1
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
8
(as at 31 December 2024)
We ensure business continuity and strengthen our market leadership through strategic deployment of financial
capital, delivering relevant innovations to consumers, supporting communities and nourishing Malaysians as we
accelerate our ESG objectives to drive sustainable growth.
• Market capitalisation : RM23.4 billion
• Shareholder equity : RM547.5 million
• Share capital : RM267.5 million
• Total assets : RM3.65 billion
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
We empower our talented and diverse workforce to foster collaboration and create shared value for stakeholders
throughout the value chain.
• 5,036 employees across the organisation.
• 36% female employee representation, with 57% of females in management roles.
• 100% local manufacturing workforce.
• Comprehensive training programmes online and in-person to support employee development.
HUMAN CAPITAL
We continuously invest in enhancing our operations to maintain the highest standards in quality and safety across our
wide range of offerings.
• Six factories across Malaysia.
• Compliance with the highest food safety and quality standards
(i.e., ISO 9001:2015, FSSC 22000, GLOBE Quality Monitoring Scheme, Quality Compliance Verification).
• Nestlé’s Global Halal Centre of Excellence.
• Asia’s largest Nestlé Distribution Centre is located in Selangor, utilising advanced digital technology to optimise operations
at our Transportation Hubs.
OPERATIONAL CAPITAL
We leverage impactful marketing strategies and ensure excellence in sales execution to drive sustainable growth.
• Expanding product reach via strategic distribution across geographies and channels.
• Effective consumer engagement initiatives to nurture brand love and loyalty.
• Reinforcing strong brand presence among Malaysians through targeted marketing campaigns.
SALES & MARKETING CAPITAL
We are at the forefront of sustainability in the industry, spearheading the protection, renewal and restoration of
natural resources for a greener future.
• Developing and adopting innovative packaging solutions that reduce plastic use.
• Stewarding our resources responsibly to reduce the impact of climate change across our value chain.
NATURAL CAPITAL
We build and sustain long-term stakeholder trust by diligently addressing the most significant and relevant matters.
• Offering innovative, accessible and affordable products that resonate with consumers and empower them to live
healthier, more sustainable lives.
• Providing consumers with transparent access to information on the nutritional value of our products through the Nestlé
Nutritional Profiling System.
• Supporting the livelihoods of local farmers through our ongoing Farmer Connect initiatives.
SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Our Business
BUSINESS VALUE CREATION MODEL
Driving
sustainable
and profitable
growth
1
Continue
nurturing love
and trust in our
brands
2
Enhancing
capabilities
for the future
3
Leading the
industry
towards a
greener future
4
Helping to Protect, Renew and Restore Natural
Resources
Contributing to Nutritious and Sustainable Diets
Strengthening Communities
Operating Responsibly
OUR INPUT OUR IMPACT AREAS
OUR STRATEGY
UNLOCKING THE POWER OF FOOD
TO ENHANCE QUALITY OF LIFE
FOR EVERYONE, TODAY AND FOR
GENERATIONS TO COME.
Annual Review 2024
9
We maintain a resilient financial performance amidst a challenging business environment.
• Profit after tax : RM416 million
• Revenue : RM6.2 billion
• Total proposed dividend payout : RM1.79 per share
• Basic earnings per share : RM1.77
• Total dividends paid and proposed : RM419.8 million
FINANCIAL CAPITAL
We foster an inclusive and dynamic workforce, empowering our people to drive innovation and excellence in a complex business
environment.
• Retained the position as the number one choice for graduates as an FMCG employer in Malaysia’s 100 Leading Graduate
Employers and Talentbank Graduates’ Choice Awards.
• Growing female representation within Sales, Supply Chain and Technical & Production departments.
• Strong participation in local training and development programmes, with a total attendance breakdown of 56,099 hours.
HUMAN CAPITAL
We uphold the highest standards in hygiene, quality, safety and sustainability with best practices in place throughout our
manufacturing facilities.
• Portfolio of over 500 high-quality, Halal-certified products.
• Made-in-Malaysia products with 20% of our volumes exported to more than 50 countries worldwide.
• Transportation Hubs reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 1,000 tonnes per annum.
• Pioneering the use of electric vehicle (EV) trucks to transport MILO ingredients for its cross-border supply between Malaysia and
Singapore.
OPERATIONAL CAPITAL
We ensure our brands remain top-of-mind among consumers, forging lasting connections to support sustainable business
growth.
• MILO and MAGGI received top recognition in the Kantar Asia Brand Footprint Report 2024, securing the title of Most Chosen
Brand in the Beverages category and the No. 1 FMCG Brand in Malaysia, respectively.
• Outstanding sales execution supported by a diverse product range across nine food and beverage categories.
• Impactful offline and online marketing campaigns to strengthen brand affinity among Malaysians.
• The broadest territorial coverage through our distribution and sales network.
SALES & MARKETING CAPITAL
We take decisive action to fulfil our commitments towards environmental stewardship.
• 2.1 million trees planted through Project RELeaf, with a target of reaching 3 million trees by 2025.
• 80% of our total plastic packaging is designed for recycling and investing consistently for the long run.
• We lead the industry in climate change actions, having reduced materially our carbon footprint.
NATURAL CAPITAL
We are making consistent strides toward realising our ESG goals, focusing on nutrition, health, wellness, rural development and
uplifting communities in need.
• Since 2010, the Nestlé for Healthier Kids programme has educated over 180,000 students on nutrition and encouraged active lifestyles.
• 49 of our products have been awarded the Ministry of Health Malaysia’s (MoH) Healthier Choice Logo (HCL).
• Enhanced the livelihoods of 278 farmers through our Farmer Connect programmes.
SOCIAL & RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL
Suppliers
Factories
Transportation
& Warehouses
Sales
& Marketing
Consumers
Raw
Materials
Our Business
Business Value Creation Model
Shareholders & Investors
We deliver consistent and stable
returns, offering an attractive
investment opportunity for our
shareholders and investors.
1
Employees
We cultivate a fair and equitable
organisational culture that promotes
both professional growth and personal
wellbeing for every employee.
2
Communities
We uplift rural communities by
providing new income-generating
opportunities that support their
sustainable development and their
livelihoods.
3
Customers & Retailers
We offer a diverse portfolio of products
that cater to customer preferences and
evolving needs, across all commercial
channels, including online.
4
Consumers & General Public
We inspire Malaysians across the
nation to adopt healthier lifestyles
by providing Halal, nutritious and
great-tasting products, alongside
championing programmes that support
community health and wellness.
5
Government, Regulatory Bodies &
Non-Governmental Organisations
(NGOs)
We operate with integrity and
responsibility, as well as fostering
socioeconomic growth by providing
employment opportunities, investing in
community development and investing
consistently for the long run.
6
HOW WE SHARE THE VALUE WE CREATE
OUR VALUE CHAIN OUR OUTPUT
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
10
Creating Shared Value
At Nestlé, our CSV philosophy forms the
core of who we are as the Good food,
Good life company. This fundamental
principle shapes our mission to be a
positive force in society, ensuring we
create meaningful impact that not only
drives the growth of our business, but also
societal advancement and environmental
stewardship.
Our commitment extends beyond delivering exceptional
products. Through our trusted brands, we provide consumers
with Halal, nutritious, high-quality offerings that reflect
their changing preferences and needs. We recognise that
sustainable business growth depends on delivering value to our
key stakeholders, from our employees to our partners, farmers
and suppliers, who all form an integral part of our value chain.
Furthermore, we maintain an unwavering focus on protecting
and preserving our planet for future generations.
Our initiatives align strategically with the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals, providing a framework to measure and enhance our impact. Powered by our 5,036-workforce and a robust
portfolio of over 30 brands, we remain dedicated to enhancing the lives of Malaysians and building a sustainable future for generations to come.
Harnessing our extensive research
capabilities and nutrition expertise to
develop a wide portfolio of innovative,
great-tasting, accessible products that
support diverse nutritional needs and
empower consumers to make healthier
choices.
Contributing to Nutritious and
Sustainable Diets
Fostering sustainable supply chains and
resilient communities through targeted
rural development programmes, while
implementing impactful initiatives
that support and uplift vulnerable
communities.
Strengthening Communities
Implementing resource-efficient practices
throughout our operations while
pioneering innovative solutions that
reduce environmental impact, with
particular emphasis on addressing critical
challenges in climate change and plastic
waste reduction.
Helping to Protect, Renew and
Restore Natural Resources
Creating an organisational culture founded
on ethical principles, transparency and
inclusion, while providing an environment
where employee safety, wellbeing
and professional growth contribute to
sustainable business success.
Operating Responsibly
2.1 million trees planted through Project RELeaf to date.
Annual Review 2024
11
Climate and Nature
Water
Packaging and Circularity
Youth Opportunities
Produced Sustainably
Creating Shared Value
Contributing to Nutritio
us
and
Sustainable Diets
Helping to Protect, Renew
an
d
Restore Natural Resources
Operating
Re
sponsibly
Strengthening
Com
m
unities
Reducing environmental
impact while restoring
and protecting the
planet’s natural
ecosystems for future
generations.
Driving a culture of
sustainability and
accountability that
informs every decision
and empowers our people,
ensuring responsible
business practices that
fuel long-term
progress.
Making healthier,
more sustainable food
options accessible to
enhance quality of life for
individuals and families.
Nutrition
Fostering resilient
communities by
contributing to equitable
growth and supporting
the shift towards
regenerative practices.
Our Focus Areas
We unlock the power of food
to enhance quality of life for
everyone, today and for
generations to come.
Our People
Ethical Business
We remain dedicated to advancing the United Nations
Sustainable Development Goals, integrating these
goals into our actions to drive meaningful
progress. Further details on our contributions
toward these global objectives are available
in our 2024 Annual Reporting Suite.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
12
Message from Our Chairman and Our CEO
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer (Right)
Dear Shareholders,
“External events shaped 2024 into a tumultuous year on many levels, with regional conflicts and geopolitical events affecting
consumer sentiments toward international brands in unprecedented ways across various regions of the world, including Malaysia.
Additionally, purchasing power constraints further impacted growth. Despite these challenges, Nestlé Malaysia weathered through
the storm with a relentless focus on creating value for shareholders while continuing to deliver on our broad and ambitious ESG
programmes. We stayed focused on upholding our Good food, Good life promise through high-quality Halal products, made in
Malaysia, by Malaysians, under highly trusted brands. At the same time, we led by example in driving the industry’s green transition,
making a positive impact on communities and the planet.”
Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin
Chairman (Left)
Annual Review 2024
13
Message from Our Chairman and Our CEO
Navigating Challenges with Purpose
Malaysia’s economy recorded a growth of 5.1% for the year, on the back of domestic demand and
a rebound in exports. Dynamic labour market conditions, alongside increased investment activity
from both the private and public sectors and a progressive improvement in household spending
supported an overall solid macroeconomic environment. However, for the FMCG sector, 2024
proved to be quite challenging as inflationary pressures, fluctuating commodity prices and intense
market competition remained key factors influencing consumer purchasing decisions. Even more
significantly, the defining feature of the year was the pressure on international brands, driven by
perceptions surrounding regional conflicts fuelled through social media.
In the context of these complex market dynamics, we stayed agile and consumer-focused, ensuring
that our diverse portfolio continued to deliver value by staying accessible, relevant and competitive.
We also dedicated additional efforts and resources to reignite and strengthen the deep bonds we
have built with all Malaysians over our 112 years of presence in the nation. As extensive endeavours
and investments were deployed to protect the fundamental value proposition of Nestlé products
across brands and segments, we further strengthened our initiatives that generate positive societal
impact. Through our widespread ESG agenda and programmes, we continued to positively
contribute, once again, to the betterment of local communities, environmental sustainability and
society at large, in line with our CSV approach, which remains as relevant as ever.
Driving Positive Impacts for Rural and Underserved Communities
In 2024, Nestlé Malaysia continued to engage directly or in partnership with trusted organisations
such as the Malaysian Red Crescent or the Food Bank, to provide immediate relief to distressed
communities (for example, in the states impacted by floods), support the betterment of rural
communities through our Farmer Connect programmes and directly fund associations focused on
improving the lives of communities or sectors of society in need of support. The Salary for Life
campaign was another key example of combining an exciting consumer campaign with funds
channelled to deserving NGOs addressing pressing societal needs. Likewise, we stand very proud
of MILO’s initiative to support the entire Malaysian Olympic and Paralympic teams with a monetary
donation to support them on their journey to best represent Malaysia in international competitions.
Last but not least, amongst many other initiatives, the launch of MILO “Tenaga Untuk Kebaikan”
(Energy for Good) constitutes an ideal example of how to bring together environmental awareness
with an improved learning environment in schools in underprivileged areas through the supply of
furniture and sports equipment made from recycled packaging materials.
Progress in Decarbonisation and the Fight against Plastic Waste
Environmental Sustainability is at the heart of our responsible approach to business growth, ensuring
that we continue delivering high-quality products that are made in Malaysia, by Malaysians, for
Malaysians, while upholding the highest standards in nutrition, food safety and Halal integrity.
These core pillars define our promise to consumers, and we remain committed to reducing the
carbon and plastic footprint derived from our operations.
At the end of 2023, we had already delivered on our original commitment to cut the total emissions
by 25% by 2025 against the 2018 baseline, hence two years ahead of schedule. In 2024, we have
further exceeded this milestone as the cumulated reduction has reached 39%, with most of the
progress being attributed to our holistic programmes to act on Scope 1, 2 and 3 emissions, while
some of it is also attributable to the decline of sales in the year under review. Nevertheless, we are
fully on track to achieve a 50% reduction in our total emissions by 2030.
The main levers of this progress continue to be our intensive efforts to reduce the environmental
impact of the agricultural ingredients needed to produce our products. These efforts led at the
global level and in Malaysia, focus on all locally-sourced materials, including those from our Farmers
Connect programmes centred on rice, chilli, coffee and as of 2024, also on cocoa beans. Indeed, the
launch of KIT KAT Dark Borneo using locally-sourced cocoa beans from Sabah and Sarawak through
the Nestlé Borneo Cocoa Initiative is a great example of creating business growth opportunities
while supporting the livelihoods of local farming communities alongside contributing to the nation’s
food security.
Regarding Scope 1 and 2 emissions, it is also worth mentioning recent developments such as the
installation of a biomass boiler in our Chembong factory and the pilot project involving the use of EV
Trucks for transporting some of our key raw materials.
[From right] Juan Aranols sharing with YAB Dato’ Seri Utama Haji Aminuddin Bin Harun, the Chief Minister
of Negeri Sembilan, how oil palm Empty Fruit Bunches (EFB) is utilised as sustainable alternatives to fossil
fuels for steam generation in Nestlé Chembong factory’s biomass boiler.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
14
We also remain actively engaged in reforestation efforts through Project RELeaf, having 2.1
million trees planted as of 2024, and now on track to achieving 3 million trees by 2025. Beyond
its environmental benefits, the project also serves as a source of activity and revenue creation for
numerous families in remote rural communities through the planting and care of seedlings.
During the year, we expanded our pipeline of sustainable packaging solutions, further reducing
usage of virgin plastic and plastic packaging. With the transition to paper-based packaging for MILO
UHT’s 200ml cluster packs and paper bowls for our MAGGI Bowl products, along with other eco-
friendly packaging innovations, we are one step closer to achieving full recyclability. Additionally, we
have already, reduced our total virgin plastic usage by one third compared to 2018.
Complementing these efforts, our flagship Project SAVE plays a crucial role in plastic circularity
by diverting waste from landfills and fostering a culture of recycling in local communities through
its voluntary Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) initiatives. This includes the Door-to-Door
Collection & Recycling Programme, which has reached close to 200,000 households in 2024 and
collected over 20,000 tonnes of waste since its inception in 2020. With its expansion to Penang
during the year, the programme is laying the foundation for greater nationwide impact, supporting
the transition towards a circular economy.
Financial Performance
Nestlé Malaysia demonstrated resilience in 2024 in the face of economic challenges and market
pressures, delivering sales totalling RM6.2 billion. While this reflected an 11.7% decline from
2023’s historically high sales, our solid fundamentals and long-term strategy has kept us on course.
Export growth remained strong, reflecting our position as a key Halal hub within the global Nestlé
network. Additionally, we have completed the RM1 billion three-year commitment announced in
2021, confirming the confidence of the Nestlé Group globally to continue investing in Malaysia for
the long run.
Dividends
In line with our focus on delivering shareholder value, the Board declared a third interim dividend
of RM0.74 per share for the financial year ended 31 December 2024. This brings total dividends for
the year to RM1.79 per share. Our dividend policy is rooted in balancing shareholder returns with
prudent reinvestment to fuel business growth, ensuring the long-term sustainability of this policy.
Corporate Governance
We uphold the highest standards of corporate governance, compliance and accountability, reinforced
by a robust risk management framework to navigate evolving market dynamics while safeguarding
shareholder interests. In recognition of our commitment to these principles, we were honoured to be
ranked among the Top 50 in the Excellence Award category at the National Corporate Governance
& Sustainability Awards 2024.
Ensuring that our business decisions support long-term environmental and social priorities while
delivering sustainable value to stakeholders, we integrate corporate governance initiatives with ESG
principles and climate-related risk considerations.
As part of our commitment to strong leadership, during the year under review, the Board welcomed
Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin as its new Chairman to further enhance our governance framework.
This followed the retirement of YAM Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed Anwar Jamalullail, to whom we remain
recognisant of his extraordinary contributions throughout his 12-year tenure.
Awards
Our dedication to sustainability, industry leadership and brand excellence was reaffirmed through
multiple prestigious accolades in 2024. We were honoured to win Silver in Waste Management at
The Star ESG Positive Impact Awards for our KITAR Recycling Programme. As a preferred employer,
Nestlé Malaysia was also named the No. 1 FMCG employer at the Graduates’ Choice Award,
alongside maintaining our top position in Malaysia’s 100 Leading Graduate Employer Award for
the 12th year. Additionally, MILO was recognised as the Most Chosen Beverage Brand in Malaysia,
while MAGGI remained the No. 1 FMCG brand for the 12th consecutive year in the Kantar Asia Brand
Footprint Report, reinforcing the trust that Malaysians place in our household brands.
Outlook
The global economy is poised for moderate growth in 2025, with the International Monetary Fund
projecting a 3.3% expansion. Easing inflation and more stable financial conditions should support
this, though geopolitical uncertainties and aggravating trade tensions remain key downside risks.
Meanwhile, Malaysia’s economy is forecasted to grow between 4.5% and 5.5%, driven by domestic
demand, continued investment and a stable labour market. While inflationary pressures may persist
due to potential subsidy adjustments, the country’s economic outlook remains positive, fostering
some optimism for the year ahead.
Against this backdrop, we are committed and confident to deliver on our ambition to return to
healthy growth levels in 2025, building on the fundamentals of our responsible and sustainable
growth strategies, rooted in leading market positions across most of the product segments in
which we operate. Our deep-rooted presence and strong fundamentals empower us to navigate
challenges while continuously innovating to meet the evolving needs of consumers. Through our
diverse portfolio of nutritious, high-quality Halal-certified products, we are dedicated to enriching
lives and contributing to the wellbeing of Malaysians. Alongside this, we will continue to invest in
local manufacturing, create employment opportunities and implement sustainability initiatives.
As we forge ahead, we do so with immense gratitude to Malaysians, our Nestlé Malaysia family and
our valued partners across the value chain. Their trust and support inspire us to strive for excellence
in all that we do and build a future that is rooted in shared progress. Together, we look forward to
shaping another year of positive impact for society and the planet, while rewarding the trust of our
shareholders and all other stakeholders.
Message from Our Chairman and Our CEO
Annual Review 2024
15
Management Discussion and Analysis
“Through the significant external challenges confronted in 2024, Nestlé Malaysia remained focused on consistently delivering on
our mission to provide high-quality nutrition, foods and beverages through our vast range of products, all Halal-certified, sold under
trusted brands, and proudly made in Malaysia, by Malaysians. As we have done throughout our 112 years in Malaysia, we continued
to adapt, innovate and, above all, stay true to our purpose of being a positive force in the life of the nation, creating shared value for all
our stakeholders and leading industry action towards building a more sustainable future.“
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer
Business, Financial & Operational Review
The defining element of the operating environment in 2024 was the unfavourable
sentiment and hesitancy towards international brands triggered by global
events. This was compounded by constrained consumer purchasing power and
persistent volatility in food-related commodity costs, impacting the cost of living
for many Malaysian families. Within this landscape, the Group’s turnover was
impacted by a 12% reduction in sales driven by the domestic market, while the
export business continued to grow.
In spite of the challenges, our leading position in the FMCG market in Malaysia
remained undisputed, and we continue to command strong leadership across
most of the segments in which we operate. Indeed, with a penetration of 96%
of Malaysian households, nearly 200 Nestlé products are consumed every
second, with our distribution and sales capabilities ensuring the widest possible
territorial and channel coverage. These foundational aspects, in combination
with strong plans for demand generation, give us full confidence in recovering
healthy growth levels in 2025.
In a year with growth headwinds, our disciplined cost management and
continuous search for operational efficiency improvements were critical to
partially mitigate margin pressures. These efforts will also be beneficial to
our competitiveness in the marketplace, further strengthening our ability to
win. In this context, a number of projects and initiatives were implemented to
drive efficiency in industrial and logistics operations as well as administrative
activities, with digitalisation (including gradual adoption of AI solutions) as a
key enabler.
Our capital expenditure in 2024 was also optimised, while ensuring all-important
projects supporting business continuity, capacity and efficiency upgrades, as
well as new product launches were fully implemented on time and on budget.
In fact, by the end of 2024, we had completed the RM1 billion investment cycle
to be delivered over the last triennium, as announced in 2021.
[Third from left, onwards] YBhg Ts. Dr. Nagulendran Kangayatkarasu, Secretary-General, Ministry of Youth and Sports; Juan
Aranols, YB Puan Hannah Yeoh, Minister of Youth and Sports; Ng Su Yen and the MILO team at the Handover Ceremony
celebrating our 56 Olympians and Paralympians who proudly represented Malaysia in Paris. Their journey from school sports to
global stage showcases the power of perseverance and dedication, embodying the values MILO has championed for over 70 years.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
16
Overall, while the decline in revenue had an unfavourable impact on short-
term bottom-line results, the Company’s financial position has remained
strong, allowing us to deliver another year of solid dividends of RM1.79
per share.
As mentioned earlier, 2024 was a year focused on building operational
resilience, alongside sharpening our competitive edge in an evolving
market landscape while ensuring that the key fundamental elements in the
narrative of our brands and Nestlé as a whole were well explained and
understood by all Malaysians. We implemented comprehensive measures
to address and respond to shifting consumer sentiments while enhancing
our value propositions across different market segments, in order for our
products to remain highly accessible to Malaysian consumers. Through
every endeavour, we consistently upheld our commitment to quality,
nutrition and Halal certification, while continuing to protect the consumer
taste preferences intrinsically associated with our core brands.
Furthermore, brand-building activities were reassessed to enhance
consumer trust and leverage rising social media channels like TikTok,
resulting in more efficient marketing investments and optimised returns.
Consumers at the Heart of Innovation
Innovation maintained its value as a core pillar, enabling us to adapt
our product portfolio to evolving consumer preferences and expand
our consumer base with new and relevant propositions. Throughout
the year under review, innovation helped to uphold our market-leading
positions, expanding penetration into new consumer segments, while
further reinforcing our mission of delivering high-quality, nutritious and
great-tasting Halal products, with value propositions that resonate with
Malaysians.
We continued to focus on providing healthier choices in line with our
global “Good for You” strategy, with Nestlé Malaysia offering the largest
range of Healthier Choice Logo (HCL) certified products by the Malaysian
Ministry of Health (MOE). This HCL certification currently encompasses,
among others, 100% of our MILO powder and mixes range, where we have
been able to significantly reduce the sugar content while still providing all
the nutrition and taste that only MILO can deliver. This includes the MILO
Intense Dark Chocolate launched in 2024, offering an equally nutritious
option with a richer and more indulgent taste.
Local origins were another area of focus with the addition of KIT KAT Dark Borneo, the first product from our Nestlé
Borneo Cocoa Initiative, in partnership with the Malaysian Cocoa Board, that aims to accelerate the development of
sustainable cocoa farming in Sabah and Sarawak. This secures a localised supply chain of responsibly-produced raw
ingredients, while we elevate the living conditions of the rural communities involved.
Many other meaningful portfolio additions occurred in 2024. The KIT KAT Chocolate Drink made its debut as a first-
of-its-kind product created and produced in Malaysia, 100% Halal-certified and made with sustainably sourced cocoa.
Catering to the growing demand among Gen Z and young adults for indulgent yet convenient meal options, our new
MAGGI Syiok premium noodles range offers rich and bold flavours in attractive and convenient formats; while on the
coffee side, NESCAFÉ GOLD was launched in a Ready-To-Drink format as a premium beverage to meet the needs of
busy, on-the-go coffee enthusiasts. For NESTLÉ Ice Cream, several new exciting propositions were added to the range,
further enhancing the NESTLÉ Ice Cream chest as the go-to choice to enjoy the most delightful and diverse ice cream
options.
Leveraging these innovations, we reaffirmed our role as a market leader, remaining flexibly responsive to consumer
needs as well as committed to robust nutrition and sustainability values.
Management Discussion and Analysis
Our dedicated Field Promotion Operators across the nation uniting at the annual sales rally, committed to delivering exceptional
service that enriches lives nationwide, every single day.
Further expanding our health-centred portfolio, we relaunched ENERCAL Complete, a specialised nutritional solution
catering to health-conscious adults, particularly those prioritising healthy ageing. This positions the product to better
meet the needs of this growing demographic, adding to the well-established franchise of NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS, focused
on supporting cholesterol management.
Annual Review 2024
17
Management Discussion and Analysis
Building Capabilities for Long-Term Success
Nestlé Malaysia over the years has built the largest FMCG industrial operations in Malaysia, with factories presently
in Selangor, Negeri Sembilan, and Sarawak, providing vital employment to over 5,000 Malaysians directly and
many thousands more indirectly. The ongoing investments in best-in-class technology, constant upskilling of our
workforce, and extensive know-how and experience ensure that our manufacturing footprint remains competitive
and attracts multiple opportunities for growth and employment through exports. Likewise, our National Distribution
Center, one of the largest of its kind in Malaysia (and among the largest for Nestlé in Asia), is demonstrating the
potential of rapid digitalisation to drive efficiencies at multiple levels, further improving the environmental footprint
of our logistics and ensuring the best service for our customers.
These facilities embody our dedication to local economic development and creation of opportunities for Malaysian
talent. Spanning across the country, our nationwide manufacturing and logistics network upholds stringent
operational standards and ensures that our products are widely available in every channel, in every store, and in
every state.
[Centre right] Silatul Rahim bin Dahman, Chairman of Yayasan Orang Buta Malaysia, expressing gratitude to [centre left]
Juan Aranols for Nestlé’s generous contribution through the Nestlé Salary For Life contest. It greatly supports their services for
the blind and visually impaired, encompassing education, training, employment, welfare, and day-to-day living.
Connecting with Malaysians
Throughout 2024, our engagement with consumers deepened thanks to
meaningful initiatives that resonated with local communities and fostered
stronger connections. In addition to purposeful brand communication campaigns
in both offline and online channels, we boosted our social media engagement,
amplifying the relevance of our brands on platforms like TikTok and garnering
great levels of participation and engagement.
Some examples of major activities that helped to power up positive sentiments
toward Nestlé brands were the following:
• The NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS Walk a Million Miles campaign once again
encouraged awareness and action for heart health, promoting healthier
lifestyles. In its fifth edition since the adoption of digitally enabled tools, we
rallied a record 30,622 Malaysians who collectively achieved over 2.1 million
miles, doubling the campaign's target.
• MILO's long-standing efforts in spearheading grassroots sports development
were further strengthened through our support for Malaysia's Olympic and
Paralympic athletes. Contributing RM10,000 to each of the 56 national
athletes representing Malaysia at the 2024 Paris Olympics and Paralympic
Games, this initiative was aimed at celebrating their dedication and inspiring
future generations of athletes.
• The MAGGI Sah Malaysia Carnival brought communities together in 2024
for yet another year of celebration of Malaysian culinary heritage. Reflecting
the brand's five-decade legacy, the event attracted over 30,000 attendees
through interactive experiences and cooking demonstrations, amongst other
activities.
• Ramping up NESCAFÉ's connection with the youth community via the Nestlé
Youth Innovators Programme, the brand provided a platform for nearly 500
local students to learn new skills, test their capabilities in dealing with real-
world business challenges, and participate in mentorship programmes.
Beyond the specific brand investment efforts, we drove sizeable multi-brand
campaigns that garnered massive engagement and interest, with the return
of Nestlé’s Salary for Life campaign as a major highlight. Like the preceding
campaign in 2020, Salary for Life 2024 rewarded Malaysians with opportunities
to make their dreams come true, while having a broader impact as a result of
the charitable contributions that were embedded in the campaign. In 2024, we
offered over RM4 million in prizes and reinforced our role as a force for good with a
total of RM840,000 contributed to 18 charities with causes such as mental health
advocacy, assistance for the visually impaired, and underprivileged children.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
18
Management Discussion and Analysis
Coming together for a good cause, Nestlé Cares volunteers loading food aid into the truck to be distributed
to the Temporary Relocation Centres (PPS) in the East Coast region and other affected areas.
A Nestlé Cares volunteer guiding a student at SK Abaka in Tawau, Sabah, on the proper tree-planting
method to ensure a better survival rate during Project RELeaf's inaugural Educational Programme.
Complementing our full value chain approach, our sales team, in close partnership with our
distributors, ensures that we are firmly embedded throughout Malaysia, with the local engagement
capabilities required to meet the expectations of our customers in every corner of the nation.
Understanding that the local shopper’s needs is a key step in fuelling the growth of our brands,
the sales team’s keen insights into local market dynamics and strong relationships with trade
partners enable us to implement effective strategies to protect and enhance our market position.
With their dedicated efforts, we heightened our connection with consumers across channels in
2024.
In this context, a sustained investment strategy that is consistently deployed over time ensures
that we constantly upgrade our competitive edge, adapting our infrastructure to business evolution
and adopting new technologies as they become available. By completing our RM1 billion capital
plan in 2024 for the 2022-2024 triennium, we have directed significant resources toward capacity
expansion, technological modernisation, and sustainability initiatives, resolutely strengthening
Nestlé Malaysia's role as the strategic Halal sourcing market in Nestlé's global network.
With these sound investments, we not only enhance our production capabilities but also contribute
to the domestic economy by bolstering job creation, fostering innovation, and facilitating
Malaysia's transition towards a more sustainable future. This is part of our drive to build a resilient
and future-ready business that delivers value for both consumers and the communities we serve.
Driving ESG Priorities and Positive Measurable Impact
Our ESG agenda is rooted in how we operate and contribute to the world around us. Our explicit
set of objectives on decarbonisation and progress towards sustainable packaging and circularity
are well defined, quantified, and rigorously monitored, as explained in detail in our Nestlé in
Society Report.
Having achieved our 25% CO
2
reduction commitment almost two years ahead of our 2025 target,
we continued in 2024 to place high priority on all our environmental stewardship programmes, as
well as our social responsibility agenda. Some examples as follows:
• The new biomass boiler at our Chembong Factory exemplifies our shift toward sustainable
manufacturing, replacing traditional fossil fuels with renewable alternatives such as Empty
Fruit Bunches (EFB) and palm kernel shells.
• The pioneering MILO EV Truck, first of its kind in Malaysia and Singapore, created a ‘green
corridor’ for cross-border ingredient transportation between our factories in Malaysia and
Singapore. After the successful pilot project, we are now working with the Ministry of Transport
to consolidate and expand this initiative.
• Our reforestation efforts gained further momentum on account of Project RELeaf, which
plays a vital role in reducing carbon emissions and enhancing biodiversity conservation. With
over 2 million trees already planted, we are on a good track to complete the 3 million trees
in the scope of this project. Additionally, we launched the RELeaf Education Programme,
engaging with schoolchildren to instil a deeper appreciation for environmental stewardship
and sustainable practices from a young age.
• Project SAVE, the Nestlé-led voluntary Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) programme,
yielded significant results in 2024, recovering over 13,500 tonnes of post-consumer
packaging waste. After successfully covering all major cities in Selangor, we piloted the Door-
to-Door Collection & Recycling programme in Penang Island, encouraging active community
participation in recycling. Following the signing of an MOU at the end of the year, we are set
to accelerate the rollout of the programme in 2025.
Annual Review 2024
19
Management Discussion and Analysis
Nestlé Malaysia's Salary For Life in its second successful edition has again made a significant impact in
uplifting Malaysians and supporting those in need.
Beyond the Group’s efforts in environmental protection and conservation, our teams continued
to extensively engage with various communities by supporting programmes addressing specific
societal needs, making life better for underserved communities in concrete, meaningful ways.
Examples of this include:
• The Safe Water, Safe Community programme built eco-friendly washrooms for the orang
asli. These facilities were constructed using PolyAl panel boards and roofing tiles made from
recycled UHT drink packs collected by our CAREton Project in collaboration with Tetra Pak. They
provide durable, water-resistant, and insulated amenities, demonstrating how sustainability
can go hand in hand with improving the quality of life in underserved communities.
• We piloted MILO Energy for Good in partnership with MOE. This programme converts
recycled materials from the CAREton Project into eco-friendly furniture and sports equipment
for schools. In addition to improving the children’s learning environment, this initiative drives
conversations and engagement, fostering awareness and greater respect for nature and the
importance of responsibly taking care of waste.
• We strengthened humanitarian support through our ongoing partnership with the Malaysian
Red Crescent (MRC) as its largest private donor, contributing over RM4 million in 2024 to aid
in relief efforts particularly focused on flood-impacted communities. This was further amplified
by our collaboration with many other organisations, ensuring that assistance reached those
who needed it the most during difficult times.
Cultivating a Resilient and Inclusive Culture
In a year as challenging as 2024, fostering a culture of resilience and mutual confidence was of
utmost importance, as was step-changing our approach to safety. On both counts, the progress
we made was remarkable. With widespread engagement across all teams and on the shop floor,
the sense of unity and confidence in overcoming external challenges were effectively heightened,
contributing to improvements in a number of relevant people-related measurements, such as
attrition levels which were significantly reduced compared with prior years. On the safety front,
we achieved the lowest-ever Loss Time Injury Frequency Rate and reduced the number of safety
incidents by over 70%. More importantly, the engagements covering minds, hearts, process, and
discipline will continue to ensure that the progress achieved in 2024 is intensified in 2025 and
beyond.
We also continued to foster a workplace culture that champions growth, inclusivity, and the
wellbeing of our people. With female representation in senior leadership roles at its highest
level ever, we remain dedicated to empowering women and creating meaningful opportunities
for differently-abled individuals. Ultimately, our vision and commitment are to further embrace
a culture where every individual is valued regardless of gender, race, abilities, and more – where
every voice is heard, every idea valued, and every employee can thrive.
Training is a fundamental element in realising our vision; with a comprehensive scope of modular
training programmes available in our curricula, including both functional and upskilling programmes,
as well as new modules on ESG principles, Diversity & Inclusion, and Value-Based Leadership to
equip employees with future-ready skills.
Wellness and supporting physical and mental health were other areas of emphasis. This includes
our My Health Numbers Programme, which aims to help employees take charge of their health.
To best support mental health in 2024, we launched the Nestlé MY Careline, a 24/7 employee
assistance hotline that provides expert help confidentially to those employees who may require it.
Beyond the workplace, we enable employees to make a difference through Nestlé Cares, our
volunteering platform that provides opportunities for meaningful engagement and outreach to local
communities. Employees actively participated in initiatives that aligned with our ESG priorities, from
environmental conservation efforts to flood relief efforts, putting our shared values into action.
Conclusion
As we move past 2024, indicators of improving consumer sentiment provide encouraging signs of
recovery, reconfirming we are on the right path towards returning to healthy growth levels in 2025
and Nestlé Malaysia’s historic growth trajectory. We will remain relentlessly focused on providing
the most complete portfolio of high-quality, great-tasting Halal products commercialised under
trusted brands through the widest and most extensive sales and distribution network, supported by
a dynamic organisation driven by our purpose of enhancing the lives of Malaysians and making a
positive impact on society and the planet. With Malaysia as a key Halal hub for Nestlé globally, we
are firmly committed to driving this and sustainably building on these strong foundations.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
20
Our
Product
Portfolio
Embodying our purpose to unlock the power of food to enhance
quality of life for everyone, today and for generations to come,
we are dedicated to fulfilling our Good food, Good life promise.
Our journey spans 112 years of consistently adapting and innovating our products, resonating
with the dynamic needs of consumers across different life stages. With more than 500 made-in-
Malaysia Halal-certified products, our diverse portfolio reaches millions of individuals and families,
locally and globally.
Annual Review 2024
21
From convenient solutions for busy lifestyles to nutritious options, we help consumers embrace Good food, Good life every step of the way, whether
at home, on the move, or through out-of-home channels. By continuously innovating and expanding our product range, we ensure that each offering
reflects our commitment to taste, nutrition and quality.
Our organisation is built on a firm foundation of sustainability. We prioritise responsible practices from end-to-end, from sourcing and production
to how we engage with consumers and communities, ensuring our purpose-driven brands inspire positive change. By maintaining stringent food
safety standards through our Nestlé Quality Management System and ensuring manufacturing excellence, we strive to continue setting benchmarks
for quality and sustainability, reinforcing our leadership in the F&B industry.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
22
Our Business Review
MILO
The MILO brand has nurtured the nation since 1950, serving as an
iconic symbol of energy, nourishment and commitment. With a
deep-rooted presence in grassroots sports, the brand continues to
inspire active lifestyles across generations, alongside providing
home-grown champions with the energy to fuel their
pursuit of excellence.
In 2024, we continued to build on MILO’s legacy and rich heritage. To deepen connections with
consumers, we shone a spotlight on the steadfast support MILO has provided to grassroots
sports and its role in empowering local communities. Through strategic campaigns, we
reinforced MILO’s long-standing position as a champion of sports and nutrition for all.
MILO Supporting Healthier Choices for Malaysians
Receiving recognition as a “Healthier Choice” beverage for Malaysians, MILO
became the first HCL-accredited chocolate malted beverage in the nation. This was
amplified through the MILO Advantage campaign, which highlighted the brand’s
commitment to consistently deliver products containing the natural goodness
of malt barley, milk, and cocoa, as well as essential vitamins and minerals. By
meeting stringent nutrient criteria, such as reduced sugar, sodium and fat as
well as increased fibre content, MILO reaffirmed its role as an energising and
nutritious beverage. Through a 360-degree approach utilising TV, digital
platforms and content creators, the campaign educated the public to become
more informed consumers and make better nutritional choices, aligning with
MILO’s dedication to advocating healthier lifestyles.
Within MILO’s diverse product portfolio, MILO Hi-Fibre continues to deliver
on our nutritional proposition, offering a high-fibre formula with less than one
teaspoon of added sugar. The campaign, featuring badminton legend Datuk
Rashid Sidek, emphasised MILO’s commitment to foster active lifestyles for all
ages, showcasing the brand’s inclusivity. Together, our MILO Advantage and MILO
Hi-Fibre campaigns demonstrated the brand’s dedication to inspiring healthier,
more active communities.
FOODS COFFEE
HE
ALTH SCIEN
CE
NESTL
É
PROFESS
IONAL
CO
NFECTIONE
RY
PLANT-BA
SED MEAL S
OLUTIONS
NUTRITION
RE
ADY-TO-DRI
NK
MILO
ICE CREAM
MILO has attained the Healthier
Choice Logo (HCL) certification
while meeting evolving nutritional
standards, without compromising
the iconic taste that Malaysians
have cherished for generations.
Annual Review 2024
23
Our Business Review
Rekindling Brand Love with “Dulu, Kini, Selamanya Demi
Malaysia”
In the spirit of Merdeka and Malaysia Day, MILO set out to
rekindle brand love with the message, “Dulu, Kini, Selamanya
Demi Malaysia”. This message emphasised MILO’s deep-
rooted presence in the nation’s history, and its continued
commitment to nourishing Malaysians and supporting
grassroots sports today and in the future.
As part of our comprehensive campaign, we tapped into the
nostalgic appeal of the iconic MILO truck and Abang MILO,
featuring both in the campaign’s main video, as well as
boosting digital presence with national athlete Sivasangari
Subramaniam. To further engage consumers, we launched
an exciting nationwide contest that offered participants the
opportunity to enjoy their own MILO truck experience. This
initiative exceeded our initial participation targets and resulted
in a significant increase in MILO consumption.
Fuelling Sports and Empowering Communities Across
Malaysia
Empowering Malaysian Youth and Young Adults
To empower and inspire youth, we launched the “Pentas Tenaga
MILO“ campaign in local educational institutions, connecting
with young Malaysians through shared experiences and
expertise from various fields. The campaign commenced with
a virtual launch in partnership with a popular local YouTube
podcast by JinnyboyTV, featuring guests such as actor Nadhir
Nasar, Olympic diver Rhodict Bertrand, and entrepreneur
Kim May Chee. This was followed by an official launch at
Taylor’s University, which included a panel session aimed at
energising students.
Driving Sports Inclusivity
With a rich legacy of over 70 years in championing athletes
and fostering a passion for sports among Malaysians, MILO
announced its commitment to the highest level of support
for SUKMA XXI Sarawak 2024 as a Platinum Sponsor, which
included Para SUKMA. To generate excitement for SUKMA
XXI, we engaged with 10,000 Malaysian students in nine
districts across Sarawak through various on-ground activities
and providing students with hands-on sporting experiences
such as athletics and netball. These initiatives, leading up to
SUKMA XXI, successfully created strong local awareness of
the event and encouraged attendance to cheer on the young
athletes at the prestigious biennial national multi-sport event.
Honouring Malaysia’s Olympic and Paralympic Heroes
Demonstrating MILO’s role as a long-term patron of sports, we
continued to uphold our commitment by celebrating our national
athletes who proudly represented Malaysia on the world stage at
the 2024 Paris Olympic and Paralympic Games. The ceremony
saw MILO fulfilling its pledge to contribute RM10,000 to each
of the 56 Olympic and Paralympic athletes for their sporting
journey. This initiative reflects MILO’s long-standing commitment
to Malaysian sports development and nurturing local talent, with
many of these athletes having started their journey through MILO-
supported school and sports programmes. The contribution not
only recognised the athletes’ achievements but also served to
reinforce MILO’s role in cultivating a strong sporting culture in
Malaysia, inspiring future generations to pursue their dreams.
Learn more about our MILO EV Truck on page 54 of the Nestlé
in Society Report.
NIS
[From left to right] Mohd Zamri Bin Mohd Esa, District Officer of
Rembau; Datuk Rospiagos bin Taha, Director General of the Road
Transport Department Malaysia; YB Tuan Loke Siew Fook, Minister
of Transport Malaysia; Juan Aranols and Ng Su Yen commemorating
the launch of our first EV truck.
Recognising the efforts of our Malaysian Paralympian
wheelchair shuttler, Noor Azwan Noorlan. Scan
to watch the handover ceremony presenting the
contributions from MILO to Malaysia’s Olympic and
Paralympic heroes.
Learn more
Recruiting New Urban Consumers with MILO Intense Dark
Chocolate
Establishing a foothold in the premium segment, we launched
MILO Intense Dark Chocolate in both powder and convenient
stick packs, designed to appeal to adults with urban lifestyles
seeking a sensorial uplift. With 2.5 times more cocoa than
the regular MILO powder, the product delivers a superior
chocolatey taste with a special cocoa blend sourced across
continents. A distinctive communication strategy with key
touchpoints such as TikTok, innovative digital activations and
a pop-up café-inspired experience that showcased creative
beverage recipes generated strong sales growth and boosted
market share.
Pioneering Sustainability with MILO EV Truck Launch
In line with our “MILO Sayang Bumi“ campaign which strives
to positively impact the environment, we pioneered green
logistics in Malaysia with the adoption of an EV truck to
transport MILO ingredients across the border to Singapore.
Reflecting MILO’s leadership as a sustainable brand, the
EV truck reduces our carbon footprint as well as enhancing
operational efficiencies.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
24
FOODS
With a long-standing presence of more than 50 years in the
nation, the MAGGI brand stands as a trusted culinary companion
across Malaysian kitchens, synonymous with home-cooked meals
that bring families together. Through its wide range of products,
from instant noodles to seasonings and sauces, MAGGI has
grown alongside Malaysians as a brand made by Malaysians, for
Malaysians, since 1969.
In 2024, we reinforced MAGGI’s market leadership by delivering innovative solutions, deepening
consumer engagement and empowering communities. Testament to this, MAGGI was recognised as
the No. 1 FMCG Brand in Malaysia for 12 consecutive years by the Kantar Asia Brand Footprint Report,
reflecting our continued relevance and strong bond with Malaysians.
Celebrating Malaysian Heritage
Reflecting MAGGI’s heritage as a
brand made by Malaysians, for
Malaysians, we launched the
fifth “MAGGI Sah Malaysia“
campaign in 2024, themed
“Ini MAGGI Kita“. Anchored
by the iconic MAGGI Kari, a
local favourite for over five
decades, the campaign
reinforced MAGGI’s legacy
as a staple in Malaysian
kitchens.
Our Business Review
Our MAGGI bowl has
transitioned to paper-based
packaging; the plastic fork in
the bowl has also been replaced
with a wooden fork.
At the heart of the campaign was the MAGGI Sah Malaysia Carnival, a first-
of-its-kind immersive experience held across the Klang Valley and Penang.
With over 30,000 attendees, the carnival offered interactive zones, live cooking
demonstrations and hands-on activities, bringing to life MAGGI’s strong
connection with Malaysian households. A standout moment was the unveiling of
the Largest Noodle Bowl Replica, which earned a spot in the Malaysian Book of
Records. Alongside this, media representatives were invited for exclusive factory
and chilli farm visits, offering insights into MAGGI’s unwavering commitment to
quality and local sourcing.
The campaign generated over RM2 million in PR value, showcasing MAGGI’s
deep-rooted presence in Malaysian culinary heritage and our role at the heart
of home-cooked meals, uniting Malaysians through the love of familiar,
comforting flavours that have stood the test of time.
Moments of Gen Z at the MAGGI Sah Malaysia
campaign, embracing the spirit of Ini MAGGI Kita with a
splash of energy and flavour.
FOODS COFFEE
HE
ALTH SCIEN
CE
NESTL
É
PROFESS
IONAL
CO
NFECTIONE
RY
PLANT-BA
SED MEAL S
OLUTIONS
NUTRITION
RE
ADY-TO-DRI
NK
MILO
ICE CREAM
Annual Review 2024
25
Innovative Offerings
Enhancing Appeal to Gen Z
We introduced MAGGI Syiok in 2024 as a bold new range serving
evolving consumer preferences for more indulgent flavours in
convenient meals, particularly among the Gen Z. The range
features four premium variants of Kari Kaw, Tom Yum Kaw, Cili Ala
Kampung and Aglio Olio, crafted with fresh, quality ingredients,
delivering richer and full-bodied flavours to satisfy taste-buds.
Breaking away from traditional MAGGI imagery, MAGGI Syiok was
launched with a fresh, energetic identity that resonated with Gen
Z. The campaign utilised vibrant brand imagery and experiential
on-ground activations, including the MAGGI Syiok Camp, which
brought the brand to life at trendsetting events such as PingMin
Market and Riuh in the City, complemented by a strong digital
presence on platforms such as TikTok. With its bold positioning and
consumer-centric approach, MAGGI Syiok strengthened MAGGI’s
foothold in the everyday premium noodles category, driving market
share growth and reaching over 13.4 million consumers.
Redefining Snacking with Iconic Flavours
In 2024, we launched the MAGGI Mug, a new format
designed for quick and easy snacking. Consumers
can simply add hot water into their favourite mug
and wait for three minutes to enjoy a satisfying treat
– perfect for home or office consumption. Available
in popular local flavours of Kari and Ayam, MAGGI
Mug caters to the growing demand for convenient
yet flavourful snacking. Its eco-conscious design also
aligns with growing demand for sustainable solutions,
empowering individuals to make greener choices.
This innovation enabled MAGGI to enter the snacking
category, boosting brand visibility and strengthening
market share in the total core portables segment.
Positively Impacting Communities and the Planet
Empowering Women in the Digital Age
Launched in 2020, the “Wanita Cukup Berani“
(WCB) programme is a flagship initiative by MAGGI,
designed to equip women with the confidence, skills,
and knowledge to step out of their comfort zones and
pursue new opportunities. Entering its third season
in 2024, the programme focused on championing
digital empowerment, providing women with the
tools to enhance their skills, build their businesses
and create a stronger presence in the digital
economy. Collaborating with tech giants Google,
Meta and TikTok, WCB offered a comprehensive
platform of upskilling workshops and mentorship
to inspire women to take charge of their personal
and professional growth. Workshops covered key
areas such as social media content creation, food
entrepreneurship and personal branding, showcasing
MAGGI’s commitment to uplifting women and
improving livelihoods.
Fostering the Spirit of Giving During Ramadan
We continued to foster meaningful connections with local
underserved communities through the MAGGI Bubur Lambuk
programme, promoting the spirit of gotong-royong during the month
of Ramadan. An annual tradition for nearly 20 years, this initiative
brings Malaysians together to prepare and share hearty bowls of
Bubur Lambuk made with MAGGI CUKUP RASA. Over 200,000
bowls were distributed nationwide in 2024.
Commitment to Sustainable Packaging
In line with our environmental goals, we continued to make strides in
sustainable packaging solutions in 2024. As the first Nestlé brand to
transition from plastic cups to eco-friendly paper cups, MAGGI has
substantially reduced reliance on virgin plastics. This commitment is
further extended in our MAGGI Bowls range, which utilises wooden
forks and paper bowls.
MAGGI introduces their latest innovation, the MAGGI Syiok range, with an
exciting twist featuring the giant MAGGI Syiok bowl at the launch event
held at PingMin Market.
[Centre] Encik Abdul Ghani, Head Chef of PPR Desa Rejang, and
community volunteers cooking up the delicious MAGGI Bubur Lambuk for
the PPR Desa Rejang community.
Our Business Review
Learn more about our community programmes on
page 93 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
NIS Learn more about our sustainable packaging efforts on page 68 of
the Nestlé in Society Report.
NIS
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
26
COFFEE
As a globally trusted brand, NESCAFÉ is committed to
delivering exceptional coffee experiences that cater to diverse
consumer preferences and lifestyles, while upholding our
responsibility towards sustainability. Every cup of NESCAFÉ
is crafted with respect for communities, the environment
and ethical sourcing, ensuring that we continue to delight
consumers with great tasting coffee alongside
contributing to a more sustainable world.
In 2024, we sustained NESCAFÉ’s leadership in the coffee segment
by reigniting brand affinity amidst market challenges and intensified
competition. Through strategic campaigns and product innovations, we
strengthened our brand presence while deepening connections with key
consumer segments and local communities.
Our Business Review
NESCAFÉ, Make Your World: Take on each day one step at a time as you pursue your dream.
Fuelling Inspiration with NESCAFÉ, MAKE YOUR WORLD
In 2024, we unveiled the “NESCAFÉ, MAKE YOUR WORLD” campaign, bringing a fresh
perspective to inspire Malaysians to embrace each day’s possibilities with a cup of NESCAFÉ.
The campaign placed this thematic messaging at its core, weaving it into an inclusive
storyline that resonated across the brand’s diverse product offerings. Relatable video
content captured the daily challenges faced by Malaysians, positioning NESCAFÉ as a
brand that empowers people to make a positive difference in their world. The campaign
resonated strongly with consumers, generating 96 million digital impressions and 21
million views on YouTube.
New NESCAFÉ, MAKE YOUR WORLD packaging for NESCAFÉ CLASSIC,
NESCAFÉ 3in1 and NESCAFÉ GOLD was introduced to create a strong brand
presence both in-store and digitally.
COFFEE
RE
ADY-TO-DRI
NK
HE
ALTH SCIEN
CE
NESTL
É
PROFESS
IONAL
CO
NFECTIONE
RY
PLANT-BA
SED MEAL S
OLUTIONS
NUTRITION
FOODS
MILO
ICE CREAM
Learn more
Our coffee beans for
the NESCAFÉ CLASSIC
range are
100%
responsibly sourced.
Annual Review 2024
27
Coffee Innovations for Every Taste
and Lifestyle
Attuned to evolving consumer preferences, we introduced
innovative products in 2024 that aligned with emerging
priorities, such as healthier choices and unique coffee
experiences.
NESCAFÉ GOLD 2in1
Café White
Offering a sugar-free option
for consumers seeking
healthier alternatives without
compromising on indulgence,
we expanded the NESCAFÉ
GOLD Mixes range with the
launch of NESCAFÉ GOLD
2in1 Café White. Supported
by TV and digital communications, as well as extensive
in-store activations, we effectively engaged health-
conscious coffee drinkers, boosting market share in the
premium mixes segment.
NESCAFÉ Latte Cereal Milk
To captivate the youth
market’s growing appetite
for innovative coffee
experiences, we introduced
NESCAFÉ Latte Cereal Milk,
a limited-edition variant that
offered a unique blend of
roasted and cereal-inspired
flavours. The digitally-driven campaign utilised vibrant,
animated communications and user-generated content
on TikTok to engage the youth segment.
Building a Sustainable Coffee Future with
NESCAFÉ Kopi Kedah
In line with our commitment to supporting local coffee farming
communities, we relaunched our iconic NESCAFÉ Kopi Kedah
in 2024. The limited-edition product returned with a brand-
new glass jar packaging, featuring a design that highlights local
heritage and cultural elements.
The communications campaign for the relaunch was amplified
through multiple channels, including engagements with key
opinion leaders (KOLs) who visited our coffee mother plant
nursery in Kedah, TV and digital communications, and on-ground
sampling nationwide. The campaign achieved significant reach
across various platforms, including a 10 million reach and
63 million impressions on Meta, and a six million reach and
33 million impressions on TikTok, while our sampling programme
distributed 25,000 kits nationwide.
Our Business Review
For more information on our youth empowerment initiatives,
kindly refer to page 90 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
NIS
Empowering Youth to Reimagine the Future of Coffee
Reflecting our commitment to fostering young talent, we
partnered with 10 leading Malaysian universities to inspire the
next generation of talent through the Nestlé Youth Innovators
Programme (NYIP). This initiative empowered students to
tackle real-world business challenges while providing exclusive
mentorship opportunities with NESCAFÉ’s management team.
The NYIP's innovative approach, including a TikTok voting battle,
significantly enhanced brand relevance among youth audiences,
generating close to 75 million TikTok views and attracting creative
solutions from over 450 participating students.
Che Nai Bin Hassan, one of our dedicated coffee farmers in Sik,
Kedah. The NESCAFÉ Grown Respectfully programme is committed
to revitalising the local coffee sector sustainably, benefitting both the
farmers and the planet.
A participant in NYIP's Grand Finale delivering her team's innovative
pitch for the NESCAFÉ Business Case Challenge, a programme
aimed at inspiring Malaysian students to reimagine the future of
coffee.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
28
With our iconic brands such as MILO and NESCAFÉ, our
Ready-to-Drink (RTD) portfolio delivers a wide range of
beverages that have become part of daily lives across the
nation. With a variety of formats such as beverage cartons,
cans and recycled polyethylene terephthalate (rPET) bottles,
we offer refreshing options that address diverse consumer
preferences.
In 2024, we further embedded sustainability into our RTD portfolio, ensuring it remained a core
element of our brand initiatives. This included the introduction of the MILO Energy for Good
campaign, encouraging students, teachers and schools to actively participate in environmental
conservation. Alongside product innovations, these efforts allowed us to strengthen our connection
with consumers and drive meaningful impact to advance our sustainability agenda.
Our Business Review
READY-TO-DRINK Stewarding Sustainability through Education
Building on 12 years of successful partnership with Tetra Pak Malaysia through CAREton Project,
we launched the MILO Energy for Good campaign, expanding our commitment to education
and sustainability. This initiative transforms recycled UHT packaging into durable eco-friendly
furniture and sports equipment for schools, building a safer and more conducive learning
environment for students to thrive. Beyond supporting MILO’s mission to provide nourishing
energy and promote sports, this is also aimed at fostering environmental awareness and
habits among the younger generation.
The pilot programme at SK Durian Burung in Terengganu demonstrated strong early
results, with positive adoption rates and collection of 9kg of used UHT packs within just
two weeks, as well as generating excitement among teachers from other schools eager
to take part. The programme also garnered more than RM1 million in PR value following
its launch.
Further details about this initiative are available on page 75 of the Nestlé in Society
Report.
NIS
Experiencing the classroom with facilities made from PolyAI materials.
RE
ADY-TO-DRI
NK
HE
ALTH SCIEN
CE
NESTL
É
PROFESS
IONAL
CO
NFECTIONE
RY
PLANT-BA
SED MEAL S
OLUTIONS
NUTRITION
FOODS COFFEE
MILO
ICE CREAM
Annual Review 2024
29
Inspiring Resilience through NESCAFÉ, MAKE YOUR WORLD
The global “NESCAFÉ, MAKE YOUR WORLD“ campaign responded to contemporary challenges
affecting our consumers, from economic pressures to mental health concerns. This strategic
initiative positioned NESCAFÉ as a catalyst to inspire Malaysians to rise above adversity and make
positive changes in their lives. The multi-platform campaign leveraged key activation touchpoints
to engage various consumer groups. This included appealing to the youth demographic via a bold
new packaging design for NESCAFÉ Core Cans, enhancing shelf visibility and brand recognition.
The campaign quickly gained momentum, allowing us to deepen grassroots engagement and
differentiate NESCAFÉ Core Cans in an increasingly competitive market. Reflecting the success of
the campaign, we were able to solidify NESCAFÉ’s leadership in the RTD coffee category.
Expanding Premium Coffee Leadership with NESCAFÉ GOLD
NESCAFÉ GOLD Latte and Black Cans made a powerful entrance in 2024 into the premium RTD
coffee segment with a campaign strategically designed to capture this rapidly growing market.
Targeting coffee enthusiasts aged 25 to 40, the launch offered a high-quality coffee experience for
consumers leading busy lives, providing moments of recollection to refocus and foster meaningful
connections with loved ones. With its sophisticated packaging design, NESCAFÉ GOLD stood out on
shelves, emphasising its unique craftsmanship and premium quality. The campaign’s core message,
“Perfection in Every Sip,” resonated deeply with consumers, reinforcing NESCAFÉ’s commitment to
delivering an exceptional coffee experience that goes beyond the ordinary.
The launch sparked significant excitement, generating rave reviews from discerning coffee lovers
who appreciated the rich and smooth taste of NESCAFÉ GOLD. Through a dynamic cross-channel
approach, the campaign engaged a wide audience, leveraging social media influencers, immersive
on-ground activations and enhanced in-store visibility to amplify the brand’s presence. This strategic
initiative successfully established NESCAFÉ GOLD in the premium RTD coffee category, marking the
brand’s debut in this growing segment.
Redefining MILO for Young Adults
Recognising the opportunity to connect with today’s youth who are driven by a desire for new
experiences and are eager to explore diverse flavours, we introduced MILO BOOST UP to tap into
this target market, while continuing to satisfy our consumers throughout different life stages.
Appealing to a generation that values convenience, indulgence and functionality, this strategic
innovation combines the trusted goodness of MILO with the energising kick of coffee, providing an
on-the-go beverage that balances the benefits of nourishment and focus.
Our comprehensive campaign leveraged KOLs, social media and experiential activations at lifestyle
events, promoting engagement and heightening brand visibility. This resulted in an impressive reach
of over 11 million consumers through a YouTube media campaign, as well as driving the growth of
MILO’s total RTD rPET format.
Our Business Review
NESCAFÉ GOLD Latte and Black cans: Perfection in every sip, perfecting every moment. Always ahead with MILO BOOST UP, full of energy with coffee.
Learn more
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
30
NESPRESSO
At the forefront of premium coffee innovation, the
NESPRESSO brand continues to champion exceptional
quality, craftsmanship and sustainable practices. Our
commitment to elevating the coffee experience through
our iconic capsule format and machines has transformed
how consumers appreciate and enjoy premium coffee,
establishing new benchmarks for excellence in the
super-premium segment, globally and in Malaysia.
Remainingwell-attunedtoevolvingconsumerpreferencesandlifestyleaspirations,
in 2024, we expanded our portfolio while reinforcing our dedication to creating
meaningful coffee moments. NESPRESSO was honoured to receive the Brand
of the Year in the Coffee Innovation Excellence category at The BrandLaureate
Fast Moving Growing Sustainable Business & Brand Awards 2024, affirming our
position as a leader in the premium coffee segment.
Bringing Vibrancy to Premium Coffee with Vertuo Pop
Understanding the shifting demographics of coffee consumption, we introduced the Vertuo Pop
machine to strengthen our connection with younger, style-conscious consumers. Aimed at
fostering brand desirability while expanding our consumer base, this strategic launch brought
coffee lovers a vibrant, user-friendly experience. The Vertuo Pop’s versatility, offering six
coffee cup sizes, combined with its contemporary design aesthetic, demonstrated our
ability to blend craftsmanship with modern consumer preferences.
A comprehensive marketing campaign created multiple touchpoints for consumer
engagement through digital activations, influencer partnerships and immersive mobile
roadshows, providing customers with the opportunity to experience the product first-
hand. Garnering a PR value of close to RM2 million, these efforts not only elevated
awareness but also delivered tangible results, with Vertuo Pop sales exceeding targets
and contributing to an increase in new member conversions.
Our Business Review
NESPRESSO Vertuo Pop, a stylish and compact Vertuo coffee machine, features the
same Centrifusion technology and capsule recognition system.
COFFEE
ICE CREAM
HE
ALTH SCIEN
CE
NESTL
É
PROFESS
IONAL
CO
NFECTIONE
RY
PLANT-BA
SED MEAL S
OLUTIONS
NUTRITION
FOODS
RE
ADY-TO-DRI
NK
MILO
Annual Review 2024
31
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
Amidst rising environmental consciousness and health
awareness among Malaysians, HARVEST GOURMET
continued to carve its niche in the plant-based food
segment throughout 2024.
Given the central role of food in Malaysian culture, particularly the tradition of gathering over
meals, we focused our efforts on creating great-tasting products that bring people together,
while offering sustainable and nutritious choices.
Our Business Review
Introduced in 2021 amidst high growth expectations for plant-based foods, globally and in Malaysia,
the reality three years later is that adoption remains low. The category's development has been slower
than anticipated, hampered by perception barriers as well as significantly higher price compared to
meat-based meals.
Hence, as part of our ongoing portfolio management strategy, we have made the decision to
discontinue the HARVEST GOURMET product line in Malaysia. This decision reflects our focus
on optimising our resources and strengthening our core business priorities to better serve our
consumers and stakeholders, ensuring we allocate resources towards businesses with the
best potential to drive profitable growth.
PLANT-BA
SED MEAL S
OLUTIONS
HE
ALTH SCIEN
CE
NESTL
É
PROFESS
IONAL
CO
NFECTIONE
RY
NUTRITION
FOODS COFFEE
RE
ADY-TO-DRI
NK
MILO
ICE CREAM
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
32
ICE CREAM
NESTLÉ Ice Cream continues to excite Malaysians with
a diverse range of irresistible flavours and formats.
Proudly made in Malaysia for Malaysians at our
Chembong facility, our ice cream products aim to deliver
moments of happiness to consumers while driving
sustainable brand growth.
In 2024, alongside product innovation, we focused on strengthening our strategic
fundamentals by expanding our distribution footprint, deepening trade relationships and
ensuring excellence in execution. This allowed us to continue being a strong player in the
category.
Indulging in sweet connections, celebrating family moments and togetherness.
Our Business Review
Excellence in Strategic Fundamentals
A core pillar of our success is our wide distribution network, ensuring that NESTLÉ Ice Cream is
available and accessible across multiple retail channels nationwide. This strong presence allows us
to meet consumer demand and drive category growth.
Equally important are our long-term partnerships with distributors and retailers, built on shared
goals and mutual trust. These relationships have been instrumental in maintaining brand visibility
and product availability. Our dedicated sales force and distributor partners play an integral role
in our market excellence by ensuring timely stock replenishment and freezer maintenance,
thereby safeguarding optimal product quality and customer satisfaction.
ICE CREAM
HE
ALTH SCIEN
CE
NESTL
É
PROFESS
IONAL
CO
NFECTIONE
RY
PLANT-BA
SED MEAL S
OLUTIONS
NUTRITION
FOODS COFFEE
RE
ADY-TO-DRI
NK
MILO
Annual Review 2024
33
Raya Together-gether with NESTLÉ LA CREMERIA
Partnering with social activist Kuan Chee Heng, locally
known as Uncle Kentang, we once again embraced the
spirit of Raya through the annual “Raya Together-gether
Bersama NESTLÉ LA CREMERIA“ campaign. This year,
we reached out to PPR (People's Housing Programme)
communities in Pinggiran Bukit Jalil, Taman Puchong
Permai and Puchong Utama, with over 30 Nestlé
volunteers distributing 1,000 cartons of NESTLÉ LA
CREMERIA ice cream. The campaign brought joy to
families facing hardship, highlighting the importance of
togetherness during the festive season.
This heartfelt initiative reflects NESTLÉ LA CREMERIA’s
dedication to making a positive impact in local
communities. By sharing moments of joy, the campaign
reaffirmed our commitment to fostering unity and
spreading kindness.
Celebrating Family Moments and Togetherness
To expand the reach of our leading Nestlé Blue Tub
range, we launched the Blue Tub Lime & Vanilla flavour,
inspired by the classic lime and vanilla stick. Centred
on celebrating family moments and togetherness, the
launch campaign highlighted “playfight” moments
among family members, resonating with consumers
within the affordable take-home segment.
The integrated campaign reached 20 million consumers
through TV, radio and a 50-day mini-roadshow, which
engaged over 10,000 shoppers. Additionally, we shared
everyday and Raya-inspired recipes for creative desserts
to showcase the product’s versatility and inspire further
use. This generated impressive sales within two weeks
of launch, surpassing our previous innovations in the
affordable tubs range.
[Left] Juan Aranols, [back row from right] Uncle Kentang and April Wong handling out NESTLÉ LA CREMERIA ice cream to PPR
communities for the Raya festivities.
Our Business Review
Innovative Offerings in 2024
KIT KAT U ZU Ice Cream
Tying in with Chinese New Year, we introduced
the limited-edition KIT KAT U ZU with a yuzu-
flavoured chocolate coating, the first-ever citrus-
based KIT KAT Ice Cream, bringing a bold twist
to the festive season. Our integrated campaign
amplified the excitement with a music video, live
performances and KOL collaborations, enhancing brand engagement and
visibility. This enabled us to drive market share growth within the first month
of the product launch.
KIT KAT Candy Crush Ice Cream
In collaboration with the popular mobile game
Candy Crush, we delighted consumers with a
new strawberry cheesecake-flavoured KIT KAT
wafer ice cream, coated in chocolate with crunchy
wafer bits and popping candies inspired by the
Candy Crush universe. Leveraging Candy Crush’s
global appeal and KIT KAT’s legacy as a household favourite through an
omnichannel campaign, the launch saw over 400,000 sticks sold within the
first month, solidifying KIT KAT Ice Cream’s market presence while providing
valuable insights for future cross-category collaborations.
DRUMSTICK Fro-Yo
Tapping into the popular frozen yogurt segment,
we launched DRUMSTICK Fro-Yo, combining
the velvety smoothness of frozen yogurt with the
signature crunch of our much-loved DRUMSTICK
cone. The launch was supported by a marketing
campaign spanning TV, digital platforms and
outdoor billboards, in addition to on-ground
activations and KOL engagements. This initiative
also revitalised the entire DRUMSTICK range with new packaging. As a result
of these efforts, we achieved market share gains in the cone segment and
boosted value sales across the DRUMSTICK portfolio.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
34
CONFECTIONERY
Featuring beloved Malaysian favourite brands like
KIT KAT and MILO, our confectionery portfolio continues
to delight consumers with moments of indulgence for
every occasion.
Building on KIT KAT’s legacy in Malaysia since 1988, we reinforced our market leadership
during the year through enhancing our core offerings and introducing innovative products
such as KIT KAT Dark Borneo, crafted with locally-sourced cocoa to support Malaysian
cocoa farmers. We also leveraged key festive seasons with impactful campaigns alongside
embarking on a collaboration with MILO. These efforts culminated in another Bronze Award
win at the 2024 Putra Brand Awards for the Foodstuff category.
Festive Excitement with Innovative KIT KAT Golden Dragon
Marking Chinese New Year with groundbreaking innovation, we introduced KIT KAT Golden Dragon,
the first-ever KIT KAT worldwide to use the pioneering Farbling (a combination of Fading and
Marbling) technology that creates intricate dragon scale patterns.
Our comprehensive festive campaign included on-ground activities, digital content, a festive
music video, as well as an interactive KIT KAT Longevity Contest. We further enhanced
consumer engagement by partnering with Facebook to design a festive Augmented
Reality (AR) filter. To tap into the gifting segment, we also released exciting offerings such
as the KIT KAT Golden Dragon Sharebag, Tins and Travel Pouch.
Supported by a launch event that garnered RM1.8 million in PR value and a TV
commercial with over 10 million views, we achieved strong sales for the Chinese New
Year season.
Our Business Review
KIT KAT Golden Dragon connecting people by sharing a KIT KAT moment together.
CO
NFECTIONE
RY
HE
ALTH SCIEN
CE
NESTL
É
PROFESS
IONAL
PLANT-BA
SED MEAL S
OLUTIONS
NUTRITION
FOODS COFFEE
RE
ADY-TO-DRI
NK
MILO
ICE CREAM
Annual Review 2024
35
Championing Sustainable Local Sourcing with KIT KAT Dark Borneo
Aligned with the global NESTLÉ COCOA PLAN for responsible sourcing, in 2024, we launched KIT KAT Dark
Borneo, made exclusively from cocoa sourced through the Nestlé Borneo Cocoa Initiative (NBCI) which
supports local farmers in Sabah and Sarawak. Established to enhance sustainable cocoa farming and improve
the livelihood of farmers, NBCI is aimed at strengthening Malaysia’s cocoa supply chain. A premium single-
origin product, KIT KAT Dark Borneo contains 52% cocoa content, delivering a distinctive taste profile featuring
rich, creamy chocolate with subtle fruity notes, tailored to the taste-buds of dark chocolate enthusiasts and
those seeking a less sweet, chocolatey treat.
Our targeted digital campaign, particularly on TikTok, successfully engaged Gen Z consumers with over 50
million views. Combined with strategic in-store visibility, the launch exceeded sales forecasts and drove market
share gains within three months.
KIT KAT Candy Crush Strawberry
Tapping into the growing trend of innovative flavour
experiences, we introduced KIT KAT Candy Crush
Strawberry to attract new consumers and drive
category excitement. This limited-edition delight
combined the sweet and tangy flavour of strawberry with our signature crispy
wafer, creating a playful twist on KIT KAT’s classic break.
MILO NuggetZ Kaw and MILO NuggetZ Mocha
Building on the popularity of MILO Nuggets,
we elevated this Malaysian favourite with two
new variants that deliver a more indulgent
sensory experience. These innovations respond
to evolving consumer preferences by offering
enhanced chocolate intensity through MILO
NuggetZ Kaw and coffee notes with MILO
NuggetZ Mocha.
KIT KAT MILO
In a strategic collaboration between two of Malaysia’s
most beloved brands, we united KIT KAT’s iconic
wafer and milk chocolate with MILO’s distinctive malty
goodness. This uniquely Malaysian innovation delivers
an uplifting break experience that resonates with
consumers’ nostalgia, while offering a convenient new
way to enjoy these signature flavours together.
KIT KAT Chocolate Drink
Marking a world-first innovation, we launched the KIT
KAT Chocolate Drink, crafted with signature KIT KAT
ingredients and a special cocoa blend to deliver a rich
and creamy cup of chocolatey goodness. Produced at
our Shah Alam factory using sustainably sourced cocoa
and 100% Halal-certified. This product demonstrates
our commitment to local manufacturing excellence while
extending the brand into new consumption occasions.
Innovative Offerings in 2024
Spreading Joy Through KIT KAT Rezeki Dikongsi Bersama EPIC Homes
In the spirit of Ramadan, we continued our tradition of spreading joy with the “#RezekiDikongsiBersama”
initiative, partnering with EPIC Homes. The collaboration saw a contribution of RM172,000 to enhance living
conditions for orang asli families in Kampung Orang Asli Songkok and Kampung Orang Asli Sungai Kelubi,
Selangor. Beyond immediate assistance, we also focused on sustainable impact by providing home repair tools
and skills training. In addition to this, 150 Nestlé Cares hampers worth a total of RM53,000 were distributed
to support these communities.
Local farmer introducing Borneo’s Trinitario cocoa to representatives from Nestlé and the Malaysian Cocoa Board.
Our Business Review
For more details on the NBCI, kindly refer to page 86 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
NIS
For more details on how Nestlé supports local communities, kindly refer to page 93 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
NIS
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
36
NUTRITION
With the aim of creating a comprehensive nutritional
journey supporting Malaysians across all life stages, in
2024, we strategically integrated our Dairy and Adult
Nutrition and Infant Nutrition portfolios under one unified
Nutrition portfolio. This integration reflects our mission
to foster a healthier future, guiding families with good
nutrition, from early childhood to adulthood to healthy
ageing.
Underpinning this is our commitment to providing science-based nutritional solutions,
while educating and empowering consumers to make informed choices about their health
and their children’s development. With changing lifestyles, increasing health consciousness
and diverse nutritional needs, our holistic approach allows us to adapt and remain a trusted
partner throughout our consumers’ life journeys.
LACTOGROW Probio Championing Gut Health
Recognising that optimal gut health is foundational to a child’s overall wellbeing, we reinforced
LACTOGROW Probio’s unique proposition as the only Growing Up Milk enriched with Probiotic
L.reuteri and DHA through a nationwide campaign. Educating mothers on the importance
of nurturing their children’s gut health during the critical stages of development in
toddlerhood, the campaign emphasised the beneficial properties of Probiotic L.reuteri and
DHA in supporting optimal digestive function for better learning experience.
This was complemented by the LACTOGROW Impian Si Manja contest, inspiring young
children to aspire for greatness while promoting the importance of a healthy gut and
mind. The contest generated substantial interest through customised mechanics across
seven retailers, with higher participation compared to the previous year. This yielded
positive results, achieving an increase in new user conversion and reaching 17.5 million
mothers through digital channels.
Building Strong Foundations for
Children’s Growth
Our Business Review
N
UTRITION
HE
ALTH SCIEN
CE
NESTL
É
PROFESS
IONAL
PLANT-BA
SED MEAL S
OLUTIONS
MILO FOODS COFFEE
CO
NFECTIONE
RY
Connecting directly with consumers to raise awareness and educate on the importance
of a healthy gut and mind.
RE
ADY-TO-DRI
NK
ICE CREAM
Annual Review 2024
37
Supporting Catch-Up Growth with ASCENDA
In light of concerning statistics from the National Health &
Morbidity Survey 2022 that one in five Malaysian children are too
short for their age, we positioned ASCENDA as an energy dense
nutritionally complete formula, offering clinically proven results to
support height and weight gain for children in as early as three
weeks1,+. Its comprehensive nutritional profile includes 100% of
daily iron and zinc needs^, 20% more protein** and 28% more
calcium**, addressing key deficiencies that impact children’s
growth.
To further build credibility, we collaborated with paediatricians and
nutritionists from local medical institutions, forming an advisory
board to champion growth-focused nutrition and positive mealtime
experiences. Along with targeted digital campaigns on parenting
platforms and direct recruitment efforts by in-store product
advisors, we successfully recruited over 22,000 new users and
reinforced ASCENDA’s position in the catch-up growth category.
Our Business Review
Transforming the First Solid Food Experience with CERELAC
The CERELAC “First Spoon” campaign has transformed the
significant milestone of introducing solid foods, turning it into an
exciting and educational journey for both parents and their child.
With the primary goal of building trust in the exceptional quality
and nutritional value of CERELAC, the campaign leveraged
trending platforms and captivating content, along with strategic
engagement with parenting platforms and intensified recruitment
activities. These initiatives significantly amplified the campaign’s
impact, resulting in not only increased awareness but also a
strengthened positioning of CERELAC as the top choice for baby
food. This success is evident in the positive increase in market
penetration, reflecting the trust and confidence that new users
have placed in the brand.
Raising Allergy Awareness with NANKID OPTIPRO HA
The NANKID OPTIPRO HA Allergy Awareness campaign
addressed the rising prevalence of allergies among Malaysian
children, focusing on educating caregivers. Through extensive
digital advertisements, compelling content on social media
platforms, the campaign highlighted the importance of early
detection and effective management of allergies through good
nutrition.
Reaching 4.2 million Malaysian caregivers, this strategic approach
not only raised awareness about early allergy symptoms but also
established the brand’s leadership in proactive allergy care.
S-26 GOLD PROGRESS Advancing Brain Development
The early years are a critical window for cognitive development,
shaping a child’s learning potential. S-26 GOLD PROGRESS leads
with science-backed nutrition through the “Think Quick, Learn
Fast“ campaign, reinforcing “10x Faster Brain Connections”.
At the core of this campaign was a groundbreaking neuroimaging
studyon myelination, the first ofits kind, providing keyinsights into
brain connections. These findings were shared with healthcare
professionals through scientific symposiums and medical events,
strengthening trust in the brand’s scientific leadership.
The campaign’s digital-first strategy reached over 13 million
Malaysian parents through expert-led content and partnerships
with parenting communities, offering practical, science-backed
solutions. Together with strong in-store visibility, these efforts
positioned S-26 GOLD PROGRESS as the trusted choice for
cognitive development, ensuring parents have the right support
for their child’s future.
Fostering children’s cognitive development with S-26 GOLD
PROGRESS.
1. Samuel TM et al. Paper presented at the 14th European Nutrition
Conference 2023, Belgrade, Serbia.
+ Increase Height & Weight in as early as 3 weeks along with dietary
counselling.
* Based on Nutritional Information Panel comparison of key growth
nutrients (Protein, Zinc, Iron, Calcium) with a selected brand as of
February 2024.
** Based on Nutritional Information Panel comparison of Protein & Calcium
with a selected brand as of February 2024.
^ According to Malaysia Recommended Nutrient Intakes (RNI) (2017)
(in 2 servings), age 1-7 years.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
38
Empowering Wellness Through
Dairy and Adult Nutrition
Our Business Review
Nourishing Families with NESTLÉ EVERYDAY
With the aim of amplifying NESTLÉ EVERYDAY’s market presence, our World Milk Day campaign
in June 2024 emphasised family nutrition and the importance of milk consumption through the
NutriKuat proposition. Our comprehensive approach, including TV and digital communications
alongside nationwide roadshow activations in key regions, drove market share improvement and
household penetration.
We further deepened the brand’s connection with the Indian community through targeted
activations, ensuring presence during key Indian festivals such as Thaipusam and Deepavali. With
more than 58,000 cups sampled, this served to reignite brand affinity and strengthen top-of-mind
awareness for NESTLÉ EVERYDAY.
Bringing a nutritious beverage to hydrate the community during the celebration of Thaipusam.
N
UTRITION
HE
ALTH SCIEN
CE
NESTL
É
PROFESS
IONAL
PLANT-BA
SED MEAL S
OLUTIONS
FOODS COFFEE
CO
NFECTIONE
RY
RE
ADY-TO-DRI
NK
MILO
ICE CREAM
NESTUM Nourishing Moments for Ramadan and Raya
We strengthened NESTUM’s presence during Ramadan and Raya by positioning its multi-
grain goodness as the ideal versatile choice for both sahur and festive baking. Through digital
communications, nationwide roadshows with baking demonstrations of NESTUM Butter
Cookies and sampling of NESTUM Kurma at Ramadan bazaars, the campaign featured NESTUM
Mixes Kurma as a nutritious and convenient sahur option while showcasing simple and delicious
NESTUM cookie recipes for Raya, reinforcing the brand’s relevance during this festive season.
Digital communications helped to drive top-of-mind awareness, with targeted messaging
that reminded consumers of NESTUM’s nourishing benefits and its signature 'aromalicious'
taste. With its distinct multi-grain goodness and aromatic appeal, NESTUM continued to be an
essential part of Ramadan and Raya traditions for Malaysian families.
These initiatives collectively drove positive market share growth for the brand during the festive
period, enhancing NESTUM’s positioning and increasing market penetration.
Annual Review 2024
39
Redefining Adult Nutrition with ENERCAL Complete
With a view towards enhancing brand differentiation in the non-diabetic super beverage category,
we undertook a strategic evolution from ENERCAL PLUS to ENERCAL Complete in January 2024.
The rebranding was supported by clear communication about the transition, highlighting the
product’s key benefits in mental alertness, strength and digestion, establishing a unique position in
the growing ageing population segment.
Through comprehensive support throughout the year, including roadshow activations, 1,500 in-store
promoter days across relevant channels such as pharmacies, and 15,000 samples for healthcare
professionals at key hospitals, ENERCAL emerged as the fastest-growing brand in its category.
This approach resulted in the brand achieving a record high market share, positioning ENERCAL
Complete as a trusted solution for healthy ageing and overall wellbeing.
The Kick-off of NOP WAMM at Taman Tasik Metropolitan in Kepong saw 2,000 people walk 3.5km
around the park for better heart health.
Our Business Review
Promoting Healthy Longevity with NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS and ENERCAL
Walking Towards Heart Health with NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS
Our NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS “Walk A Million Miles“ (NOP WAMM) campaign continued its
mission of promoting heart health, launching with a physical run event at Taman Tasik
Metropolitan Kepong, alongside a virtual walking initiative. This month-long movement
successfully rallied Malaysians to kickstart their journey for heart health, emphasising the
brand’s commitment to cardiovascular wellness.
This year, the annual event attracted 30,622 participants, the highest number to date,
who collectively walked 2,154,407 miles, doubling the initial campaign target. We also
contributed a total of RM100,000 to Yayasan Jantung Malaysia and Institut Jantung Negara
in support of heart patients.
Further details about this initiative are available on page 37 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
NIS
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
40
At the National Diabetes and Ramadan workshop, supporting people with diabetes in
achieving optimal glucose control during the fasting period.
HEALTH SCIENCE
Meeting the needs of a diverse range of consumers
with specialised dietary and nutritional requirements,
including senior citizens and individuals managing
metabolic health or acute care needs, we deliver tailored
science-based solutions through our Nestlé Health
Science (NHS) portfolio. Our focus encompasses both
preventative and treatment-based nutrition to enable
consumers to lead healthier, happier and more fulfilling
lives.
This year, we reinforced our core NHS business by maintaining our commitment to high-quality
products for consumers while strengthening partnerships with customers, demonstrating our
mission to empower healthier lives through nutrition. Reflecting the strength of our portfolio
in delivering impactful nutritional solutions, we were honoured that one of our key products,
NUTREN GLUCOBALANCE, was recognised as the Most Wanted Nutritional Milk Formula at
the Watsons’ Health, Wellness, and Beauty Awards 2024.
Promoting Healthier Fasting for People with Diabetes
Recognising the challenges faced by people with diabetes who choose to fast during
Ramadan, NHS continued to empower healthier fasting practices. Central to our efforts
is the Ramadan Nutrition Plan (RNP), developed by trusted local and international
experts in endocrinology and nutrition as a guide for safe fasting for individuals
managing diabetes. The RNP incorporates NUTREN GLUCOBALANCE, a diabetes-
specific formula clinically proven to aid in achieving optimal glucose control and
sustained energy during fasting.
Our Business Review
HE
ALTH SCIEN
CE
NESTL
É
PROFESS
IONAL
PLANT-BA
SED MEAL S
OLUTIONS
FOODS COFFEE
CO
NFECTIONE
RY
NUTRITION
RE
ADY-TO-DRI
NK
MILO
ICE CREAM
Annual Review 2024
41
Empowered consumers taking charge of their health through body composition assessment.
Our Business Review
Our dedicated National Diabetes and Ramadan Workshop has been held annually since 2020 to share
our RNP with healthcare professionals (HCP). In 2024, we expanded this across four regions via a
roadshow featuring renowned endocrinologists as key speakers. Spanning Alor Setar, Kota Bharu,
Melaka and Kuala Lumpur, this allowed us to reach over 400 attendees, including endocrinologists,
physicians, family medicine specialists, dietitians, diabetic nurses and pharmacists. Reflecting the
success of the workshop, which delivered the latest evidence-based practices in Ramadan-focused
diabetes care, 100% of attendees were supportive of educating their patients on diabetes management
prior to Ramadan.
Scaling Up Brand Awareness for NUTREN
To deepen market penetration in the complete and balanced nutrition category, we embarked on a
seven-day NUTREN Concourse Roadshow at Mid Valley Megamall. Strategically located at this high
footfall location to ensure effective reach, this initiative combined consumer education with health
assessments, offering free muscle strength screenings, blood glucose tests and body composition
assessments, as well as other engaging activities and attractive promotions.
With seven days of direct interaction with NUTREN users, the event exceeded expectations, surpassing
sales targets while establishing meaningful connections with both new and existing consumers.
A New Formula to Support Healthier Child Development
Responding to insights from consumer research on children’s taste preferences, in 2024,
we relaunched NUTREN Junior with an enhanced formulation. The new formula features
a specialised 50% whey protein blend paired with essential nutrients, while maintaining
lactose- and gluten-free properties. This science-based reformulation addresses specific
nutritional needs for children aged 1-10 years at nutritional risk, supporting catch-up
growth through improved palatability and nutrient absorption.
The relaunch demonstrated strong market acceptance, recording increased sales as well
as garnering encouraging feedback from consumers and parents through medical and
trade channels.
Supporting HCP Education with PEPTAMEN CME Speaker Tour
Recognising the critical importance of evidence-based practices in acute care nutrition,
in 2024, we amplified our efforts to increase awareness of enteral feeding intolerance
(EFI) and malabsorption in intensive care unit (ICU) and surgical patients among HCPs
through the PEPTAMEN Continuing Medical Education (CME) Speaker Tour. Held in
conjunction with the Congress of the Parenteral and Enteral Nutrition Society of Asia,
this forum facilitated insightful discussions between international and local experts on
EFI management and the role of PEPTAMEN in optimising recovery for ICU and surgical
patients. Led by Prof. Dr. Rice Todd from Vanderbilt University, this peer-to-peer medical
education talk fostered deeper knowledge on the topic while strengthening our position
in the acute care category.
The initiative reached 870 HCPs across public and private hospitals, with attendees
expressing increased confidence in recommending PEPTAMEN for patients facing
feeding intolerance challenges.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
42 Sports enthusiasts gathered to watch and cheer for EURO CUP.
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
At the forefront of the out-of-home (OOH) F&B segment,
NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL delivers innovative solutions
that meet the diverse needs of food service operators.
By leveraging our iconic brands – MILO, MAGGI,
NESCAFÉ and KIT KAT– we provide versatile
products that enhance dining
experiences across all channels,
from neighbourhood cafes to
established restaurants.
Our Business Review
In 2024, despite challenges from rising commodity prices and global economic uncertainties, we
maintained growth momentum through focused channel strategies and strategic stakeholder
engagement. Our commitment to innovation and collaboration enabled us to expand our market
presence while strengthening our position as a trusted partner in the food service industry.
Building Brand Love for MILO and NESCAFÉ through Sports
Leveraging Malaysia’s passion for football and badminton, we launched engaging physical
activations and interactive digital games that fostered meaningful connections with sports
enthusiasts. Our campaigns, namely “Malaysia Boleh Bersama MILO”, “NESCAFÉ Minum,
Main, Gol!” and “MILO Malaysia Boleh”, successfully engaged over 5,900 consumers
across 100 outlets nationwide.
Forging authentic bonds with both loyal customers and new audiences, these initiatives
enabled us to further embed our household MILO and NESCAFÉ brands into Malaysia’s
most beloved sports, reinforcing consumption habits and brand loyalty.
NESTL
É
PROFESS
IONAL
PLANT-BA
SED MEAL S
OLUTIONS
FOODS COFFEE
CO
NFECTIONE
RY
NUTRITION
HE
ALTH SCIEN
CE
RE
ADY-TO-DRI
NK
MILO
ICE CREAM
Annual Review 2024
43
Celebrating Culinary Excellence via MAGGI
Organised in collaboration with the Pan Malaysia Federation
of KuSu Restaurants, the 6th Golden Chef Competition brought
together Malaysia’s finest chefs to showcase their talent
and creativity. This prestigious event aimed to elevate the
standards of Chinese culinary arts while celebrating Malaysia’s
rich heritage.
Attracting international celebrity chefs, industry leaders and
culinary enthusiasts, the competition highlighted our dedication
to supporting new talent. With a reach that included numerous
restaurant owners and a wide range of Chinese restaurants,
this initiative celebrated culinary artistry while strengthening
relationships across the food service industry.
Empowering Food Service Operators
Over the years, NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL has actively engaged
with key local F&B stakeholders to expand our solutions and
deepen connections. Building on this, in 2024, we collaborated
with trade associations, including the Malaysian Muslim
Restaurant Owners Association, the Chinese Coffeeshop
Association and the Malaysian Indian Restaurant Owners
Association, to introduce innovative product applications
catering to local taste buds using MILO, MAGGI, NESCAFÉ,
KIT KAT and NESTUM products. From hot and cold beverages
like MILO Halia Panas and NESCAFÉ Cincau Ice to creative
desserts like Roti Canai KIT KAT, these solutions enabled
operators to expand their menus with exciting new offerings
and gain a competitive edge in the food service market.
In addition, our participation in the 24th Sabah Hospitality Fiesta,
co-located with the inaugural Food & Hospitality Malaysia
Borneo edition 2024, further showcased the versatility of our
products and enabled us to connect with potential customers
and industry leaders. The event attracted 3,000 attendees,
including representatives from hotels, restaurants and
bakeries as well as culinary institutes, creating opportunities
for long-term partnerships.
Inspiring Healthy Habits on International Chefs Day
In celebration of International Chefs Day, we partnered with
the World Association of Chefs’ Societies to host a fun and
educational event at SK Kepong Baru. With the theme ‘Growing
Great Chefs’, this initiative, part of the Nestlé for Healthier
Kids (N4HK) global programme, brought together chefs and
children to explore the joy of preparing nutritious meals while
learning about balanced diets.
To further support this effort, we also provided recipe cards and
educational materials to empower students to adopt healthier
eating habits. By nurturing a love for cooking and healthy eating
among children, this initiative reinforced our commitment to
shaping a healthier and more informed generation.
Promoting Sustainability in F&B
Partnering with Resorts World Genting’s Superchef Squad,
we hosted a series of live cooking demonstrations and food
tastings focused on sustainable food practices at the Genting
SustainBiz Expo. Showcasing the role of innovation and
collaboration in driving long-term sustainability, the event
highlighted a range of plant-based dishes, complemented by
expert discussions on sustainable food production.
This initiative provided us with the opportunity to share
innovative approaches to sustainability across sectors,
reinforcing NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL’s commitment to shaping
a more sustainable food industry.
Students of SK Kepong Baru get hands-on during the N4HK
PARENPRO activity, making healthy eating fun and engaging.
Our in-house NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL Chef Salihin carefully
crafting a plant-protein packed HARVEST GOURMET Sensational
Mini Burger.
Our Business Review
Learn more about our N4HK programme on page 35 of the
Nestlé in Society Report.
NIS
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
44
Our Leadership
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Dato’ Hamidah
Naziadin
Juan Aranols
1
1
2
2
4
4
5
5
8
8
7
7
6
6
3
3
Tan Sri
Wan Zulkiflee
Wan Ariffin
YTM Tan Sri Tunku
Puteri Intan Safinaz
Sultan Abd Halim
YM Dr. Tunku
Alina Alias
Chin Kwai Fatt Tengku Ida Adura
Tengku Ismail
Syed Saiful
Islam
Annual Review 2024
45
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
• 29 April 2021
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 30 April 2024
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Fellow Member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW)
• Member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants (MIA)
• Member of the Malaysian Institute of Certified
Public Accountants (MICPA)
• Bachelor of Science (Economics), University of
Hull, United Kingdom
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP (LISTED ENTITIES)
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Dialog Group Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENT
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Prudential Assurance Malaysia Berhad
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Senior Advisor, Creador Sdn. Bhd.
• Various senior management positions in
PricewaterhouseCoopers Group (PwC)
in Malaysia, including Managing Partner,
Corporate Finance Leader of PwC Malaysia
and Senior Advisor of PwC South East Asia
Corporate Finance.
Independent Non-Executive Director
CHIN KWAI FATT
DATE OF APPOINTMENTS
• 1 October 2023
• 1 May 2024 (Chairman)
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 30 April 2024
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Audit and Risk Committee
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Fellow Member for Institute of Corporate
Directors Malaysia (ICDM)
• Honorary Fellow Member of the Institution of
Chemical Engineers, United Kingdom
• Advanced Management Program, Harvard
Business School, USA
• Senior Management Program, INSEAD
• Bachelor of Engineering (Chemical), University
of Adelaide, Australia
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIPS (LISTED ENTITIES)
• Chairman, DRB-HICOM Berhad
• Chairman, Gas Malaysia Berhad
• Chairman, EON Petromin Sdn. Bhd.
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Board of Advisors, National Energy Services
Reunited Corp., Houston
• Board of Advisors, Yayasan Prihatin Nasional
• Adjunct Professor, Kulliyyah of Economics and
Management Sciences, International Islamic
University Malaysia (IIUM)
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Board of Trustees, Razak School of Government
• Chairman, Malaysia Airlines Berhad
• Chairman, Malaysia Aviation Group Berhad
• Board of Governors, IIUM
• Chairman of University Risk Management
Committee, IIUM
• Director, Exxon Mobil Corporation
• President and Group CEO, Petronas
• Chairman, Malaysia’s National Trust Fund
• Council Member, East Coast Economic Region
Development Council
• Council Member, Northern Corridor
Implementation Authority
• Council Member, ASEAN Council on Petroleum
• Member, World Economic Forum’s (WEF)
Stewardship Board of System Initiative on
Shaping the Future of Energy
• Member, WEF’s Oil and Gas Governors Forum
and the WEF Oil and Gas Action Group
• Pro-Chancellor, Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS
• Member of the Advisory Council, Institut
Tadbiran Awam Negara (INTAN)
• Industry Advisor, University Putra Malaysia
Chairman,
Independent Non-Executive Director
TAN SRI WAN ZULKIFLEE WAN ARIFFIN
BOARD MEETING
ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
BOARD MEETING
ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
Male, 64
Malaysian
Male, 69
Malaysian
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
46
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
• 1 May 2020
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 26 April 2023
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Chairman of the Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Laws, University of
Wolverhampton, United Kingdom
• Certificate in Personnel Management,
Malaysian Institute of Personnel Management
• Certified in-house Facilitator for CIMB Group
- Franklin Covey’s The 7 Habits of Highly
Effective People®
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIPS (LISTED ENTITIES)
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Maxis Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Sime Darby Property Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
MR D.I.Y Group (M) Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Chairman, Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, Maxis Berhad
• Chairman, Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, MR. D.I.Y Group (M) Berhad
• Board Member, Majlis Sukan Negara
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Advisory Council Member, Faculty of Business
and Accountancy, University of Malaya
• Chief Executive Officer, CIMB Foundation
• Group Chief People Officer, CIMB Group
• Member of Board of Commissioners,
CIMB Niaga
• Member of Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, CIMB Niaga
• President of Malaysian Commercial Banks
Association (MCBA)
• Head of Group Corporate Resources,
CIMB Group
• Head of Human Resources, CIMB Securities
Sdn. Bhd.
• Personnel Officer, The Pacific Bank Berhad
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
• 21 June 2021
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 30 April 2024
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Member of the Audit and Risk Committee
• Member of the Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• PhD in Islamic Finance, International Centre for
Education in Islamic Finance, Malaysia
• Master in Laws (LLM) (Corporate and
Commercial Law), King’s College, London,
United Kingdom
• Advanced Management Programme, Oxford
University - Green Templeton College
• Bachelor of Laws, University of Malaya, Malaysia
• Malaysian Bar Council
• Associate Mediator of Singapore Mediation
Centre
• Member for Institute of Corporate Directors
Malaysia (ICDM)
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIPS (LISTED ENTITIES)
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Batu Kawan Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Inari Amerton Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Berhad
• Director, Chairperson, J A Russell & Company
Sdn. Bhd.
• Director, Joyous Waves Sdn. Bhd.
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
IJM Corporation Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Malaysian Pacific Industries Berhad
• Trustee, Raja Alias Foundation
• Council Member, Climate Governance Malaysia
• Non-Independent Non-Executive Director,
Chemical Company of Malaysia Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Chairperson,
Harps Holding Berhad
• Chair of the governing council, Yayasan CCM
• Non-Independent Non-Executive Director,
MBSB Bank Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Malaysia Building Society Berhad
• Partner, Wong Lu Peen & Tunku Alina,
Advocates & Solicitors
• Legal Assistant, Skrine & Co.
Independent Non-Executive Director Independent Non-Executive Director
DATO’ HAMIDAH NAZIADIN YM DR. TUNKU ALINA ALIAS
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
BOARD MEETING
ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
BOARD MEETING
ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
Female, 61
Malaysian
Female, 61
Malaysian
Annual Review 2024
47
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
• 2 May 2023
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 30 April 2024
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Member of the Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Political Studies, University Sussex,
United Kingdom
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP (LISTED ENTITIES)
• Nil
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• National Chairperson, Malaysian Red Crescent
• Governing Board Member, International
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent
Societies, Geneva, Switzerland
• Chairperson, Sultanah Bahiyah Foundation
• Royal Patron and Adviser, Langkawi UNESCO
Global Geopark
PAST EXPERIENCE
• Pro-Chancellor, The National University of
Malaysia
• Pro-Chancellor, The National Defence University
• Pro-Chancellor, Universiti Utara Malaysia
Independent Non-Executive Director
YTM TAN SRI TUNKU PUTERI INTAN SAFINAZ SULTAN ABD HALIM
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
• 1 December 2018
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 28 April 2021
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Nil
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Economic Science and Business,
University of Barcelona, Spain
• Executive Development Programme,
International Institute for Management
Development (IMD), Lausanne, Switzerland
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP (LISTED ENTITIES)
• Nil
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Board Member, Malaysian Recycling Alliance
Berhad
• Council Member, Federation of Malaysia
Manufacturers (FMM)
• Chairman, FMM Sustainability Committee
• Director, Nihon Canpack (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Chairman, Malaysian Recycling Alliance Berhad
• Chief Financial Officer of Zone Asia, Oceania
& sub-Saharan African (AOA), Nestlé S.A.
• Senior Vice President, Head of Global Group
Control, Nestlé S.A.
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Iberian region
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Caribbean region
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Plata region
• Finance Manager of Nestlé Ice Cream and
Frozen Food business, Nestlé Italy
• Strategic Business Controller, Nestlé S.A.
• Auditor, Nestlé Spain
Chief Executive Officer,
Non-Independent Executive Director
JUAN ARANOLS
BOARD MEETING
ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
BOARD MEETING
ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
Female, 58
Malaysian
Male, 56
Spanish
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
48
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
• 6 August 2013
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Certified Company Secretary, Malaysian
Association of Company Secretaries
• Bachelor of Laws from the University of
Nottingham, United Kingdom
• Barrister-at-Law of the Honourable Society of
Lincoln’s Inn
• Diploma in Syariah Law and Legal Practice,
International Islamic University of Malaysia
• Called to the Malaysian Bar
• Leadership Course, London Business School,
United Kingdom
• Leadership Course, Melbourne Business School,
Australia
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP (LISTED ENTITIES)
• Nil
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Board Member and Vice Chairperson, ICC
Malaysia Berhad
• Member, FMM Business Ethics &
Governance Committee
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Malaysian Trustee, ASEAN CSR Network
• Chairman for ICC Corporate Responsibility &
Anti-Corruption Working Committee
• Vice Chairman, FMM Business Ethics &
Governance Committee
• Legal Counsel for Zone AOA, Nestlé S.A.
• Legal Counsel, Nestlé Malaysia
• Legal Manager, Kumpulan Guthrie Berhad
• Legal Practitioner
Company Secretary
TENGKU IDA ADURA TENGKU ISMAIL
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
• 1 August 2022
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 26 April 2023
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Nil
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Master of Commerce in Finance and Banking,
University of Dhaka, Bangladesh
• Chartered Accountant
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP (LISTED ENTITIES)
• Nil
OTHER APPOINTMENT
• Director, Nihon Canpack (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Pakistan
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Nigeria
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Sri Lanka
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Bangladesh
• Financial Planning Manager, Nestlé India
• Financial Accounting Manager,
Nestlé Bangladesh
Chief Financial Officer,
Non-Independent Executive Director
SYED SAIFUL ISLAM
BOARD MEETING
ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
BOARD MEETING
ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
Male, 52
Bangladeshi
Female, 52
Malaysian
Annual Review 2024
49
DATE OF APPOINTMENTS
• 25 February 2002 (Non-Independent, Non-Executive Director)
• 5 November 2004 (Re-designated as Independent, Non-Executive Director)
• 16 April 2009 (Chairman)
• 20 February 2018 (Re-designated as Non-Independent, Non-Executive Director)
DATE OF RETIREMENT
• 30 April 2024
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Chairman of the Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee
• Member of the Audit and Risk Committee
Chairman,
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
YAM TAN SRI DATO’ SERI SYED ANWAR JAMALULLAIL
THE FOLLOWING DIRECTOR HAS RETIRED SINCE THE
40TH ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING IN 2024:
BOARD MEETING
ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all three meetings
Male, 72
Malaysian
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
*Declarations by the Board:
Save as disclosed, the above Directors have no family relationship with any Director and/or major
shareholder of Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad, have no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest,
including any interest in any competing business with Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad and its Group, have not
been convicted of any offence, other than traffic offences (if any) within the past five years and have not
been imposed any penalty by the relevant regulatory bodies during the financial year 2024.
Save for the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, all the Non-Executive Directors satisfy the
criteria of an independent director as defined under Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements,
which include being independent of management, free from any business or other relationship which
could interfere with the exercise of independent judgment, objectivity or the ability to act in the best
interests of the Company, and also being independent of its major shareholders.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
50
Our Leadership
KEY SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 December 2018
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Economic Science and Business,
University of Barcelona, Spain
• Executive Development Programme,
International Institute for Management
Development (IMD), Lausanne, Switzerland
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Chief Financial Officer of Zone AOA, Nestlé S.A.
• Senior Vice President, Head of Global Group
Control, Nestlé S.A.
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Iberian region
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Caribbean region
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Plata region
• Finance Manager of Nestlé Ice Cream and
Frozen Food business, Nestlé Italy
• Strategic Business Controller, Nestlé S.A.
• Auditor, Nestlé Spain
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 November 2023
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Exec. Masters in Business Admin, National
Institute of Business Management, Dubai
• Bachelor’s Degree in Labour Law – Industrial
Relations, Graduate Institute of Management,
South Africa
• Bachelor’s Degree in Business Management,
Damelin College, South Africa
• Diploma in Mechanical Engineering, PE
Technikon, South Africa
• Leadership Course, London Business School,
United Kingdom
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Technical and Manufactory Director,
Nestlé East & Southern Africa region
• Technical and Manufacturing Director,
Nestlé Turkey
• Factory Manager, Nestlé Technopark, Dubai
• Factory Manager, Nestlé East London Factory,
South Africa
• Project Leader, Nestlé S.A.
• Production Manager, Nestlé East London
Factory, South Africa
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 August 2022
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Master of Commerce in Finance and Banking,
University of Dhaka, Bangladesh
• Chartered Accountant
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Pakistan
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Nigeria
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Sri Lanka
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Bangladesh
• Financial Planning Manager, Nestlé India
• Financial Accounting Manager,
Nestlé Bangladesh
Chief Executive Officer
JUAN ARANOLS
Male, 56
Spanish
Executive Director of Technical & Production
XOLILE WHITE
Male, 56
South African
Chief Financial Officer
SYED SAIFUL ISLAM
Male, 52
Bangladeshi
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 January 2013
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Certified Company Secretary, Malaysian
Association of Company Secretaries
• Bachelor of Laws from the University of
Nottingham, United Kingdom
• Barrister-at-Law of the Honourable Society of
Lincoln’s Inn
• Diploma in Syariah Law and Legal Practice,
International Islamic University of Malaysia
• Called to the Malaysian Bar
• Leadership Course, London Business School,
United Kingdom
• Leadership Course, Melbourne Business School,
Australia
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Malaysian Trustee, ASEAN CSR Network
• Vice Chairman, FMM Business Ethics &
Governance Committee
• Chairman for ICC Corporate Responsibility &
Anti-Corruption Working Committee
• Legal Counsel for Zone AOA, Nestlé S.A.
• Legal Counsel, Nestlé Malaysia
• Legal Manager, Kumpulan Guthrie Berhad
• Legal Practitioner
Executive Director of Legal and Secretarial
TENGKU IDA ADURA
TENGKU ISMAIL
Female, 52
Malaysian
Corporate Functions
Annual Review 2024
51
Our Leadership
Key Senior Management Team
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 November 2023
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Science (Honours), Indian Institute of
Management, Bangalore, India
• Post Graduate Diploma, Indian Institute of
Management, Ahmedabad, India
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Head of Customer Supply Chain,
Nestlé South Asian region
• Global Logistics Lead, Nestlé S.A.
• Head of Distribution, Zone AOA Supply Chain,
Nestlé S.A.
• Head of Distribution, Nestlé South Asian region
• Supply Chain Manager, Nestlé South Asian
region
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 November 2024
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATION
• Bachelor of Arts, Business Studies, Nottingham
Trent University, United Kingdom
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Global Head for Route to Market and
Sales Operations, Nestlé S.A.
• Assistant Regional Manager, Zone AOA,
Nestlé S.A.
• Head of National Customer Management,
Nestlé Malaysia
• Commercial Director, Tesco Global Business
Unit, Nestlé United Kingdom
• Senior Business Development Manager,
Nestlé United Kingdom
• Business Development Manager,
Nestlé United Kingdom
• Category Analyst, Unilever United Kingdom
Executive Director of Supply Chain
ANURAG DWIVEDI
Male, 45
Indian
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 October 2024
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Arts, Multimedia, Royal Melbourne
Institute of Technology University, Melbourne,
Australia
• Advanced Diploma Electronic Design and
Interactive Multimedia, Limkokwing University of
Creative Technology
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Global Marketing Lead, MILO & NESCAU,
Nestlé S.A.
• Global Brand Manager, Plant Based Beverages,
Nestlé S.A.
• Consumer Marketing Manager, MILO,
Nestlé Malaysia
• Senior Brand Manager, MILO, Nestlé Malaysia
• Media & Advertising Manager, Nestlé Malaysia
• Account Director, JWT Malaysia
Executive Director of Corporate Affairs
RAJA NURMARIA MURNI
RAJA NUR AZMI
Female, 44
Malaysian
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 April 2022
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Masters in Labour and Industrial Relations,
University of the Philippines
• Bachelor of Arts in Psychology, University of the
Philippines
• Management and Leadership Course, Asian
Institute of Management, Philippines
• Management and Leadership Course, London
Business School, Singapore
• Breakthrough Leadership Programme,
International Institute for Management
Development (IMD), Lausanne, Switzerland
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Senior Vice President Human Resources, Nestlé
Philippines
• Human Resources Director, Nestlé Philippines
• Head of Corporate Learning and Organisational
Development, Nestlé Philippines
• Senior Human Resources Business Partners,
Technical & Production and Nestlé Business
Services, Nestlé Philippines
• Head of Corporate Talent and Organisational
Development, Nestlé Thailand
• Human Resources Project Manager, Zone AOA,
Nestlé S.A.
• Human Resources Manager, Nestlé Philippines
Executive Director of Human Resources
CARMEN MELISSA ANTONIO
Female, 51
Filipino
Executive Director of Sales
TIMOTHY ROSS AIRD
Male, 44
British
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
52
Our Leadership
Key Senior Management Team
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 February 2023
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATION
• Bachelors of Liberal Arts in Economics,
University of Texas at Austin, United States
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Head of Innovations, Insights and Marketing
Excellence, Nestlé Malaysia & Singapore
• Business Executive Officer, Milks, Nestlé
Malaysia
• Business Executive Officer, Purina Petcare
Malaysia
• Innovation Acceleration Manager, Corporate,
Nestlé Malaysia
• Consumer Marketing Manager, Noodles (Food),
Nestlé Malaysia
• Senior Brand Manager, Milks, Nestlé Malaysia
• Brand Manager, Nestlé Ice Cream,
Nestlé Malaysia
• Brand Executive, Milks, Nestlé Malaysia
Head of Innovation, Insights & Marketing
Excellence
LAM PUI YUEE
Female, 50
Malaysian
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 of August 2022
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA),
American University of Beirut, Lebanon
• Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Biology, American
University of Beirut, Lebanon
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Business Executive Officer, Coffee, Middle East
and North Africa (MENA) region, Nestlé Dubai
• Head of Communication and Marketing,
Nestlé Dubai
• Media Manager, Nestlé Middle East
Business Executive Officer, Coffee and Marketing
Communications Director
RAEF LABAKI
Male, 59
Lebanese
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
3 January 2020
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Masters of Business, University of New South
Wales, Australia
• Bachelor of Business, University of Technology,
Sydney, Australia
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Business Executive Officer, RTD, Nestlé Malaysia
• Business Executive Officer, Milks, Nestlé
Malaysia
• Consumer Marketing Manager, MILO,
Nestlé Malaysia
• Project Manager, MILO Strategic Business Unit,
Nestlé S.A.
• Brand Manager, MILO, Nestlé Malaysia
Business Executive Officer, MILO
NG SU YEN
Female, 46
Malaysian
Business Units
Corporate Functions
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 July 2017
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor’s Degree in Economics majoring in
Business, University of Malaya
• Executive Development Programme,
International Institute for Management
Development, Lausanne, Switzerland
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Business Executive Officer, NESTLÉ Ice Cream
Malaysia & Singapore
• Business Manager, Chilled Dairy,
Nestlé Malaysia & Singapore
• Group Brand Manager, Chilled Dairy,
Nestlé Malaysia & Singapore
• Senior Brand Manager, MILO, Nestlé Malaysia
• Brand Executive, Nestlé Ice Cream,
Nestlé Malaysia
Business Executive Officer, NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL
YIT WOON LAI
Female, 54
Malaysian
Annual Review 2024
53
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 April 2023
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Business, University Technology of
Sydney, Australia
• Leadership Development Programme, London
Business School, United Kingdom
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Assistant Regional Manager, Zone AOA,
Nestlé S.A.
• Business Executive Officer, Purina Petcare
Malaysia
• Consumer Marketing Manager, MAGGI,
Nestlé Malaysia & Singapore
• Senior Marketing Manager, Nestlé Myanmar
• Business Development Manager East Malaysia,
Foods, Nestlé Malaysia & Singapore
• Senior Brand Manager, MILO, Nestlé Malaysia
& Singapore
• Regional Brand Manager (ASEAN),
Munchy’s Malaysia
• Brand Manager, Guinness Malaysia
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 February 2023
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATION
• Degree in Dietetic, the University of British
Columbia, Canada
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Business Executive Officer, Infant Nutrition,
Vice President, China Mainland, Nestlé China
• Business Director for Baby Food, Nestlé China
• Head of Marketing for Baby Food, Nestlé China
• Regional Marketing Manager, Nestlé South East
Asia and the Pacific Rim
• Consumer Marketing Manager, Infant and Milks,
Nestlé Malaysia
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 September 2023
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATION
• Bachelor of Commerce (Management), Nelson
Marlborough Institute of Technology, New
Zealand
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Business Executive Officer, RTD, Nestlé Malaysia
& Singapore
• Head of Marketing, Cambodia, Nestlé Indochina
• Consumer Marketing Manager, MILO,
Nestlé Malaysia & Singapore
• Consumer Marketing Manager, NESTLÉ Ice
Cream, Nestlé Malaysia & Singapore
• Marketing Manager, PepsiCo Malaysia
• Marketing Manager, Castrol Malaysia
• Senior Brand Manager, Guinness Malaysia
• Senior Brand Manager, NESCAFÉ,
Nestlé Malaysia
• Category Sales Development Manager,
Nestlé Malaysia
• Category Management Manager, F&N Malaysia
• District Sales, F&N Malaysia
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 September 2024
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATION
• Bachelor in Food Study Major Marketing,
University Putra Malaysia
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Business Executive Officer, Nestlé Breakfast
Cereal, Nestlé Malaysia & Singapore
• Global Brand Manager, STARBUCKS, Nestlé S.A.
• Marketing Manager NESCAFÉ,
Nestlé Philippines
• Consumer Marketing Manager, NESCAFÉ,
Nestlé Malaysia
• Senior Brand Manager, NESCAFÉ,
Nestlé Malaysia
• Brand Manager, Confectionery, Nestlé Malaysia
• Brand Executive, Confectionery, Nestlé Malaysia
Business Executive Officer, Foods
Business Executive Office, Nestlé Nutrition
IVY TAN LINK CHEH
YEOH SHE SHIANG
Female, 43
Malaysian
Female, 50
Malaysian
Business Executive Officer, Ice Cream
APRIL WONG POH KENG
Female, 48
Malaysian
Business Executive Officer, Ready-to-Drink
NORKHAYATI MOHAMED
HASHINI
Female, 43
Malaysian
Our Leadership
Key Senior Management Team
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
54
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 July 2020
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Master in Business Administration, Business
Management, SDA Bocconi Business School,
Italy
• Strategy and Innovation Programme,
International Institute for Management
Development, Lausanne, Switzerland
• Leadership Programme, London Business
School, United Kingdom
• Bachelor Degree in Oriental Languages and
Cultures, Ca’ Foscari University, Italy
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• International Marketing Manager, MEA & APAC
Nespresso S.A.
• Marketing & E-commerce Director, Nespresso
Italy S.P.A.
• Marketing Manager Nespresso Italy S.P.A.
• Global Head of CRM, E-Commerce & Customer
Care, Ferrari S.P.A.
• Global Head of Suppliers Marketing &
Purchasing Methods - Ferrari S.P.A.
• Regional Sales & Marketing Executive Motorola
Middle East & Africa
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 May 2024
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATION
• Bachelor’s Degree in Marketing, HELP Institute
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Head of Marketing, Adult Nutrition, Abbott
Laboratories
• Head of Marketing and Shopper Marketing,
Johnson & Johnson
• Regional Marketing Manager, Fraser & Neave
Holdings Berhad
• Regional Senior Brand Manager, MARS Foods
(M) Sdn. Bhd.
• Product Manager, Mead Johnson Nutrition (M)
Sdn. Bhd.
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 October 2024
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATION
• Bachelor of Engineering, National University of
Singapore, Singapore
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Business Manager, Cereal Partners Worldwide
(CPW) Singapore, Nestlé Singapore
• Brand Leader, Koko Krunch, CPW Zone Asia,
Middle East, Africa (AMA), Nestlé Dubai
• Senior Brand Manager, Koko Krunch, CPW Zone
AMA, Nestlé Dubai
• Senior Brand Manager, Reckitt Benckiser Middle
East
Business Executive Office, NESPRESSO
FLORIANE NOVELLO
Female, 52
Italian
Business Executive Officer, NESTLÉ HEALTH
SCIENCE
Business Executive Officer, Nestlé Breakfast Cereal
PANG RAEI SZE PHILIP JOE
Female, 45
Malaysian
Male, 38
Singaporean
Our Leadership
Key Senior Management Team
*Declaration by the Key Senior Management Team:
Save as disclosed, the Key Senior Management Team have no family relationship with any Director and/or major shareholder of Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad, have
no conflict of interest or potential conflict of interest, including any interest in any competing business with Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad and its Group, have not
been convicted of any offences, other than traffic offences (if any) within the past five years and have not been imposed any penalty by the relevant regulatory
bodies during the financial year 2024. The disclosure on the particulars of the Key Senior Management Team as at 28 February 2025, is made in compliance
with the requirements under Appendix 9C of Bursa Malaysia Main Market Listing Requirements.
Business Units
DATE OF APPOINTMENT
1 August 2024
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Master in Business Administration, MBA ESADE
Business School, Spain
• Industrial Engineering, Polytechnic University of
Catalonia, Spain
PAST WORKING EXPERIENCES
• Confectionery Category Development Manager,
Zone AOA, Nestlé S.A.
• Global Brand Manager KIT KAT, Nestlé S.A.
• Global Innovation Project Leader, Nestlé S.A.
• Marketing Manager KIT KAT, Nestlé Spain
• Demand and Supply Planner Food & Ice Cream,
Nestlé Spain
• Demand Planner, Danone, Spain
Business Executive Officer, Confectionery
CARLOTA CASELLAS
Female, 41
Spanish
Annual Review 2024
55
Together,
		We Are Nestlé
[Sixth from left] Juan Aranols, [seventh from left] En Hussain Bin Moh, Deputy Director-General of the
National Disaster Management Agency and [fourth from right] Tn Hj Hakim, Secretary General of the
MRC and their respective teams, at the handover ceremony for RM2 million worth of products-in-kind and
financial contribution from Nestlé Malaysia to the MRC, in support of flood relief efforts.
[Centre left] YAB Dato’ Seri Utama Haji Aminuddin Bin Harun, Menteri Besar Negeri Sembilan Darul
Khusus, [centre right] Juan Aranols and [right] Xolile White, with distinguished guests officiating the launch
of the new Biomass Boiler at the Nestlé Chembong Factory in Rembau, Negeri Sembilan.
[Right] Juan Aranols and [left] Anurag Dwivedi proudly showing the first EV truck that transports MILO
ingredients between its Chembong and Jurong factories in Malaysia and Singapore.
[Right] YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Sultan Abd Halim, Chairperson of the MRC, and [second
from right] Tengku Ida Ismail handing over food aid boxes to the Kedah community affected by the
monsoon floods.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
56
We Are Nestlé
[Right] Tengku Ida Ismail handing out the packs of school supplies at the annual Back-to-School initiative.
[Right] Ivy Tan, [second row from right] Juan Aranols and Tengku Ida Ismail distributing MAGGI Bubur
Lambuk to a resident of PPR Desa Rejang.
[Left] Yit Woon Lai and [right] Raja Nurmaria Murni Raja Nur Azmi presenting the prizes to the champion
of the N4HK Together in The Kitchen contest, an activity that encourages parents to involve their kids in
creating nutritionally balanced bento boxes, transforming meal preparation into a family activity.
[Centre] Amanda Teo from the Nutrition Society of Malaysia and Raja Nurmaria Murni Raja Nur Azmi,
alongside Yit Woon Lai, [first from right], and chefs from the Professional Culinaire Association, evaluating
creative bento box creations by parents and children during a cooking competition at the N4HK PARENPRO
event.
Annual Review 2024
57
We Are Nestlé
[Second from the right] Juan Aranols presenting a monetary contribution to [second from the left] Izzat Zabir
bin Sariff, Honourary Secretary of Malaysia Humanitarian Aid and Relief (MAHAR), and [right] Muhammad
Khairul Adzam Bin Kassim, Treasurer of MAHAR, in support of Palestinian and Syrian communities in
Malaysia.
[In the back row, from right] YB Nik Nazmi bin Nik Ahmad, Minister of Natural Resources and
Environmental Sustainability of Malaysia, visiting our headquarters to gain a deeper understanding of our
sustainability initiatives.
[Left] YB Datuk Seri Johari Bin Abdul Ghani, Minister of Plantation and Commodities of Malaysia, and
[right] Juan Aranols gaining insights into cocoa farming processes at the Malaysian Cocoa Board during
the launch of KIT KAT Dark Borneo.
[Right] Norkhayati Mohamed Hashini and [left] Lam Pui Yuee assessing one of the presentations at the
Grand Finale of the Nestlé Youth Innovators Programme.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
58
We Are Nestlé
[Right] Yeoh She Shiang explaining market insights to [left] Remy Ejel, Head of Zone AOA, during a
productive market visit.
Floriane Novello at the launch of NESPRESSO Vertuo Pop.
[From right] Juan Aranols, Remy Ejel, April Wong, and Timothy Ross Aird engaging in a discussion on
Nestlé ice cream coverage in Malaysia.
[Seated] Carlota Casellas, [third standing from left] Juan Aranols, and Anurag Dwivedi with the Halal team,
Export team and Agriculture team at the Malaysia International Halal Showcase 2024.
Annual Review 2024
59
We Are Nestlé
Timely aid - Nestlé Cares, MRC volunteers and the leadership team load food aid boxes into trucks, ensuring relief reaches
those that need it most.
[Right] Norkhayati Mohamed Hashini at the annual nationwide tree
planting event, as part of Project RELeaf's target to plant
3 million trees across Malaysia by 2025.
The Company's annual beach & underwater clean-up has collected a total of over
15 tonnes of waste since 2019.
Divers in action for a cleaner ocean! [right] Juan Aranols, together
with Nestlé Cares volunteers, carrying out underwater clean-up and
reef conservation activities.
[Left] Syed Saiful Islam carefully arranging the food aid boxes
outside the main activity hall, patiently awaiting the arrival of the
next transport truck.
The Senior Management Team contributing their efforts to support communities and the planet.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
60
Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin
Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Mr Chin Kwai Fatt
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Hamidah Naziadin
Independent Non-Executive Director
YM Dr. Tunku Alina Alias
Independent Non-Executive Director
YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan
Safinaz Sultan Abd Halim
Independent Non-Executive Director
Juan Aranols
Non-Independent Executive Director
Chief Executive Officer
Syed Saiful Islam
Non-Independent Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
YAM Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed
Anwar Jamalullail
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman of the Board of Directors
(retired on 30 April 2024)
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Registration No.: 198301015532 (110925-W)
Level 22, 1 Powerhouse
No. 1, Persiaran Bandar Utama
Bandar Utama
47800 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 7965 6000
Fax : +603 7965 6767
Company Website
www.nestle.com.my
REGISTERED OFFICE
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services
Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 197101000970 (11324-H)
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel : +603 2783 9299
Fax : +603 2783 9222
E-mail : is.enquiry@vistra.com
SHARE REGISTRAR
Ernst & Young PLT
(Firm No. LLP022760-LCA & AF 0039)
Chartered Accountants
Level 23A, Menara Milenium
Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara
50490 Kuala Lumpur
Tel : +603 7495 8000
Fax : +603 2095 5332
AUDITORS
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad
Registration No.: 198401015221 (127776-V)
Malayan Banking Berhad
Registration No.: 196001000142 (3813-K)
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
Stock Code : 4707
Stock Name : NESTLÉ
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Audit and Risk Committee
Chairman
Mr Chin Kwai Fatt
Members
YM Dr. Tunku Alina Alias
Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin
Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee
Chairman
Dato’ Hamidah Naziadin
Members
YM Dr. Tunku Alina Alias
YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Sultan
Abd Halim
BOARD COMMITTEES
Tengku Ida Adura Tengku Ismail
(MACS 01686) (SSM PC No.: 201908001581)
Tel : +603 7965 6000
E-mail : CompanySecretary.Nestle@my.nestle.com
COMPANY SECRETARY
Syed Saiful Islam
Chief Financial Officer
Tel : +603 7965 6000
Email : InvestorRelations.Malaysia@my.nestle.com
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Corporate Information
Annual Review 2024
61
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Registration No.: 198301015532 (110925-W)
Level 22, 1 Powerhouse
No. 1, Persiaran Bandar Utama
Bandar Utama
47800 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 7965 6000
Fax : +603 7965 6767
Consumer Services
1 800 88 3433
Website
www.nestle.com.my
Facebook
www.facebook.com/Nestle.Malaysia
Instagram
@nestle.malaysia
TikTok
@nestlemalaysia
HEAD OFFICE
Nestlé Products Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 197901000966 (45229-H)
Lot 7316 (PT3609)
Jalan Klang-Banting
Mukim Telok Panglima Garang
42500 Telok Panglima Garang
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 3123 3000
Fax : +603 3123 3001
DISTRIBUTION CENTRE
Shah Alam Complex
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
PT 927, Jalan Playar 15/1
Seksyen 15, 40200 Shah Alam
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 5522 5600
Fax : +603 5522 5999
Batu Tiga
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
PT 927, Jalan Playar 15/1
Seksyen 15, 40200 Shah Alam
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 5522 5600
Fax : +603 5510 6263
Sri Muda
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
PT 927, Jalan Playar 15/1
Seksyen 15, 40200 Shah Alam
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 5520 6400
Fax : +603 5520 6500
FACTORIES
Corporate Directory
Chembong
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
Lot 691, Jalan Perusahaan Utama
Kawasan Perindustrian Chembong
71300 Rembau
Negeri Sembilan Darul Khusus
Tel : +606 686 3900
Fax : +606 686 4080
Chembong (Ice Cream)
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
Lot 20075, Jalan Perusahaan 4,
Kawasan Perindustrian Chembong,
71300 Chembong, Rembau,
Negeri Sembilan
Tel : +606 686 3900
Fax : +606 686 4095
Kuching
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
Lot 844, Block 7 Muara Tebas Land District
Estet Perindustrian Demak Laut
93450 Kuching Sarawak
Tel : +6082 472 800
Fax : +6082 472 999
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
62
Notice of Annual General Meeting
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the 41st Annual General Meeting (AGM) of the Company will be held at the Grand Ballroom, M World Hotel, No. 1, Persiaran Bandar Utama, Bandar Utama,
47800 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia on Wednesday, 30 April 2025 at 10.00 a.m. for the transaction of the following businesses:
AGENDA
Resolution 1
Resolution 2
Resolution 3
Resolution 4
Resolution 5
Ordinary Business
1. TO RECEIVE the statutory financial statements for the financial year ended
31 December 2024 and the Directors’ and Auditors’ reports thereon.
Please refer to Explanatory Note 1
2. TO RE-ELECT the following Directors who will be retiring in accordance with
Article 97.1 of the Constitution of the Company:
2.1 Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin
2.2 YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Sultan Abd Halim
Please refer to Explanatory Note 2
3. TO RE-APPOINT Ernst & Young PLT (Firm No. 202006000003 (LLP0022760-
LCA) & AF 0039) as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Board of
Directors to fix their remuneration.
Please refer to Explanatory Note 3
Special Business
TO CONSIDER AND IF THOUGHT FIT, to pass the following as Ordinary
Resolutions, with or without modification:
4. TO APPROVE the following payments to the Non-Executive Directors:
4.1 Fees of up to RM1,276,400 for the financial year ended 31 December
2024.
4.2 Benefits of up to RM250,000 for the financial period from 1 July 2025 to
30 June 2026.
Please refer to Explanatory Note 4
5. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature with Related Parties.
“THAT approval be hereby given for the renewal of the
mandate granted by the Shareholders of the Company on
30 April 2024 pursuant to paragraph 10.09 of the Main Market Listing
Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad, authorising the Company
and/or its subsidiaries to enter into the recurrent related party transactions
of a revenue or trading nature as set out in Section 2.3(a) of the Circular
to Shareholders dated 28 March 2025 with the related parties mentioned
therein which are necessary, for the Company and/or its subsidiaries’ day-to-
day operations and which are carried out in the ordinary course of business
on terms which are not more favourable to the related parties than those
generally available to the public and are not to the detriment of its minority
Shareholders.
THAT the authority conferred by such mandate shall commence upon the
passing of this resolution and continue to be in force until:
(i) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following the
forthcoming AGM at which such mandate is approved, at which time it
will lapse, unless by a resolution passed at the meeting, the authority is
renewed;
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the Company
after that date is required to be held pursuant to Section 340(2) of the
Companies Act 2016 (but must not extend to such extension as may be
allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of the Companies Act 2016); or
(iii) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the Shareholders in general
meeting;
		
whichever is the earlier;
Resolution 6
Annual Review 2024
63
Notice of Annual General Meeting
THAT the Directors be and are hereby authorised to complete and do all such
acts and things (including executing such documents as may be required)
to give effect to the transactions contemplated and/or authorised by this
resolution.”
Please refer to Explanatory Note 5
6. TO TRANSACT any other business for which due notice shall have been
given.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
TENGKU IDA ADURA TENGKU ISMAIL
Company Secretary
(SSM PC No. 201908001581)
(MACS 01686)
Petaling Jaya
28 March 2025
Notes:
Appointment of Proxy
(i) For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate this AGM, the Company
shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company,
a Record of Depositors as at Monday, 21 April 2025. Only a member whose name appears
on this Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM or appoint a proxy to
attend, speak and vote (collectively “participate”) instead of him.
(ii) A member of the Company entitled to participate at the meeting is entitled to appoint a proxy
to participate instead of him. A proxy may, but need not be, a member of the Company.
Where a member appoints two proxies, the proportion of holding(s) to be represented by each
proxy must be specified in the instrument appointing the proxies, otherwise the appointment
shall be invalid.
(iii) The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointor or of
his attorney duly authorised in writing, or if the appointor is a corporation, either under the
corporation’s seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.
(iv) Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Security
Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991 (the Act), it may appoint not more than two proxies
in respect of each Securities Account it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing
to the credit of the said Securities Account. Where a member of the Company is an exempt
authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners
in one Securities Account (omnibus account), there is no limit to the number of proxies which
the exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An
exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under the Act which is
exempted from compliance with the provisions of Section 25A(1) of the Act.
Where an authorised nominee appoints two proxies, or where an exempt authorised nominee
appoints two or more proxies, the proportion of shareholdings to be represented by each proxy
must be specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
(v) An authorised nominee or an exempt authorised nominee with more than one Securities
Account must submit a separate instrument of proxy for each securities account.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
64
(vi) Theinstrumentappointingaproxyandthepowerofattorneyorotherauthority(ifany)underwhich
it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority, shall be deposited at the office
of the Share Registrar of the Company, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd. at Unit
32-01, Level 32, TowerA, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8,Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or drop box located at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium,
Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or the proxy form
can be electronically lodged with the Share Registrar of the Company via TIIH Online website at
https://tiih.online. All proxy forms submitted must be received by the Share Registrar of the
Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting
(i.e. Monday, 28 April 2025 at 10.00 a.m.) or any adjourned meeting thereof. In default, the
instrument of proxy shall not be treated as valid.
Explanatory Notes on Ordinary Business:
1. Audited Financial Statements
This item of the Agenda is meant for discussion only. The provisions of Sections 248(2) and
340(1) of the Companies Act 2016 requires that the audited financial statements and the
Reports of the Directors and Auditors thereon be laid before the Company at its AGM. As
such, this Agenda item is not a business that requires a resolution to be put to vote by the
Shareholders.
2. Re-election of Retiring Directors
The Board of Directors had through its Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee
carried out an assessment of the Directors who are standing for re-election under Article
97.1 of the Company’s Constitution (Article 97.1) and agreed that they have met the Board’s
expectation in the discharge of their duties and responsibilities.
Directors standing for re-election under Article 97.1 of the Company’s Constitution are:-
• Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin
• YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Sultan Abd Halim
All the Directors who will be retiring for re-election according to Article 97.1 were assessed
based on the following criteria:-
• results of the 2024 Board Effectiveness Evaluation taking into consideration the Directors’
contributions, performance, expertise, and skill sets;
• level of independence demonstrated by each Independent Director, and his/her ability to
act in the best interests of the Company in decision-making; and
• the Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy.
All Directors have completed the conflict of interest assessment, and there are no conflict of
interests or potential conflict of interests with the Company or its subsidiaries, and the Directors
have no family relationships with any director and/or major shareholder of the Company.
All Directors standing for re-election have abstained from deliberations and decisions on their
own eligibility and have offered themselves for re-election at the 41st AGM.
The Board has endorsed the recommendation of the Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee for the re-election of the retiring Directors.
Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin
The re-election of Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin (Tan Sri) is substantiated by his high
performance score in the 2024 Board Effectiveness Evaluation. Tan Sri’s proactive engagement
and initiative in seeking additional information and probing management when necessary,
demonstrate his unwavering dedication to ensuring that the Company’s strategic direction is
both clear and robust. His deep commitment to understanding the intricacies of the business
and industry dynamics is evident in his willingness to delve into complex issues. He contributes
to strategic planning that thoroughly considers all relevant opportunities and risks.
In addition to his proven track record since his appointment on 1 October 2023, Tan Sri is
acclaimed for his professionalism and integrity, qualities that are essential for maintaining
high governance standards. He cultivates a culture of mutual respect and trust among Board
members, thereby facilitating efficient and effective decision-making processes. Furthermore,
Tan Sri stays abreast of industry trends and best practices, ensuring that his contributions
to the Board’s strategic deliberations are both insightful and forward-thinking. His adeptness
at fostering constructive dialogue during discussions helps mitigate conflicts and promotes a
collaborative environment, which is crucial for the Board’s productivity and efficacy.
Tan Sri’s leadership and steadfast dedication make him an invaluable asset to the organisation.
As Chairman, he plays a vital role in ensuring leadership continuity, which is essential for the
Board’s stability and effectiveness.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Annual Review 2024
65
YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Sultan Abd Halim
The re-election of YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Sultan Abd Halim (Tunku Puteri) as
a Director is supported by her commendable performance in the 2024 Board Effectiveness
Evaluation. Her active engagement and valuable contributions to the Board discussions, along
with her diligence in seeking additional information or clarification when needed, underscore
her commitment. Tunku Puteri’s strategic insights are evident through her thoughtful inquiries
to management about various opportunities and risks during deliberations.
Beyond her solid contributions to the Board, Tunku Puteri is also renowned for her extensive
humanitarian efforts which has helped to strengthen the Company’s corporate social
responsibility initiatives. Her humanitarian endeavors provide invaluable insights and
perspectives, thereby enriching the Board’s discussions and strategic planning.
Since her appointment to the Board on 2 May 2023, Tunku Puteri exemplifies leadership
qualities characterised by professionalism, integrity, and objectivity.
The Board ensures that shareholders have the information they require to make an informed
decision on the re-election of retiring Directors. The profiles of Directors standing for re-election
are set out on pages 45 and 47 of the Annual Review 2024.
3. Re-appointment of Ernst & Young PLT (Firm No. 202006000003 (LLP0022760-LCA) & AF
0039), as Auditors of the Company (Ernst & Young PLT)
The Board had on its meeting held on 25 February 2025 approved the recommendation by the
Audit and Risk Committee to re-appoint Ernst & Young PLT. The Board and the Audit and Risk
Committee collectively agreed that Ernst & Young PLT has met the relevant criteria prescribed
by Paragraph 15.21 of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad.
Explanatory Notes on Special Business:
4. Non-Executive Directors’ Fees and Benefits
Section 230(1) of the Companies Act 2016 provides that fees of directors and any benefits
payable to the directors including any compensation for loss of employment of a director
or former director of a public company or of a listed company and its subsidiaries shall be
approved at a general meeting.
In determining the estimated Directors’ fees and benefits totalling to RM1,526,400.00, the
Board has taken into account various factors, including the number of scheduled and ad hoc
meetings of the Board and Board Committees.
In the event the proposed amount is insufficient (e.g. due to more meetings or appointment of
additional Directors), approval will be sought at the next AGM for the shortfall.
5. Recurrent Related Party Transactions
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 6 is to seek a renewal of the Shareholders’ mandate to
allow the Company and/or its subsidiaries to enter into recurrent related party transactions of a
revenue or trading nature. For further information, please refer to the Circular to Shareholders
dated 28 March 2025 accompanying the Company’s Annual Report for the financial year ended
31 December 2024.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
The Annual Report 2024 and other accompanying documents are available online at
https://www.nestle.com.my/investors/shareholders-meeting and will be sent by electronic
mail to Shareholders who have maintained their e-mail addresses in the Record of Depositors
with Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd.
This page has been intentionally left blank.
I/We
NRIC/Passport/Registration No.
of
being a member of Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad, hereby appoint the person(s) below as my/
our proxy to vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf at the 41st Annual General Meeting of the
Company to be held at the Grand Ballroom, M World Hotel, No. 1, Persiaran Bandar Utama,
Bandar Utama, 47800 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia on Wednesday, 30 April
2025 at 10.00 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof
Option# Name of
Proxy(ies)
MyKAD/
Registration No.
Email Address/
Tel No.
Proportion of
shareholding
to be represented
Chairman of
Meeting
%
Appoint ONE proxy only (Please complete details of proxy below)
%
Appoint MORE THAN ONE proxy (Please complete details of proxies below)
Proxy 1 %
Proxy 2 %
# Please tick (√) ONE box only.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Registration No.: 198301015532 (110925-W) (Incorporated in Malaysia)
No. of shares held
CDS Account No.
Proxy Form
* Delete if not applicable
My/Our proxy is to vote as indicated with an “X” below. If no specific direction as to voting is given,
the proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his discretion.
Resolution No. Resolutions For Against
1. To re-elect Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin as a Director of
the Company.
2. To re-elect YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Sultan Abd
Halim as a Director of the Company.
3. To re-appoint Ernst & Young PLT (Firm No. 202006000003
(LLP0022760-LCA) & AF 0039) as Auditors of the Company
and to authorise the Directors to fix their remuneration.
4. To approve the payment of Non-Executive Directors’ fees of
up to RM1,276,400 for the financial year ended 31 December
2024.
5. To approve the payment of Non-Executive Directors’ benefits
of up to RM250,000 for the financial period from 1 July 2025
to 30 June 2026.
6. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent
Related Party Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature
with Related Parties.
Dated this day of 2025
Witnessed by :
Signature :
Address/ :
Contact No.		
Company Stamp : 						
Occupation : Signature of Shareholder or Common Seal
Notes:
Appointment of Proxy
(i) For the purpose of determining who shall be entitled to participate this
AGM, the Company shall be requesting Bursa Malaysia Depository
Sdn. Bhd. to make available to the Company, a Record of Depositors as
at Monday, 21 April 2025. Only a member whose name appears on this
Record of Depositors shall be entitled to participate in this AGM or appoint
a proxy to attend, speak and vote (collectively “participate”) instead of him.
(ii) A member of the Company entitled to participate at the meeting is entitled
to appoint a proxy to participate instead of him. A proxy may, but need not
be, a member of the Company.
Where a member appoints two proxies, the proportion of holding(s) to be
represented by each proxy must be specified in the instrument appointing
the proxies, otherwise the appointment shall be invalid.
(iii) The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the
appointor or of his attorney duly authorised in writing, or if the appointor is
a corporation, either under the corporation’s seal or under the hand of an
officer or attorney duly authorised.
(iv) Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined
under the Security Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991 (the Act), it may
appoint not more than two proxies in respect of each Securities Account
it holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the
said Securities Account. Where a member of the Company is an exempt
authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
multiple beneficial owners in one Securities Account (omnibus account),
there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised
nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds. An
exempt authorised nominee refers to an authorised nominee defined under
the Act which is exempted from compliance with the provisions of Section
25A(1) of the Act.
Where an authorised nominee appoints two proxies, or where an exempt
authorised nominee appoints two or more proxies, the proportion of
shareholdings to be represented by each proxy must be specified in the
instrument appointing the proxies.
(v) An authorised nominee or an exempt authorised nominee with more than
one Securities Account must submit a separate instrument of proxy for
each securities account.
(vi) The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other
authority (if any) under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy
of such power or authority, shall be deposited at the office of the Share
Registrar of the Company, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services
Sdn. Bhd. at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue
3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia,
or drop box located at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue
3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
or the proxy form can be electronically lodged with the Share Registrar
of the Company via TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online. All proxy
forms submitted must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours
before the time appointed for the holding of the meeting (i.e. Monday,
28 April 2025 at 10.00 a.m.) or any adjourned meeting thereof. In default,
the instrument of proxy shall not be treated as valid.
THE SHARE REGISTRAR
TRICOR INVESTOR & ISSUING HOUSE SERVICES SDN. BHD.
Registration No.: 197101000970 (11324-H)
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite
Avenue 3, Bangsar South
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Affix Postage
Stamp
Please fold here to seal
Please fold here to seal
NESTLÉ (MALAYSIA) BERHAD
Registration No.: 198301015532 (110925-W)
Level 22, 1 Powerhouse
No.1, Persiaran Bandar Utama, Bandar Utama
47800 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Malaysia
Tel +603 7965 6000
Fax +603 7965 6767
Nestlé Consumer Services Free Phone
1 800 88 3433
Facebook
www.facebook.com/Nestle.Malaysia
Website
www.nestle.com.my
Publication Date
28 March 2025
