ANNUAL REVIEW 2022
Good Food Good Life, everyday everywhere
Unlocking the power of food
to enhance quality of life for everyone,
today and for generations to come.
Annual Review
Our Annual Reporting Suite 2
Basis of This Report 3
Creating Shared Value 10
Message from Our Chairman and Our CEO 12
Management Discussion and Analysis 15
Our Product Portfolio 20
Our Business Review 22
Corporate Information 60
Corporate Directory 61
Our Business
Our Presence
Nestlé Leadership Organisation Structure
Fast Facts
Awards and Achievements
Business Value Creation Model
4 - 9
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Executive Leadership Team
Nestlé Leadership Team
46 - 59
As the nation’s leading food and
beverage (F&B) manufacturer, we
at Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad remain
committed to drive the sustainable
growth of the business, supported
by a robust organisational strategy
and the ongoing application of best
practices in capital management
and corporate governance. The
Company continues to evolve,
and we are always guided by our
purpose of enhancing quality of
life for everyone, today and for
generations to come, through
unlocking the power of food. As
we celebrate our 110 years in
Malaysia, we remain dedicated to
provide great nutrition everyday for
all Malaysians, making a positive
impact on the nation and the planet.
Inside
This
Report
2
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Our Annual Reporting Suite
With this in mind, our Annual Reporting Suite presents a detailed review of the Group’s performance. Set out in three dedicated
reports, we focus on communicating our key strategies in creating value for our stakeholders alongside risk management measures,
corporate governance processes, operational performance, financial results, as well as our journey towards achieving our sustainability
as well as Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) targets.
Accompanying these reports are our quarterly financial results, material announcements to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and
press releases, available at our corporate website at www.nestle.com.my.
At Nestlé, we understand that effective engagement is key to building and retaining the trust of our shareholders and all our stakeholders. To this
end and in line with best practices in corporate governance, it is vital to ensure that pertinent information on the Group is consistently conveyed in
a transparent manner.
Annual Review 2022 Corporate Governance & Financial Report 2022 Nestlé in Society Report 2022
ANNUAL REVIEW 2022
Good Food Good Life, everyday everywhere
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & FINANCIAL REPORT 2022
Good Food Good Life, everyday everywhere
NESTLÉ IN SOCIETY REPORT 2022
Good Food Good Life, everyday everywhere
Book 1 Book 2 Book 3
Presents a comprehensive overview of the Group’s performance
pertaining to material matters, including financial and
sustainability performance as detailed in Book 2 and Book 3;
capital management to create value for stakeholders; brand
achievements and other significant highlights.
Details the Group’s financial performance over the year as well as
corporate governance frameworks and practices implemented,
alongside disclosure of potential risks and risk mitigation
strategies.
Provides an in-depth perspective on the Group’s sustainability
performance based on our ESG initiatives, reviewing our
sustainability footprint and strategies taken to contribute
positively to society and the environment.
Online Annual Reporting Suite
Scan the QR code or visit
nes.tl/AnnualReportMY to view our 2022
Annual Reporting Suite online.
REPORTING FRAMEWORK
• Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
• Corporate Governance Guide by Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad
• Companies Act 2016
• Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance
• International/Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards
• International Integrated Reporting Framework
• Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards
• International Integrated Reporting Council guidelines
ASSURANCE
• Internal controls and management assurance
• Compliance and internal audit reviews
• External audit by Ernst & Young PLT on financial information
• External audit by PricewaterhouseCoopers on the Nestlé in
Society Report 2022
REPORTING SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES
This Annual Report encapsulates the performance, operations
and activities of Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad (“Company”) and
its subsidiaries (“Group”) for the reporting period January to
December 2022.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Annual Report may contain forward-looking statements
based on current views, plans and objectives relating to the
operations and business of the Company. By their nature, these
statements are subject to potential future risks and uncertainties,
which could cause actual outcomes to differ materially from
what is expressed or implied by these statements. The Group
undertakes no obligation to update or revise these statements,
whether due to new developments, future events or otherwise.
Scan me
Annual Review
3
Basis of This Report
Our 2022 Annual Review is our primary
report that enables us to deliver relevant
information on our priorities, strategic
direction and progress during the year. This
also includes the key operational, marketing
and sales initiatives implemented to drive our
performance.
Enclosed in this report is the Message from Our Chairman
and Our Chief Executive Officer (CEO), which provides a
comprehensive overview, contextualising the business value,
strategies and initiatives in 2022. The Management Discussion
and Analysis section provides insights into the Company’s
financial and operational results, alongside key sustainability
milestones, which dovetails into our Nestlé in Society report.
Our 2022 Annual Review also includes the Business Review
section, focusing on key strategies and initiatives undertaken
across our different businesses.
The Annual Review was approved by the Board of Directors of
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad (“Board”) on 8 March 2023.
ICONS IN THIS REPORT
Directs readers to pages or other supplementary
reports with more information
Annual Review 2022
Nestlé in Society Report 2022
Corporate Governance & Financial Report 2022
AR
CGFR
NIS
4
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Our Business
OUR PRESENCE
As the leading F&B
manufacturer in
Malaysia, Nestlé has
supported Malaysians as
a Good Food, Good Life
company for over 110
years. Building on our
trusted reputation, we
have remained dedicated
to deliver great-tasting,
high-quality products
to all our consumers in
Malaysia and around
the world, as exports
remain a key contributor
to our volumes. This was
made possible by our six
manufacturing facilities
and our network of 58
sales offices strategically
located across
Peninsular Malaysia and
Borneo, led by our Head
Office in Selangor.
Selangor
Head Office
3 factories
13 sales offices
1 NESPRESSO Nano Boutique
1 Nestlé Distribution Centre
Kuala Lumpur
1 sales office
1 NESPRESSO
Boutique
1 NESPRESSO
Nano Boutique
Negeri Sembilan
2 factories
4 sales offices
Sarawak
1 factory
4 sales offices
Sabah
2 sales offices
Melaka
2 sales offices
Terengganu
1 sales office
Penang
4 sales offices
1 NESPRESSO
Nano Boutique
Johor
9 sales offices
Kelantan
3 sales offices
Kedah
2 sales offices
Pahang
6 sales offices
Perak
6 sales offices
Perlis
1 sales office
Head Office
Sales Offices Others
Factories
Sarawak
Sabah
Perlis
Melaka
Kedah
Perak
Johor
Pahang
Terengganu
Kelantan
Negeri Sembilan
Kuala Lumpur
Selangor
Penang
Annual Review
5
NESTLÉ LEADERSHIP ORGANISATION STRUCTURE
as at March 2023
Our Business
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Juan Aranols
SHARED SERVICES LOCALLY MANAGED BUSINESSES REGIONALLY & GLOBALLY MANAGED BUSINESSES
Chief Financial Officer
Syed Saiful Islam
Executive Director, Technical & Production
Alessandro Monica
Executive Director, Human Resources
Carmen Melissa Antonio
Executive Director, Supply Chain
Salman Nazir
Executive Director, Sales
Chew Soi Ping
Executive Director, Corporate Affairs
Dato’ Adnan Pawanteh
Executive Director, Legal & Secretarial
Tengku Ida Adura Tengku Ismail
Executive Director, Communications, Marketing and
Services Unit
Chow Phee Chat
(operating out of Singapore)
Head of Corporate Innovation, Insights and Marketing
Excellence
Lam Pui Yuee
Business Executive Officer, MILO
Ng Su Yen
Business Executive Officer, Foods
Geetha Balakrishna
Business Executive Officer, Coffee
Raef Labaki
Business Executive Officer, Ready-to-Drink
April Wong
Business Executive Officer, Dairy & Adult Nutrition
Wong Eu Khean
Business Executive Officer, Nestlé Nutrition
Yeoh She Shiang
Business Executive Officer, Ice Cream
Teo Heng Keat
Business Executive Officer, Confectionery
Frédéric Porchet
Business Executive Officer, NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL
Yit Woon Lai
Business Executive Officer, NESTLÉ HEALTH SCIENCE
Jason Jezewski
Business Executive Officer, NESPRESSO
Floriane Novello
Business Executive Officer, Nestlé Breakfast Cereals
Laurent Therond
6
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Our Business
FAST FACTS
RM15 million channelled
to community relief efforts
• FOODS
• MILO • COFFEE • READY-TO-DRINK
• PLANT-BASED MEAL SOLUTIONS • ICE CREAM • CONFECTIONERY • DAIRY AND ADULT NUTRITION
• NUTRITION • HEALTH SCIENCE • NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL
HEAD OFFICE LOCATED IN
EMPLOYS
BANDAR UTAMA,
PETALING JAYA,
SELANGOR
Operates 6 factories and 1
national distribution centre
The biggest Halal producer
in the Nestlé world
5,391
people as at 31 December 2022
RM32.8
BILLION
as at 31 December 2022
Market capitalisation of
Public listed on Bursa
Malaysia since 1989
RM6.7
BILLION
in 2022
Turnover of
100%
EMPLOYS
Malaysian manufacturing
workforce
ALL OUR
including Malaysian favourite, locally-made
household brands such as MILO, MAGGI and
NESCAFÉ
PRODUCTS
ARE HALAL-
CERTIFIED
Nestlé has been operating commercially in Malaysia
since 1912
OUR PORTFOLIO
Annual Review
7
8 Malaysia’s 100 Leading Graduates Employer Award (M100)
2022
For the 10th consecutive year, M100 awarded Nestlé Malaysia
the Graduate Employer of Choice for the FMCG sector, based
on the votes of more than 30,600 students and graduates on
their preferred graduate employers.
9 GRADUAN Brand Awards 2022
For the third consecutive year, Nestlé Malaysia was voted
as the Most Preferred Employer by over 21,600 Malaysian
talents through the GRADUAN Brand Awards 2022 survey.
10 Randstad Employer Brand Awards 2022
Reflecting Nestlé Malaysia’s position as a market-leading
employer, the Company won first place in the Randstad
Employer Brand Research Award in 2022. Randstad, a global
leader in human resources services, selects winners based
on a comprehensive and independent global survey with
insights on 5,000 companies provided by more than 163,000
people from working populations across 30 countries.
11 Graduates’ Choice Award 2022
For the fifth year running, Nestlé Malaysia once again topped
the FMCG category at the Graduates’ Choice Award 2022.
Established as the most authoritative graduate employer
branding award in the Asia Pacific region, winners were
selected based on the votes of over 200,000 Malaysian
university students.
AWARDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
received in 2022
Our Business
1 KANTAR BRANDZ 2022 – Malaysia Brand Awards
Reflecting Malaysians’ love for MILO and MAGGI, these
household favourite names have maintained their Top
10 ranking in the Kantar BrandZ Awards for the past
decade, earning them the Brand of the Decade titles for
the categories of Total Fast-Moving Consumer Goods
(FMCG), F&B. MILO was also awarded Most Chosen
Brand 2022 (Beverage) and Best Creative Ad Campaign
with its #MalaysiaBolehBersamaMILO campaign, while
MAGGI was recognised as the #1 FMCG Brand in
Malaysia following its wins of Most Chosen Brand 2022
(Total FMCG) and Most Chosen Brand 2022 (Food).
2 LazMall Most Popular Grocery Brand Partner
Testament to Nestlé Malaysia’s position as a top brand
partner regionally and its successful collaborations
with Lazada throughout the year, the Company was
recognised as LazMall’s Most Popular Grocery Brand
Partner in 2022.
3 Nestlé Innovation Awards 2022
In recognition of its end-to-end product and service
innovations that resonate strongly with consumers,
Nestlé KIT KAT Ice Cream Malaysia was awarded the
Nestlé Innovation Award 2022 in the Ice Cream category,
for its perfect combination of flavours and the successful
marketing strategy. The awards evaluated over 300
projects from Nestlé markets across the globe launched
between 2020 and 2021 that have successfully driven
growth and enhanced margins.
4 The Nesties 2021
In 2022, MAGGI Malaysia’s Program Mentor Wanita
Cukup Berani took home an award for the Brand PR
category from among 130 submissions, highlighting its
best use of product brand in corporate communications.
The Nesties is an annual global competition where the
best work of Corporate Communications teams across
Nestlé markets around the world are celebrated.
5 Bumiputera Business Excellence Awards (BBEA) 2022
(CSR Excellence)
Nestlé Malaysia bagged the BBEA 2022 award for Corporate
Social Responsibility (CSR) Excellence in recognition of
the Company's dedicated efforts to support Malaysians
throughout the pandemic, through a multitude of community
initiatives.
6 Malaysian International Halal Showcase (MIHAS) Best
Malaysian Booth 2022
Shortlisted from more than 1,000 Malaysian businesses,
Nestlé Malaysia was named Best Malaysian Booth at
the 18th edition of MIHAS in September 2022, through a
strong engaging multipronged brand presence showcasing
Nestlé’s Halal Promise.
7 2021 Asean Corporate Governance Scorecard (ACGS)
Award
Nestlé Malaysia won an award in the category of ASEAN
Asset Class Public Listed Companies (PLCs). The ASEAN
Asset Class award is an award given to ASEAN PLCs that
attained a final score of 97.5 and above based on the 2021
ACGS assessment.
Annual Review
8 9
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
OUR IMPACT AREAS HOW WE SHARE THE VALUE WE CREATE
Financial Capital (as at 31 December 2022)
Driving sustainable business growth by effectively leveraging our capital and funding to cater to
the diverse needs of consumers, ensure the wellbeing of our workforce, uplift communities and
meet our ESG goals.
• Market capitalisation: RM32.8 billion
• Shareholder equity: RM626.3 million
• Share capital: RM267.5 million
• Total assets: RM3.55 billion
F
Human Capital
Creating shared value with the support of our highly-capable and inclusive talent pool,
empowered with the requisite knowledge, skills and insights.
• 5,391 employees across the organisation
• 35% female employee representation
• 100% local manufacturing workforce
• Comprehensive suite of offline and online training and development initiatives
H
Operational Capital
Continuous investment in expanding our capabilities to consistently deliver safe, high-quality
F&B.
• Six factories across Malaysia
• Adhere to the highest food safety and quality standards
(i.e., ISO 9001:2015, FSSC 22000, GLOBE Quality Monitoring Scheme, Quality Compliance
Verification)
• Nestlé’s Global Halal Centre of Excellence
• Largest Nestlé Distribution Centre in Asia located in Selangor, with state-of-the-art digital
technology at our Transportation Hubs
O
Sales & Marketing Capital
Ensuring adaptable and robust market strategies and excellence in sales force execution to drive
growth.
• Leveraging opportunities to strengthen product distribution across geographies and channels
• Executing innovative engagements to renew brand love among consumers
• Building top-of-mind awareness among Malaysians through relevant marketing campaigns
M
Social & Relationship Capital
Maintaining the trust of our stakeholders by upholding our commitment to address material
matters that impact our business.
• Delivering product innovations attuned with consumer needs to provide sustainable, healthier
and more affordable offerings
• Determining the nutritional value of our products using the Nestlé Nutritional Profiling System
• Enhancing the livelihoods of local farmers by expanding our Farmer Connect programmes
S
Natural Capital
Stewarding resources to conserve and preserve our natural environment.
• Pioneering the innovation and adoption of more sustainable product packaging to reduce
plastic waste
• Channelling resources to mitigate the impact of climate change across our value chain
N
Unlocking the power of food to enhance
quality of life for everyone, today and for
generations to come Suppliers
Factories
Transportation &
Warehouses
Marketing &
Sales
Consumers
Raw
Materials
Our Business
Business Value Creation Model
Our Business
BUSINESS VALUE CREATION MODEL
1
2
3
4
Driving
sustainable
and profitable
growth
Continue
nurturing love
and trust in
our brands
Enhancing
capabilities
for the future
Leading the
industry’s way
into a greener
future
CONTRIBUTING
TO NUTRITIOUS
AND SUSTAINABLE
DIETS
HELPING TO
PROTECT, RENEW
AND RESTORE
NATURAL
RESOURCES
STRENGTHENING
COMMUNITIES
OPERATING
RESPONSIBLY
Financial Capital
Delivering an improved business performance despite a volatile economic landscape.
• Profit after tax: RM620.3 million
• Revenue: RM6.7 billion
• Total proposed dividend payout: RM2.62 per share
• Basic earnings per share: RM2.65
• Total dividends paid and proposed: RM614 million
F
Human Capital
Cultivating a diverse, high-performing workforce to drive the sustainable growth of the Company.
• Awarded First Place for Randstad Employer Brand Research Awards and Most Preferred Employer for
GRADUAN Brand Awards 2022
• 54% leadership positions held by women
• Increasing female representation in Sales, Supply Chain and Technical & Production
• Achieved cumulative attendance of 27,732 in training to upskill our employees
H
Operational Capital
Ensuring manufacturing excellence to produce a strong product innovation pipeline, in tandem with best
practices in hygiene, quality, safety and sustainability.
• Established first Nestlé Plant-Based Meal Solutions (PBMS) manufacturing facility in Southeast Asia
• Portfolio of more than 500 high-quality, Halal-certified products
• Export to more than 50 countries worldwide
• Implementation of Transportation Hubs to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 1,000 tonnes per annum
O
Sales & Marketing Capital
Deepening brand affinity and relevance amongst consumers to support long-term growth.
• Won eight Kantar BrandZ Awards for MILO and MAGGI
• Best-in-class sales execution and product offerings spanning nine F&B categories
• Engaging marketing activities across on-ground and digital platforms to strengthen bond with Malaysians
M
Social & Relationship Capital
Delivering on ESG goals targeted at promoting nutrition, health and wellness, and supporting rural
development and underserved communities.
• Educated over 124,000 students on good nutrition and active lifestyles through Nestlé for Healthier Kids
since 2010
• 69% of our products sold accorded with the Nestlé Nutritional Foundation (NF) ‘Yes’ status
• Enhanced the livelihoods of more than 485 farmers through our Farmer Connect initiatives
S
Natural Capital
Accelerating our actions towards environmental stewardship.
• Planted 1 million trees through Kinabatangan RiLeaf Project and progressing towards our target of
planting 3 million trees in 3 years under Project RELeaf
• 75% of our total plastic packaging is designed for recycling
N
Shareholders & Investors
Provide shareholders and investors with
competitive returns and stable investment
propositions.
Employees
Offer decent employment opportunities
within a conducive and fair working
environment that empowers all our people
to grow.
Communities
Enhance rural livelihoods by providing
opportunities to increase and diversify
sources of income.
Customers & Retailers
Deliver a wide range of products that satisfy
the needs and preferences of shoppers.
Consumers & General Public
Inspire Malaysians to lead healthier lives
by offering nutritious, great-tasting food
and beverages, alongside educational
programmes on good nutrition, active living
and sustainability.
Government, Regulatory Bodies &
Non-Governmental Organisations
(NGOs)
Uphold our commitment to operating
responsibly and supporting socioeconomic
development via employment opportunities
and strategic investments.
1
2
3
4
5
6
OUR INPUT
OUR STRATEGY OUR VALUE CHAIN OUR OUTPUT
10
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Creating Shared Value
To this end, we are committed to enhancing lives through our trusted brands, with a pipeline of high-quality and nutritious products that are attuned to ever-evolving consumer expectations, alongside
creating long-term value for our stakeholders. This includes our employees, partners, farmers and suppliers across the value chain, who all contribute to the sustainable growth of our business. Going hand
in hand with this is our steadfast dedication to stewarding natural resources to protect our environment.
Alongside our CSV approach, we align our commitments with the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). This helps us to make a more meaningful impact by driving consistent progress
based on set targets. Led by our 5,391 employees and more than 30 brands, Nestlé Malaysia continues our efforts to uplift lives and create a brighter future for all Malaysians.
Upholding our promise as the Good Food, Good Life company, we continuously work to be a force for good in the world. At the heart of Nestlé is
our Creating Shared Value (CSV) approach, which enables us to do business in ways that are both good for the Company and for society, as well as
positively impacting the planet.
Contributing to
nutritious and
sustainable diets
Helping consumers meet their nutritional needs by leveraging our
experience and Research and Development (R&D) capabilities to
deliver tasty and innovative products that are nutritious, accessible and
affordable for all.
Helping to protect,
renew and restore
natural resources
Managing our use of natural resources in our business and driving
innovative solutions to minimise our impact on the environment and
tackle issues such as climate change and plastic pollution.
Strengthening
communities
Building stronger communities and supply chains through rural
development initiatives to enhance lives and livelihoods, as well as
community-based initiatives to uplift those who are in need and most
vulnerable.
Operating
responsibly
Instilling ethics and integrity while cultivating a safe, healthy and
inclusive working environment that empowers our employees to unlock
their full potential and allows for sustainable business growth.
Juan Aranols and Chew Soi Ping distributing bowls of MAGGI bubur lambuk in the month of Ramadan.
Ihsan, our Agriculture Officer, assessing the quality of our homegrown
Robusta coffee plant at its mother plant nursery in Sik, Kedah.
Scan me
Annual Review
11
Creating Shared Value
Nutrition
Nature & Biodiversity
Climate
Packaging & Circularity
Water
Produced Sustainably
Our People
Human Rights Youth Opportunities
Contributing to
nutritious and
sustainable diets
Helping to protect,
renew and restore
natural resources
Operating
responsibly
Strengthening
communities
Enhancing quality of life for people
and families with accessible,
nutritious and sustainable options.
Minimising our impact on the world’s
resources, contributing to a future in which
they are available for generations to come.
Creating a positive business environment
and empowering our employees to make
sustainable business decisions.
Boosting the wellbeing of
communities and enabling a just
transition to regenerative practices.
We continue to support the United Nations’ SDGs and are working hard to help achieve them. Find out more about our SDG contributions throughout our 2022 Annual Reporting Suite.
We unlock the power of
food to enhance quality
of life for everyone, today
and for generations to
come
OUR
FOCUS AREAS
12
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Dear shareholders,
While 2022 presented volatile
market conditions across the globe,
Malaysia saw a turning point with the
transitioning to the endemic stage
of the COVID-19 pandemic, and
the full reopening of the economy.
Against this backdrop of recovery
amidst uncertainty, Nestlé Malaysia
celebrated 110 years of presence
in the nation. While contending
with multiple headwinds, and
in particular those derived from
commodities inflation, we rose to the
challenge and continued to deliver
on our unwavering commitment
of Good Food, Good Life, with
business growth solidly anchored in
a meaningful and substantive ESG
agenda.
Message from Our Chairman and Our CEO
YAM Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed Anwar
Jamalullail
Chairman (Right)
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer (Left)
Annual Review
13
Message from Our Chairman and Our CEO
RECOVERY AMIDST GLOBAL UNCERTAINTIES
The global economy continued to experience turbulence in 2022. While overall
economic momentum saw forward progression, many industries across the
world were confronted with supply chain disruptions and rising inflation. This
was compounded by the rise of geopolitical tensions (with the War in Ukraine
as a main disruptor to grains and other key food commodities); the subdued
recovery in China, constrained by enduring COVID-19 lockdowns; and the
echoes of global supply chain disruptions that still reverberated through most of
the first half of 2022.
Nevertheless, despite this volatility, the F&B industry demonstrated significant
resilience, with the resumption of the Out-of-Home (OOH) sector (restaurants,
hotels, hospitality in general) as a key growth factor. In-home consumption remained
strong while export activity accelerated significantly.
In Malaysia, supporting consumption policies and the rebound in economic
activity were highly conducive to solid sales growth, in spite of the pressure of
higher food prices on purchasing power. Malaysian consumers continued to be
very discerning, seeking out value-for-money products, while keeping their high
expectations on quality, nutritional content and appetite for relevant innovations.
EMBEDDING SUSTAINABILITY AS PART OF OUR GROWTH STRATEGY
The growth strategy of the Group continued to be based on a wide product
portfolio, anchored on highly distributed and penetrated core offerings, while
also building innovative new platforms for the future. Our entrance into dairy-free
drinks segment and the acceleration of PBMS under the HARVEST GOURMET brand
are good examples of this. Many efforts were put into advancing reformulation,
with a focus on sugar and sodium reduction, while continuing to drive multiple
programmes to educate on the importance of a balanced nutrition and healthy
lifestyles.
We continued our efforts to make our operations more sustainable, advancing
in our objective to reduce our emissions by at least 20% by 2025 compared
to our 2018 baseline, with this journey accelerating post-COVID. Likewise, we
continued to implement our vision that none of our packaging ends up in landfills
or the ocean, with sizeable reductions in the usage of virgin plastic, as well as
advancing efforts to build systems enabling packaging circularity.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
The Group results were strong in 2022, with the highest growth
rate in many years and solid progress in profitability, on the
back of both robust domestic sales and export growth. While
we could not avoid implementing price increases to protect the
substance of our margins amidst the surge in global commodity
prices, we did this mindfully of the impact on the Rakyat while
advancing multiple efficiency and saving measures to moderate
the intensity of those increases as much as possible. Profitability,
as a result, in combination with sales growth, was resilient.
DIVIDEND
In the light of the overall performance, the Board of Directors
declared a third interim dividend of RM1.22 per share for the
financial year ended 31 December 2022, 20 sen higher than the
previous financial year. This brings the total dividends for the
year to RM2.62 per share.
Many efforts were
put into advancing
reformulation, with
a focus on sugar and
sodium reduction,
while continuing
to drive multiple
programmes to educate
on the importance of a
balanced nutrition and
healthy lifestyles.
Our Nestlé Cares volunteers teamed up with the Ministry of Natural Resources, Environment and
Climate Change to collect over 3,700kg of trash in our Nationwide Beach Clean Up 2022.
Scan me
14
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
Reflecting our commitment to robust corporate governance, we strengthened our practices
with the implementation of the Directors’ Fit & Proper Policy during the year. With this policy in
place, all Board members are able to support the effective and efficient functioning of the Board
and Board Committees. This includes close monitoring and oversight by the Board on matters
pertaining to ESG, complemented by climate-related risks and impacts that are embedded in our
comprehensive enterprise risk management frameworks.
On 1 August 2022, we were also pleased to welcome to the fold our new Chief Financial Officer,
Syed Saiful Islam, whose seamless transition into the role was facilitated by our best practices in
corporate governance.
AWARDS
We were honoured to be recognised for our achievements with several prestigious accolades.
Amongst others, this included the Kantar BrandZ Awards, Bumiputera Business Excellence
Awards, MIHAS Best Malaysian Booth 2022 and LazMall Most Popular Grocery Brand Partner.
Reflecting our leading position as an employer of choice, we also received the Malaysia’s 100
Leading Graduates Employer Award 2022, GRADUAN Brand Awards 2022, Randstad Employer
Brand Awards 2022 and Graduates’ Choice Award 2022.
OUTLOOK
2023 continues to be defined by global geopolitical tensions and the slow global pace to act on
rising challenges such as climate change, food security, affordability and cybersecurity, to name
a few. Against this background, we will continue to remain focused on what matters: meeting the
needs of Malaysian consumers and making steady and decisive progress in the delivery of our
ESG commitments.
We are keeping a close pulse on consumer sentiment and making sure that our brands remain
at the top of their choices across the different segments in which we operate. We will continue
making our operations more efficient and ensure that we deliver the value expectations to our
consumers, anchored on the foundations of nutritional content, quality and taste. We will continue
to drive solid financial returns, while ensuring meaningful progress in our ESG goals.
As ever, we are grateful to Malaysians for their support to Nestlé and their love for our brands. We
are committed and dedicated to upholding their trust.
We would also like to convey our sincere gratitude to the entire Nestlé Malaysia team as well as
our partners across the value chain for their unwavering commitment and support. Together, we
look forward to continuing our journey towards nourishing Malaysians for generations to come,
while creating great societal value through our activities and engagements.
Message from Our Chairman and Our CEO
Proudly celebrating Merdeka together with our Abang MILO as they prepared to bring the joy of MILO around the nation.
Annual Review
15
Management Discussion and Analysis
FINANCIAL REVIEW
The year shaped up to be one of solid recovery post-COVID lockdowns,
amidst global volatile conditions and commodities inflation. We sharpened
our focus to keep upholding the trust placed in us by Malaysians and meet
their expectations for taste, quality and nutrition, while continuing to invest
in our brands to keep our bonds with the Rakyat strong, contemporary
and relevant. At the same time, we worked hard to identify savings and
efficiencies that helped us to cushion the impact of higher commodity costs,
moderating the quantum of the unavoidable price increases. Simultaneously,
we further stepped up our ESG agenda, with another year of solid progress
in our sustainability targets.
With this determined approach, our sales reached its highest growth in
many years, to RM6.7 billion. This was contributed both by domestic and
export sales, which rose by 12.9% and 29.3% respectively. Key contributors
were the core F&B business as in-home consumption remained resilient,
coupled with a significant turnaround in the OOH business due to the lifting
of pandemic restrictions which led to increased mobility and a resurgence
in OOH consumption. The stronger sales coupled with prudent cost
optimisation initiatives and reduced COVID-19 expenses helped to cushion
higher commodity prices, unfavourable exchange rates and the bottom-line
impact of the Prosperity Tax. Ultimately, we delivered a higher profit after tax
of RM620.3 million, up by 8.9% from the previous financial year, while profit
before tax grew by 14.3% to RM859.5 million.
Nestlé Malaysia stayed the course in 2022. We
maintained our positive trajectory and put all efforts to
continue delivering healthy, nutritious and great-tasting
products tailored to meet consumers’ expectations,
well-supported by demand generation activities and
constant search for operational excellence.”
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer
16
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Management Discussion and Analysis
BUSINESS & OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Marking our 110th year in Malaysia, we continued to build on our well-established foundations
and the commitment and dedication of our teams across all functions, businesses, sales and
operations. Through their efforts we continued to retain our position as a strong leader in the F&B
industry and the largest FMCG in Malaysia. Our manufacturing, supply chain and distribution
operations ensured a steady stream of high-quality products that met consumer demand.
Highest Growth in Decades, Record Sales
Exiting from the unprecedented conditions triggered by the pandemic and the related lockdowns,
we have seen the strongest sales acceleration in many years, building on the three pillars of
solid in-home consumption, rebound of OOH channels and acceleration of exports. Our leading
positions across the categories where we are present in combination with the work of our brand
teams, and the solid planning and execution by our sales teams and operations put us again in
the right position to capture all opportunities. Our portfolio foundations remain solid and we are
present in the right categories and channels to continue driving resilient and profitable growth.
This was supported by demand generation initiatives to scale up the reach of our core products,
while creating excitement for our pipeline of product innovations, which served to boost sales in
key categories during the year.
Innovation Continues to Play A Key Role to Drive Growth
In addition to constant efforts to ensure improved availability of core products to our customers
across all channels, innovating to meet emerging consumer needs played again a significant role.
The growing awareness on the health and environmental impact of diets excessively based on
meat continues to support our efforts in the plant-based space, both with HARVEST GOURMET
as well as Dairy Free drinks under the MILO and NESCAFÉ brands. With the launch of HARVEST
GOURMET Plant-Based Nuggets, we expanded the reach of the category, while we continued
to establish solid foundations to grow consistently and sustainably in this space, in line with our
aspiration to make our PBMS a mainstream option accessible by large segments of consumers.
Encouraging Malaysians to embrace plant-based products through our HARVEST GOURMET range.
Providing Malaysians with more nutritional options under the brands they love was also an
important priority, with the launch of the MAGGI Nutri-licious noodles range (meeting Healthier
Choice Logo (HCL) requirements), the acceleration of MILO Hi-Fibre and the introduction of
NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS Dark Choc in powder formats, as well as NUTREN GlucoSmart, a specialised
nutrition product from NESTLÉ HEALTH SCIENCE. We also took the Government’s announcement
of a sugar tax implementation as an opportunity to reformulate our recipe for our NESCAFÉ 3-in-1
product with less added sugar and saturated fat, leveraging our R&D expertise to rapidly bring a
new range to the market within only 100 days, with great consumer acceptance.
MAGGI promoter enlightening consumer on our MAGGI 2-Minute Noodles product at a roadshow in East
Malaysia.
Annual Review
17
Management Discussion and Analysis
Premiumisation remained another important platform with the launch of NESCAFÉ GOLD
Cappuccino Ice Cream, and the introduction of premium chocolate tablets under NESTLÉ LES
RECETTES DE L’ATELIER, complementing the expansion of KIT KAT Bars with new varieties and
distribution gains.
Nurturing The Unique Bonds with Malaysians through Our Brands
The end of the lockdowns allowed us to reinitiate multiple activities to re-engage directly with
our consumers through a multiplicity of brand and sales activation events that reminded us of
the unique bonds of trust, love and respect that unites Nestlé brands with the Rakyat. Multiple
initiatives boosted the relevance of our engagement to strengthen the fundamental elements of
our value propositions across brands.
To name a few examples, MILO continued to be the epitome of promoting healthy and active
lifestyles and supporting grassroots sports activities; and all of us at Nestlé felt humbled by the
spontaneous and enthusiastic reaction of the crowd when they saw our MILO truck participating in
the National Day Parade. MAGGI continued to empower women through our Wanita Cukup Berani
campaign while building proudly on the nation’s culinary heritage through MAGGI SAH Malaysia.
During Ramadan, KIT KAT donated part of its sales revenue to charities supporting the needy and
NESCAFÉ proudly advanced our NESCAFÉ Grown Respectfully programme as part of our vision to
support farmers and put Malaysia back on the global coffee map.
Malaysians cheering for our MILO truck at the National Merdeka Parade 2022.
Iman, our Nestlé Cares volunteer alongside our a representative of our NGO partner, Empire Project helping
to pack wholesome products to be donated to B40 communities in conjunction with Ramadan.
Scan me
Doing Well While Doing Good: Advancing Our ESG Agenda
For years, our CSV programmes have built on the idea that we can generate solid financial returns
while contributing positively to society in many fronts. This vision certainly starts with the support to
underprivileged communities through various programmes, having invested some RM15 million in
community outreach programmes including flood relief efforts, food donations and a meaningful
and ongoing collaboration with the Malaysian Red Crescent Society (MRCS).
While taking great pride in our community support programmes, the sense of urgency created by
the awareness on climate change and its implications is driving the acceleration of our ESG agenda
at all levels. On the sustainability front, we have already passed our peak carbon and peak plastic
levels and we are advancing to meet our reduction commitments. The adoption of renewable
energy across all our sites through the Green Electricity Tariff programme and the global action of
Nestlé to optimise the carbon footprint of our ingredients are already delivering results.
18
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
On the plastic reduction side, we further pioneered new initiatives
such as the adoption of recycled PET (rPET) for our bottled
drinks and the replacement of plastic with sustainably-sourced
paper in our MAGGI bowls range. Chief among our efforts was
the progressive expansion of our plastic neutrality initiatives as
part of our voluntary Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR)
commitment, and more specifically our Door-to-Door Collection
and Recycling initiative now scaled up, reaching 112,000
households by end-2022.
Allow me a few words also on Project RELeaf, our reforestation
initiative aiming to plant three million trees by end of 2024, after
the forced impasse created by lockdowns, when we could not
access planting sites. Post COVID-19, activity has resumed
strongly and we are on track to complete one million trees by
May 2023 and advance decisively towards targeted milestones.
Our ESG progress through the year is well-detailed in our
Nestlé in Society Report 2022.
Management Discussion and Analysis
Building ‘A Fit for Purpose’ Organisation to Win in The 21st Century
With the end of the lockdowns and the normalisation post-pandemic, we have
been able to return to more “normal” ways of working, with some clearly emerging
trends. On the one hand, the very strong need to re-engage and re-connect with
colleagues and teams as well as the expectation to find purpose and meaning in
one’s activity; on the other hand, the clear demand to improve work-life balance
and increased flexibility and more “freedom within framework”. In the later part of
2022, an internal survey confirmed these trends as well as the demand for more
agile processes, less bureaucracy and more communication and visibility on
career development. On the basis of this feedback, we are working to address a
number of these expectations, with some positive early feedback as we advance
through the process.
Diversity and Inclusion remain very high in our priorities. With very healthy
gender balance ratios achieved, it is now about embracing equity and inclusivity
at all levels, including becoming even more an employer of choice, not only
when recruiting but also making sure that we continue to create an environment
where young talents can thrive and contribute proactively to our progress as a
team, with senior ranks being more receptive to ideas and hence creating more
platforms for innovative thinking at all levels.
On the plastic
reduction side, we
further pioneered new
initiatives such as the
adoption of rPET for
bottled drinks and the
replacement of plastic
with sustainably-
sourced paper in our
MAGGI bowls range.
NIS
All MAGGI HOT MEALZ has officially moved to sustainably-sourced paper bowls since December 2022.
Cultivating a diverse and inclusive workforce.
Annual Review
19
we will continue advocating the many attractive elements and
strengths of Malaysia as a preferred investment location with
multiple opportunities for future growth.
CONCLUSION
There is no doubt that 2022 was a complex year, where the
positive environment for growth still came together with supply
chain disruptions around the world and multiple uncertainties
and volatility. We were tested and, as a team, we proved again
our ability to provide a set of resilient results to our shareholders
while advancing without hesitation in our mission of Good Food,
Good Life. As a team, we are confident that we will continue to
drive the Company forward, staying true to our purpose and
making a positive difference in the world and in Malaysia as a
force for good.
Management Discussion and Analysis
Beyond this, we rolled out enhancements to the Nestlé Global Parental Support
Policy with extended maternity and paternity leaves and have recently also
provided guidance to optimise hybrid work arrangements in ways conducive to
both increase employee satisfaction and business efficiency.
110 Years in Malaysia: Renewing Our Commitment, Investing in The Future
Nestlé has been unstoppably investing in Malaysia, preserving and expanding
our operational capabilities, though thick and thin; before, during and after
COVID-19. The inauguration of our PBMS facility in Shah Alam in 2021 was
followed in 2022 by significant capacity expansion projects in both our Batu Tiga
MAGGI and Chembong Ice Cream factories, amongst others. In 2023, we will
start a new round of projects that will bring approximately RM1 billion of capital
expenditure (CAPEX) over the next few years. Through these investments, we will
maintain the competitiveness of our factories and support the sustainable growth
of the business. We thank the Nestlé Group worldwide for renewing their trust in
Malaysia as a fundamental base for manufacturing and exports across Asia and
We will continue to
drive the Company
forward, staying true
to our purpose and
making a positive
difference in the world
and in Malaysia as a
force for good.
Team Nestlé celebrating with the community of KITAR Recycling Programme.
20
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Our Product Portfolio
For over 110 years,
we have stayed true
to our promise of
nurturing generations
of Malaysians by
unlocking the power
of food to deliver
Good Food, Good Life.
At the heart of this is our wide-ranging portfolio,
comprising more than 500 locally produced Halal-
certified products, serving the growing demand
for high-quality, nutritious and great-tasting food
and beverages, both domestically and in global
markets. Driven by our iconic brands, many of
which have become Malaysian favourites, we
provide diverse offerings that resonate with
consumers’ diverse needs, whether at home or
on-the-go, as well as for OOH channels.
Our pole position in the sector is underpinned
by our commitment to driving sustainability
within our operations and across our value chain,
going hand in hand with our efforts to promote
environmentally-responsible behaviours among
our consumers. We achieve this through our
brands with purpose that act as a force for good
to champion what matters most to us. In tandem,
we uphold high standards in food safety and
quality through our Nestlé Quality Management
System alongside our proven expertise in
manufacturing.
Annual Review
21
22
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
MILO
Having grown with the nation for more than 70 years, the
MILO brand has nourished generations of Malaysians with
the energy to go further. Also as a long-standing advocate
for sports being a great teacher, MILO has championed
grassroots sports and empowered Malaysian children,
parents and teachers to lead active lifestyles. Going a step
further, we also strive to protect our natural resources with
our MILO Sayang Bumi campaign.
Propelled by positive momentum in the post-pandemic
recovery of OOH channels, MILO continued to drive
sustainable growth in 2022. As we saw consumer
patterns slowly returning towards pre-pandemic levels, we
focused on reigniting our deep bond with Malaysians by
driving home the power of MILO at breakfast, alongside
enhancing overall brand imagery.
FOODS COFFEE READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
ICE CREAM CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
Our Business Review
Further Amplifying the Goodness of MILO Among Consumers
With the aim of further reinforcing MILO’s strong nutritional credentials
among consumers of all ages, we kicked off the year with the launch
of our “Goodness of MILO” campaign. Continuing our mission from
previous years to reinforce the message on the natural goodness of
MILO made with malt barley, milk and cocoa while fortified with selected
vitamins and minerals to help with efficient energy release from the
foods we consume, the campaign was accompanied by a strong call-
to-action “Jom Minum MILO” to rally Malaysians from all walks of life to
enjoy the benefits of MILO anytime, anywhere.
Annual Review
23
Building on this, we anchored the goodness of MILO as our
key messaging across the brand initiatives throughout the year,
resulting in positive brand imageries which also led to more
positive total brand penetration across Malaysian households.
Reflecting our efforts, MILO was recognised as the Most Chosen
Brand for the Beverage category and more importantly, Brand
of the Decade in Kantar’s 2022 Annual Brand Footprint.
Driving Festive Cheer with The Goodness of MILO
MILO Huat dan Kuat
Commemorating the Year of the Tiger, we released our first-
ever limited-edition Gold Tins to position MILO as a suitable
gifting option during the Chinese New Year festive period. This
move contributed significantly to sales and market penetration,
equipping MILO with a strong start to the new year.
Raikan Ramadan dan Raya Penuh Kebaikan Bersama MILO
Through the curation of new recipe pairings with MILO, we
celebrated Ramadan and Raya by tying in the Goodness of MILO
with relevant consumption moments during the celebrations,
reinforcing MILO’s relevance as the beverage of choice for the
festive season. This includes recipes such as MILO Kurma, MILO
Cendol, MILO Kelapa and MILO Pisang & Kurma.
Malaysia Boleh Bersama MILO
In conjunction with Merdeka and Malaysia Day, we engaged
with consumers through a storytelling of the evolution of
“Malaysia Boleh”, since it first came to fruition during a MILO
sports initiative in 1992.
This involved a series of activations across the country, including
a month-long MILO Van Unity Tour where 200,000 MILO cups
were distributed and partnerships with 1,400 quick service
restaurants to share the goodness of MILO. The celebration
concluded on Malaysia Day with a 2.5km fun run that amassed
a crowd of over 10,000 participants at the historic location of
Dataran Merdeka.
Leveraging Key Strategic Partnerships
An Energetic Collaboration: MILO x Park Seo-Jun
To ignite the interest of adult consumers and strengthen brand
love, we undertook a strategic collaboration with international
icon, Park Seo-Jun. His representing the MILO stick pack range
drove excitement across communication platforms, in-store
and consumer engagement activities. This holistic campaign
to contemporise the brand gave rise to a significant increase
in consumption among adults and garnered a total of RM1.2
million in PR value.
Partnering Malaysian Sports Icon to Win with MILO Hi-Fibre
We continued to heighten brand appeal through our latest
product innovation, MILO Hi-Fibre, which caters to the needs of
matured adults. We effectively drove interest among the target
market with national badminton legend Datuk Rashid Sidek,
encouraging Malaysians to stay active regardless of age. MILO
Hi-Fibre earned the number one position within the MILO Mixes
second liners range, contributing significantly to our total sales
value.
Our Business Review
Creating excitement with MILO for the Chinese New Year festivities.
Malaysia Airlines’ parade participants enjoying refreshing cups of
MILO from our signature MILO truck at the Merdeka Parade 2022.
24
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
MILO COFFEE READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
ICE CREAM CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
Our Business Review
FOODS
Delighting Malaysians for more than 50 years, MAGGI
leads our Foods business with a broad portfolio
of offerings for consumers to create delicious and
wholesome dishes, from Malaysian-favourite MAGGI
instant noodles to MAGGI CUKUPRASA all-in-one
seasoning, recipe mixes, bouillons and sauces.
During the year, as many grappled with the rising cost of living in
2022, MAGGI remained focused on providing great-tasting, easy-to-
prepare affordable meal solutions, while encouraging consumers to
cook the difference and make a positive change for themselves, their
families, and their communities.
Promoting Balanced Meals for Healthier Malaysian Families
Building on MAGGI 2-Minute Noodles as a staple in Malaysian
households, we launched the MAGGI Sajian Seimbang Tanda Sayang
campaign to inspire mothers to create wholesome, affordable and
tasty home-cooked meals for their families using this product.
Promoting the ‘Suku Suku Separuh’ (Quarter Quarter Half) concept
of balanced meal portions outlined by the Ministry of Health (MOH),
the campaign encouraged consumers to add protein and vegetables
to make a balanced bowl of MAGGI 2-Minute Noodles.
Annual Review
25
Our Business Review
Besides educating consumers, we also took this opportunity
to debunk common myths about instant noodles and improve
brand perception. This multi-pronged communication strategy
broadened our reach for this campaign. These initiatives
enabled us to increase household penetration and strengthen
market share leadership in the instant noodles category.
Building Brand Love with Kembara DuniaKu MAGGI,
SAH Malaysia
Commemorating MAGGI’s enduring bond with Malaysians,
we kicked off our Kembara DuniaKu MAGGI, SAH Malaysia
limited TV and digital series. MAGGI SAH Malaysia is an
annual campaign established in 2020 and this year, we put the
spotlight on MAGGI food operators through an engaging food
travelogue show to seek out the most unique viral recipes for
MAGGI instant noodles in the nation, hosted by MAGGI brand
ambassadors and popular local celebrities.
Building on the success of its first reality TV and digital series in
2021, the Resipi Berani MAGGI show returned with another six
episodes in 2022 to showcase and celebrate the transformational
journey of 12 mentees in growing their own food businesses.
To further support these women, three prominent MAGGI
Mentors, Datin Paduka Eina Azman, Sheila Rusly, and Anne
Idris, alongside celebrity guest judges, provided guidance on
food sustainability, business viability and social media content
creation. The TV show led to a jump in our YouTube following
and viewership alongside improved TV ratings.
Expanding Our Offerings with Exciting Product Innovations
Catering to increasingly health-conscious Malaysians, the
MAGGI Nutri-licious range was launched as the first instant
noodle product in Malaysia certified with the Healthier
Choice Logo by the MOH. Made with Australian whole-grain
wheat flour, the noodles are produced through a baking process
to reduce the fat content and packed with essential nutrients,
while also being low in sodium and a good source of protein
and fibre. This also marks the first instant noodle product in
Malaysia to be made with sustainable packaging comprising
recycled plastic. The new range provides a healthier option for
instant noodles at an affordable price point, while maintaining
the signature MAGGI taste loved by Malaysians.
NIS Learn more about our sustainable packaging innovations on
page 62 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
Meanwhile, in line with our drive to bring consumers new
sensorial experiences while maintaining local Malaysian-
favourite flavours, we introduced all-new MAGGI Marinade
Pastes. Featuring the two variants of MAGGI Marinade Paste
Ayam Goreng Berempah and MAGGI Marinade Paste Ayam
Percik, these pastes with winning recipes are carefully crafted
with spices and fresh ingredients to deliver a delicious and
authentic taste.
Watch the travelogue of “Kembara DuniaKu MAGGI, SAH
Malaysia!” for viral MAGGI recipes spots nationwide.
Scan me
The six-episode segment celebrated the creativity and talent
of local food operators, culminating in 12 finalists competing
in a grand finale cook-off event in collaboration with Persatuan
Pengusaha Restoran Muslim Malaysia (PRESMA) and Persatuan
Pengusaha Restoran India, Malaysia (PRIMAS). To ramp up
engagement with consumers, a social media contest was
also held encouraging Malaysians to share their most creative
MAGGI Mi dishes.
Along with garnering media coverage of more than RM2.9
million, the campaign helped strengthen our partnerships with
Malaysian food operators even further.
Empowering Women through Program Mentor Wanita Cukup
Berani MAGGI
MAGGI continues to advocate for women’s empowerment
through Program Mentor Wanita Cukup Berani MAGGI, a
nationwide initiative in collaboration with Google Malaysia since
2020, encouraging women to step out of their comfort zones
and try new things in life.
26
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
MILO READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
ICE CREAM CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
Our Business Review
FOODS
COFFEE
Through our iconic global coffee brands: NESCAFÉ
and STARBUCKS AT HOME, we strive to deliver
the perfect cup of coffee for every occasion, while
ensuring that all our products are made with care
and respect by cultivating a sustainable coffee eco-
system across our value chain.
In 2022, our renewed drive to defend our core range of products
while accelerating our portfolio of premium offerings enabled us
to uphold our competitive edge and retain our market-leading
position. Complementing this, we prioritised cost optimisation
measures while catering to evolving consumer demand through
our product innovation efforts, delivering winning recipes with a
healthier proposition.
Healthier Recipe Reformulation
We have always adopted a proactive stance towards making
our products better for consumers, both in taste and nutrition.
Towards this end and in light of the Government’s announcement
of a higher sugar tax implementation for coffee mixes, we were
able to turn this challenge into an opportunity by quickly pivoting
towards recipe reformulation for our NESCAFÉ 3-in-1 product
range to reduce the amount of added sugar while maintaining
the taste loved by Malaysians. Besides being more beneficial
from a health perspective, the recipe reformulation also allowed
us to help mitigate the potential cost impact on consumers.
Annual Review
27
Our Business Review
Enhancing Brand Affinity in East Malaysia
Continuing our efforts in 2021 to strengthen NESCAFÉ’s
positioning and engagement with coffee lovers in East Malaysia,
we rolled out the NESCAFÉ East Malaysia Roving programme,
targeted at primary and secondary townships in the region.
Themed “SING & WIN with NESCAFÉ”, we kicked off interactive
activities to excite participants including karaoke sessions
coupled with exciting sales promotions, successfully attracting
more than 10,000 consumers.
Leveraging New Consumption Channels with
NESCAFÉ DOLCE GUSTO & STARBUCKS AT HOME
Following the success of our robust route-to-market strategy
implemented since December 2021, we continued to explore
consumption channels, specifically pop-up store opportunities,
which provide convenient platforms to expand consumer
touchpoints. With this in mind, we established the NESCAFÉ
DOLCE GUSTO & STARBUCKS AT HOME Pop Up Stores at
popular shopping malls with high footfall in Penang and Kuala
Lumpur, allowing consumers to easily purchase coffee machines
and products.
Cultivating a Culture of Recycling
Demonstrating our commitment to sustainability, we launched
the STARBUCKS by NESPRESSO capsule recycling initiative.
Utilising NESPRESSO’s readily available existing recycling
infrastructure, this encouraged consumers to drop off their filled
STARBUCKS by NESPRESSO recycling bags at any NESPRESSO
boutique store or the newly launched NESCAFÉ DOLCE GUSTO
& STARBUCKS AT HOME Pop Up Stores. They would then be
collected for recycling by a specialised aluminium recycling
company. To date, we have distributed over 5,000 recycling
bags to consumers.
To market this healthier proposition, we embarked on a large-
scale relaunch campaign, which proved to be successful in
enhancing brand visibility as we recorded double-digit growth
surpassing our initial target and gains in market share.
Catering to Localised Tastes with NESCAFÉ Tarik
Keeping a strong pulse on consumer preferences, we continued
to bring curated offerings tailored towards localised tastes.
Leveraging the ‘mamak’ coffee culture in Malaysia and building
on the positive reception for the NESCAFÉ Ready-to-Drink
(RTD) Kopitiam series, NESCAFÉ Tarik in mixes format was
introduced for Malaysians to satisfy their cravings for their
favourite mamak-style pulled coffee beverage, conveniently
prepared to be enjoyed at home.
Enabling consumers to enjoy their favourite Starbucks beverages at home.
Delighting coffee lovers with relevant product offerings.
28
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
MILO READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
ICE CREAM CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
Our Business Review
FOODS
NESPRESSO
Arising from a simple idea to make barista-style
espresso coffee accessible to all, our revolutionary
NESPRESSO portioned coffee system has since
sparked a global coffee culture. In the span of
over 30 years, we have grown from a pioneer
to a trusted reference point for high-quality
portioned coffee with our iconic capsule format
and signature NESPRESSO machines, capturing
leading brand presence in the super premium
category in 82 countries, including Malaysia.
NESPRESSO benefitted from solid recovery in the OOH
market as Malaysia entered the endemic phase in 2022, with
OOH consumption rising significantly throughout the year.
This contributed to triple-digit growth across our business-
to-business (B2B) channels, particularly hotels, restaurants
and offices. To further boost consumption, we also leveraged
increased footfall in popular shopping malls with the resumption
of on-ground activations through pop-up boutiques.
Annual Review
29
Our Business Review
Celebrating the Joy of Gifting
Joining forces with world-renowned pastry chef and
chocolatier, Pierre Hermé, we launched an exclusive capsule
collection featuring three flavours offering refined taste and
indulgence, namely Infiniment Espresso, Infiniment Gourmand
Saveur Noisette and Infiniment Fruité Saveur Framboise. The
collaboration also featured the introduction of the all-new Citiz
blue coffee machine, advent calendars for the holiday season
and limited-edition raspberry red NOMAD Travel Mugs to
heighten appeal among consumers as an ideal premium gift for
the festive period.
To inspire coffee lovers and build excitement around the joy
of gifting, a launch event was held with fashion and lifestyle
media featuring local celebrities and influencers. This was
complemented by a social media contest which showcased
a catchy jingle and unboxing video content to ramp up
engagement.
Following the campaign, we recorded a positive reception for the
festive coffee range among consumers with increased talkability
across social media platforms as well as generated a total of
RM3.9 million in PR value, further establishing NESPRESSO as
a premium gifting brand of choice.
Spearheading The Empty Cup Campaign to Protect the
Future of Coffee
As a thought leader on climate change, we demonstrated our
commitment to protecting the planet and our leadership in
regenerative agriculture with the launch of NESPRESSO’s global
campaign, The Empty Cup, on International Coffee Day.
To engage and amplify awareness among consumers, the
campaign featured our global brand ambassador, George
Clooney, holding an empty cup as a symbol of the threat posed
by climate change to global coffee production. The campaign
also provided an opportunity for NESPRESSO to highlight
our holistic efforts to cultivate a greener coffee culture by
championing regenerative agriculture in tandem with our
ongoing drive to promote a circular model and sustainable value
chain at the local level.
As part of our various recycling initiatives, we continued to raise
public awareness on environmental sustainability, leading to
a 5.1% increase in the recycling rate for our Recycle@Home
programme compared with 2021. Our efforts also garnered
positive exposure for NESPRESSO with a PR value of more than
RM400,000.
Promoting the Art of Sustainability
In 2021, we collaborated with celebrated local contemporary
artist, Red Hong Yi, on an art installation titled ‘Kaleidoscope’,
which featured used NESPRESSO coffee capsules to heighten
awareness amongst Malaysians on the importance of recycling.
Reflecting the reach and success of the campaign, NESPRESSO
was awarded the Gold Marketing Excellence Award for
Excellence in Social Media Marketing and Silver in the
MARKies 2022 Most Effective Use of Social Media.
Bringing coffee lovers including Kim Leow and Asma Nasa together
in style for the launch of limited-edition NESPRESSO flavours.
NESPRESSO World Explorations Coffee range NESPRESSO Boutique at The Gardens Mall
30
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
MILO COFFEE
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
ICE CREAM CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
FOODS
READY-TO-DRINK
Serving the needs of Malaysians across diverse consumption
channels, we provide RTD products in a range of convenient formats,
from beverage cartons and cans to PET bottles. Championed by
brands including MILO, NESCAFÉ (both in dairy-based and dairy
free options) and NESTLÉ LIVELY TEA, our wide reach delights
consumers with great tasting, nutritious Ready-to-Drink beverages,
served refreshingly cold, anytime, anywhere, within an arm’s reach.
In 2022, our RTD portfolio experienced a strong recovery as pandemic restrictions
were lifted, leading to increased mobility and the re-opening of schools. This resulted
in strong growth performance across petrol marts and convenience channels.
Capturing Gen-Z through e-Sports Platforms
As Malaysia’s e-Sports scene maintained an upward trend which was further propelled
during the pandemic, we continued building on previous successful collaborations
with local popular e-sports Mobile Legends Team SMG and other e-sports influencers,
once again entering into “Mobile Legends Premier League”.
The three-month campaign featured fan-favourite Mobile Legends’ characters on
NESCAFÉ Original cans packaging and it was well-received amongst our consumers.
This helped to drive higher brand affinity with youth.
Our Business Review
Annual Review
31
Strengthening NESCAFÉ’s presence in e-Sports, the campaign
achieved encouraging results in recognition rate and likelihood
in purchase intent, besides generating more than RM1 million
in PR value.
Regaining Post-Pandemic Brand Affinity
In maintaining top-of-mind awareness amongst consumers, we
tapped into post-pandemic opportunities to reinforce our core
messaging on the goodness of MILO.
This included the relaunch of MILO UHT with our “Break
at Home” and “Pack to School” campaigns, conveying the
nutritional benefits of the product to provide energy to go
further during the day, whether at home or at school.
We also rolled out the MILO Cans “Steady Sampai Jadi”
campaign to build brand affinity amongst teenagers and young
adults. Teaming up with local sports personalities and popular
social media content creators, the campaign appealed to youths
through videos on social media platforms as well as digital OOH
billboards.
Capturing the Growing Dairy Free Trend
Recognising the growing demand for plant-based beverages
and as Nestlé Dairy Free Drinks has gained ground in the total
dairy-free category, we expanded our range with NESCAFÉ Dairy
Free Almond in a one-litre format. The launch was accompanied
by our #NestléDairyFreeWeek campaign, educating consumers
about the benefits of our dairy-free beverages and encouraging
them to kick-off their plant-based journey.
Tapping on Festive Occasions
Leveraging increased RTD tea consumption during the festive
periods of Chinese New Year and International Tea Day,
we focused on enhancing brand awareness and educating
consumers on the unique beneficial properties of plant-derived
adaptogens in our Nestlé LIVELY Tea range. Leveraging brand
ambassadors, digital OOH advertising and TV commercials, we
created relevant touch points to encourage product trials and
achieved high repeat purchase rates.
Our Business Review
Photo credit: @therealyoon
Photo credit: @AnkelS4M
Expanding our range of plant-based beverages with NESCAFÉ Dairy
Free Almond in a one-litre format.
Progressing Towards a Waste-Free Future
Reflecting our global ambition to reduce one-third of our virgin
plastic usage by 2025, we marked a milestone during the year
by transitioning 100% of our PET NESCAFÉ and MILO range
to high-quality rPET, in addition to replacing single-use plastic
shrink wrap with paper-based cluster packaging for our MILO
UHT 125ml cluster packs. With this, we were able to enhance
brand imagery, reinforcing MILO and NESCAFÉ as brands that
care for our planet.
NIS Learn more about our sustainable packaging innovations on
page 62 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
32
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
MILO COFFEE ICE CREAM CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
FOODS READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
Demonstrating the growing appetite for plant-based
products, the Grab Food & Grocery Trends Report
2022 found that overall demand for healthier options
increased from 2019 to 2022. According to the survey
results, 90% of Malaysian respondents reported
consuming at least one healthy meal every two to three
days, with two out of five consumers stating that they
tried plant-based alternatives. Supporting this shifting
demand towards plant-based food, Nestlé Malaysia’s
first PBMS brand, HARVEST GOURMET, offers simple
and easy-to-prepare meat-free meals that deliver on
taste and texture as well as nutrition and value, while
also being better for the planet.
In 2022, we continued to reinforce the positioning of HARVEST
GOURMET as a leader in mainstream PBMS through an exciting and
innovative new product offering, strategic B2B partnerships to grow
in OOH channels and amplifying consumer engagement to enhance
awareness of our brand proposition.
Our Business Review
Delicious fried fluffy steamed buns (mantou) prepared with HARVEST
GOURMET Plant-Based cutlets.
Annual Review
33
Launch of HARVEST GOURMET Plant-Based Nuggets
Widening our portfolio, we launched the HARVEST GOURMET
Plant-Based Nuggets in April 2022. A healthier option of this
all-time favourite snack, these Nuggets are made from high-
quality and natural ingredients such as non-GMO soy, providing
a convenient meat-free nutritious snack that is high in fibre
and a source of protein, as well as being cholesterol-free and
low in saturated fat, while authentically providing the delicious
taste and experience of chicken nuggets, with great consumer
endorsement.
Nuggets resonated well with consumers, inspiring product trials
even amongst those who were new to plant-based foods. This
was supported by above the line communications and sampling
activities in key retail outlets to broaden our reach.
Expanding in Sabah through Uncle Bob Partnership
While plant-based foods are still a niche market, increasing
demand from health-conscious consumers has encouraged
more F&B operators to seek out plant-based solutions. With this
in mind, we embarked on a strategic approach to strengthen
positioning of our HARVEST GOURMET brand as a preferred
choice in the plant-based segment.
We continued to build traction in OOH channels for HARVEST
GOURMET, collaborating with popular fried chicken franchise
Uncle Bob to introduce the restaurant chain’s first meat-free
menu featuring our HARVEST GOURMET plant-based range
of products. This also marked the expansion of HARVEST
GOURMET into East Malaysia with the menu available at
almost 90 Uncle Bob outlets in Sabah. The launch event proved
successful, garnering over RM750,000 in PR value.
Our Business Review
Driving Awareness through Sampling and Trial
We kicked off a series of marketplace activations to bring
the holistic HARVEST GOURMET experience to Malaysians.
Going beyond product sampling, we educated consumers on
plant-based goodness and the nutritional values of HARVEST
GOURMET products. The healthy snacking proposition of the
[Fourth from left] Yit Woon Lai, Benjamin Malakun, Group Corporate
General Manager of ITCC and Kelvin Ng, Director of Uncle Bob,
marking the launch of Uncle Bob’s plant-based menu featuring
HARVEST GOURMET.
Malaysian celebrity, Scha Alyahya and daughter Lara Alana getting a
taste of HARVEST GOURMET.
Encouraging Consumer Adoption through the
#HGEatGoodChallenge
Realising HARVEST GOURMET’s ‘Eat Good, Feel Good’ brand
philosophy, we rolled out the #HGEatGoodChallenge with the
aim of encouraging both new and existing consumers to adopt
plant-based diets in a fun and motivating way. Participants
were kept engaged through creating home-cooked meals with
HARVEST GOURMET products alongside clocking in a minimum
of 120,000 steps within the 30-day challenge period. Besides
standing a chance to win prizes, we also committed to planting
one tree via our Nestlé RELeaf reforestation programme for
each participant who successfully completed the challenge.
NIS Learn more about our Nestlé RELeaf Reforestation programme
on page 54 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
34
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
ICE CREAM
ICE CREAM
Our Business Review
MILO COFFEE
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
FOODS
ICE CREAM
Strengthening our position as a leader in the market, NESTLÉ Ice Cream continues
to excite consumers with refreshing and innovative ice cream flavours and formats.
With a focus on authentic taste and reinforcing our value proposition to provide
special moments of indulgence across consumption channels, we continued to
capture the hearts of consumers with new innovations during the year.
Delighting Local Taste Buds
Anytime, Anywhere
Following the resounding success of
the NESTLÉ Musang King Ice Cream
launched in 2020 in tub format, we
continued to ride on the passion for
durian. Our NESTLÉ Musang King
stick allows Malaysians to enjoy the
genuine taste of durian anytime,
anywhere, with the same creamy,
authentic flavour of the real fruit.
Launched in conjunction with the
Chinese New Year celebrations, we
achieved record-high sales.
READY-TO-DRINK
Annual Review
35
Our Business Review
Exciting Malaysians with NESTLÉ Mochi Boba
Tapping into Malaysians’ trending love for boba, we introduced
the all-new NESTLÉ Mochi Boba, comprising aromatic brown
sugar ice cream with boba pearls, wrapped in a soft and chewy
mochi skin. Adopting a digital-first marketing strategy, our
communications were carefully curated to enhance appeal to
the target segments of generation Z and millennials, building
social media hype across various platforms. This created a viral
sensation on TikTok with more than 27 million views.
Creating New Indulgent Opportunities
As part of our aim to bring Malaysians new moments
of indulgence with delectable flavours, we launched the
LA CREMERIA Chocolate Brownie. Tapping on chocolate as a
classic favourite within the snacking and impulse category, our
latest premium quality offering took the rich taste of chocolate
up a notch, containing brownie chunks and infused with sea salt
to create a luscious treat to satisfy chocolate lovers, becoming
our number one product in the LA CREMERIA range for the
impulse stick category during the year, with sales exceeding our
initial target by 40%.
Elevating the Experience for Coffee Lovers
Creating a rich coffee experience for coffee aficionados to enjoy,
we reached out to a new segment of consumers with the launch
of the NESCAFÉ GOLD Cappuccino Ice Cream. Leveraging
Malaysians’ love for the NESCAFÉ brand, this premium offering
is made with real NESCAFÉ GOLD soluble coffee and uses a
patented ‘soft coffee coating’ technology for a smooth, ganache
texture, delivering a perfect synthesis of the indulgence of ice
cream and the signature taste and aroma of NESCAFÉ GOLD.
Unlocking Opportunities with New Product Size
Reinforcing KIT KAT Ice Cream as the number one ice cream
brand in our portfolio, we introduced the KIT KAT MINI
Multipack 6x45ml, creating new opportunities for customers
to indulge in our product at their convenience. This builds on
our strong growth in sales and market share within the adult
impulse segment since the launch of KIT KAT Milk in 2020 and
KIT KAT Gold in 2021, further contributing to the portfolio.
Our NESTLÉ Ice Cream trucks in Kota Bharu, Kelantan, delivering moments of indulgence to Malaysians come rain or shine.
Photo credit: @attyusof
36
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Our Business Review
MILO COFFEE
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
FOODS READY-TO-DRINK ICE CREAM
Comprising iconic brands such as KIT KAT, MILO and now,
NESTLÉ LES RECETTES DE L’ATELIER, our confectionery
portfolio brings consumers tasty treats for enjoyable breaks
throughout the day, incorporating moments of indulgence as
part of balanced lifestyles. Delighting Malaysians since 1988,
KIT KAT remains a beloved chocolate brand in the nation,
bagging us the Silver award at the 2022 Putra Brand Awards
for the foodstuff category.
Given the strong presence of our confectionery brands in the impulse segment,
we were able to tap into heightened on-the-go consumption following the
easing of travel restrictions as the nation entered the endemic phase, in tandem
with sustaining in-home consumption. Our strategy took on a renewed focus
on scaling up relevance with consumers while expanding our range with new
indulgent offerings.
Renewing Bonds with KIT KAT Raya 2022 #RezekiDikongsiBersama
In keeping with the spirit of Ramadan as a time of compassion and generosity,
we appealed for consumers to give back to those in need and encourage stronger
community ties with the KIT KAT Raya 2022 #RezekiDikongsiBersama campaign.
Conveying the emotive messaging of the spirit of giving through a festive music
video and digital engagement, the campaign emphasised kindness even through
simple acts to share blessings with fellow Malaysians.
As part of this, we enabled consumers to pay it forward by purchasing their
favourite KIT KAT products, as we contributed financial donations to selected charity
homes for every KIT KAT pack sold during the campaign period. We also donated a
percentage of proceeds from sales of exclusive KIT KAT merchandise.
CONFECTIONERY
Annual Review
37
Our Business Review
The campaign resonated well with consumers, enabling us
to increase in-home penetration during the year and achieve
double-digit sales growth.
Furthering Growth in the Premium Segment with
NESTLÉ LES RECETTES DE L’ATELIER
Aimed at enhancing appeal to urban consumers, we introduced
NESTLÉ LES RECETTES DE L’ATELIER, our artisanal flair
chocolate imported from Switzerland, into the Malaysian
market for the first time. Highlighting its fine-quality ingredients
and exquisite craftsmanship by master chocolatiers, our launch
More Innovations
in 2022
KIT KAT Dark Cookies
The winning concept of pairing biscuits and chocolate
served as the inspiration for the 2022 limited-edition
variant, made with crunchy dark chocolate biscuits as a
perfect complement to elevate the crispness of the KIT
KAT wafer.
KIT KAT Bar Dark with Southern
Australian Orange Flavour
Building on the successful launch
of KIT KAT Bar Dark and Milk
Chocolate in 2021, we expanded
the range with this all-new variant
in 2022, which features rich dark
chocolate, orange swirls and a
unique marbling appearance.
campaign was visually-driven, utilising aesthetically refined
imagery across digital platforms and on our point of sales
materials to capture the interest of target consumers through
strong appetite appeal.
Garnering more than 17 million impressions on YouTube and a
reach of 6.8 million on Facebook, the launch of this imported
range enabled us to gain a foothold in the premium chocolate
block segment.
Boosting Top-of-Mind Awareness with KIT KAT Break Corners
Staying true to KIT KAT’s iconic proposition of encouraging
consumers to take a break for themselves, we kicked off an
experiential initiative to make this a reality by creating KIT KAT
Break Corners in shopping malls across Malaysia. With benches
shaped like KIT KAT fingers and fun board games available for
use, the KIT KAT Break Corner fixtures allowed us to engage
and excite consumers in a unique and interactive manner.
This effectively enabled us to enhance brand awareness and
drive talkability on social media, as well as increasing in-store
visibility.
Complementing the #RezekiDikongsiBersama
campaign and conveying the spirit of giving with
this KIT KAT Raya 2022 music video.
Scan me
Visibly authentic, NESTLÉ LES RECETTES DE L’ATELIER chocolates
offer fine-quality ingredients and exquisite craftsmanship to
Malaysians.
KIT KAT delighting Malaysians and encouraging enjoyable breaks
since 1988.
38
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
MILO COFFEE
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
NUTRITION HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
FOODS READY-TO-DRINK ICE CREAM CONFECTIONERY
Through our portfolio of trusted brands, namely
NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS, NESTUM, NESTLÉ
EVERYDAY and NESPRAY, we provide individuals
and families with the nourishment they need to
lead healthier lives. Packed with calcium and
essential nutrients, our high-quality dairy products
enable all Malaysians to enjoy the goodness of
milk every day.
Championing Heart Health with NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS
Just two glasses a day provide 100% of daily calcium needs
and 1.2g of ACTICOL plant sterols which are proven to help
lower cholesterol. NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS continues to assist
Malaysians to fight high cholesterol and support heart health
with our new Dark Choc variant.
Available in powder and RTD formats, this adds more choices
especially for those Malaysians that may find plain milk less
enjoyable.
Our Business Review
DAIRY AND
ADULT NUTRITION
Annual Review
39
With the tagline “Jom Malaysia, Langkah Bersama, Jantung
Dijaga”, the annual Walk-A-Million-Miles (WAMM) month-
long virtual walkathon by NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS returned
for the third year running to champion hearth health among
Malaysians. Alongside our long-term partners, Yayasan Jantung
Malaysia (YJM) and the Institut Jantung Negara Foundation
(IJNF), WAMM galvanised Malaysians nationwide to walk every
day for healthier hearts, both for themselves and their loved ones.
We rallied almost 26,000 Malaysians to participate, reflecting an
increase of 130% compared with 2021. Participants completed
a cumulative total of 1,483,300 miles, with 65% successfully
reaching a minimum of 150,000 steps. This culminated in
a donation of RM100,000 to YJM and IJNF to support heart
patients in need.
Our Business Review
Creating Tasty Raya Treats with NESTUM
In keeping with the festive Hari Raya spirit, we inspired
consumers to bake with NESTUM with the launch of the
NESTUM Reka Rasa Raya contest. To amplify brand relevance
and consumer engagement, we collaborated with Malaysian-
favourite celebrity Chef Wan. To be in the running to win prizes
worth a total of RM100,000 and the opportunity to join a
Masterchef Class with Chef Wan, consumers were encouraged
to incorporate NESTUM in their baking to create delectable Raya
treats such as NESTUM Butter Cookies and NESTUM Popiah,
and share their creations on social media.
As a result, we successfully increased brand penetration and
reached peak market share for NESTUM during the campaign
period.
#HariHariEveryday Helping Malaysians Meet Nutritional
Needs
The Nutrition Survey of Malaysian Children (SEANUTS) 2013
and National Health and Morbidity Survey 2014: Malaysian Adult
Nutrition Survey (MANS) revealed that one in three Malaysian
children and adults suffer from micronutrient deficiencies.
Working to address this, we launched the Nestlé EVERYDAY
#HariHariEveryday campaign in conjunction with World Nutrition
Day, aimed at driving awareness on micronutrient deficiencies,
particularly among vulnerable groups such as People’s Housing
Project (PPR) communities.
Through this campaign, we were able to expand our reach
across consumers of different backgrounds to highlight the
importance of good nutrients for the whole family. Additionally,
the campaign successfully rallied Malaysians nationwide to
contribute in nourishing 10,000 PPR families via donations of
‘Bekalan Nutrisi’ packs.
Lucky winners of our NESTUM Reka Rasa Raya contest during the Masterchef Class with [centre] Chef Wan.
A participant of our 2022 NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS WAMM programme
enjoying a NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS Dark Choc RTD pack.
40
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
MILO COFFEE
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
FOODS READY-TO-DRINK ICE CREAM CONFECTIONERY
NUTRITION
Building on 150 years of enhancing lives with good
nutrition, we continue to support the development of
healthier, happier children through age-appropriate
science-based nutritional products.
As the nation entered the endemic phase in 2022, we amplified engagement
efforts for our nutrition portfolio across relevant channels, from on-ground
activation and in-store execution to virtual livestreams and webinars.
This multi-pronged approach enabled us to reinforce brand affinity for
LACTOGROW Aktif, contributing to positive growth for the brand. Meanwhile,
our NANKID brand achieved a turnround by highlighting the immunity
benefits of the product, which was well-attuned to consumer sentiment and
helped to enhance visibility on social media platforms.
These strategic efforts enabled us to carve a distinct niche in the market and
strengthen the value proposition of our product offerings in the mainstream
segment and mid-premium category.
Promoting Optimum Development
We embarked on a targeted communications campaign for “LACTOGROW
Aktif Sea Shells”.
Conscious that now more than ever, parents are seeking out the best
nutritional products for their children at the right price point, we clearly
articulated our brand proposition of ‘Active Mind, Active Body for Optimum
Growth & Development’ through the campaign. Omnichannel touchpoints
were utilised, including a TV commercial which aired on primetime channels.
We also expanded our reach through YouTube and Facebook, along with
Our Business Review
For Growing Up Milk 1 year & above.
Annual Review
41
promoting digital sampling to ramp up awareness. This allowed
us to effectively convey the product benefits of DHA and high
calcium, protein and iron, providing balanced nutrition for
children between one to six years old in an affordable pack.
This was complemented by partnering with parents who were
Key Opinion Leaders (KOLs) to share their positive reviews and
experience raising their children with LACTOGROW Aktif.
In tandem, to encourage product trials, we collaborated with
Billion Shopping Centre Semenyih in Kajang, Selangor, for an
on-site livestream featured on e-commerce platform Shopee
Live to drive purchase.
By leveraging these multiple touchpoints, we successfully
heightened brand awareness, recording 13.5% organic growth
compared with last year and 13% new user recruitment via
digital sampling.
Nurturing Happier Kids through Good Gut Health
Emphasising the importance of a good digestive system for
children to grow up healthier and happier, we rolled out a new
TV commercial to communicate the beneficial properties of
LACTOGROW. Focusing on the exclusive probiotic (L. reuteri)
contained in LACTOGROW which supports good gut health,
this enabled us to raise awareness and impart good nutrition
knowledge to consumers.
Alongside this, we implemented a digital campaign and
consumer reward programme. This yielded positive traction,
with improved market penetration and significant growth in new
users compared with the previous year, contributing to strong
sales.
Strengthening Children with Stronger Immune Systems
As consumers have increasingly prioritised the health of
their immune systems in recent years, NANKID OPTIPRO is
an innovative, science-backed product that enables parents to
boost protection for their little ones through the power of 2’-FL.
An exclusive formulation which includes probiotics, this
enhances gut functions to build a strong immune foundation.
To scale up messaging on the product benefits in an easy-to-
understand manner, we amplified communications via both
in-store and digital activation. Driving top-of-mind awareness,
this led to a 19% increase in organic growth and 40% new user
recruitment via digital sampling activities, in addition to a 40%
jump in sample requests for NANKID OPTIPRO.
Ramping Up Awareness of Cerelac
Tapping into the key consumer segment of new mothers, we
continued to build up awareness of our CERELAC infant cereal
range, which is packed with wholesome nutrients to facilitate
healthy development. Enabling us to ensure brand relevance
and grow user penetration, our marketing efforts were strongly
focused on digital communications.
In addition to highlighting the nutritional value of the product,
we shared creative recipes incorporating the product via social
media and on-the-ground engagements. This was coupled with
an informative video on the nutrients contained in one bowl
of CERELAC, reaching over 3.8 million mothers and capturing
a high view-through rate of 56%. Accompanying this was an
influencer campaign, which recorded an engagement rate of
more than 800,000.
Our Business Review
Helping kids grow up happier and healthier with LACTOGROW.
42
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
MILO COFFEE
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
FOODS READY-TO-DRINK ICE CREAM CONFECTIONERY
HEALTH SCIENCE
We strive to serve diverse nutritional needs
through our NESTLÉ HEALTH SCIENCE (NHS)
portfolio, which offers best-in-class science-
based targeted solutions. From healthy ageing to
metabolic health and acute care, amongst other
key areas, our focus is on enabling our consumers
to live life to the fullest, either in the form of
prevention or treatment.
Following Malaysia’s transition into the endemic phase,
surgeries and demand for quality medical nutritional products
were on an uptrend. With this in mind, NHS took the opportunity
to establish a strong platform allowing us to cater to growing
demand in the medical nutrition arena, with an emphasis on
continuous medical education for healthcare professionals.
Heightening Engagement with Trusted Sources
Conscious that medical professionals are a primary source
of trusted information for consumers, we kicked off several
initiatives to heighten our engagement. This included the
NUTREN Optimum Continuous Medical Education Speaker
Tour, which was aimed at conveying the benefits of the product
as a nutritionally complete formula supporting patient recovery.
Comprising six sessions conducted across Peninsular and
East Malaysia among both public and private hospitals, the
tour enabled us to engage with a total of 1,100 delegates.
This initiative successfully strengthened brand equity among
Our Business Review
Annual Review
43
healthcare professionals, with more than 80% of participants
stating that they would recommend or prescribe the product.
Alongside this, to increase awareness among healthcare
practitioners and promote the use of our peptide-based
formula, PEPTAMEN, in intensive care unit (ICU), we organised
the ICU Nutrition Webinar. This webinar involved both local and
international intensive care experts which provided an engaging
platform to share best practices from various countries as well
as the latest updates on ICU nutrition management among
critically ill patients.
With over 200 attendees, the webinar garnered positive
feedback, including 90% of participants indicating a high
possibility of prescribing the formula to patients.
Scaling Up Consumer Communication
In order to build up awareness of our product portfolio and
reinforce our brand reputation, we undertook various efforts to
reach out to targeted consumer segments. To break the stigma
surrounding ageing, NUTREN Optimum partnered with The Star
Media Group to launch the Be A Star After 50 campaign. This
entailed inviting Malaysians over the age of 50 to submit stories
on how they celebrate healthy ageing and experience life to the
fullest, culminating in more than 100 submissions received.
Leveraging both online and offline channels to maximise
engagement, the launch generated RM1 million worth of
media coverage and 2.74 million social media impressions,
complemented by educational webinars which garnered more
than 20,000 views. These efforts contributed to our growth
within the target market segment and further strengthened
customer loyalty.
We also launched the Beli, Tebus & Menang promotional
campaign, unveiling NUTREN UNTUK DIABETIK with an
improved formulation and brand-new packaging. Highlighting
the improved formula as an ideal and convenient solution to
support people living with diabetes in managing blood glucose
levels, the campaign offered rebates and prizes worth more
than RM200,000 across participating pharmacies nationwide.
We also leveraged on KOLs to engage with consumers via social
media platforms.
Supporting Diabetes Management with NUTREN GlucoSmart
Following the product launch of NUTREN GlucoSmart into the
Malaysian market in late 2021, this year we focused on further
amplifying communications and penetration of the product.
Catering to Malaysians living with diabetes or pre-diabetes,
we utilised TV and digital advertising platforms to ramp up
awareness on the active ingredient in the product, mulberry leaf
extract, which is clinically proven to assist with glucose control.
The campaign gained positive traction amongst healthcare
professionals as well as the target consumer segment.
Our Business Review
Encouraging healthy ageing after 50 with NUTREN
Optimum.
44
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
MILO COFFEE
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION HEALTH SCIENCE
FOODS READY-TO-DRINK ICE CREAM CONFECTIONERY
NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL
Catering to the needs of OOH consumption channels
through diverse solutions and services, NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL offers high-quality F&B solutions
from our wide range of much-loved brands such as
MILO, MAGGI and NESCAFÉ, establishing a trusted
reputation as a partner of choice for the foodservice
industry.
As the nation moved forward in the post-pandemic recovery phase,
OOH channels continued to see a progressive return to normalcy.
In view of this, NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL renewed our focus on
regaining market share with F&B operators, driving sales to pre-
pandemic levels and continue engaging and inspiring our customers
through our offerings.
Our Business Review
Officiating our collaboration with AEON CO. (M) Bhd to introduce delicious
KIT KAT pastries into almost all of AEON’s La Boheme bakeries nationwide.
Annual Review
45
Reigniting Growth in OOH Segment with The New Roast and
Ground Machines
Tapping into the resurgence of opportunities in the local coffee
culture, we continued to deliver authentic coffee experiences
through Malaysian-favourite coffee brand, NESCAFÉ. Following
our introduction of the new NESCAFÉ Roast and Ground (R&G)
machine, Kalerm, in late 2021, we continued our efforts to
increase penetration in offices, restaurants and cafés. As part
of our services in supporting our customers, we also had a
dedicated team to engage with key operators to provide training
on the machine and impart knowledge on NESCAFÉ’s high-
quality coffee beans.
As a result, we recorded an encouraging number of total
placements of R&G machines in 2022 and achieved a 300%
jump in sales volume for R&G coffee.
Building Excitement with Limited-Time Promotions for MILO
Drawing on MILO as the leading chocolate malt beverage
brand in Malaysia, we rolled out a targeted strategy to develop
customised solutions for F&B operators. By working closely with
our customers to deepen our understanding of their capabilities,
we were able to curate new recipes for tasty MILO beverages
paired with limited-time promotions, thereby driving excitement
among consumers and contributing to sales growth.
Alongside reinforcing relationships with our customers, this
effectively enhanced brand visibility for MILO in OOH channels
across Malaysia through limited-time offers for key customers
such as McDonalds, Tealive, Marrybrown and Llao Llao.
KIT KAT Creating Exclusive Beverage Offerings with Tealive
Leveraging strategic partnerships, we teamed up with popular
lifestyle tea brand Tealive to launch limited-time drink offerings
with KIT KAT. The innovative beverages demonstrated the
versatility of the KIT KAT Spread which was incorporated in
Tealive’s Coco Wafer Smoothie range, creating a delightful
blend of flavours.
To generate hype and increase reach among consumers, we
collaborated with KOLs and media, successfully garnering more
than 3 million impressions and sales averaging at 70 cups per
Tealive outlet daily. On top of this, the product launch achieved
a total of more than RM1 million in PR value. The collaboration
also benefitted from a wide distribution network with the
beverages sold at 600 outlets nationwide. This contributed to
solid growth for NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL and expanded our
presence in the dessert solutions category.
Our Business Review
Juan Aranols and Yit Woon Lai creating new recipes using our
NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL range of offerings.
Our in-house NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL Chef Salihin, offering guests
tasty food samples prepared using the MAGGI Lime Seasoning at the
Global Culinary Challenge Malaysia 2022.
46
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
*Declarations by the Board:
• None of the Directors own any shares in Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad.
• None of the Directors have any conflict of interest, any personal interest or any family relationship with any other Director and/or major shareholders of the Group.
• None of the Directors have been convicted for any offences within the past five years nor have they been imposed with any public sanction or penalty by any relevant regulatory
bodies, other than traffic offences (if any).
Dato’ Hamidah
Naziadin
Datin Sri Azlin Arshad Juan Aranols
YAM Tan Sri Dato’
Seri Syed Anwar
Jamalullail
Syed Saiful Islam Tengku Ida Adura
Tengku Ismail
Chin Kwai Fatt YM Dr Tunku Alina
Raja Muhd Alias
Our Leadership
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Since 2020, we have benefitted over 6,000
schoolchildren in need across Malaysia through
our Nestlé Cares Back-2-School programme.
Learn more
Annual Review
47
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 25 February 2002 (Non-Independent,
Non-Executive Director)
• 5 November 2004 (Re-designated as
Independent, Non-Executive Director)
• 16 April 2009 (Chairman)
• 20 February 2018 (Re-designated as
Non-Independent, Non-Executive Director)
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 28 April 2022
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Chairman of the Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee
• Member of the Audit Committee
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
• Attended all five meetings 5/5
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Arts in Accounting, Macquarie
University, Sydney, Australia
• Chartered Accountant
• Member of Certified Practising Accountant
(CPA) Australia
• Member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants
• Court of Emeritus Fellows, Malaysian Institute
of Management
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIPS
• Chairman, Kenanga Investment Bank Berhad
• Chairman, SP Setia Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Chairman, Lembaga Zakat Selangor
• Chancellor, SEGi University
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Chairman, Malaysia Airport Holdings Berhad
• Chairman, Cahya Mata Sarawak Berhad
• Chairman, Malakoff Corporation Berhad
• Chairman, Media Prima Berhad
• Chairman, MRCB Berhad
• Chairman, DRB-Hicom Berhad
• Chairman, EON Bank Berhad
• Chairman, Uni Asia Life Assurance Berhad
• Chairman, Uni Asia General Insurance Berhad
• Chairman, Lembaga Tabung Haji Investment
Panel
• Independent Director, Maxis Communications
Berhad
• Independent Director, Bangkok Bank Berhad
• Group Managing Director, Amanah Capital
Partners Berhad
• Financial Accountant, Malaysian Airlines
Systems Berhad
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 29 April 2021
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 28 April 2022
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Chairman of the Audit Committee
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
• Attended all five meetings 5/5
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL
QUALIFICATIONS
• Fellow Member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales (ICAEW)
• Member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants (MIA)
• Member of the Malaysian Institute of
Certified Public Accountants (MICPA)
• Bachelor of Science (Economics), University
of Hull, United Kingdom
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP
• Independent Non-Executive Director, Dialog
Group Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Prudential Assurance Malaysia Berhad
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Senior Advisor, Creador Sdn. Bhd.
• Various senior management positions in
PricewaterhouseCoopers Group (PwC)
in Malaysia, including Managing Partner,
Corporate Finance Leader of PwC Malaysia
and Senior Advisor of PwC South East Asia
Corporate Finance
YAM TAN SRI
DATO’ SERI
SYED ANWAR
JAMALULLAIL
CHIN KWAI FATT
Chairman, Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
• Gender - Male • Gender - Male
• Age - 71 • Age - 67
• Nationality - Malaysian • Nationality - Malaysian
48
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 May 2020
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 28 April 2021
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Member of the Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
• Attended all five meetings 5/5
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL
QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Laws, University of
Wolverhampton, United Kingdom
• Certificate in Personnel Management,
Malaysian Institute of Personnel Management
• Certified in-house Facilitator for CIMB Group
- Franklin Covey’s The 7 Habits of Highly
Effective People®
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Maxis Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Sime Darby Property Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
MR D.I.Y Group (M) Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Chairman, Remuneration Committee,
Maxis Berhad
• Chairman, Nomination Committee,
Maxis Berhad
• Member of the Razak School of
Government’s Leadership Development
Committee
• Board Member, Majlis Sukan Negara
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Advisory Council Member, Faculty of
Business and Accountancy, University of
Malaya
• Chief Executive Officer, CIMB Foundation
• Group Chief People Officer, CIMB Group
• Member of Board of Commissioners,
CIMB Niaga
• Member of Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, CIMB Niaga
• President of Malaysian Commercial Banks
Association (MCBA)
• Head of Group Corporate Resources,
CIMB Group
• Head of Human Resources, CIMB Securities
Sdn. Bhd.
• Personnel Officer, The Pacific Bank Berhad
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 May 2020
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 28 April 2021
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Member of the Audit Committee
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
• Attended all five meetings 5/5
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL
QUALIFICATIONS
• Honours Degree in Accounting and Finance,
University of Glamorgan (now known as
University of South Wales)
• Graduate of ICLIF’s High Performers’
Leadership Programme
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP
• Nil
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• President, PruBSN Prihatin
• Chief Marketing Officer, Prudential BSN
Takaful Berhad
• Committee Member, Tabung PPUM Care,
Pusat Perubatan Universiti Malaya
• Director, Zalaraz Sdn. Bhd.
• Director, Terasek One Sdn. Bhd.
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Commercial Director, MEASAT Broadcast
Network Systems Sdn. Bhd.
• Director, Astro Awani Network Sdn. Bhd.
• Deputy Chairman, Independent
Non-Executive Director, Syarikat Takaful
Keluarga Malaysia Berhad
• Vice President, Industrial Development
Division Johor Corporation
• Non-Independent, Non-Executive Director,
QSR Holdings Berhad
• Chief Operating Officer-NJOI, ASTRO’s
Prepaid Satellite TV
• Group CEO, ECM Libra Financial Group
Berhad
• Deputy CEO, ECM Libra Investment Bank
Berhad (ECMLIB)
• Head of Investment Banking & Head of
Structured Finance, ECMLIB
• Director & Head of Corporate Finance,
ECMLIB
• Vice President (Team Head), Maybank
Investment Bank Berhad
• Assistant Vice President, Maybank
Investment Bank Berhad
• Mentor for ICAEW’s Women in Leadership
Programme
DATO’ HAMIDAH
NAZIADIN
DATIN SRI
AZLIN ARSHAD
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Independent Non-Executive
Director
• Gender - Female • Gender - Female
• Age - 59 • Age - 49
• Nationality - Malaysian • Nationality - Malaysian
Annual Review
49
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 21 June 2021
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 28 April 2022
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Member of the Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
• Attended all five meetings 5/5
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• PhD in Islamic Finance, International Centre
for Education in Islamic Finance, Malaysia
• Master in Laws (LLM) (Corporate and
Commercial Law), King’s College, London,
United Kingdom
• Advanced Management Programme, Oxford
University - Green Templeton College
• Bachelor of Laws, University of Malaya, Malaysia
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIPS
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
IJM Corporation Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Malaysian Pacific Industries Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Batu Kawan Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Director, Chairperson, J A Russell & Company
Sdn. Bhd.
• Associate Mediator of Singapore Mediation
Centre and Malaysian Bar Council
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Trustee, Raja Alias Foundation
• Council Member, Climate Governance
Malaysia
• Non-Independent Non-Executive Director,
Chemical Company of Malaysia Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Chairperson,
Harps Holding Berhad
• Chair of the governing council, Yayasan CCM
• Non-Independent Non-Executive Director,
MBSB Bank Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director, Malaysia
Building Society Berhad
• Partner, Wong Lu Peen & Tunku Alina,
Advocates & Solicitors
• Legal Assistant, Skrine & Co.
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 December 2018
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 28 April 2021
ALTERNATE DIRECTOR
Alessandro Monica
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Nil
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
• Attended all five meetings 5/5
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Economic Science and Business,
University of Barcelona, Spain
• Executive Development Programme,
International Institute for Management
Development (IMD), Lausanne, Switzerland
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP
• Nil
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Chairman, Malaysian Recycling Alliance
Berhad
• Council Member, Federation of Malaysia
Manufacturers (FMM)
• Chairman, FMM Sustainability Committee
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Zone Asia,
Oceania & sub-Saharan African (AOA), Nestlé
S.A.
• Senior Vice President, Head of Global Group
Control, Nestlé S.A.
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Iberian region
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Caribbean
region
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Plata region
• Finance Manager of Nestlé Ice Cream and
Frozen Food business, Nestlé Italy
• Strategic Business Controller, Nestlé S.A.
• Auditor, Nestlé Spain
YM DR TUNKU
ALINA RAJA
MUHD ALIAS
JUAN ARANOLS
Independent Non-Executive
Director
Chief Executive Officer,
Executive Director
• Gender - Female • Gender - Male
• Age - 59 • Age - 54
• Nationality - Malaysian • Nationality - Spanish
AR The profile of Alessandro Monica can be found on page 53 of this report.
50
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 August 2022
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• Nil
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Nil
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
• Attended one meeting 1/1
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL
QUALIFICATIONS
• Master of Commerce in Finance and
Banking, University of Dhaka, Bangladesh
• Chartered Accountant
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP
• Nil
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Nil
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Head of Finance & Control, Nestlé Pakistan
• Head of Finance & Control, Nestlé Nigeria
• Country Controller, Nestlé Sri Lanka
• Country Controller, Nestlé Bangladesh
• Financial Planning Manager, Nestlé India
• Financial Accounting Manager, Nestlé
Bangladesh
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 6 August 2013
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE
FINANCIAL YEAR
• Attended all five meetings 5/5
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL
QUALIFICATIONS
• Certified Company Secretary, Malaysian
Association of Company Secretaries
• Bachelor of Laws from the University of
Nottingham, United Kingdom
• Barrister-at-Law of the Honourable Society
of Lincoln’s Inn
• Diploma in Syariah Law and Legal Practice,
International Islamic University of Malaysia
• Called to the Malaysian Bar
• Leadership Course, London Business
School, United Kingdom
• Leadership Course, Melbourne Business
School, Australia
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP
• Nil
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Vice Chairperson, ICC Malaysia Berhad
• Chairman for ICC Corporate Responsibility &
Anti-Corruption Working Committee
• Malaysian Trustee, ASEAN CSR Network
• Vice Chairman, FMM Business Ethics &
Governance Committee
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Legal Counsel for Zone Asia, Oceania, Africa
& Middle East, Nestlé S.A.
• Legal Counsel, Nestlé Malaysia
• Legal Manager, Kumpulan Guthrie Berhad
• Legal Practitioner
SYED SAIFUL
ISLAM
TENGKU IDA
ADURA TENGKU
ISMAIL
Chief Financial Officer,
Executive Director
Company Secretary
• Gender - Male • Gender - Female
• Age - 50 • Age - 50
• Nationality - Bangladeshi • Nationality - Malaysian
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Annual Review
51
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 February 2019
DATE OF RESIGNATION
• 1 August 2022
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Nil
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
• Attended all four meetings 4/4
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Graduated from Macquarie University, Australia
• Executive Development Programme, International Institute for Management Development (IMD),
Lausanne, Switzerland
• Leadership Course, London Business School, United Kingdom
• Gender - Male
• Age - 55
• Nationality - Australian
THE FOLLOWING DIRECTOR HAS RESIGNED SINCE THE 38TH AGM IN 2022:
CRAIG
CONNOLLY
Chief Financial Officer,
Executive Director
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
52
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
BACKGROUND
Juan Aranols first joined Nestlé Spain in 1990 as an Internal Auditor, before taking up the
role of Strategy Business Controller for various categories at Nestlé S.A., Switzerland. He
later assumed the role of Controller of Nestlé Italy’s Ice Cream and Frozen Food businesses.
Following this, he was appointed CFO for the Plata Region (Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay),
as well as CFO of the Caribbean and Iberian regions in 2005 and 2008 respectively. In 2012,
he became Senior Vice President in charge of global Group Control for Nestlé S.A., and
later CFO for Zone AOA in 2015, where he also coordinated the Confectionery and NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL businesses. Juan is deeply committed to protecting the environment and
encourages collective action across the Group, along with his ongoing roles as Chairman of
the Malaysian Recycling Alliance (MAREA) and Chairman of FMM’s Sustainability Committee.
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Economic Science and Business, University of Barcelona, Spain
• Executive Development Programme, IMD, Lausanne, Switzerland
• Leadership Course, London Business School, United Kingdom
BACKGROUND
Beginning his career with Nestlé Bangladesh in 1999 as a Financial Accounting Manager,
Syed Saiful Islam subsequently helmed various financial roles within Nestlé India from 2000 to
2005. In 2006, he returned to Nestlé Bangladesh as Corporate Controller before transitioning
to Country Controller in the same year. From 2010, he took on several leadership roles within
Nestlé, including Head of Finance & Control of Nestlé Nigeria. In 2018, he was appointed
Head of Finance & Control of Nestlé Pakistan, where he played an instrumental role in the
turnaround of the business in a volatile environment.
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Master of Commerce in Finance and Banking, University of Dhaka, Bangladesh
• Chartered Accountant
JUAN ARANOLS SYED SAIFUL ISLAM
Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Officer
• Gender - Male • Gender - Male
• Date of Appointment - 1 December 2018 • Date of Appointment - 1 August 2022
• Age - 54 • Age - 50
• Nationality - Spanish • Nationality - Bangladeshi
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM
Our Leadership
Annual Review
53
BACKGROUND
Chew Soi Ping first joined Nestlé Malaysia in 1988, completing
the Management Trainee Programme where he played a role
in the management of key brands, including MAGGI, Chilled
Dairy, Milks and Ice Cream. In 2006, he was appointed as Zone
AOA Regional Zone Assistant Adviser for the ASEAN, India, Sri
Lanka and Bangladesh markets based in Vevey, Switzerland.
Subsequently, he helmed various senior positions, such as
Executive Director for Ice Cream and Nestlé Continuous
Excellence, and Senior Vice President for the Ice Cream
business in the Philippines.
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Masters in Business Administration, University of Central
Arkansas, USA
• Bachelor of Science in Marketing (Hons), University of
Ozarks, Arkansas, USA
• Leadership Course, London Business School, United
Kingdom
• Marketing Course, International Institute for Management
Development, Lausanne, Switzerland
CHEW SOI PING
Executive Director, Sales
• Gender - Male
• Date of Appointment - 1 November 2015
• Age - 63
• Nationality - Malaysian
BACKGROUND
Alessandro Monica has been with Nestlé since 1998, starting
off in Nestlé Italy where he held various positions, including
Head of Engineering; Market Safety, Health and Environment
Officer; and Factory Manager for the Ice Cream, Culinary,
Chilled and Nutrition businesses. Following his move to Nestlé
Switzerland in 2011, he served as Operations Manager for
the Ice Cream strategic business unit, where he contributed
significantly by establishing improvement strategies for
competitive operations along the value chain, coupled with
enhancing the management of total cost competitiveness.
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Degree in Mechanical Engineering, University of Parma,
Italy
ALESSANDRO MONICA
Executive Director, Technical & Production
• Gender - Male
• Date of Appointment - 1 August 2017
• Age - 52
• Nationality - Italian
BACKGROUND
Carmen Melissa F. Antonio (fondly known as Mitzie) kicked
off her Human Resources career with Nestlé Philippines as a
Corporate Management Trainee in 1996, before taking on the
role of Human Resources Manager in 1999. In 2004, she was
expatriated to Vevey, Switzerland, where she served as Human
Resources Project Manager for Zone Asia, Oceania & Africa,
following which she took on the role of Head of Corporate
Talent and Organizational Development of Nestlé Thailand. She
then returned to Nestlé Philippines in 2009, where she went
on to serve in various leadership positions, including Head
of Corporate Learning & Organisational Development, Senior
Human Resources Business Partners – Technical & Production
and for Nestlé Business Services, as well as Human Resources
Director and Senior Vice President.
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Masters in Labor and Industrial Relations, University of the
Philippines
• Bachelor of Arts in Psychology, University of the
Philippines
• Management and Leadership Course, Asian Institute of
Management, Philippines
• Management and Leadership Course, London Business
School, Singapore
CARMEN MELISSA F. ANTONIO
Executive Director, Human Resources
• Gender - Female
• Date of Appointment - 1 April 2022
• Age - 49
• Nationality - Filipino
Our Leadership
Executive Leadership Team
54
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Our Leadership
Executive Leadership Team
BACKGROUND
Tengku Ida first started her career in Nestlé Malaysia as a Legal
Counsel in 2005. She was then transferred to Nestlé S.A.,
Switzerland in 2010 when she took on the role of Legal Counsel for
Zone AOA and Middle East. Since returning in 2013, she has led
the legal, secretarial and compliance functions for Nestlé Malaysia.
Tengku Ida’s role extends beyond managing the legal risks of the
business. She also plays an essential role in ensuring good corporate
governance practices and instilling a strong culture of compliance
and ethical business practices within the organisation. Tengku Ida
is equally committed in promoting these values within the industry,
currently holding a position as Chairman of ICC Malaysia Berhad’s
Corporate Responsibility & Anti-Corruption Working Committee in
addition to her appointment as Vice Chairman of the FMM Business
Ethics & Governance Committee.
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Certified Company Secretary, Malaysian Association of Company
Secretaries
• Bachelor of Laws (Hons), University of Nottingham, United Kingdom
• Barrister-at-Law of the Honourable Society of Lincoln’s Inn,
United Kingdom
• Called to the Malaysian Bar
• Diploma in Syariah Law & Legal Practice, International Islamic
University of Malaysia
• Leadership Course, London Business School, United Kingdom
• Leadership Course, Melbourne Business School, Australia
TENGKU IDA ADURA TENGKU ISMAIL
Executive Director, Legal & Secretarial
• Gender - Female
• Date of Appointment - 1 January 2017
• Age - 50
• Nationality - Malaysian
BACKGROUND
In 1995, Yit Woon Lai joined Nestlé Malaysia as a Brand
Executive for Nestlé Ice Cream (a joint venture at the time). She
later continued to serve the Company in various roles, namely
Senior Brand Manager for MILO and Group Brand Manager of
Chilled Dairy. In 2012, Yit was appointed to lead the Chilled
Dairy business and subsequently the Ice Cream business, prior
to her current role as BEO for NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL Malaysia
and Singapore. Following the disruptive impact of the pandemic
particularly on OOH channels, Yit and her team took the lead in
facilitating a recovery in 2022 by tapping into opportunities in
the evolving market landscape and embracing digital solutions
to support OOH customers.
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor’s Degree in Economics majoring in Business,
University of Malaya
• Executive Development Programme, International Institute
for Management Development, Lausanne, Switzerland
YIT WOON LAI
Business Executive Officer, NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL
• Gender - Female
• Date of Appointment - 1 August 2019
• Age - 52
• Nationality - Malaysian
BACKGROUND
Dato’ Adnan began his career with Nestlé Malaysia in 1984 as
an Engineer and subsequently took on various positions within
the Technical area for more than 30 years, including stints
with Nestlé Australia, Turkey and Philippines. Today, he helms
the role of Executive Director of Corporate Affairs at Nestlé
Malaysia. In this role, he oversees Corporate Communications,
Sustainability, Nutrition and Health Awareness, Consumer
Services and Halal Affairs. Dato’ Adnan plays a pivotal role in
leading Nestlé Malaysia’s sustainability projects, focusing on
addressing climate change and cultivating a circular economy.
Alongside these responsibilities, he is also currently the
Chairman of the FMM Malaysian Food Manufacturing Group.
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Masters of Business Administration in Management,
Ohio University, USA
• Bachelor’s Degree in Engineering, Loughborough
University, United Kingdom
DATO’ ADNAN PAWANTEH
Executive Director, Corporate Affairs
• Gender - Male
• Date of Appointment - 1 April 2020
• Age - 61
• Nationality - Malaysian
Annual Review
55
Our Leadership
Executive Leadership Team
BACKGROUND
Ng Su Yen first started out in Nestlé Malaysia in 2004, as a
Field Sales Executive under the New Talent Management
programme. She was then transferred to the Head Office in
Brand Management MILO, before joining the MILO Strategic
Business Unit in Vevey, Switzerland in 2011. She then returned
to Malaysia to take up the role of Consumer Marketing Manager
for MILO, before leading the Milks and RTD business as
Business Executive Officer. Su Yen continues to drive the MILO
business as a brand with purpose, advocating grassroot sports
development by partnering with the Ministry of Education and
Ministry of Youth and Sports to promote active lifestyles and
impart important life values, ensuring that MILO remains a
much-loved brand amongst Malaysians and Singaporeans.
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Masters of Business, University of New South Wales,
Australia
• Bachelor of Business, University of Technology, Sydney,
Australia
NG SU YEN
Business Executive Officer, MILO
• Gender - Female
• Date of Appointment - 1 January 2020
• Age - 44
• Nationality - Malaysian
BACKGROUND
Geetha Balakrishna commenced her career with Nestlé
Malaysia as a Management Trainee in 1988. She later left the
Company and joined Mattel, Inc. where she took on a number
of marketing and commercial leadership positions, before
moving on to Cerebos Pacific Ltd in Singapore. In 2011, she
returned to Nestlé as Marketing Director for Food and Dairy
at Nestlé Singapore, before transferring to Nestlé Philippines
as Business Executive Manager for the MAGGI Food business
in 2014 and later finally returning to Malaysia as Foods
BEO in 2017. Geetha firmly believes in shaping brands with
a purpose, and she is especially passionate about women
empowerment. Reflecting this, she led the MAGGI team to
establish the Program Mentor Wanita Cukup Berani, which
is aimed at encouraging women to step out of their comfort
zones and providing opportunities for upskilling and building
self-confidence.
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Management Degree (Hons), Universiti Sains
Malaysia
GEETHA BALAKRISHNA
Business Executive Officer, Foods
• Gender - Female
• Date of Appointment - 1 January 2020
• Age - 58
• Nationality - Malaysian
BACKGROUND
Salman Nazir commenced his career with Nestlé Pakistan in
1993 as a Management Trainee. He then helmed positions
in areas such as Factory Controlling, Project Management,
IT, Procurement and Supply Chain Management prior to his
appointment as a Procurement Specialist at Nestec S.A.,
Switzerland in 2002. Upon his return to Nestlé Pakistan in
2004, he was appointed Corporate Procurement Manager and
subsequently, Head of Supply Chain. Thereafter, Nestlé South
Africa welcomed Salman as Supply Chain Director in 2014.
ACADEMIC/ PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Science Degree, Punjab University Lahore,
Pakistan
• Certified Management Accountant, Institute of Cost and
Management Accountants of Pakistan
• Executive Development Course, International Institute for
Management Development, Lausanne, Switzerland
• Organisational Leadership Course, London Business
School, United Kingdom
SALMAN NAZIR
Executive Director, Supply Chain
• Gender - Male
• Date of Appointment - 1 February 2018
• Age - 59
• Nationality - Pakistani
56
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
NESTLÉ LEADERSHIP TEAM
Our Leadership
The Nestlé Leadership Team (NLT) continued to play an active role in key initiatives and events in 2022, taking part in corporate and brand-
related engagements as well as sustainability programmes.
Juan Aranols planting corals in Pulau Mabul, Sabah, together with Nestlé Cares volunteers.
[Far left] Lam Pui Yuee, [fourth from left] Juan Aranols, [far right] Chew Soi Ping and Empire
Project representatives distributing essential school supplies to students at St. Michael’s
Secondary School in Sandakan, Sabah.
[From left] Raef Labaki, Syed Saiful Islam and Laurent Therond contributing step counts at the
NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS WAMM 2022 activation.
Dato’ Adnan Pawanteh hosting an international delegation from the Indian Women Network of the
Confederation of Indian Industry at our head office in Selangor.
Annual Review
57
[From left] Geetha Balakrishna, Silvin See, Juan Aranols and Teo Heng Keat presenting the
Company’s range of sustainable packaging innovations across multiple brands.
Su Yen flaunting her balancing skill after the surf
skating workshop at the Malaysia Boleh Bersama
MILO event.
[From left] Alessandro Monica and Juan Aranols taking
[first from right] Remy Ejel, CEO of Zone AOA on a tour of
the Sri Muda Factory.
[Centre] Juan Aranols, [second from right] Lam Pui Yuee and Dato’ Dr. Aljafri Abdul Majid,
Chairman of YJM launching NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS WAMM 2022.
[From left] April Wong, Juan Aranols and Dato’ Adnan Pawanteh unveiling the
Company’s latest sustainable packaging solution of high-quality rPET bottles for RTD
products, as well as paper cluster packaging.
Our Leadership
Nestlé Leadership Team
58
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Our Leadership
Nestlé Leadership Team
[Fourth from right] Mitzie Antonio and other HR colleagues proud to win at the GRADUAN Brand
Awards 2022.
[From left] Geetha Balakrishna, Chew Soi Ping and Juan Aranols playfully getting MAGGI orders
during the MAGGI SAH Malaysia campaign launch, a celebration of culinary heritage behind the
local food operators across the nation.
[From left: Salman Nazir, Frédéric Porchet, Remy Ejel and Juan Aranols] ‘Jom Juara, Menang
Bersama’ spirit in action during the visit of Remy Ejel.
[Far right] Frédéric Porchet kicking off the KIT KAT Dark Cookies roadshow with our Sales
colleagues.
Annual Review
59
Our Leadership
Nestlé Leadership Team
NLTs doing their part in the Nestlé Cares Tree Planting Day through Project RELeaf, a reforestation initiative in Malaysia contributing to Nestlé’s global pledge to achieve zero net greenhouse gas emissions
by 2050.
April Wong, Frédéric Porchet, Jason Jezewski
Floriane Novello, Kenny Wong Eu Khean Chew Soi Ping, Raef Labaki Teo Heng Keat
Chow Phee Chat, Mitzie Antonio,
Tengku Ida Adura, Lam Pui Yuee
Tengku Ida Adura, Mitzie Antonio, Floriane Novello, Kenny Wong Eu Khean, Chow Phee Chat,
Laurent Therond
60
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Corporate Information
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
YAM Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed Anwar
Jamalullail
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Mr Chin Kwai Fatt
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Hamidah Naziadin
Independent Non-Executive Director
Datin Sri Azlin Arshad
Independent Non-Executive Director
YM Dr Tunku Alina Raja Muhd Alias
Independent Non-Executive Director
Juan Aranols
Executive Director
Chief Executive Officer
Syed Saiful Islam
Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
(appointed on 1 August 2022)
Craig Connolly
Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
(resigned on 1 August 2022)
 
BOARD COMMITTEES
Audit Committee
Chairman
Mr Chin Kwai Fatt
Members
YAM Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed Anwar Jamalullail
Datin Sri Azlin Arshad
Governance, Nomination and Compensation
Committee
Chairman
YAM Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed Anwar Jamalullail
Members
Dato’ Hamidah Naziadin
YM Dr Tunku Alina Raja Muhd Alias
COMPANY SECRETARY
Tengku Ida Adura Tengku Ismail
(MACS 01686) (SSM PC No.: 201908001581)
Tel : +603 7965 6000
Fax : +603 7962 7213
E-mail : CompanySecretary.Nestle@my.nestle.com
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Syed Saiful Islam
Chief Financial Officer
Tel : +603 7965 6000
E-mail : InvestorRelations.Malaysia@my.nestle.com
 
REGISTERED OFFICE
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Registration No.: 198301015532 (110925-W)
Level 22, 1 Powerhouse
No. 1, Persiaran Bandar Utama
Bandar Utama
47800 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 7965 6000
Fax : +603 7965 6767
Company Website
www.nestle.com.my
SHARE REGISTRAR
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 197101000970 (11324-H)
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel : +603 2783 9299
Fax : +603 2783 9222
E-mail : is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com
AUDITORS
Ernst & Young PLT
(Firm No. LLP022760-LCA & AF 0039)
Chartered Accountants
Level 23A, Menara Milenium
Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara
50490 Kuala Lumpur
Tel : +603 7495 8000
Fax : +603 2095 5332
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad
Registration No.: 198401015221 (127776-V)
Malayan Banking Berhad
Registration No.: 196001000142 (3813-K)
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad
Registration No.: 200301033577 (635998-W)
Stock Code : 4707
Stock Name : NESTLÉ
Annual Review
61
Corporate Directory
HEAD OFFICE
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Registration No.: 198301015532 (110925-W)
Level 22, 1 Powerhouse
No. 1, Persiaran Bandar Utama
Bandar Utama
47800 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 7965 6000
Fax : +603 7965 6767
Consumer Services
1 800 88 3433
Website
www.nestle.com.my
Facebook
www.facebook.com/Nestle.Malaysia
Instagram
@nestle.malaysia
DISTRIBUTION CENTRE
Nestlé Products Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 197901000966 (45229-H)
Lot 7316 (PT3609)
Jalan Klang-Banting
Mukim Telok Panglima Garang
42500 Telok Panglima Garang
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 3123 3000
Fax : +603 3123 3001
FACTORIES
Shah Alam Complex
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
PT 927, Jalan Playar 15/1
Seksyen 15, 40200 Shah Alam
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 5522 5600
Fax : +603 5522 5999
Batu Tiga
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
PT 927, Jalan Playar 15/1
Seksyen 15, 40200 Shah Alam
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 5522 5600
Fax : +603 5510 6263
Sri Muda
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
PT 927, Jalan Playar 15/1
Seksyen 15, 40200 Shah Alam
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 5520 6400
Fax : +603 5520 6500
Chembong
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
Lot 691, Jalan Perusahaan Utama
Kawasan Perindustrian Chembong
71300 Rembau
Negeri Sembilan Darul Khusus
Tel : +606 686 3900
Fax : +606 686 4080
Chembong (Ice Cream)
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
Lot 3857 – 3862 Jalan Perusahaan 4
Kawasan Perindustrian Chembong
71300 Rembau
Negeri Sembilan Darul Khusus
Tel : +606 686 3900
Fax : +606 686 4095
Kuching
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
Lot 844, Block 7 Muara Tebas Land District
Estet Perindustrian Demak Laut
93450 Kuching Sarawak
Tel : +6082 472 800
Fax : +6082 472 999
Cover
Printed on FSC® Certified Mix
Credit 300gsm
Snow White
Text
Printed on FSC® Certified Mix
Credit 120gsm
AA Print
NESTLÉ (MALAYSIA) BERHAD
Registration No.: 198301015532 (110925-W)
Level 22, 1 Powerhouse
No.1, Persiaran Bandar Utama, Bandar Utama
47800 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Malaysia
Tel (+603) 7965 6000
Fax (+603) 7965 6767
Nestlé Consumer Services Free Phone
1-800-88-3433
Facebook
www.facebook.com/Nestle.Malaysia
Website
www.nestle.com.my
