ANNUAL REVIEW 2023
Good food Good life, everyday everywhere
Unlocking the power of food
to enhance quality of life for everyone,
today and for generations to come.
Our Annual Reporting Suite 2
Basis of This Report 3
Creating Shared Value 10
Message from Our Chairman and Our CEO 12
Management Discussion and Analysis 15
Our Product Portfolio 20
Our Business Review 22
Corporate Information 62
Notice of Annual General Meeting 64
Corporate Directory 63
Proxy Form
Our Business
Our Presence
Nestlé Leadership Organisation Structure
Fast Facts
Awards and Achievements
Business Value Creation Model
4 - 9
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Executive Leadership Team
Nestlé Leadership Team
46 - 61
Inside This Report
Guided by our purpose to unlock the power of food to enhance quality of life for everyone, today and for generations to
come, Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad stands firm as the nation’s leading food and beverage (F&B) manufacturer. With more
than 110 years of delivering Good food, Good life to Malaysians, we remain steadfast in our journey of sustainable growth,
underpinned by our Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) agenda. This enables us to ensure that we stay the course
in our long-term strategy to generate value, while continuing to make a positive difference as a force for good in the world.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
2 Our Annual Reporting Suite
As a cornerstone of good corporate governance, transparency is fundamental to Nestlé’s approach to maintaining the trust
and confidence of our shareholders and stakeholders. In all our communications and engagements, we are committed to
ensuring that we uphold this trust by providing clear, comprehensive and accurate information.
Corporate Governance & Financial Report 2023
Book 1 Book 2
Offers an in-depth perspective
of our business performance,
financial performance and brand
achievements, alongside highlighting
our ESG agenda as further elaborated
in Book 2 and Book 3, as well as
capital management and value
creation activities.
Provides the Group’s financial
statements for the year, the robust
frameworks and best practices
adopted for corporate governance,
and discloses potential risks and our
strategic risk management approach.
Annual Review 2023 Nestlé in Society Report 2023 Book 3
Presents the Group’s sustainability
performance and advancement of
our ESG agenda, with a focus on
material areas and progress achieved
in our goals to continue making a
positive difference in society and for
the planet.
To this end, our Annual Reporting Suite offers a detailed account of the Group’s
performance for the financial year through three dedicated publications. This
enables us to effectively report on our value creation efforts in relation to our
growth strategy, business operations, financial results, corporate governance and
risk management measures, in tandem with our ESG and sustainability approach.
Complementing this, we also release our quarterly financial results to Bursa
Malaysia Securities Berhad (“Bursa Securities”) along with press releases,
which can be found on our corporate website at www.nestle.com.my.
Reporting Framework
• Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
• Corporate Governance Guide by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
• Companies Act 2016
• Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance
• International/Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards
• International Integrated Reporting Framework
• Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards
• International Integrated Reporting Council guidelines
Assurance
• Internal controls and management assurance
• Compliance and internal audit reviews
• External audit by Ernst & Young PLT on financial information
• External audit by Ernst & Young PLT on the Nestlé in Society Report 2023
Reporting Scope and Boundaries
Comprising the reporting period ofJanuary to December 2023, this Annual Report reviews
the performance, operations and activities of Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad (“Company”) and
its subsidiaries (“Group”).
Forward-Looking Statements
This Annual Report may include forward-looking statements that reflect the current
views, plans, and objectives regarding the Company’s operations and business. These
statements are inherently subject to potential risks and uncertainties, which could lead to
actual outcomes differing materially from what is expressed or implied. The Group is under
no obligation to update or revise these statements, whether due to new developments,
future events, or other factors.
Online Annual
Reporting Suite
Scan the QR code or visit
nes.tl/AnnualReportMY
to view our 2023 Annual
Reporting Suite online.
Scan me
Annual Review
3
Basis of This Report
Icons in This Report
Directs readers to pages or other supplementary
reports with more information
Annual Review 2023 Nestlé in Society Report 2023
Corporate Governance & Financial Report 2023
Serving as our primary report, our
2023 Annual Review contains pertinent
information on our priorities and
business performance for the year
under review. Also detailed in the
report are key operational, marketing
and sales initiatives that propelled
us forward.
This is accompanied by the Message from Our
Chairman and Our Chief Executive Officer (CEO),
providing insights into our value creation strategies.
Alongside this is the Management Discussion and
Analysis section, which closely looks at how we
performed both financially and operationally, while
highlighting our sustainability progress, connecting to
our Nestlé in Society Report.
In addition to this, the Business Review section of the
report focuses on the impactful initiatives driven by our
various brands and businesses.
The Annual Review was approved by the Board of
Directors of Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad (“Board”) on
27 February 2024.
AR CGFR NIS
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
4 Our Business
OUR PRESENCE
Nestlé has grown with
Malaysia for over a
century, touching the
lives of generations of
Malaysians. We have
continued to maintain
the trust of consumers by
upholding our promise
of delivering Good
food, Good life through
our diverse portfolio of
relevant offerings. This is
enabled by our nationwide
presence, featuring six
manufacturing sites and a
network of 58 sales offices
spread strategically across
Malaysia. Overseeing
operations from our
headquarters in Selangor,
Nestlé remains committed
to ensuring a steady
supply of high-quality and
nutritious products that
also meet Malaysians’
expectations for taste
and are well-attuned to
evolving lifestyles for years
to come.
Sales Offices
Head Office Factories Others
Sarawak
Sabah
Selangor
Head Office
3 Factories
13 Sales Offices
1 NESPRESSO Nano Boutique
1 Nestlé Distribution Centre
Kuala Lumpur
1 Sales Office
1 NESPRESSO Boutique
1 NESPRESSO Nano Boutique
Negeri Sembilan
2 Factories
4 Sales Offices
Melaka
2 Sales Offices
Johor
9 Sales Offices
Perak
6 Sales Offices
Penang
4 Sales Offices
1 NESPRESSO Nano Boutique
Kedah
2 Sales Offices
Pahang
6 Sales Offices
Perlis
1 Sales Office
Terengganu
1 Sales Office
Kelantan
3 Sales Offices
Sarawak
1 Factory
4 Sales Offices
Sabah
2 Sales Offices
Perlis
Melaka
Kedah
Perak
Johor
Pahang
Terengganu
Kelantan
Negeri Sembilan
Kuala Lumpur
Selangor
Penang
Annual Review
5
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Juan Aranols
Our Business
NESTLÉ LEADERSHIP ORGANISATION STRUCTURE
as at March 2024
Business Executive Officer, NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL
Yit Woon Lai
Business Executive Officer, NESTLÉ HEALTH SCIENCE
Pablo Mazzoletti
Business Executive Officer, NESPRESSO
Floriane Novello
Business Executive Officer, Nestlé Breakfast Cereal
Norkhayati Mohamed Hashini
REGIONALLY & GLOBALLY MANAGED BUSINESSES
Business Executive Officer, MILO
Ng Su Yen
Business Executive Officer, Foods
Ivy Tan
Business Executive Officer, Coffee
Raef Labaki
Business Executive Officer, Ready-to-Drink
Frédéric Porchet
Business Executive Officer, Dairy & Adult Nutrition
Wong Eu Khean
Business Executive Officer, Nestlé Nutrition
Yeoh She Shiang
Business Executive Officer, Ice Cream
April Wong
Business Executive Officer, Confectionery
Carlota Casellas
LOCALLY MANAGED BUSINESSES
Chief Financial Officer
Syed Saiful Islam
Executive Director, Corporate Affairs
Dato’ Adnan Pawanteh
Executive Director, Technical & Production
Xolile White
Executive Director, Supply Chain
Anurag Dwivedi
Executive Director, Legal & Secretarial
Tengku Ida Adura Tengku Ismail
Executive Director, Human Resources
Carmen Melissa Antonio
Executive Director, Sales
Teo Heng Keat
Executive Director, Communications &
Marketing Services
Chow Phee Chat
(operating out of Singapore)
Head of Corporate Innovation & Renovation,
Insights & Marketing Excellence
Lam Pui Yuee
CORPORATE FUNCTIONS
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
6 Our Business
FAST FACTS
Buatan Malaysia,
Untuk Rakyat
Malaysia
RM13 million
contributed
to uplifting
communities & relief
efforts in 2023
Head Office in
Bandar Utama,
Petaling Jaya, Selangor
Biggest Halal
producer in the
Nestlé world
as at 31 December 2023
Market capitalisation of
RM7.1 billion
RM27.6 billion
in 2023
Turnover of
100%
Employs
Malaysian manufacturing workforce
Operating commercially in Malaysia since 1912
OUR PORTFOLIO
MILO
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
READY-TO-DRINK
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
FOODS
NUTRITION
ICE CREAM
COFFEE
HEALTH SCIENCE
CONFECTIONERY
6
Operates
and 1 national
distribution centre
Factories
Employs
people as of 31 December 2023
5,336
Public listed on
Bursa Malaysia since
Wide Portfolio of Over 500
Made-In-Malaysia
Halal-Certified Products,
including household brands such as
MILO, MAGGI, and NESCAFÉ
1989
Annual Review
7
AWARDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS
received in 2023
Our Business
4. LazMall Best Brand Partnership Award
Nestlé Malaysia was recognised for its outstanding brand
partnership with Lazada at the LazMall Brands Future Forum
2023. Benchmarked against key success metrics such as store
operations, commercial tools adoption, and engagement-driving
campaigns, the award acknowledged Nestlé’s commitment to
quality, creativity and customer satisfaction.
5. ESG Positive Impact Awards 2023
Nestlé Malaysia received two Gold awards at the inaugural ESG
Positive Impact Awards 2023 organised by The Star Media Group.
Reflecting its deep commitment to ESG values, the Company
was recognised in the social category for Relations with Local
Communities, primarily for the NESCAFÉ Grown Respectfully
programme, and in the Environmental category for Water
Management and Efficiency, for its eco-friendly initiatives in
effective water management at its manufacturing sites.
6. The Edge Billion Ringgit Club (BRC) Corporate Awards 2023
(Return on Equity)
Nestlé Malaysia was crowned with top honours in the
Big Cap Companies category at the prestigious The Edge
BRC Corporate Awards 2023. Recognised for delivering the
highest return on equity over a three-year period, the BRC award
highlights Nestlé’s outstanding performance and financial success.
1. Kantar BrandZ Footprint Award 2023
Perennial favourites MILO and MAGGI continued to capture
the hearts of Malaysians by securing lead positions in the
Kantar BrandZ Awards’ top 10 ranking, with MILO as the
Most Chosen Brand in Malaysia’s Beverage sector and MAGGI
claiming the number one spot in the Food sector. Kantar
rankings reflect brand popularity through Consumer Reach
Points for frequent selection by shoppers. The Brand Footprint
report emphasised the top-of-mind awareness for both brands
in consumers’ purchase decisions.
2. MILO Trophy
MILO in Malaysia seized victory in the global MILO Trophy
2022 award, specifically in the Expanders & Establisher League
categories. With 34 years of excellence in strategy and execution
across Nestlé’s zones worldwide, the award celebrated MILO in
Malaysia’s success in boosting consumption and brand loyalty
through diverse campaigns and community-based sports
programmes, emphasising MILO’s nutritious energy proposition.
3. Marketing-Interactive: The Loyalty & Engagement Awards
2023
Demonstrating the Company’s capability to consistently
elevate customer engagement, Nestlé Malaysia triumphed at
the 2023 Loyalty & Engagement Awards, winning three Gold
awards. This included Best Use of Technology, Best Use of
Relationship Marketing – B2C, and Best Use of Consumer
Insights/Data Analytics, showcasing Nestlé Malaysia’s
expertise in leveraging technology and data analytics to drive
lasting loyalty.
7. National Annual Corporate Report Awards (NACRA) 2023
Nestlé Malaysia received two Silver awards at NACRA 2023
for Best Sustainability Reporting and Best Designed Annual
Report. The awards highlighted the Company’s long-term value
creation and information quality in sustainability reporting,
as well as excellence in creativity and layout for effective
communication in annual reporting.
8. Randstad Employer Brand Awards (REBR)
Nestlé Malaysia secured the top spot for the second consecutive
year in the REBR Awards, reaffirming its status as a preferred
employer in Malaysia. An independent global survey, REBR
evaluates brand awareness and relative attractiveness, gathering
insights from 5,944 companies and 160,000 individuals across
31 countries.
9. Graduates’ Choice Award (GCA) 2023
Nestlé Malaysia marked a significant milestone as the
#1 Preferred Employer in the Fast-Moving Consumer Goods
(FMCG) sector at GCA 2023, with an impressive 464,220
votes from university students. Relying entirely on the votes
of students, the award recognises Nestlé Malaysia’s strong
graduate employer branding appeal among the future workforce.
10. GRADUAN Brand Awards 2023
Nestlé Malaysia was the second runner-up in the FMCG sector
at the esteemed GRADUAN Brand Awards 2023. The Company
garnered a noteworthy 74,619 votes from university students.
11. Malaysia’s 100 Leading Graduates Employer Award (M100)
2023
Nestlé Malaysia was named top Graduate Employer of
Choice in the FMCG sector for the 11th consecutive year. The
prestigious recognition stems from the votes of 37,380 students
and graduates across Malaysian universities nationwide who
participated in the M100 2023 survey, further demonstrating
the Company’s strong appeal and reputation among emerging
employees.
1 2
8 10
7 11
5
Annual Review
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
8 9
FINANCIAL
CAPITAL
(as at 31 December 2023)
Ensuring strategic utilisation of our capital and funding to deliver relevant products to consumers, protect the
wellbeing of our employees, support communities in need and fulfil our ESG commitment to sustainable growth.
• Market capitalisation : RM27.6 billion
• Shareholder equity : RM674.9 million
• Share capital : RM267.5 million
• Total assets : RM3.57 billion
HUMAN
CAPITAL
Harnessing the strength of our skilled and diverse talent pool to create shared value for stakeholders across
our value chain.
• 5,336 employees across the organisation
• 36% female employee representation
• 100% local manufacturing workforce
• Extensive range of online and offline training and development programmes
OPERATIONAL
CAPITAL
Continuous investment to scale up our operational capabilities and uphold the quality and safety of our products.
• Six factories across Malaysia
• Adhere to the highest food safety and quality standards (i.e., ISO 9001:2015, FSSC 22000, GLOBE Quality Monitoring
Scheme, Quality Compliance Verification)
• Nestlé’s Global Halal Centre of Excellence
• Largest Nestlé Distribution Centre in Asia located in Selangor, equipped with cutting-edge digital technology at our
Transportation Hubs
SALES &
MARKETING
CAPITAL
Propelling growth through effective market strategies and sales execution.
• Strategic product distribution across geographies and channels
• Leading impactful engagements to sustain brand love among consumers
• Ensuring Nestlé brands remain top-of-mind among Malaysians through relevant marketing campaigns
SOCIAL &
RELATIONSHIP
CAPITAL
Proactively addressing material matters that influence our business performance, which strengthens
stakeholder trust.
• Supporting more sustainable and healthier lifestyles among consumers by continuing to deliver relevant and
affordable product innovations
• Utilising the Nestlé Nutritional Profiling System to clearly convey the nutritional value of our food and beverages
• Uplifting local farming communities through the expansion of our Farmer Connect programmes
NATURAL
CAPITAL
Protecting, renewing and restoring natural resources to contribute to a more sustainable future.
• Spearheading the development and adoption of sustainable product packaging solutions to minimise plastic waste
• Leveraging our resources to reduce the impact of climate change across our value chain
1
Driving
sustainable and
profitable growth
2
Continue nurturing
love and trust in
our brands
3
Enhancing
capabilities for
the future
4
Leading the
industry towards a
greener future
OUR INPUT
Our Business
Business Value Creation Model
HOW WE SHARE THE VALUE WE CREATE
OUR VALUE CHAIN OUR OUTPUT
Shareholders & Investors
Ensure competitive returns and
stable investment propositions
for our valued shareholders and
investors.
1
Employees
Foster a fair and equitable
working environment that enables
professional and personal
development for all employees.
2
Communities
Enhance livelihoods of rural
communities by providing
opportunities to increase and
diversify sources of income.
3
Customers & Retailers
Provide an extensive range of
products to meet the needs and
preferences of consumers.
4
Consumers & General Public
Encourage healthier lifestyles
among Malaysians by delivering
nutritious, delicious products
along with initiatives that
prioritise nutrition, active
lifestyles, and sustainability.
5
Government, Regulatory
Bodies & Non-Governmental
Organisations (NGOs)
Ensuring responsible operations
across the value chain and
promoting socioeconomic
development by providing
employment opportunities and
investing in communities.
6
OUR STRATEGY
Our Business
BUSINESS VALUE CREATION MODEL
OUR IMPACT AREAS
Unlocking the power of food to
enhance quality of life for everyone,
today and for generations to come.
CONTRIBUTING TO
NUTRITIOUS AND
SUSTAINABLE
DIETS
HELPING TO
PROTECT, RENEW
AND RESTORE
NATURAL
RESOURCES
STRENGTHENING
COMMUNITIES
OPERATING
RESPONSIBLY
Recording a robust business performance amidst economic volatility.
• Profit after tax : RM659.9 million
• Revenue : RM7.1 billion
• Total proposed dividend payout : RM2.68 per share
• Basic earnings per share : RM2.81
• Total dividends paid and proposed : RM628.5 million
Suppliers
FINANCIAL
CAPITAL
Driving the sustainable growth ofthe business by investing in technology and nurturing an inclusive and highly skilled workforce.
• Received industry recognition as a top employer of choice, including the GCA 2023 as Preferred Employer in the FMCG sector
and Graduate Employer of Choice in the FMCG sector for the 11th consecutive year
• 53% leadership positions held by women
• Increasing female representation in Sales, Supply Chain and Technical & Production
• High participation of employees in training and development programmes with a cumulative attendance of 33,289 achieved
Factories
HUMAN
CAPITAL
Upholding best practices in manufacturing to produce innovative products that meet the highest standards in hygiene,
quality, safety and sustainability.
• First Nestlé Plant-Based Meal Solutions (PBMS) manufacturing facility in Southeast Asia
• Portfolio of over 500 high-quality, Halal-certified products
• Export to more than 50 countries worldwide
• Utilising Transportation Hubs to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 1,000 tonnes per annum
Transportation
& Warehouses
OPERATIONAL
CAPITAL
Amplifying brand relevance and fostering stronger consumer ties to support sustained business growth.
• MILO and MAGGI clinched the prestigious Kantar BrandZ Footprint Awards 2023, securing their position as the Most
Preferred Brand in the Malaysian Beverages Sector and Food Sector, respectively
• Strong sales execution and diverse product portfolio encompassing nine food and beverage categories
• Implementing engaging marketing campaigns both offline and online to strengthen our connection with Malaysians
Marketing
& Sales
SALES &
MARKETING
CAPITAL
Upholding ESG commitments focused on nutrition, health, wellness, rural development and the empowerment of
underserved communities.
• Provided nutrition education and promoted active lifestyles to over 149,000 students through Nestlé for Healthier Kids since
2010
• 32% of our product portfolio is certified with the Ministry of Health Malaysia’s (MoH) Healthier Choice Logo (HCL)
• Improved the livelihoods of 240 farmers through our Farmer Connect programmes
Consumers
SOCIAL &
RELATIONSHIP
CAPITAL
Delivering our commitments towards environmental stewardship.
• Planted 1 million trees through Kinabatangan RiLeaf Project
• On track towards target of planting 3 million trees by 2025 under Project RELeaf with 1.5 million trees planted
• 75% of our total plastic packaging is designed for recycling
Raw Materials
NATURAL
CAPITAL
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
10 Creating Shared Value
We strive to enrich lives through our trusted brands, offering a diverse portfolio of high-quality, nutritious products that anticipate and cater to evolving consumer needs. We are committed to delivering
long-term value to our stakeholders, namely our employees, partners, farmers and suppliers throughout the value chain, whose collective efforts support the sustainable growth of our business as well as
ensuring sustainable total shareholder returns. We are equally dedicated to safeguarding natural resources and preserving precious ecosystems.
Aligning our commitments with the United Nations’ (UN) 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), we amplify our impact by consistently benchmarking our progress against them. Driven by the passion of
a strong workforce and fuelled by the success of over 30 brands, we are dedicated to uplifting individuals and communities across the nation and shaping a brighter, more sustainable future for Malaysians.
As the Good food, Good life company, Nestlé Malaysia continues to be guided by our Creating Shared Value (CSV) approach. Embedded in
our DNA, this guides us in being a force for good in the world by conducting our business operations in a manner that generates value for
the Company, society and the planet.
Empowering consumers to meet
nutritional needs by leveraging our deep
expertise and Research & Development
(R&D) capabilities, delivering great-
tasting, innovative products that are
nutritious, accessible and affordable to
people from all walks of life.
Contributing to
Nutritious and
Sustainable
Diets
Operating
Responsibly
Fostering a culture of ethics, integrity
and inclusivity, nurturing a safe
and healthy working environment
that empowers our employees to
realise their full potential and propel
sustainable business growth.
Strengthening
Communities
Building resilient communities
and supply chains through rural
development initiatives that enhance
livelihoods, complemented by
community outreach programmes
that uplift the underprivileged.
Helping
to Protect,
Renew, and
Restore Natural
Resources
Optimising the usage of natural
resources across our operations, while
spearheading innovative solutions to
minimise our environmental footprint
and address pressing challenges
such as climate change and plastic
pollution.
Enhanced outdoor workspace with the added convenience of
light refreshments to keep our employees refreshed and focused
throughout the day.
One of the professional coaches at the MILO Champions Clinic
providing coaching to children between the ages of 7 to 12. Cultivating a diverse and inclusive workforce.
Annual Review
11
OUR FOCUS AREAS
We unlock the power of food to enhance quality of life for
everyone, today and for generations to come.
We are committed to supporting the UN SDGs through our dedicated efforts to help realise these global objectives.
Details of our contributions towards achieving the SDGs can be found in our comprehensive 2023 Annual Reporting Suite.
Contributing to Nutritious and
Sustainable Diets
Helping to Protect, Renew and
Restore Natural Resources
Strengthening
Communities
Operating
Responsibly
Improving quality of life for individuals and
families by providing accessible, nutritious,
and sustainable choices.
Nutrition
Minimising our environmental footprint and
contributing to a future where natural resources
are conserved for generations to come.
Produced Sustainably
Human Rights
Nature & Biodiversity
Climate
Packaging & Circularity
Water
Cultivating a positive business environment
that empowers our employees to make
sustainable decisions, driving responsible
growth for our Company.
Our People
Enhancing the wellbeing of communities and
enabling a just transition towards regenerative
practices.
Creating Shared Value
Youth Opportunities
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
12
Dear Shareholders,
“Against an external environment
impacted by geopolitical uncertainties,
multiple crises, elevated commodity
prices, foreign exchange volatility, and
inflation, the Malaysian economy saw
moderate growth in 2023 on the back
of the economic recovery post-COVID.
In this new normal, Nestlé Malaysia
successfully delivered another year
of solid financial results and progress
in its ESG commitments. With the
promise of Good food, Good life as our
guiding compass, we continued to
lead the industry, driving innovation,
holistic portfolio performance and
solid shareholder returns.”
Message from Our Chairman and Our CEO
YAM Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed Anwar Jamalullail
Chairman (Right)
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer (Left)
Annual Review
13
Message from Our Chairman and Our CEO
Forging Ahead Through Volatility
The global economy in 2023 was marked by a slow recovery, hampered by various challenges
including weaker global demand and tightening fiscal policies across regional economies. Inflation
remained a concern, compounded by rising commodity prices and volatile foreign exchange
markets. Nevertheless, while food commodity prices were higher in the first half of the year, the
situation saw a temporary improvement in the later part of 2023, with 2024 showing signs of
renewed tension in key commodities such as coffee and cocoa.
Malaysia showcased its resilience during the year as the nation’s economic recovery continued
and consumer spending was stable, supported by improving labour market conditions. This
stability supported the growth of the F&B industry, although cost pressures persisted. Amid this
environment, Nestlé Malaysia forged ahead by continuing to provide relevant and accessible
options for all segments of consumers through our portfolio of extensive products and well-
established brands investments which continue to deliver on Malaysians’ taste, quality, and
lifestyle expectations.
Growth Founded in ESG & Sustainability
Our sustainable growth trajectory is underpinned by our unwavering commitment to ESG principles
and sustainability, which is evident in our operations, the products we deliver and the positive
impact we strive to create for society and the planet.
Our drive to expand adoption of plant-based meals and drinks reflects our efforts to lead the
transition to more nutritionally balanced and environmentally-sustainable diets, while delivering in
taste expectations. During the year, we increased our plant-based offerings under the HARVEST
GOURMET brand, as well as launched the NESTLÉ GOODNES brand. Catering to the rising
demand for nutritious and environmentally conscious choices, our growing plant-based portfolio
provides Malaysians with great-tasting Malaysian-made products that are both better for their
health, and better for the planet.
The Group also made significant strides towards our sustainability goals, implementing sustainable
packaging solutions, and progressing towards our carbon emissions reduction targets. Our
pioneering Project SAVE, the largest voluntary Extended Producer Responsibility (EPR) programme
in Malaysia, achieved remarkable success through our community recycling efforts in partnership
with municipalities of major cities in the Klang Valley, demonstrating our dedication to cultivating
a circular economy for post-consumer packaging. Today, Project SAVE is reaching nearly 200,000
households, making it the largest organised endeavour to drive separation, collection, and
recycling of post-consumer waste.
In line with our Forest Positive strategy, a notable milestone was the positive progress of Project
RELeaf. Combined with Project RiLeaf which concluded in 2020, we have now reached a total of 2.5
million trees planted through our reforestation efforts, on track to hit 4 million trees by mid-2025.
Financial Performance
The Group reported another year of solid growth in 2023, delivering sales of RM7.1 billion,
reflecting a year-on-year increase of 5.8%. This was primarily fuelled by domestic sales, with
our well-established core brands as a key growth driver, in tandem with innovative new offerings
capitalising on emerging consumer trends. Underpinning this was our CSV approach, which
saw the Group empowering communities, spearheading sustainability, and playing a role in
contributing to Malaysia’s economic growth.
[Centre] Juan Aranols with the TDM Plantation (TDMP) team commemorating TDMP as Nestlé Malaysia’s
newest planting partner for Project RELeaf.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
14 Message from Our Chairman and Our CEO
Dividends
Reflecting our commitment to delivering value to our shareholders, we maintained consistent
dividend payments as the Board declared a third interim dividend of RM1.28 per share for the
financial year ended 31 December 2023, 6 sen higher than the previous fiscal year. This brings
total dividends for the year to RM2.68 per share, reaffirming our dedication to providing stable
returns.
Corporate Governance
Adopting well-established best practices and aligning also with the direction of the regulators
in Malaysia, the Group adheres to a very robust corporate governance and risk management
frameworks, ensuring strict compliance, accountability, and transparency across our operations.
These frameworks encompass ESG, sustainability and climate-related risks, recognising the
dynamic nature of sustainability challenges and ensuring they are an integral part of the Group’s
strategic planning and decision-making processes.
In 2023, we further strengthened the Board’s oversight functions to ensure proactive and
effective corporate stewardship, supported by ongoing educational programmes and strategic
alignment reviews. In addition, cognisant of the evolving regulatory environment, we proactively
adopted the enhanced sustainability reporting requirements set forth by Bursa Securities,
embracing comprehensive ESG reporting practices.
The Group also welcomed YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Sultan Abd Halim and Tan Sri
Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin to the Board during the year.
Awards
Nestlé Malaysia’s commitment to excellence was recognised through various prestigious
awards in 2023, spanning categories such as ESG, corporate reporting, employer branding and
brand recognition. Notable accolades included the National Annual Corporate Report Award,
Randstad Employer Brand Awards, GCA 2023, Kantar BrandZ Footprint Award and the ESG
Positive Impact Awards, amongst others.
Outlook
Prospects for the global economy remain uncertain as 2024 is projected to see tighter financial
market conditions, ongoing geopolitical uncertainties, and potential currency volatility. While
inflation is expected to moderate gradually, commodity prices may pose an upside risk.
Nevertheless, Malaysia’s economy is expected to experience moderate growth, supported by
continued domestic demand.
While anticipating that 2024 will present its challenges, Nestlé Malaysia remains committed
and ready to meet these head-on, building on our solid foundation and tapping into emerging
opportunities to ensure sustainable growth. This is supported by our strong local manufacturing
capabilities and diverse product portfolio, positioning us well to navigate the evolving market
landscape, and the more subdued consumer sentiment, to bring positive impact on the
international brands triggered by conflicts and geopolitical crisis.
Regardless of external context, we will continue doing what we have been doing over our
112-year presence in the nation: to uphold the trust of Malaysians through our high-quality,
great-tasting, and nutritious offerings that meet consumer expectations, while creating positive
societal impact. This is driven by a fundamental conviction anchored in a relentless commitment
to the community and the environment.
We are deeply grateful to our Nestlé Malaysia family made up of over 5,000 strong employees,
as well as our partners across the value chain for their support and contributions to the Group.
Working towards a collective purpose, we are single-minded in our goal to shape a brighter,
greener future ahead while delivering up to the high expectations of all our stakeholders.
The Board of Directors of Nestlé Malaysia at the Nestlé Chilli Club farming engagement in Pasir Puteh,
Kelantan, one of our Farmer Connect programmes, supporting rural communities in the East Coast.
Annual Review
15
Management Discussion and Analysis
“In the face of global headwinds and
uncertainties, Nestlé Malaysia demonstrated
continued resilience in 2023, always guided
by our commitment to fulfil the diverse
expectations of Malaysians and reinforce our
trusted position as the Good food, Good life
Company, that is leading the industry transition
in Malaysia towards a greener future.”
FINANCIAL REVIEW
The year 2023 witnessed an economically volatile landscape,
marked by persistent inflationary pressures, heightened
commodity prices and unfavourable exchange rates, as well
as geopolitical tensions, aggravated by the conflicts and
humanitarian crises. Against this background, Nestlé Malaysia
delivered another year of resilient results and progress at
multiple levels. Business growth was primarily driven by local
sales which grew by 9.9%, contributing to a higher turnover of
RM7.1 billion in 2023. As in prior years, this was the result of
our holistic strategy, including robust commercial planning and
execution, successful innovations across brands, and a constant
search for efficiencies to generate the funds needed to continue
investing in our brands.
Supporting this was a strategic array of initiatives, including
targeted campaigns that spanned both traditional offline
channels and digital platforms. Our product innovation and
renovation initiatives further strengthened our portfolio, aligning
it with the evolving preferences of our diverse set of consumers.
Additionally, our commitment to continuous operational efficiency
improvements enabled us to optimise resources and drive cost-
effectiveness throughout our value chain. We also intensified
our ESG agenda, attaining solid progress in key sustainability
programmes during the year, guided by our CSV approach. All
efforts combined, we were able to deliver another year of solid top
line growth, resilient profitability and healthy dividends.
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
16 Management Discussion and Analysis
BUSINESS & OPERATIONAL REVIEW
Nestlé Malaysia’s sustained performance builds on the solid foundation established through our
112-year legacy in the country. On this base, we strive to achieve excellence across all facets
of our operations. Our dedicated teams, spanning across our businesses, manufacturing, sales
and operational functions, work in effective alignment and coordination to propel our Company
forward. Through their relentless efforts, we have maintained our position as the leading FMCG
company in Malaysia.
Driving Sustainable Growth Momentum
Our manufacturing facilities, coupled with a robust nationwide logistics network, have ensured
a seamless and consistent supply of our locally-produced high-quality products to meet the
evolving demands of consumers. Complementing this is our extensive and highly experienced and
committed commercial organisation, which has continued to protect and expand the presence
of our core brands through impactful engagement and strategic demand generation campaigns.
In 2023, we maintained a sharp focus on amplifying consumer excitement and enhancing
accessibility for new products, while scaling up the reach of our market-leading brands to ensure
that they remain top-of-mind for consumers. The introduction of innovative offerings in tandem
with the continued nurturing of our brands has been instrumental in sustaining the relevance of
our portfolio and supporting sales momentum across categories.
Innovation Fuelled by Consumer Insights
By immersing ourselves in the nuanced needs and evolving tastes of our consumers, we can
unlock valuable insights that inspire and inform our product development efforts. These insights
fuel the continuous product innovation that allows our much-loved brands to maintain a strong
presence and relevance in the lives of Malaysians.
Recognising emerging trends towards healthier and more sustainable options, we proactively
expanded our plant-based offerings in 2023. To our HARVEST GOURMET plant-based meals
range as well as our range of Dairy Free drinks under the MILO and NESCAFÉ brands, we have
now added our new NESTLÉ GOODNES brand, providing an even broader range of delicious and
nutritious plant-based choices.
Our commitment to promoting healthier lifestyles was further reflected in our 41 products certified
with the Ministry of Health’s Healthier Choice Logo (HCL), which remains the largest portfolio of
HCL options in the nation, demonstrating our dedication to offering products that support the
wellbeing of Malaysians.
A green wave of enthusiastic participants swept over MBD 2023, as 60,000 participants gathered at
Dataran Wawasan Putrajaya, united by a common goal of prioritising their health and fitness.
We also remained attuned to consumer demand for indulgent and premium offerings, with several
key product innovations that created great interest among consumers. Nestlé MILO Kaw Ice
Cream, KIT KAT Pink Ice Cream, and the limited edition KIT KAT Salted Caramel Cookies created
moments of delight. Additionally, we introduced new innovations that catered specifically to local
taste preferences, such as MAGGI Curry Cube, MAGGI Mi Goreng Laksa Warisan, and MAGGI
Pedas Giler Cheezy Berapi, further solidifying our connection with the diverse culinary preferences
of Malaysians, as well as other multiple innovations across the rest of our portfolio.
Annual Review
17
Management Discussion and Analysis
Deepening Our Bond with Malaysians
We cherish our long-standing bonds with Malaysians through a relentless focus on delivering
high-quality Halal products that meet consumer needs. Upholding this strong promise of quality
and trust, our brands continue to remain relevant through brand activations and meaningful
community engagements spanning decades. During the year, we continued to make a positive
impact on local communities through multiple programmes aimed at uplifting lives.
This included MILO Malaysia Breakfast Day (MBD), the nation’s largest breakfast event which
made a triumphant return in 2023, the first time since the pandemic. Promoting active lifestyles
and nutritious breakfasts, MBD was held in Putrajaya, Sabah, and Sarawak, attracting over 60,000
participants. The event featured activities that highlighted the value of sports as a great teacher,
alongside fostering a sense of community and camaraderie.
MAGGI’s “Wanita Cukup Berani” mentorship programme continued to encourage women to step
beyond their comfort zones to improve their livelihoods. We teamed up again with Google, Meta
and TikTok in 2023 for the Resipi Berani MAGGI series, where women took on culinary challenges
with the opportunity to win RM5,000 in start-up funds. Through expert guidance, they honed their
skills in food preparation, content creation and monetising platforms like TikTok, equipping them
with tools to unlock new possibilities.
Strengthening our collaboration with Majlis Bandaraya Shah Alam and KPT Recycle to make recycling
accessible for more households, further powered by digitalisation with the launch of the 3R Family App.
We also launched the “Air Tangan Kita, Citarasa Malaysia” campaign to celebrate the love
Malaysians have for MAGGI. The campaign highlighted how Malaysians have made MAGGI their
own, adding their personal touch to MAGGI dishes and making them an integral part of local
culinary traditions. With a 100% Malaysian workforce producing MAGGI since 1969, the campaign
portrayed MAGGI as a beloved household brand.
Leading the Industry Transition into a Sustainable Future
We continue to spearhead ESG priorities that create a positive, lasting impact on communities
and the environment. Our efforts are guided by a holistic vision to be a force for good globally,
a comprehensive action covering all relevant SDGs, with particular focus on delivering on our
sustainability commitments.
Through our Project RELeaf reforestation programme, we planted more than 1.5 million trees
during the year and are on track to reach our target of 3 million trees planted by 2025. This initiative
is a testament to our dedication to restoring and preserving Malaysia’s natural ecosystems, as
we work towards mitigating the effects of climate change and promoting the conservation of
biodiversity.
Visitors enjoying freshly made MAGGI Mi Goreng Cili Kampung from our sampling truck at the Malaysia
International Halal Showcase.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
18 Management Discussion and Analysis
Our community recycling programmes, under the banner of Project SAVE, have
made remarkable strides in reducing waste and promoting a circular economy.
Since 2020, we collected over 20,000 tonnes of post-consumer waste from more
than 180,000 households across the Klang Valley. This initiative not only diverts
waste from landfills but also empowers local communities to take an active role
in environmental stewardship.
We made further progress in the reduction of our emissions and in 2023, we
already achieved a 25% reduction from our 2018 baseline, a milestone originally
committed for 2025. Hence, we are on a good path to reduce emissions by 50%
by 2030 and attain net zero latest by 2050.
On a social front, we continued our strong partnership with the Malaysian Red
Crescent Society (MRCS). As its largest private donor, we contributed over RM3.5
million in 2023 to support various humanitarian and flood relief efforts, that aided
thousands of Malaysians in need and also supported MRCS Emergency Relief
Funds for international humanitarian crises.
We also expanded our responsible sourcing efforts by launching the Nestlé Farmer
Connect Responsible Cocoa Sourcing programme in Sarawak in 2023, together
with the Malaysian Cocoa Board (MCB). Along with our existing sustainable
programmes for chilli, rice and coffee, these Farmer Connect initiatives encourage
local ingredient sourcing, thereby bolstering Malaysia’s food security while
promoting regenerative agriculture methods that best preserve the quality of the
soil and help to ensure the endurance and resilience of farming activities.
Fostering an Agile, Inclusive Culture for the Future
We firmly believe that fostering an agile, equitable culture that champions
employee wellbeing and development is a cornerstone for future success. A
diverse and inclusive environment is non-negotiable and essential to continue
being the employer of choice for many Malaysians.
To this end, we have been proactively strengthening female leadership through
our Gender Balance Acceleration Plan. This initiative aims to create a level playing
field, enabling talented women to ascend to leadership roles. Furthermore, we
have maintained a strong commitment to Gender Pay Equality. Nestlé Malaysia’s
gender pay gap has been fundamentally closed, resulting from our commitment
to fair and equal pay practice, ensuring that talent and performance are rewarded
equitably, regardless of gender.
Recognising that employee wellbeing is paramount, we
introduced new programmes in 2023 dedicated to support their
health on both a physical and mental level. These initiatives are
designed to provide our workforce with the skills and resources
needed to adopt a healthy lifestyle, find better work-life balance,
and cultivate a culture of care and mutual support.
By fostering an inclusive culture that values employee
development, wellbeing and diversity, we are building a resilient
foundation that will enable us to navigate the challenges of the
future and enable the Group to continue to thrive. Last but not
least, we encourage employee involvement in our Nestlé Cares
Volunteering platform, with hundreds of them having joined our
activities throughout the year.
Investing in the Next Era of Growth
We have continued to invest in our industrial footprint and
capabilities. With capital expenditure of RM1 billion allocated for
the 2023-2025 investment cycle, we are focused on heightening
our competitiveness and driving sustainable expansion across
our operations and product portfolio. This significant investment
showcases the Company’s commitment to Malaysia, as Nestlé
S.A. maintains Nestlé Malaysia as a key strategic platform in the
global Nestlé Industrial Network.
Fostering a diverse and inclusive workforce, where every individual’s unique talents and perspectives are valued and
celebrated.
With capital expenditure
of RM1 billion allocated
for the 2023-2025
investment cycle, we are
focused on heightening
our competitiveness
and driving sustainable
expansion across our
operations and product
portfolio.”
“
Annual Review
19
Management Discussion and Analysis
Coming together for a good cause, 150 Nestlé Cares and MRCS volunteers helped to assemble 4,000 food relief boxes to be distributed to individuals and families in Temporary Relocation Centres and affected homes
throughout the East Coast.
In 2023, we channelled investments into upgrading our manufacturing facilities and to expand our
production capacity. This includes embarking on the upgrading and expansion of our Batu Tiga
Culinary Line in our Shah Alam Complex and Ice Cream Plant in our Chembong Factory. These
ongoing initiatives are vital to ensure that we can meet the growing demand for our high-quality
products and stay ahead of the curve in an increasingly competitive landscape. By enhancing
our manufacturing capabilities, optimising processes and leveraging cutting-edge technologies,
we are well-positioned to deliver products that exceed the evolving expectations of Malaysian
consumers. Our dedication to continuous improvement across our operations will enable us to
strengthen our market leadership and deliver value to our stakeholders for years to come.
CONCLUSION
2023 was ultimately another year plentiful with both opportunities and challenges, that was
successfully managed by our teams to deliver another solid year. Amid uncertainties and market
volatility, our team stood firm, remaining committed to our mission of Good food, Good life. This
enabled us to deliver a strong performance, driving growth momentum alongside advancing
our commitment to positively impact individuals, families, communities and the environment.
Moving forward, we look ahead to 2024 with optimism, ready to navigate challenges while seizing
opportunities to grow and better serve the needs of all Malaysians, while continuing to deliver on
the key milestones of our Sustainability Roadmap.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
20 Our Product Portfolio
As the Good food,
Good life company, we
have an unwavering
commitment to deliver
on our purpose of
unlocking the power
of food to enhance
quality of life for
everyone, today and for
generations to come.
For over a century, we have delivered innovative
offerings that fulfil consumers’ evolving needs
and preferences at every stage of life. Our efforts
are driven by a diverse portfolio of more than
500 locally-produced Halal-certified high-quality
products, which reach millions of consumers
nationwide and across the globe every day.
Meeting the rising demand for healthier and
tastier offerings, we help consumers enjoy
Good food, Good life throughout the day, be it at
home, or on-the-go.
As an industry leader, we strive to lead by example
with sustainability at the heart of all we do. From
our manufacturing operations, throughout our value
chain and through our engagement with consumers,
our purpose-driven brands inspire greener lifestyles
and set new benchmarks for a more sustainable
future. Testament to our leadership position, we also
set exacting standards for food safety through the
implementation of our Nestlé Quality Management
System, complemented by our manufacturing
excellence.
Annual Review
21
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
22 Our Business Review
FOODS
COFFEE
READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
ICE CREAM
CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION
HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
MILO
For over 70 years, the MILO brand has been an integral
part of Malaysians’ lives, nourishing generations with the
energy to pursue their dreams. As a steadfast champion of
grassroots sports, MILO has empowered children, parents
and teachers to embrace active lifestyles, recognising the
transformative power of sports. Extending our commitment
further, our “MILO Sayang Bumi” campaign strives to
protect our planet’s precious natural resources.
In 2023, our strategy centred on highlighting the brand’s nutritional credentials
through the “Goodness of MILO” campaign while maintaining the signature
taste that Malaysians love. To connect with diverse consumer preferences, we
collaborated with popular celebrities and personalities, reinforcing MILO’s role
in providing nourishing energy for Malaysians of all walks of life. Our efforts
were recognised with the Most Chosen Brand award in Malaysia’s Beverages
Sector at the Kantar BrandZ Footprint Award 2023, while MILO in Malaysia
also received the globally recognised MILO Trophy 2022 award from Nestlé.
Reigniting Brand Appeal with Park Seo-Jun
To ignite excitement among young adult consumers, we brought our Friend
of MILO brand ambassador, Park Seo-Jun here, setting the tone for an
exhilarating start to the MILO year. His presence at Sunway Pyramid drew
an impressive turnout of 10,000 people. Park Seo-Jun also shared how he
maintains his active lifestyle and busy schedule energised by MILO, which
reinforced the unique product proposition of MILO Mixes range.
Annual Review
23
Our Business Review
Emphasising the convenience of MILO Mixes in easy-to-carry
stick packs, the campaign generated a PR value of RM3.5 million
and garnered 100 million searches and views on TikTok for the
tagline, ‘Jom Minum MILO’. This initiative not only increased
awareness and product trials, but also achieved a record-high
market share for the total MILO Mixes range in February 2023.
Energising Everyday Heroes with MILO Mixes
To further engage with young adults and highlight the benefits of
our MILO Mixes range in the second half of the year, we launched
the “Skuad Tenaga Malaysia” campaign. Led by popular local
celebrities Siti Saleha and Nadhir Nasar, the campaign featured
everyday energy heroes such as a football coach, teacher, fitness
instructor, and student. These individuals represented the diverse
energy demands of young adults with dynamic lifestyles.
The campaign showcased how each MILO Mixes variant
(Original, 3in1, Less Sugar, Whole Grain Cereal) caters to specific
energy needs. This localised approach resonated strongly with
Malaysians, resulting in positive feedback, increased market
share, and higher sales for the MILO Mixes range.
Celebrating the ‘Malaysia Boleh’ Spirit
Inspired by MILO’s timeless and iconic ‘Malaysia Boleh’ sports
cheer from 1992, we launched the “Malaysia Boleh Bersama
MILO” campaign aimed at reigniting unity and resilience among
Malaysians, fuelled by the goodness of MILO.
Over the course of Merdeka and Malaysia Day 2023 period,
the campaign featured a nationwide contest with RM600,000
worth of prizes, sampling activations at over 1,400 quick
service restaurants, and a digital advertisement showcasing
how MILO energises the nation. We also had a strong presence
at the National Day Parade, with 100,000 cups of MILO for
sampling, and hosted the country’s first surf skate competition
on Malaysia Day. The campaign garnered an organic reach of
over 2 million through social media engagements. Throughout
the celebrations, we distributed over 500,000 cups of MILO as a
token of gratitude for Malaysians’ unwavering support.
Fuelling Malaysia’s Sporting Excellence
MILO reinforced its commitment to nurturing Malaysia’s
sporting landscape by signing a sponsorship agreement with the
Olympic Council of Malaysia (OCM). Building the decades-long
partnership with OCM and our grassroots sports programmes,
this collaboration reaffirmed the brand’s commitment to inspiring
the next generation of world-class Malaysian athletes. MILO has
been a consistent financial sponsor for Malaysian contingents in
the Olympic Games, Paralympic Games, and other international
multi-sport events.
The ceremony was also honoured by the presence of famed
Malaysian Olympian athletes, namely Ms. Annie Choong, Tan Sri
Dr. M. Jegathesan, Datuk Soh Chin Aun, Nurul Huda Abdullah,
Datuk Rashid Sidek, Ng Shu Wai and Dato Pandelela Rinong.
This event showcased MILO’s dedication to sporting excellence
in Malaysia and also generated RM832,000 in organic PR value.
MILO Malaysia Breakfast Day Makes an Epic Comeback
MBD returned in 2023 for the first time after the pandemic, as
the nation’s largest breakfast event, promoting active lifestyles
and nutritious breakfasts. Events in Putrajaya, Sabah, and
Sarawak featured fun activities under the theme ‘MILO...Siap,
Sedia, Juara!’ to highlight the value of sports as a great teacher.
MBD 2023 featured new elements alongside the iconic MILO
Run, including the MILO Goodness Workout, an immersive 360°
tour of the MILO manufacturing process in the MILO Goodness
Truck, and customisable limited edition MILO tins. The event
aligned with the MILO Sayang Bumi initiative by using only
paper cups and bowls to reduce plastic waste. With 60,000
participants and impactful communications reaching over 1
million Malaysians, MBD 2023 generated a PR value exceeding
RM1.2 million.
Thrilled and lucky fans showcasing their limited edition merchandise,
eagerly meeting their idol Park Seo-Jun.
Receiving recognition from the Malaysia Book of Records with Malaysian Olympians from across the decades, marking MILO as OCM’s longest
partner.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
24 Our Business Review
FOODS
MILO
COFFEE
READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
ICE CREAM
CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION
HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
For over five decades, the MAGGI brand has been
empowering Malaysians with a diverse range of products
that make cooking a positive experience. From the all-time
favourite MAGGI instant noodles, to seasonings and sauces,
MAGGI continues to connect with Malaysians as a brand
made by Malaysians, for Malaysians.
In 2023, MAGGI continued to offer affordable and delicious options that
catered to the needs and preferences of consumers across the country, and
was named the Most Chosen Brand in Malaysia’s Food sector for the 11th
consecutive year at the Kantar BrandZ Footprint Award.
Advocating for Women Empowerment
Through MAGGI’s Program Mentor Wanita Cukup Berani, we continued
empowering women to step outside their comfort zones and improve their
livelihoods. In 2023, we partnered with tech giants Google, Meta and TikTok
in Wanita Cukup Berani workshops to equip participating women with skills
for self-empowerment through confidence-building, food entrepreneurship
and food content creation. Showcased over the course of four episodes
of the Resipi Berani MAGGI series, 21 diverse women embarked on a
transformative journey, facing culinary challenges for the chance to win
a RM5,000 start-up fund and the title of Wanita Cukup Berani. These 21
women also received a one-year contract with MAGGI to work on content
creation (recipes).
Annual Review
25
Exciting Taste Buds with Localised Innovations
MAGGI Pedas Giler Cheezy Berapi
Inspired by the latest food trends, MAGGI Pedas Giler Cheezy
Berapi brings together Malaysians’ love of spiciness with the
highly trending cheese flavour in the spicy noodle market.
With the campaign theme #RasaMemangViral, we tapped
into Malaysia’s trend of viral food sensations and the youth
segment’s desire for new flavours by introducing the Ada
Berani Challenge to engage consumers. Through influencer
collaborations, an on-ground concourse event at Sunway
Pyramid, and other initiatives, we successfully generated
excitement and reinforced our position as a leader in the spicy
noodle segment. As a result, MAGGI experienced a boost in
market share in the Bowl segment.
MAGGI Curry Cube
Introducing a first-of-its-kind in Malaysia, the MAGGI Curry
Cube provides a convenient solution for those seeking the
authentic taste of curry. Crafted from fresh ingredients and a
meticulously balanced blend of spices, the curry cube is slow-
cooked using the traditional ‘pecah minyak’ method, resulting in
a flavourful and aromatic curryeverytime. Catering to Malaysia’s
top flavour preference, with its ease of use and consistent
quality, the MAGGI Curry Cube simplifies the cooking process,
allowing both novice cooks and busy individuals to effortlessly
create delicious curry-flavoured dishes.
MAGGI Laksa Warisan
Paying tribute to the heritage ofthe iconic laksa dish in Malaysia,
we expanded our presence in the fried noodles segment with
MAGGI Mi Goreng Laksa Warisan. This innovative product
provides a creative twist to the beloved Malaysian laksa dish
combined with the convenience of instant goreng noodles.
Made with carefully selected aromatic and fresh ingredients and
cooked using the ‘pecah minyak’ method, it offers an authentic
taste derived from bunga kantan, daun kesum, galangal
along with kaffir lime leaves, lemongrass, garlic and ginger.
Leveraging the trending interest in ‘laksa goreng’, MAGGI was
the first to introduce this unique product, supported by strong
communications across social media, digital billboards, and wet
sampling activities in key retail outlets.
Our Business Review
[Second from left] Ivy Tan and the Ada Berani gang
at the official Launch of the Ada Berani Challenge.
Watch the fiery and cheesy madness with the
original song of MAGGI Pedas Giler Cheezy Berapi.
Our Corporate Chef, Chef Hakimi engaging with enthusiastic
consumers during the cooking demonstration session at the MAGGI
Sah Malaysia roadshow.
Contestant of Resipi Berani MAGGI learning from the renowned
chef & TV personality Dato’ Zamzani Abdul Wahab popularly known
as Chef Zam.
Scan me
Empowering Healthier Communities
In 2023, MAGGI once again brought back Sajian Seimbang
Tanda Sayang as an outreach programme that aims to empower
B40 communities with knowledge about balanced meals and
convenient home-cooked options using MAGGI products. In
line with the brand’s commitment to promoting healthy eating,
the initiative featured cooking demonstrations, nutritionist
consultations and educational activities to encourage families to
prepare nutritious meals easily and affordably.
NIS Learn more about our community outreach programmes on page
95 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
The initiative’s success was evident as the top two mentees
from the previous seasons of Wanita Cukup Berani experienced
remarkable sales growth in their home-based F&B businesses
after participating in the programme. The programme was also
recognised at the 2023 Media Specialist Association Awards,
winning in the Best Use of TV and Best Use of Integrated
Media categories.
MAGGI Made for Malaysians, By Malaysians
We launched the Air Tangan Kita, Citarasa Malaysia campaign
to celebrate the Malaysian taste, made by Malaysians for
Malaysians. Alongside captivating films, engaging social media
videos as well as retail roadshows, a grand event brought to
life the essence of Malaysia’s ‘cita rasa’, showcasing the diverse
creations of passionate foodies who shared their unique ‘air
tangan’ with MAGGI products. From Ayam Masak Merah with Nasi
Tomato to the transformation of MAGGI Asam Laksa Noodles into
authentic Sabahan dishes, the event exemplified the creativity
and dedication of Malaysians in their culinary endeavours. More
than a personal touch in cooking, the campaign also highlighted
‘air tangan’ as the passion and dedication of Malaysians behind
each MAGGI product.
Building on MAGGI’s Malaysian heritage with products produced
by a 100% Malaysian workforce since 1969, the campaign
showcased MAGGI as a quintessentially Malaysian brand
cherished by the nation, whilst showing appreciation for the
countless Malaysians who have grown with the brand over the years.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
26
Through the NESCAFÉ brand, we strive to provide the perfect
cup of coffee for every occasion, preference, and lifestyle.
Our globally iconic coffee products are crafted responsibly,
promoting sustainability throughout the supply chain. Our
commitment to uplifting lives, communities, and ecosystems
is at the heart of delivering the coffee experience and quality
our consumers love.
Coffee consumption continued to grow in 2023, with both in-home and Out-
of-Home (OOH) demand remaining solid post-pandemic. We focused on
defending our trusted core range and expanding offerings in premium, super
premium, and youth segments to meet changing preferences. Despite fierce
competition and unfavourable commodity costs, our brand building, cost
optimisation, and promotional efforts drove consistent growth in volume and
value.
Inspiring Brand Love Through NESCAFÉ GOLD Make Your World
Campaign
With the global roll-out of NESCAFÉ’s “Make Your World” communication
platform, we spearheaded a campaign featuring artists Yuna and Eric Chou
as brand ambassadors, celebrating the inspirational creation fuelled by
NESCAFÉ. Through fan-meet sessions, concerts, and utilising traditional
media and digital platforms, we strengthened consumer affinity for the
brand. This resulted in strong market share volume growth, 72 million digital
impressions, and a non-traditional media reach of 50,000.
Our Business Review
COFFEE
FOODS
MILO
READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
ICE CREAM
CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION
HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
Annual Review
27
Connecting with Consumers Through Engaging Storytelling
Our NESCAFÉ 3in1 D’Pantri Jaya video series captured the
essence of daily office life, showcasing relatable moments and
simple solutions over a mug of NESCAFÉ 3in1 coffee in an office
breakroom setting. This entertaining and engaging content
resonated with our core consumers who enjoy a cup of coffee
each morning to kickstart their workday. Testament to this, the
bi-weekly episodes achieved exceptional online engagement,
with a 50% video completion rate, surpassing our previous
benchmark of 36%. By highlighting the special role of NESCAFÉ
3in1 in the lives of working professionals, the campaign
successfully increased purchase intent and recorded solid gains
for NESCAFÉ 3in1 Rich, Mild, and White Coffee variants.
New Innovation Captivates Cold Coffee Fans
With a study conducted in 2022 indicating that 70% of youth
enjoy cold coffee drinks, we introduced the NESCAFÉ Latte 2in1
in Salted Caramel Ice and Choco Hazelnut Ice flavours, targeting
the growing demand among youth. This convenient option
allows consumers to easily create a creamy iced latte by adding
cold milk and ice.
Through a combination of digital and on-the-ground activations,
our launch campaign for NESCAFÉ Latte 2in1 reached over
13,000 consumers and generated 66 million impressions on
social media platforms. This helped to drive incremental growth
and solidify NESCAFÉ’s position as an innovative brand that
resonates with young adult tastes and trends.
NESCAFÉ Classic Brewed with Love at Wedding Celebrations
Commemorating the precious milestone of weddings, we invited
couples to add a special touch to their big day with NESCAFÉ
Classic. With over 700 submissions, our sampling trucks
served 170,000 cups of coffee at 180 weddings. This unique
activation increased brand affinity and awareness. Additionally,
we earned a significant number of organic social posts through
this initiative.
Bringing Café-Quality Coffee to Consumers’ Homes
Capitalising on OOH coffee trends particularly for seasonal
flavours, we aimed to deliver the same premium café experience
for at-home enjoyment through our NESCAFÉ DOLCE GUSTO
(NDG) and different range of offerings, launching new flavours
and limited edition products throughout the year.
Our Business Review
Alongside this, our activation at Sunway Pyramid shopping
mall celebrated the 12th anniversary of NDG with exclusive
coffee creations by guest mixologists from premium French
gourmet flavour solutions brand Monin. This activation included
sampling and attractive promotions to drive sales of capsules
and machines.
By bringing the café experience into the comforts of home,
we achieved good growth in sales value, as well as generating
significant sales in anniversary bundle promotions.
Cultivating Sustainability in the Coffee Value Chain
Other key initiatives include the NESCAFÉ Youth
Entrepreneurship Programme (NYEP), which empowers youth
with real-world business experience managing mobile cafes
on campuses. We also continue to expand our NESCAFÉ
Grown Respectfully (NGR) programme to support sustainable
coffee farming practices and improve livelihoods amongst
local coffee farmers. In 2023, we collaborated with the South
Kelantan Development Authority (KESEDAR) to establish the
NGR programme in Gua Musang, dedicating 50 acres of land
for coffee farming.
NESCAFÉ Gold Make Your World Campaign Brand Ambassadors:
Yuna (left) and Eric Chou (right)
The participants of NYEP 2023 enjoying their favourite cups of cold
coffee at the mobile café at their campus.
Team Coffee with representatives from KESEDAR at Gua Musang,
Kelantan after inking the Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) in
expanding our NGR programme.
NIS Further details on the key sustainability efforts spearheaded by
our coffee brands are available in the Nestlé in Society Report.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
28
As a pioneer of the portioned coffee system, the NESPRESSO
brand has become synonymous with high-quality, convenient
coffee brewing for consumers around the world. With a
rich 30-year history, our signature capsule format and
iconic machines have paved the way for premium barista-
style espresso to be accessible to coffee lovers across
82 countries, including Malaysia, establishing a leading
presence in the super premium category.
This year, to continue attracting and retaining customers who resonate
with our brand and offerings, we introduced an exciting innovation,
namely our new VERTUO coffee brewing system. Concurrently, we worked
towards establishing NESPRESSO Professional as a premier solution in the
professional coffee space.
In recognition of our commitment to excellence, NESPRESSO received the
Silver award under the Personal, Household and Outdoor Appliances
category at the 2022 Putra Aria Brand Awards.
Redefining Coffee Moments with NESPRESSO VERTUO
Continuing to deliver elevated experiences in the portioned coffee segment,
we launched the NESPRESSO system in 2023. Powered by the innovative
Centrifusion™ technology and capsule recognition system, NESPRESSO
VERTUO offers an exceptional range of 37 coffee blends and single origins in
six cup sizes, catering to the diverse tastes of Malaysian coffee enthusiasts.
Each capsule is tailored to deliver the perfect brew for its respective cup size,
ensuring a consistently remarkable coffee experience every time.
To drive visibility and consumer uptake, we adopted a holistic launch
strategy for NESPRESSO VERTUO, with an emphasis on digital media to
ensure a robust online presence and wider audience reach, complemented
by engagements with key influencers for word-of-mouth marketing.
Furthering our efforts, we generated interest and excitement by organising
Our Business Review
NESPRESSO
FOODS
MILO
READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
ICE CREAM
CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION
HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
Annual Review
29
Our Business Review
tasting roadshows at prominent locations that provided
opportunities for consumers to experience our new offering
firsthand.
This strategic approach significantly boosted the brand’s equity
and imagery scores as well as generated a favourable shift in
consumer perception, achieving a PR value of over 136% above
target.
Ringing in the Lunar New Year with Angel Chen
Collaborating with international designer Angel Chen,
NESPRESSO launched a limited edition Lunar New Year
collection aimed at enhancing the desirability and relevancy
of the brand while generating festive excitement. Featuring
patchwork by Angel Chen created using recycled materials,
the NESPRESSO x Angel Chen collection offered a range of
selected coffee, machines and limited edition gifts adorned in
the exclusive Lunar New Year design for coffee lovers to elevate
their celebrations. Inspired by the auspicious ingredients of
the season, two festive recipes were also created for coffee
enthusiasts.
To increase foot traffic and engagement during the campaign,
we executed a series of engaging retail activations to directly
connect with consumers, including fortune-telling sessions
and coffee tastings. We also leveraged media masterclasses
and influencer partnerships to amplify the reach of the
campaign.
Key to the success of the campaign was the seamless
blending of cultural traditions with NESPRESSO’s brand
image that resonated with consumers, resulting in significant
retail sales growth, including our machine and Lunar New
Year assortment packs, alongside an uptick in new member
recruitment and heightened brand loyalty.
Strengthening Foothold in the Professional Coffee Sector
With new prospects emerging in the food and hospitality
sectors post-pandemic, we took the opportunity to re-establish
and strengthen connections with hotels, restaurants and
café players through the Food & Hotel Malaysia (FHM) 2023
exhibition.
Our dynamic booth at FHM 2023 showcased a range of
professional coffee machines through immersive experiences
for visitors. This was accompanied by coffee samplings to
capture the interest of industry professionals for potential
business expansion.
As a result, we achieved an impressive number of coffee
samplings and a significant uptick in brand exposure to relevant
business-to-business audiences. Ultimately, this enabled us
to gain a stronger foothold as a prominent player within the
professional coffee industry.
NESPRESSO joins hands with Angel Chen, a world-renowned
fashion designer, to ring in new beginnings with a meaningful yet
playful collection.
Our skilled coffee barista unveils a mesmerising new recipe creation
with NESPRESSO coffee.
NESPRESSO VERTUO Flavoured Range
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
30 Our Business Review
READY-TO-DRINK
FOODS
MILO
COFFEE
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
ICE CREAM
CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION
HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
Delivering great taste and nutrition to Malaysians throughout
the day, our portfolio of Ready-to-Drink (RTD) products offers
a refreshing selection of beverages in convenient formats,
including beverage cartons, cans, and recycled polyethylene
terephthalate (rPET) bottles.
In 2023, we expanded our core portfolios under the MILO and NESCAFÉ
brands, and strengthened our foothold in emerging segments such as Dairy
Free and Tea with the introduction of new products.
Fuelling Gen Z On-the-Go with MILO Original
Catering to the dynamic and active Gen Z lifestyle, we introduced the MILO
Original beverage in a 500ml reclosable bottle, providing convenience and
flexibility for on-the-go consumption. The product is also eco-friendly, made
from 100% rPET packaging, appealing to Gen Z’s heightened sustainability
mindset and supporting the Nestlé Sustainability Roadmap.
Supporting the needs of on-the-go consumers frequently seeking a quick
pick-me-up drink, we focused our distribution in convenience stores and
petrol marts. We also leveraged relevant on-ground activities that resonate
with Gen Z, such as surf skating events, and engaged key influencers to
foster stronger connection with the brand. As a result of the campaign, we
successfully achieved strong market share gains within the category in 2023.
NIS Learn more about our sustainable packaging innovations on page 68 of the
Nestlé in Society Report.
Annual Review
31
Our Business Review
Thrilling cheers filled the air as Surf Skate participants fuelled up
with the new MILO Original rPET at the MILO Malaysia Surf Skate
Championship in Putrajaya Challenge Park.
Happy consumers enjoying the new NESTLÉ LIVELY Tea Lemon
Guarana.
Strengthening Brand Love with MILO “Pack to School”
As a nutritional beverage loved by generations of Malaysians,
MILO UHT has a long history of playing an integral role in
daily family routines. In 2023, our Pack-to-School campaign
reaffirmed this cherished tradition, encouraging parents to
ensure that their children start their day right with MILO.
With a dual communications strategy, our ‘Pack to Care’
initiative showcased the dedication of parents in caring for
their children through dietary choices, positioning MILO as
the ideal nutritious and tasty breakfast beverage. Building
on positive engagement, we also broadened consumption
moments through our Breaktime initiative to drive youth appeal,
promoting second serves of MILO amid breaktimes and other
activities. This reinforced MILO as an irreplaceable part of school
and after-school life, supporting consumption frequency.
Achieving increased sales and market share, the campaign’s
strategic emphasis on emotional resonance fostered stronger
consumer bonds and brand love. This allowed us to solidify
our role in consumers’ lives, ensuring MILO remains a trusted
beverage of choice of Malaysians.
Energising eSports with NESCAFÉ Cans
In 2023, NESCAFÉ strengthened its partnership with Mobile
Legends Bang Bang, capitalising on the growing momentum
of Malaysia’s eSports scene. Building on its success strategy in
previous years, the brand continued to feature popular Mobile
Legends’ characters on NESCAFÉ cans packaging, including
NESCAFÉ Mixes. Alongside strong collaboration with key retail
customers such as convenience stores and petrol marts, this
enabled the brand to expand reach and consumption to a wider
pool of consumers.
Since 2021, NESCAFÉ has gained strong credibility as a partner
in the gaming community associated with youth and innovation.
Reflecting this, NESCAFÉ saw improved consumption and
increased brand awareness in the category throughout the year.
Driving Plant-Based Momentum with NESTLÉ GOODNES
Building on the success of our MILO and NESCAFÉ Dairy Free
launches in 2021, we continued to tap into the growing demand
for plant-based RTD products with the launch of our all-new
NESTLÉ GOODNES brand, featuring two creamy flavours, Dairy
Free Almond & Oat and Dairy Free Oat.
To raise awareness, we led a comprehensive communications
campaign highlighting the versatile applications of the dairy
free range. We emphasised its benefits as a nutritious source of
calcium, Vitamin D, Vitamin B2 and Vitamin B3, catering to the
growing number of health-conscious Malaysians. As a result,
NESTLÉ GOODNES saw increased market share in the Dairy
Free segment since its launch, month after month.
Driving Excitement with NESTLÉ LIVELY Tea Lemon Guarana
In the lead up to International Tea Day, leveraging on Malaysians’
love for refreshing tea, we relaunched our NESTLÉ LIVELY Tea
range with new packaging highlighting the benefits of unique
botanical extracts. Following which, we also launched the most
sought-after lemon flavour, NESTLÉ LIVELY Tea Lemon Guarana.
To build affinity with the audience, we also engaged Key Opinion
Leaders (KOLs) to communicate the functional benefits of
NESTLÉ LIVELY Tea in a compelling and entertaining manner.
Our robust digital campaign reached over 8 million consumers,
allowing us to effectively showcase NESTLÉ LIVELY Tea Lemon
Guarana and drive excitement for the new variant among
Malaysians.
Boosted by the positive reception of our digital efforts, NESTLÉ
LIVELY Tea Lemon Guarana emerged as the top performer in
NESTLÉ LIVELY Tea sales for the year of 2023, showcasing the
effectiveness of our marketing initiatives.
MILO RTD empowering young minds to recycle and learn about
the significance of recycling their used beverage cartons, making a
positive impact on the environment via the CAREton Project.
NIS Learn more about the CAREton Project on page 73 of the
Nestlé in Society Report.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
32 Our Business Review
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
FOODS
MILO
COFFEE
READY-TO-DRINK
ICE CREAM
CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION
HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
According to a 2023 survey by GlobalData, 59% of Malaysian
respondents expressed willingness to explore plant-based
foods as a healthier choice, while 46% cited environmental
sustainability as a prime motivator for embracing these
alternatives. Fuelling this growing wave of plant-based
consumption in Malaysia, our PBMS brand, HARVEST
GOURMET, provides a range of delicious and convenient
plant-protein options that meet consumer expectations for
texture, taste, nutrition and value, in addition to contributing
to a more sustainable future for our planet.
During the year, we continued expanding our HARVEST GOURMET product
portfolio by building on local consumer preferences in the snacking category.
Alongside this, we remained focused on highlighting the great taste and
nutritional benefits of HARVEST GOURMET products as an appealing option
for health-conscious Malaysian consumers.
Unleashing the power of plant-protein, HARVEST GOURMET takes on a delicious
transformation into satay, the local Malaysian favorite.
Annual Review
33
Our Business Review
HARVEST GOURMET Golden Crunchy Poppers
Leveraging the popularity of popcorn chicken, we completed
the HARVEST GOURMET snacking range with the launch of the
Golden Crunchy Poppers. Packed with plant-protein goodness
and a tantalising blend of spices, including tomatoes and black
pepper, this offering provides a delectable choice to satisfy
savoury cravings.
HARVEST GOURMET Delivering Ready-to-Eat Plant-Protein
Goodness
Harnessing the growing popularity of food trucks and other mobile
food options culture, we introduced HARVEST GOURMET pop-up
cafés that mirrored the setup of actual cafés, where consumers
could sit down and enjoy Ready-To-Eat (RTE) meals made with
HARVEST GOURMET plant-protein and purchase products.
We also deployed bistro wagons at large-scale events such as
university open days, conventions, festivals and concerts to further
widen our reach.
This strategic approach successfully attracted new consumers to
the plant-protein category. By targeting high-traffic public spaces,
we enhanced brand visibility and awareness, educating consumers
about HARVEST GOURMET and the benefits of plant-protein.
Celebrating Merdeka with HARVEST GOURMET
In conjunction with Malaysia’s 66th Merdeka Day, we
strengthened positioning of HARVEST GOURMET as a
brand proudly made in Malaysia, by Malaysians through our
#LoveAtFirstBite event. Aside from mass sampling and product
selling, the event featured HARVEST GOURMET pop-up cafés
with a limited-time offer of specially curated RTE Malaysian
Favourite meals crafted with HARVEST GOURMET’s plant-
protein powered products. There were also sharing sessions
by brand ambassadors, performances by popular local
artists, cooking demonstrations by influencer chefs, and a 4D
immersive ‘farm-to-plate’ experience that showcased the pride
of our local production of HARVEST GOURMET products.
In addition, KOLs also shared personal stories of incorporating
plant-protein into their lifestyles, while vegan KOLs highlighted
how HARVEST GOURMET provides great snack options. With
41,778 attendees, the one-day event significantly raised
awareness of HARVEST GOURMET’s retail presence and plant-
protein offerings, positively impacting consumer perception.
[Second from left] Rajesh Singh, Head of Exports Business; Yit Woon Lai with HARVEST GOURMET and NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL team, as well as the Friends of HARVEST GOURMET in the 4D Immersive Experience Zone, bringing to life the
meticulous farm-to-plate journey of our plant-protein offerings.
Scan me
Elevating Plant-Protein Snacking
Encouraging healthy snacking amongst Malaysians, we launched
new product innovations within our plant-protein range.
These offerings prioritise nutrition, taste, and convenience,
emphasising the versatility of carefully crafted plant-protein
ingredients in delivering superior taste, complemented by ease
of preparation through a quick and easy air-frying process that
is also much healthier than traditional frying.
HARVEST GOURMET Crispy Fish-Free Fingers
We expanded our snacking range by tapping into seafood
alternatives with the introduction of our Crispy Fish-Free
Fingers. Designed to delight taste buds, this innovative product
has a light and flaky texture, coated with crispy breadcrumbs
and naturally flavoured with aromatic Italian herbs such as
rosemary and oregano. Catering to Malaysians of all ages, this
delicious and convenient snack option contributed positively
and consistently to the growth of our average monthly sales.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
34 Our Business Review
ICE CREAM
FOODS
MILO
COFFEE
READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION
HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
Crafting moments of happiness remains at the heart of
NESTLÉ Ice Cream’s commitment to captivate taste buds
amongst consumers through our portfolio of delicious
flavours and formats. This year, we continued to innovate
exciting new products under key brands like MILO, KIT KAT
and more. Produced locally at our Chembong facility, our
products are ‘Buatan Malaysia untuk Rakyat Malaysia’
(made in Malaysia for Malaysians).
Delighting MILO Malaysia Fans with MILO Kaw
Through an integrated communications strategy, we drove mass awareness
to boost market share of our upgraded MILO ice cream product, MILO Kaw,
which provides the signature ‘kaw’ or intense flavour of Malaysia’s favourite
chocolate malt beverage in a creamy ice cream format. Key activation
touchpoints included a TV commercial, digital and OOH advertisements, social
media buzz via KOLs and on-ground activation featuring a roving vehicle.
Within the first month, we achieved strong growth for MILO Kaw, contributing
to an incremental market share gain for the total MILO ice cream range.
Reigniting Excitement with KIT KAT Pink
Building on the success of KIT KAT Ice Cream that created waves of excitement
among consumers since its first launch in 2020, we introduced KIT KAT Pink,
the first ever-fruit based KIT KAT ice cream to reignite excitement among loyal
fans. A strawberry cheesecake ice cream coated with crushed KIT KAT wafers
and freeze-dried strawberries, KIT KAT Pink is crafted to appeal to consumers
who prefer fruit-based flavours.
To generate buzz and amplify visibility for this unique innovation, we painted
the town pink with an eye-catching neon pink campaign across TV, digital
platforms, digital billboards, influencer collaborations and on-ground
activations. This visually impactful campaign also tapped into the ‘pink wave’
that swept the world in 2023, creating memorable recall among consumers.
Seizing the opportunity of the Chinese New Year festivities, KIT KAT Pink also
Annual Review
35
Our Business Review
created entertaining content with a famous influencer band to
drive relevance and consumption during the celebrations. These
efforts drove positive market share growth, strengthening KIT
KAT’s leadership position in the ice cream segment.
New NESTLÉ Boba Brown Sugar in a Shareable Tub Format
Leveraging the success of the immensely popular NESTLÉ Mochi
Boba in 2022, we saw the opportunity to cater to shoppers’ bulk
purchases and increased consumption. To capitalise on this
insight, we launched NESTLÉ Boba Brown Sugar Ice Cream in a
convenient pint format, designed to amplify volume within the
take home segment.
Establishing a cohesive and recognisable brand identity, the
packaging featured striking visuals and colour schemes.
Supermarket take-home ice cream freezers were adorned with
captivating yellow backgrounds, maximising visibility across
retail touchpoints. With high awareness through this integrated
communication campaign, many consumers took part in the
Boba-fiesta and started creating recipe ideas using NESTLÉ
Boba Brown Sugar Ice Cream.
This strategic approach yielded positive market share growth
within the premium pint segment within the first three months
of launch.
Spreading Raya Joy with NESTLÉ LA CREMERIA
In the spirit of sharing during the month of Ramadan, NESTLÉ
LA CREMERIA Ice Cream collaborated with social activist and
philanthropist Kuan Chee Heng, popularly known as Uncle
Kentang, and NGO the Empire Project. Together, we distributed
over 10,000 pints of the new NESTLÉ LA CREMERIA Chocolate
Brownie Fudge & Butter Cookies Ice Cream to more than 2,000
families, many of whom were from underprivileged communities.
Themed “Raya Together-gether Bersama NESTLÉ LA
CREMERIA”, this initiative aimed to spread joy and happiness
for the Raya celebrations. By sharing simple yet enjoyable ice
cream moments, NESTLÉ LA CREMERIA demonstrated how
small acts of kindness can make a positive difference and bring
communities together.
[Centre] Juan Aranols and [left] Uncle Kentang personally handing out pints of NESTLÉ LA CREMERIA Chocolate Brownie Fudge & Butter Cookies
Ice Cream to more than 2,000 families for the Raya festivities.
MILO Kaw making presence at the MILO Surf Skate Championship
in Putrajaya Challenge Park.
KOL @adelinewongg indulging in the delectable KIT KAT PINK
ice cream.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
36 Our Business Review
CONFECTIONERY
FOODS
MILO
COFFEE
READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION
HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
ICE CREAM
Our range of confectionery delights includes Malaysian-
favourite brands such as KIT KAT and MILO. These treats
offer consumers the chance to take a break and indulge in
life’s simple pleasures at any time of day.
Since 1988, KIT KAT has remained a much-loved chocolate brand amongst
Malaysian households. In 2023, we strategically leveraged key festive
seasons to continue building brand love. Recognising the impulse-driven
nature of confectionery consumption, we also seized the opportunity
presented by increased mobility to curate the right product mix and deploy
targeted promotional strategies, ensuring our offerings remain accessible
and appealing. As a result, we won the Silver Award at the 2023 Putra
Brand Awards for the Foodstuff category.
Reinforcing Brand Presence During Chinese New Year Festivities
Ensuring a strong brand presence for key festive seasons, we launched the
“Share The Love, Share The Golden Break” campaign during the Chinese
New Year period, inviting consumers to reconnect by sharing heartfelt KIT
KAT moments. As part of the campaign, we released the limited edition KIT
KAT Gold for the third consecutive year, further driving excitement and brand
relevance among consumers during the celebrations.
The introduction of the KIT KAT Bunny Tin and ‘Cele-Break’ Pack concurrently,
enabled us to penetrate the gifting segment, offering shoppers compelling
gifting options while providing opportunities to win prizes worth up to
RM350,000. Supported by an impactful launch to kick off the campaign
and best-in-class displays featuring a 3D rabbit symbolising the Year of
the Rabbit in 2023, our confectionery category garnered impressive market
share, achieving strong double-digit growth across all channels.
Annual Review
37
Our Business Review
Keeping KIT KAT Top-of-Mind with #RezekiDikongsiBersama
In conjunction with Ramadan and Hari Raya, we brought back
our annual “#RezekiDikongsiBersama” campaign, ensuring
KIT KAT remained top-of-mind as Malaysians gathered to
celebrate. Embracing the campaign’s spirit of spreading love,
joy, and togetherness, we launched a first-of-its-kind ‘ketupat’
motif stamped onto our KIT KAT 4-Finger chocolate bars.
To further strengthen brand relevance and imagery, we engaged
popular local celebrities, namely MK K-Clique and Nabila
Razali, to produce an animated Raya music video that captured
the essence of meaningful moments and joy of sharing ‘rezeki’
or blessings during the festive season.
Garnering more than RM2 million in PR value, we also received
recognition for best integrated marketing campaign at the
Dragons of Malaysia and Dragons of Asia Award.
Protecting the Planet with Sustainable Packaging Innovations
As part of our ‘Breaks for Good’ initiative to create a positive
impact on the planet, we introduced an eco-friendly recyclable
paper pouch as the outer packaging for the new KIT KAT Bites
Party Pack. A multipack that can be easily shared with friends
and family, the new paper packaging which also features fun
and educational illustrations aims to encourage Malaysians to
adopt good recycling habits.
A first-of-its-kind for the brand in ASEAN, this sustainable
packaging innovation is expected to reduce the usage of up
to 11 tonnes of virgin plastic per year, and contributes to the
75% of KIT KAT plastic packaging that is already designed for
recycling.
NIS Learn more about our sustainable packaging innovations on
page 68 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
Innovation in 2023
KIT KAT Salted Caramel Cookies
Inspired by the winning combination of biscuits and
chocolate, we introduced a fresh take on the classic
chocolatey fingers with our newest limited edition KIT
KAT. This innovative creation features a tantalising
blend of the sensorial crisp of salted caramel biscuit bits
complemented by delicious milk chocolate and our iconic
crispy wafer.
KIT KAT Gold Share The Love, Share The Golden Break campaign
connecting people by sharing a KIT KAT moment together.
KIT KAT delighting Malaysians and encouraging enjoyable breaks
since 1988.
Two dessert artists from JUNANDUS demonstrated the
versatility of the KIT KAT Salted Caramel Cookies through a
dessert showcase.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
38 Our Business Review
DAIRY AND
ADULT NUTRITION
FOODS
MILO
COFFEE
READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
CONFECTIONERY
NUTRITION
HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
Supporting the nutritional needs of Malaysians through
high-quality dairy products, we offer a range of trusted
brands, including NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS, NESTUM, NESTLÉ
EVERYDAY, NESPRAY and ENERCAL PLUS. With the natural
goodness of milk, these high-quality, nutritious products
supply calcium, protein and essential nutrients that
individuals and families need to embrace healthier lives.
In 2023, we undertook strategic promotions and recruited a new brand
ambassador for NESTLÉ EVERYDAY, which spurred strong recovery in
volume growth. We also leveraged key festive campaigns to enhance
NESTUM’s competitive edge, and introduced NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS UHT to
drive liquification across the category. These targeted efforts enabled us to
maintain our strong presence across trade channels.
Encouraging Healthier Heart Habits Amongst Malaysians
As part of our commitment to promoting heart health, NESTLÉ OMEGA
PLUS once again held the annual “Walk A Million Miles“ (WAMM)
campaign, themed ‘Langkah Bersama, Jantung Dijaga’. Held during World
Heart Month with our partners, Yayasan Jantung Malaysia (YJM) and Institut
Jantung Negara Foundation (IJNF), this month-long virtual movement rallied
Malaysians across the country to walk for heart health and highlighted the
risks associated with high cholesterol.
ICE CREAM
Annual Review
39
Our Business Review
Hosted on a mobile application, along with logging miles and
tracking progress, this year introduced a new feature enabling
participants to create teams to encourage and support each
other to achieve heart-healthy goals. This collaborative
approach injected greater engagement and motivation,
reflected in WAMM 2023 garnering 30,000 participants
logging a cumulative total of over 2 million miles. Compared
to 2022, this represented an increase of 16% in participants
and 41% in total miles walked, more than doubling the initial
campaign target. Further reinforcing the brand’s dedication to
supporting national heart health, NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS also
donated RM100,000 to YJM and IJNF to extend assistance to
heart patients.
Empowering Baking Entrepreneurs with NESTUM Reka Rasa
Raya Campaign
Commemorating the month of Ramadan, the NESTUM
“Reka Rasa Raya” campaign highlighted how NESTUM’s
‘aromalicious’ products can elevate both taste and nutrition.
With over RM100,000 in prizes and 450 weekly winners, the
campaign finale saw nine finalists competing in a Bake-Off
Challenge to showcase their unique NESTUM creations for the
RM15,000 grand prize.
The winner also received an exclusive one-on-one Masterclass
session with successful local entrepreneur Arieni Adriena, who
was a mentor and judge during the finale. Along with providing
mentoring, the Bake-Off Challenge encouraged creativity and
skills development using NESTUM’s diverse product range.
Packed with multigrain goodness and dietary fibre and easy to
incorporate in dishes, the campaign showcased the versatility of
NESTUM in empowering healthier, delicious recipes, delivering
over RM300,000 in PR value.
NESTLÉ EVERYDAY Unlocks Unlimited Potential with New
Brand Ambassador
Emphasising the key role of nutrition in enabling success, we
introduced national karate athlete Shahmalarani Chandran
as our new brand ambassador for NESTLÉ EVERYDAY. As the
recipient of several Gold medals in the 2023 SEA Games and 41st
National Senior Karate Championship, Shahmalarani epitomises
the power of nutrition to fuel peak performance. Leveraging
this, we featured her prominently in the launch of our impactful
‘Potensi Tanpa Batas’ TV commercial, putting a spotlight on the
risks of micronutrient deficiencies and enhancing top-of-mind-
awareness on the benefits of NESTLÉ EVERYDAY amongst
relevant consumer segments.
Coupled with utilising digital platforms and offering attractive
promotions, ‘Potensi Tanpa Batas’ further strengthened NESTLÉ
EVERYDAY’s credentials in providing accessible, affordable
nutrition through the goodness of milk for individuals and families
to thrive, increasing market share and market penetration for the
brand.
Supporting Strength and Digestion in Adults with ENERCAL
PLUS Milk Supplement
To increase awareness of ENERCAL PLUS’s unique formulation
and benefits, we launched a multi-channel campaign centered
on the theme, ‘Stronger Muscles, Better Digestion in 4 Weeks’.
This strategy combined digital videos, on-ground sampling
events and hospital engagements, as well as creating a new
social media page to amplify visibility and drive recruitment.
By communicating the beneficial properties of ENERCAL PLUS in
supporting both muscle strength and improved digestion across
online and in-person touchpoints, we enabled consumers to
experience the product while interacting with claims grounded
in ENERCAL PLUS’s nutrient-rich formulation tailored for adults.
Our integrated consumer education and engagement approach
successfully grew brand visibility and encouraged product trials,
contributing to higher market share.
The contestants of the NESTUM Bake-Off Challenge with [back
row, centre] Wong Eu Khean and [back row, fifth from right] Arieni
Adriena, Founder of Gula Cakery.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
40 Our Business Review
With over 150 years of expertise in championing children’s
nutrition, we are steadfast in our commitment to helping
Malaysian parents nurture their children, especially in the
critical early years of life. Our mission is clear: to provide a
complete portfolio of science-backed nutritional solutions
tailored to the varied needs of children as they grow and
develop.
In 2023, we fully integrated Wyeth Nutrition (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. (“Wyeth
Nutrition”) brands into our portfolio, enhancing our ability to meet diverse
needs, spanning from digestion, immunity, hypoallergenicity, growth, and
learning. Ensuring that our brands and products evolve with our consumers,
we harnessed the power of our two biggest brands with the launch of
LACTOGROW PROBIO and the new S-26 GOLD PROGRESS, alongside
sustained and highly relevant communications for the rest of our brands
under our portfolio.
Our science-backed innovations coupled with impactful messaging enabled
us to solidify our position across the mainstream Growing Up Milks (GUM)
segment, as well as the premium category.
Supporting Mothers in Nurturing Good Gut Health in Children
Attuned to evolving consumer needs, we launched LACTOGROW PROBIO in
2023, an upgraded version of our trusted LACTOGROW product. To showcase
the benefits and unique value proposition of LACTOGROW PROBIO as the
only GUM with Probiotic L.reuteri, the launch featured all-new improved
product packaging, complemented by the “Perut Selesa, Cergas Mindanya”
campaign, specifically tailored towards educating mothers on the importance
of good gut health in enhancing their children’s learning experience.
This included driving brand awareness by intensifying our digital and social
media presence, engaging with online KOLs, increasing on-ground sampling
efforts, and enhancing in-store visibility to provide opportunities for mothers
to try our new LACTOGROW PROBIO for their children.
NUTRITION
FOODS
MILO
COFFEE
READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
ICE CREAM
CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
HEALTH SCIENCE
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
For Growing Up Milk 1 year & above.
Annual Review
41
By leveraging these strategic touchpoints, we reached 3 million
mothers across digital platforms, reinforcing our position as
a credible digestive health expert that supports mothers and
toddlers in their growing up journey.
Nourishing Young Minds with S-26 GOLD PROGRESS
Empowering parents to nurture their children’s full potential, we
unveiled the new S-26 GOLD PROGRESS, which helps to build
key cognitive foundations. With an emphasis on the importance
of brain development, the launch asserted brand credibility
through strong, science-backed functional claims of building
‘10X Faster Brain Connections’, alongside an elevated new look
featuring a colour change from gold to platinum.
This messaging was amplified through a digital-first approach
leveraging platforms most relevant to mothers, such as
Facebook, Instagram, YouTube and TikTok. Complementing
this, we also engaged key experts to drive the conversation
about children’s development and learning in relation to brain
development. Creating top-of-mind awareness, the campaign
reached 7 million mothers on Facebook and 4 million mothers
on Youtube.
Delivering Delightful “First Spoon” with CERELAC infant Cereal
With the goal of making the transition to solid foods a delightful
and nourishing journey for both parents and babies alike, we
embarked on the CERELAC First Spoon campaign. Equipped with
insights into parents’ greatest concerns regarding the first solid
food journey, we shared tips, while simplifying the process of
preparing nutritious meals for little ones. These bite-sized videos
were shared on TikTok, drawing on the platform’s resonance with
young parents to widen our reach. We also intensified on-ground
efforts by quadrupling our product advisors in stores to offer
valuable educational resources and elevate awareness within the
baby food category.
By leading conversations around the first solid food experience and
emphasising the significance of the First Spoon moment across
all channels, we further strengthened positioning of CERELAC as
a trusted ally in nutrition. This holistic approach resulted in robust
double-digit growth, driven by amplification of our core products
and tailored communications strategies aimed at sustaining
month-on-month expansion.
Our Business Review
sensitivities, by meeting the needs of parents seeking credible
and scientifically proven information and solutions.
Utilising digital platforms, we garnered insights into the
needs of parents and increased awareness on how the brand
NANKID offers a set of GUM products scientifically designed
for their children’s specific needs. With over 2 million Malaysian
mothers reached on social media and 3 million through website
advertisements, the campaigns heightened awareness on
these important benefits, and on NANKID as a trusted partner
in delivering scientific information and specialised nutrition
solutions.
Providing a Better Choice for Catch-up Growth
Recognising that one in five children in Malaysia are underweight
or face stunted growth, we introduced ASCENDA as the newest
product under Wyeth Nutrition to address nutritional deficiencies
hindering children’s development.
Through the “Better Choice” campaign, we positioned
ASCENDA as the better choice for catch-up growth, by building
awareness on its unique dual benefits of physical growth and
brain development, without added sucrose. Strengthening
Wyeth Nutrition’s brand reputation and credibility in the market,
the campaign reached out to healthcare professionals and
consumers through digital, trade and product advisor channels.
This led to a double-digit organic growth, with 12,600 new users
successfully recruited through product advisors, signalling its
impactful contribution to children’s health and wellbeing.
Supporting Immunity and Minimising Sensitivities in Children
In today’s ever-evolving world, children face diverse health
risks, including increasing rates of both communicable diseases
such as infections, and non-communicable health risks such as
allergies. In response to this, we launched two pivotal NANKID
campaigns, namely NANKID OPTIPRO “Little Explorers” and
NANKID OPTIPRO HA “Feel The World”. These initiatives aimed
respectively to increase relevance on the need to strengthen
children’s immunity, and to prevent developing discomforts and
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
42 Our Business Review
With a steadfast commitment to supporting those with
special dietary and nutritional needs, our Nestlé Health
Science (NHS) portfolio delivers tailored solutions backed
by scientific expertise. Through an array of products
that address a spectrum of health concerns, NHS spans
areas such as healthy ageing, metabolic health and acute
care, amongst others. Our goal is to help people live
fuller, healthier lives through both preventative care and
treatment-centred approaches.
We continued to strengthen our core business in 2023. Reflecting this, we
maintained recovery in healthcare professional (HCP) and retail channels to
drive market share.
Advancing Healthcare Professional Education
Building on the success of the Surgical and Intensive Care Unit (ICU) Nutrition
Workshop held in 2022, we once again engaged HCPs to raise awareness
on enteral feeding intolerance (EFI) and malabsorption in ICU and surgical
patients. Held in both central and northern regions, the workshops featured
expert speakers sharing on a broad range of nutrition-related matters in
surgical and critical care.
Further leveraging this engagement, we also took the opportunity to educate
HCPs on the effectiveness of our peptide-based formula, PEPTAMEN, as a
nutritional solution in managing ICU patients at risk of EFI and enhancing
recovery post-gastrointestinal surgery. With practical insights and proven
clinical evidence, the workshop proved to be a success with 90% of 200
attendees expressing readiness to integrate specialised formulas into their
patient care protocols.
FOODS
MILO
COFFEE
READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
ICE CREAM
CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
HEALTH SCIENCE
Annual Review
43
Empowering Diabetes Management During Ramadan
Understanding the significance of Ramadan for Muslims and the
importance of managing health conditions during the fasting
month, we strive to support the needs of our Muslim consumers
by providing resources to help them effectively manage their
diabetes while fasting. To this end, since 2020 we have held
annual National Diabetes and Ramadan Workshop to share
our Ramadan Nutrition Plan (RNP) with HCPs as a guide for
safe fasting for people with diabetes. Developed by a group
of renowned medical experts locally and globally, the RNP
incorporates diabetes specific formula, i.e. NUTREN UNTUK
DIABETIK, that supports people with diabetes in achieving
optimal glucose control and sustained energy during the fasting
period.
Initially held via virtual webinars, this year the workshop
adopted a hybrid format, reaching a broader audience with
nearly 100 physical attendees and over 400 virtual participants
from Malaysia, Singapore, and Brunei. The workshop shared
recent developments on Ramadan and diabetes management
from renowned speakers, followed by breakout sessions
moderated by endocrinologists and dietitians. Since its
inception, the National Diabetes & Ramadan workshop has
reached over 2,000 HCPs, reflecting its positive impact in
empowering better diabetes management.
Rebranding NUTREN UNTUK DIABETIK to NUTREN
GLUCOBALANCE
In conjunction with World Diabetes Day (WDD), we undertook
a rebranding of NUTREN UNTUK DIABETIK to NUTREN
GLUCOBALANCE. While the trusted formula remains unchanged,
by removing the stigma associated with diabetes, the rebranding
was aimed at broadening our reach to new users seeking to
control and maintain healthy glucose levels.
Alongside heightening awareness of diabetes risks and
prevalence among Malaysians, the rebranding exercise also
educated Nestlé Malaysia’s employees on effective glucose
management forhealthierliving. Leveraging WDD, we generated
interest among HCPs and the public on the risks of diabetes
and the use of diabetes specific formula in management of
the disease. This was achieved through booth activations
and educational programmes across various hospital events
nationwide as well as sampling activities to reinforce trust. As
a result, we received overwhelmingly positive feedback from
almost 90% of those who sampled NUTREN GLUCOBALANCE.
Our Business Review
Rewarding NUTREN’s Loyal Customers
In a gesture of appreciation to reward loyal customers of our
NUTREN product range, we launched the first nationwide
NUTREN redemption campaign. Applicable to the entire
NUTREN product range with the purchase of three tins of any
variants, Malaysians could easily participate through a simple
online submission process to stand a chance to win a RM30
TnG eWallet Reload pin or RM30 Boost eWallet credit. The
campaign was well-received, garnering 2,964 entries and
earning positive feedback on the user-friendly mechanics.
National Diabetes and Ramadan Workshop, supporting people with
diabetes in achieving optimal glucose control during the fasting period.
Introducing the rebranded NUTREN GLUCOBALANCE - new name,
same trusted formula.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
44 Our Business Review
As a trusted partner in the food service industry, NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL delivers high-quality F&B solutions for OOH
channels. Through Malaysian-favourite brands like MILO, MAGGI
and NESCAFÉ, we offer an expansive range of products suited
for diverse dining occasions and OOH consumption needs.
In 2023, we leveraged positive OOH trends to drive growth, including
collaborating with over 20 leading OOH operators as well as 14 quick service
restaurant chains on impactful activities to increase market penetration. As
a result of the trusted reputation of our brands and high-quality products,
distribution of our core brands remained strong with continuous support from
foodservice operators.
Delivering Premium Coffee Experiences with NESCAFÉ Roast and
Ground Range
To meet evolving consumer preferences across OOH channels, we expanded
our NESCAFÉ Roast and Ground (R&G) range footprint. Complementing our
comprehensive coffee portfolio which spans premixes, instant, capsules and
specialty blends, this allows us to cater to diverse tastes while delivering
premium coffee experiences. Reflecting our sustainability commitment, our
range of R&G coffee beans are responsibly sourced, with Rainforest Alliance
certification and also sourced via our NGR programme, which strives to cultivate
a green coffee supply chain in Malaysia.
Continuous training elevates our premium positioning further, with machine
usage, coffee preparation techniques and maintenance guidance for foodservice
partners. We also highlight unique product features like the quality of our coffee
beans, flavour profiles and origins to showcase the brand’s expertise. This
holistic approach enabled us to expand our customer reach into new channels
and segments, driving coffee machine deployment with a significant 33% jump
in R&G sales in 2023.
NIS Learn more about our NESCAFÉ Grown Respectfully programme on page 85
of the Nestlé in Society Report.
NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL
FOODS
MILO
COFFEE
READY-TO-DRINK
PLANT-BASED
MEAL SOLUTIONS
ICE CREAM
CONFECTIONERY
DAIRY AND ADULT
NUTRITION
NUTRITION
HEALTH SCIENCE
Annual Review
45
Driving Excitement with Curated Limited Time Offers
Through strategic collaborations with leading F&B operators,
we continued building excitement via limited time offers to
deliver curated solutions tailored to diverse channels. Close
engagement with customers via ideation sessions and staying
attuned to consumer trends enabled us to develop special
recipes and promotions that drove brand affinity.
Made with MILO
Amplifying MILO’s appeal during key festive occasions, we
showcased the brand’s versatility across a range of culinary
creations. Partnering with popular F&B brands such as Burger
King, Tealive, Gong Cha, CU Mart, llaollao and Secret Recipe
through our ‘Made with MILO’ initiative, we provided curated
recipes delivering on MILO’s promise of quality, taste and
nutritional value. This limited time offer enhanced MILO’s brand
strength and enabled the brand to connect with new loyalists.
Made with KIT KAT
Meanwhile, our ‘Made with KIT KAT’ initiative created new
opportunities to build the brand’s prominence in the desserts
segment. Working together with key customers to ideate
suitable recipes, we developed branded desserts for Dunkin
Donuts, La Boheme, Hazukido and other F&B partners.
The limited time offers garnered overwhelmingly positive
feedback while contributing to the sales of our customers. This
showcased versatility across our dessert solutions portfolio, as
we continued delivering innovative limited time offerings with
leading operators to delight consumers.
Our Business Review
Nurturing Healthier Eating Habits in Children
Celebrating International Chef Day this year, NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL championed healthy eating with the theme
‘Growing Great Chefs.’ In collaboration with the Professional
Culinaire Association, we hosted a fun educational session using
MAGGI and HARVEST GOURMET products, where the children
learned basic culinary skills like preparation and cooking while
gaining nutritional knowledge.
The session instilled principles such as nutritional balance
and encouraged the children to make positive dietary choices.
The annual event is part of the Nestlé for Healthier Kids global
initiative which promotes healthy lifestyles among primary
school children.
NIS Learn more about our Nestlé for Healthier Kids programme on
page 39 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
Our promoters offering guests tasty HARVEST GOURMET Golden
Crispy Nuggets samples at FHM 2023.
Chef Calvin showcasing the plant-protein-packed Burger, crafted
with HARVEST GOURMET Juicy Sensational Burger.
Our in-house NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL Chef Salihin creating a
mouthwatering chocolate cake infused with the irresistible KIT KAT.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
46 Our Leadership
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY
*Declarations by the Board:
• None of the Directors own any shares in Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad.
• None of the Directors have any conflict of interest, any personal interest or any family relationship with any other Director and/or major shareholders of the Group.
• None of the Directors have been convicted for any offences within the past five years nor have they been imposed with any public sanction or penalty by any relevant regulatory bodies, other than traffic offences
(if any).
YM Dr. Tunku Alina
Alias
Syed Saiful
Islam
YTM Tan Sri Tunku
Puteri Intan Safinaz
Sultan Abd Halim
Tan Sri
Wan Zulkiflee
Wan Ariffin
Juan Aranols
Dato’ Hamidah
Naziadin
Tengku Ida Adura
Tengku Ismail
Chin Kwai Fatt YAM Tan Sri Dato’
Seri Syed Anwar
Jamalullail
Nestlé Malaysia contributed 4,000 boxes of essential food aid to the MRCS as part of our
efforts to help ease the burden of communities in the East Coast affected by the monsoon
floods.
Learn more
Scan me
Annual Review
47
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 25 February 2002 (Non-Independent,
Non-Executive Director)
• 5 November 2004 (Re-designated as
Independent, Non-Executive Director)
• 16 April 2009 (Chairman)
• 20 February 2018 (Re-designated as
Non-Independent, Non-Executive Director)
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 28 April 2022
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Chairman of the Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee
• Member of the Audit and Risk Committee
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Arts in Accounting,
Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia
• Chartered Accountant
• Member of Certified Practising Accountant
Australia
• Member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants
• Court of Emeritus Fellows, Malaysian Institute
of Management
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIPS
• Chairman, Kenanga Investment Bank Berhad
• Chairman, SP Setia Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Chairman, Lembaga Zakat Selangor
• Chancellor, SEGi University
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Chairman, Malaysia Airport Holdings Berhad
• Chairman, Cahya Mata Sarawak Berhad
• Chairman, Malakoff Corporation Berhad
• Chairman, Media Prima Berhad
• Chairman, MRCB Berhad
• Chairman, DRB-Hicom Berhad
• Chairman, EON Bank Berhad
• Chairman, Uni Asia Life Assurance Berhad
• Chairman, Uni Asia General Insurance Berhad
• Chairman, Lembaga Tabung Haji Investment
Panel
• Independent Director, Maxis Communications
Berhad
• Independent Director, Bangkok Bank Berhad
• Group Managing Director, Amanah Capital
Partners Berhad
• Financial Accountant, Malaysian Airlines
Systems Berhad
Gender - Male
Age - 72
Nationality - Malaysian
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 29 April 2021
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 28 April 2022
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Fellow Member of the Institute of Chartered
Accountants in England and Wales
• Member of the Malaysian Institute of
Accountants
• Member of the Malaysian Institute of Certified
Public Accountants
• Bachelor of Science (Economics), University
of Hull, United Kingdom
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Dialog Group Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENT
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Prudential Assurance Malaysia Berhad
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Senior Advisor, Creador Sdn. Bhd.
• Various senior management positions in
PricewaterhouseCoopers Group in Malaysia,
including Managing Partner, Corporate
Finance Leader of PwC Malaysia and Senior
Advisor of PwC South East Asia Corporate
Finance
Chairman,
Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director
YAM TAN SRI
DATO’ SERI
SYED ANWAR
JAMALULLAIL
Gender - Male
Age - 68
Nationality - Malaysian
Independent Non-Executive
Director
CHIN KWAI FATT
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
5
5
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
5
5
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
48 Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 May 2020
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 26 April 2023
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Member of the Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Laws, University of
Wolverhampton, United Kingdom
• Certificate in Personnel Management,
Malaysian Institute of Personnel Management
• Certified in-house Facilitator for CIMB Group
- Franklin Covey’s The 7 Habits of Highly
Effective People®
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIPS
• Independent Non-Executive Director, Maxis
Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director, Sime
Darby Property Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director, MR D.I.Y
Group (M) Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Chairman, Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, Maxis Berhad
• Member of the Razak School of Government’s
Leadership Development Committee
• Board Member, Majlis Sukan Negara
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Advisory Council Member, Faculty of Business
and Accountancy, University of Malaya
• Chief Executive Officer, CIMB Foundation
• Group Chief People Officer, CIMB Group
• Member of Board of Commissioners,
CIMB Niaga
• Member of Nomination and Remuneration
Committee, CIMB Niaga
• President of Malaysian Commercial Banks
Association (MCBA)
• Head of Group Corporate Resources,
CIMB Group
• Head of Human Resources, CIMB Securities
Sdn. Bhd.
• Personnel Officer, The Pacific Bank Berhad
Independent Non-Executive Director
Gender - Female
Age - 60
Nationality - Malaysian
DATO’ HAMIDAH
NAZIADIN
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 21 June 2021
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 28 April 2022
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Member of the Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee
• Member of the Audit and Risk Committee
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• PhD in Islamic Finance, International Centre for
Education in Islamic Finance, Malaysia
• Master in Laws (LLM) (Corporate and Commercial
Law), King’s College, London, United Kingdom
• Advanced Management Programme,
Oxford University - Green Templeton College
• Bachelor of Laws, University of Malaya, Malaysia
• Malaysian Bar Council
• Associate Mediator of Singapore Mediation
Centre
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIPS
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
IJM Corporation Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Batu Kawan Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
United Overseas Bank (Malaysia) Berhad
• Director, Chairperson, J A Russell &
Company Sdn. Bhd.
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Independent Non-Executive Director, Malaysian
Pacific Industries Berhad
• Trustee, Raja Alias Foundation
• Council Member, Climate Governance Malaysia
• Non-Independent Non-Executive Director,
Chemical Company of Malaysia Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Chairperson,
Harps Holding Berhad
• Chair of the governing council, Yayasan CCM
• Non-Independent Non-Executive Director,
MBSB Bank Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director,
Malaysia Building Society Berhad
• Partner, Wong Lu Peen & Tunku Alina,
Advocates & Solicitors
• Legal Assistant, Skrine & Co.
Independent Non-Executive Director
Gender - Female
Age - 60
Nationality - Malaysian
YM DR. TUNKU ALINA
ALIAS
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
5
5
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
5
5
Annual Review
49
Independent Non-Executive Director
Gender - Female
Age - 57
Nationality - Malaysian
YTM TAN SRI TUNKU
PUTERI INTAN SAFINAZ
SULTAN ABD HALIM
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 2 May 2023
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• Nil
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Member of the Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Political Studies, University of
Sussex, United Kingdom
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP
• Nil
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• National Chairperson, Malaysian
Red Crescent Society
• Governing Board Member, International
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent
Societies, Geneva, Switzerland
• Chairperson, Sultanah Bahiyah Foundation
• Royal Patron and Adviser, Langkawi
UNESCO Global Geopark
PAST EXPERIENCE
• Pro-Chancellor, National University of Malaysia
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 October 2023
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• Nil
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Member of the Audit and Risk Committee
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Honorary Fellow Member of the Institution of
Chemical Engineers, United Kingdom
• Advance Management Programme, Harvard
Business School, USA
• Bachelor of Chemical Engineering, University
of Adelaide, Australia
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIPS
• Chairman, DRB-HICOM Berhad
• Chairman, Gas Malaysia Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Chairman, Malaysia Airlines Berhad
• Chairman, Malaysia Aviation Group Berhad
• Member of Board of Trustees, Razak
School of Government
• Adjunct Professor, Kulliyyah of Economics and
Management Sciences, International Islamic
University of Malaysia (IIUM)
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Member of Board Governors, IIUM
• President and Group CEO, PETRONAS
• Council Member, East Coast Economic Region
Development Council
• Council Member, Northern Corridor
Implementation Authority
• Council Member, ASEAN Council on Petroleum
• Pro-chancellor, Universiti Teknologi PETRONAS
• Member of the Advisory Council, Institut
Pentadbiran Awam Negara
• Industry Advisor, Universiti Putra Malaysia
Gender - Male
Age - 63
Nationality - Malaysian
Independent Non-Executive Director
TAN SRI
WAN ZULKIFLEE
WAN ARIFFIN
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all two meetings (since appointed)
2
2
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended one meeting (since appointed)
1
1
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
50
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 December 2018
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 28 April 2021
ALTERNATE DIRECTOR
• Alessandro Monica (Resigned on 1 October 2023)
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Nil
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Economic Science and Business,
University of Barcelona, Spain
• Executive Development Programme,
International Institute for Management
Development (IMD), Lausanne, Switzerland
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP
• Nil
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Chairman, Malaysian Recycling Alliance Berhad
• Council Member, Federation of Malaysia
Manufacturers (FMM)
• Chairman, FMM Sustainability Committee
• Director, Nihon Canpack (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Chief Financial Officer of Zone Asia, Oceania &
sub-Saharan African, Nestlé S.A.
• Senior Vice President, Head of Global Group
Control, Nestlé S.A.
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Iberian region
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Caribbean region
• Chief Financial Officer, Nestlé Plata region
• Finance Manager of Nestlé Ice Cream and
Frozen Food business, Nestlé Italy
• Strategic Business Controller, Nestlé S.A.
• Auditor, Nestlé Spain
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Chief Executive Officer,
Executive Director
Gender - Male
Age - 55
Nationality - Spanish
JUAN ARANOLS
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 August 2022
DATE OF LAST RE-ELECTION
• 26 April 2023
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Nil
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Master of Commerce in Finance and Banking,
University of Dhaka, Bangladesh
• Chartered Accountant
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP
• Nil
OTHER APPOINTMENT
• Nil
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Head of Finance & Control, Nestlé Pakistan
• Head of Finance & Control, Nestlé Nigeria
• Country Controller, Nestlé Sri Lanka
• Country Controller, Nestlé Bangladesh
• Financial Planning Manager, Nestlé India
• Financial Accounting Manager,
Nestlé Bangladesh
Chief Financial Officer,
Executive Director
Gender - Male
Age - 51
Nationality - Bangladeshi
SYED SAIFUL ISLAM
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
5
5
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
5
5
Annual Review
51
Company Secretary
Gender - Female
Age - 51
Nationality - Malaysian
TENGKU IDA ADURA
TENGKU ISMAIL
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 6 August 2013
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Certified Company Secretary, Malaysian
Association of Company Secretaries
• Bachelor of Laws from the University of
Nottingham, United Kingdom
• Barrister-at-Law of the Honourable Society of
Lincoln’s Inn
• Diploma in Syariah Law and Legal Practice,
International Islamic University of Malaysia
• Called to the Malaysian Bar
• Leadership Course, London Business School,
United Kingdom
• Leadership Course, Melbourne Business
School, Australia
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP
• Nil
OTHER APPOINTMENTS
• Vice Chairperson, ICC Malaysia Berhad
• Member, FMM Business Ethics & Governance
Committee
• Malaysian Trustee, ASEAN CSR Network
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Legal Counsel for Zone Asia, Oceania, Africa &
Middle East, Nestlé S.A.
• Legal Counsel, Nestlé Malaysia
• Legal Manager, Kumpulan Guthrie Berhad
• Legal Practitioner
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all five meetings
5
5
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 May 2020
DATE OF RETIREMENT
• 26 April 2023
MEMBERSHIP OF BOARD COMMITTEES
• Member of the Audit Committee
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Honours Degree in Accounting and Finance,
University of Glamorgan (now known as
University of South Wales), United Kingdom
• Graduate of ICLIF’s High Performers’
Leadership Programme
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
Attended all three meetings
3
3
Independent Non-Executive Director
Gender - Female
Age - 50
Nationality - Malaysian
DATIN SRI
AZLIN ARSHAD
THE FOLLOWING
DIRECTOR HAS RETIRED
SINCE THE 39TH ANNUAL
GENERAL MEETING IN
2023:
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
52 Our Leadership
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM
BACKGROUND
Juan Aranols embarked on his career with Nestlé Spain in 1990, holding the position of
Internal Auditor. He later took on the role of Strategy Business Controller for various categories
at Nestlé S.A. in Switzerland, before being appointed Controller of the Ice Cream and Frozen
Food units for Nestlé Italy. Subsequently, he served as Chief Financial Officer (CFO) for the
Plata Region (Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay) and then the Caribbean and Iberian regions
in 2005 and 2008 respectively. In 2012, he was appointed Senior Vice President of global
Group Control for Nestlé S.A., prior to becoming CFO of Zone Asia, Oceania & Africa (AOA)
in 2015, where he also oversaw the Confectionery and NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL businesses.
Juan is also passionate about environmental conservation, advocating for collective action to
drive sustainability throughout the organisation. Testament to this, he continues to serve as
the Chairman of the Malaysian Recycling Alliance and the Chairman of FMM’s Sustainability
Committee.
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Economic Science and Business, University of Barcelona, Spain
• Executive Development Programme, IMD, Lausanne, Switzerland
• Leadership Course, London Business School, United Kingdom
BACKGROUND
Syed Saiful Islam started as a Financial Accounting Manager with Nestlé Bangladesh in
1999. He then held various financial roles in Nestlé India from 2000 to 2005, returning to
Nestlé Bangladesh as Corporate Controller in 2006 and later appointed as Country Controller
that same year. From 2010 onwards, he took on successive leadership positions for Nestlé,
such as Head of Finance & Control of Nestlé Nigeria. In 2018, he assumed the position of
Head of Finance & Control for Nestlé Pakistan, where he was instrumental in spearheading a
successful business turnaround despite a challenging operating landscape.
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Master of Commerce in Finance and Banking, University of Dhaka, Bangladesh
• Chartered Accountant
JUAN ARANOLS
Chief Executive Officer
Gender - Male | Age - 55 | Nationality - Spanish
Date of Appointment – 1 December 2018
SYED SAIFUL ISLAM
Chief Financial Officer
Gender - Male | Age - 51 | Nationality - Bangladeshi
Date of Appointment – 1 August 2022
Annual Review
53
BACKGROUND
Dato’ Adnan embarked on his journey with Nestlé in 1984, as a Trainee Engineer with Nestlé
Malaysia. Over the next four decades, he held various Technical positions, including tenures
in Nestlé Australia, Turkey and the Philippines. Presently, he serves as Executive Director
of Corporate Affairs of Nestlé Malaysia, leading Corporate Communications, Sustainability,
Nutrition, Consumer Services and Halal Affairs. He also spearheads Nestlé Malaysia’s
sustainability strategies, with an emphasis on combatting climate change and fostering a
circular economy. In addition, he currently serves as Chairman of the FMM Malaysian Food
Manufacturing Group.
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Masters of Business Administration in Management, Ohio University, USA
• Bachelor in Science, Electronic and Electrical Engineering, Loughborough University,
United Kingdom
DATO’ ADNAN PAWANTEH
Executive Director, Corporate Affairs
Date of Appointment – 1 April 2020
Gender - Male | Age - 62 | Nationality - Malaysian
Our Leadership
Executive Leadership Team
BACKGROUND
Xolile White started his more than 30-year career with Nestlé as an apprentice at the Nestlé
East London Factory in 1993 in South Africa, before becoming a Production Manager in 2002.
Following a stint as Project Leader for the Nestlé Productivity Team at Nestlé S.A. headquarters
in Vevey, Switzerland, he was promoted to Factory Manager of the Nestlé East London Factory
in 2009 and later expatriated to Nestlé Middle East where he was Factory Manager at the
Nestlé Technopark in Dubai. He subsequently served as Technical and Manufacturing Director
for Nestlé Turkey and thereafter for the Nestlé East & Southern Africa Region since 2018,
where he drove a successful turnaround in overall factory performance.
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Exec. Masters in Business Admin, National Institute of Business Management, Dubai
• Bachelor’s Degree in Labour Law – Industrial Relations, Graduate Institute of
Management, South Africa
• Bachelor’s Degree in Business Management, Damelin College, South Africa
• Diploma in Mechanical Engineering, PE Technikon, South Africa
• Leadership Course, London Business School, United Kingdom
XOLILE WHITE
Executive Director, Technical & Production
Gender - Male | Age - 55 | Nationality - South African
Date of Appointment – 1 November 2023
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
54
TENGKU IDA ADURA TENGKU ISMAIL
Gender - Female | Age - 51 | Nationality - Malaysian
Date of Appointment – 1 January 2017
BACKGROUND
Tengku Ida joined Nestlé Malaysia in 2005 as a Legal Counsel. In 2010, she was appointed
Legal Counsel for Zone AOA and Middle East based in Nestlé S.A., Switzerland, before
returning to Nestlé Malaysia in 2013 to take on her current role, overseeing all legal,
secretarial and compliance matters. She is also the Company Secretary of Nestlé Malaysia.
Beyond managing legal risks, Tengku Ida also champions good corporate governance, a
robust compliance culture and ethical business practices. Externally, she remains dedicated
to advocating these values and standards.
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Certified Company Secretary, Malaysian Association of Company Secretaries
• Bachelor of Laws (Hons), University of Nottingham, United Kingdom
• Barrister-at-Law of the Honourable Society of Lincoln’s Inn, United Kingdom
• Called to the Malaysian Bar
• Diploma in Syariah Law & Legal Practice, International Islamic University of Malaysia
• Leadership Course, London Business School, United Kingdom
• Leadership Course, Melbourne Business School, Australia
Our Leadership
Executive Leadership Team
Executive Director, Legal & Secretarial
BACKGROUND
Anurag Dwivedi came on board Nestlé in 2010 as Supply Chain Manager for Nestlé South
Asian Region (SAR). In 2014, he was promoted to Head of Distribution. During his tenure,
he helmed the implementation of the Distribution Network transformation, which paved the
way to the consolidation and modernisation of logistics operations in Nestlé SAR. In 2018, he
joined the Zone AOA Supply Chain Team in Nestlé S.A., Switzerland, where he contributed
to key areas such as Distribution Networks Re-Design, Logistics Automation and People
Capability Development. In 2022, he returned to Nestlé SAR as Head of Customer Supply
Chain where he transformed the customer supply chain organisation. Under his leadership,
Nestlé SAR won the Customer Centricity Award during the Nestlé Global Innovation Day
2022, while being rated Best in Class Market in Zone AOA.
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor Of Science (Honours), Bangalore, India
• Post Graduate Diploma, Indian Institute of Management, Ahmedabad, India
Executive Director, Supply Chain
ANURAG DWIVEDI
Gender - Male | Age - 44 | Nationality - Indian
Date of Appointment – 1 November 2023
Annual Review
55
TEO HENG KEAT
Executive Director, Sales
Date of Appointment – 1 December 2023
Gender - Male | Age - 54 | Nationality - Singaporean
Our Leadership
Executive Leadership Team
BACKGROUND
Teo Heng Keat began working at Nestlé in 1995, holding various roles in Sales and Marketing
in Malaysia and Singapore. He acquired a leadership role as Business Executive Manager for
Nestlé Liquid Drinks in 2009, then became Sales Director for Singapore in 2014. He made
significant contributions as Market NCE Champion before he was appointed as Business
Executive Officer for Nestlé Ice Cream in 2017. During his six years in this position, he
achieved unprecedented growth and market leadership for the ice cream category. Under his
guidance, the team made great strides with new products, including local favourite Musang
King Durian ice cream and many others.
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATION
• Bachelor’s Degree of Business Administration, National University of Singapore, Singapore
BACKGROUND
Carmen Melissa F. Antonio (fondly known as Mitzie) began her human resources career as
a Corporate Management Trainee with Nestlé Philippines in 1996. She then became Human
Resources Manager in 1999, prior to an expatriation to Nestlé’s headquarters in Vevey,
Switzerland, in 2004, where she took on the role of Human Resources Project Manager
for Zone AOA. Following this, she became Head of Corporate Talent and Organisational
Development at Nestlé Thailand. Upon returning to the Philippines in 2009, she served in
several senior human resources roles, including Head of Corporate Learning & Organisational
Development, Senior Human Resources Business Partners – Technical & Production and
Nestlé Business Services, culminating in her appointment as Human Resources Director and
Senior Vice President.
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Masters in Labor and Industrial Relations, University of the Philippines
• Bachelor of Arts in Psychology, University of the Philippines
• Management and Leadership Course, Asian Institute of Management, Philippines
• Management and Leadership Course, London Business School, Singapore
CARMEN MELISSA F. ANTONIO
Executive Director, Human Resources
Gender - Female | Age - 50 | Nationality - Filipino
Date of Appointment – 1 April 2022
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
56
BACKGROUND
Yit Woon Lai began her career with Nestlé Malaysia in 1995 as a Brand Executive for Nestlé
Ice Cream (a joint venture at the time). She subsequently took on various positions, including
Senior Brand Manager for MILO and Group Brand Manager of Chilled Dairy. In 2005, Yit was
entrusted with leading the Chilled Dairy business, followed by stewardship of the Ice Cream
business. She then took on the role of Business Executive Officer of NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL
Malaysia and Singapore. Amid the pandemic, Yit spearheaded the recovery of the OOH
business together with her team, leveraging digital solutions and tapping into emerging
trends. Post-pandemic, she has continued to fuel strong business growth, building on the
positive trajectory.
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor’s Degree in Economics majoring in Business, University of Malaya
• Executive Development Programme, International Institute for Management
Development, Lausanne, Switzerland
YIT WOON LAI
Business Executive Officer, NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL
Gender - Female | Age - 53 | Nationality - Malaysian
Date of Appointment – 1 August 2017
Our Leadership
Executive Leadership Team
NG SU YEN
Gender - Female | Age - 45 | Nationality - Malaysian
Date of Appointment – 1 January 2020
Business Executive Officer, MILO
BACKGROUND
Ng Su Yen joined Nestlé Malaysia’s New Talent Management Programme in 2004 as a Field
Sales Executive, before transitioning to the Head Office in Brand Management MILO, and later
in 2011 to the MILO Strategic Business Unit in Vevey, Switzerland. Returning to Malaysia, she
was appointed as the Consumer Marketing Manager of MILO, and subsequently as Business
Executive Officer helming the Milks and RTD portfolios. Today, Su Yen continues to steer
the MILO brand strategy focused on grassroots sports development, leveraging partnerships
with key stakeholders such as the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Youth and Sports
to advocate active living and positive values. Aligning MILO’s brand purpose with healthier
lifestyles has played a key role in strengthening brand love amongst generations of Malaysian
and Singaporean consumers over the years.
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Masters of Business, University of New South Wales, Australia
• Bachelor of Business, University of Technology, Sydney, Australia
Annual Review
57
YEOH SHE SHIANG
Business Executive Officer, Nestlé Nutrition
Date of Appointment – 1 February 2023
Gender - Female | Age - 49 | Nationality - Malaysian
BACKGROUND
Yeoh She Shiang originally joined Nestlé Malaysia as a Senior Brand Manager for the Infant
and Milks portfolios in 2004, and has accumulated more than 25 years of experience in the
Nutrition category. She passionately took on several roles with growing levels of responsibility
in the then regionally managed Nutrition Business for South East Asia and Pacific Rim until
2017. She then relocated to Nestlé China, initially as Head of Marketing and subsequently as
Business Director for Baby Food. In 2020, she was appointed as Business Executive Officer
for Nestlé Nutrition Greater China before returning to Malaysia in 2023. In her current role,
her invaluable contributions have enabled rapid sales and margin acceleration for the Infant
Nutrition Business.
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATION
• Degree in Dietetic, the University of British Columbia, Canada
Our Leadership
Executive Leadership Team
BACKGROUND
Raef Labaki built a strong career in media and advertising via numerous positions in companies
in the Middle East, before joining Nestlé Middle East in 1999 as Media Manager. While based
in Dubai, he skilfully took on the mandate of establishing the Communication and Marketing
Services division. In July 2012, he assumed the role of Business Executive Officer for the
coffee business in the Nestlé Middle East and North Africa (MENA) Region, overseeing the
development and expansion of iconic coffee brands. He also served as a member of the
Executive Management Committee for the Nestlé MENA Region since 2007 and a member
of the leadership team for NESCAFÉ Zone Europe, Middle East, and North Africa from 2017
to 2021.
ACADEMIC / PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Business Administration (BBA), American University of Beirut, Lebanon
• Bachelor of Science (BSc) in Biology, American University of Beirut, Lebanon
Executive Director, Supply Chain
ANURAG DWIVEDI
Gender - Male | Age - 44 | Nationality - Indian
Date of Appointment – 1 November 2023
Business Executive Officer, Coffee
RAEF LABAKI
Gender - Male | Age - 58 | Nationality - Lebanese
Date of Appointment – 1 February 2023
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
58 Our Leadership
NESTLÉ LEADERSHIP TEAM
The Nestlé Leadership
Team (NLT) remained
actively engaged in
various important
activities and events
throughout 2023.
These included a wide
range of initiatives,
such as corporate
and brand-related
projects, sustainability
programmes, and more.
Our board (in blue Nestlé Cares attire) with the local authorities and representatives of the farming
community during Nestlé Chilli Club farming engagement in Pasir Puteh, Kelantan. Juan Aranols and Ivy Tan officiating the MAGGI Sah Malaysia celebration.
[Right] Teo Heng Keat and [left] philanthropist Uncle
Kentang enjoying the festive cheer while distributing ice
cream pints as part of the Raya Together-gether Bersama
NESTLÉ LA CREMERIA campaign.
[First row, third from left] Juan Aranols presented a donation of RM400,000 to [first
row, fourth from left] Her Royal Highness Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Sultan Abd Halim,
Chairperson of the MRCS, in aid of flood and humanitarian relief efforts.
Annual Review
59
Our Leadership
Nestlé Leadership Team
[From left] Juan Aranols, Friend of MILO Park Seo-Jun and
Ng Su Yen at the #JomMinumMILO event. Floriane Novello launching NESPRESSO VERTUO.
[Front row, from right] Anurag Dwivedi, Xolile White, Juan Aranols, [second row from right]
Kenny Wong and [third row] Teo Heng Keat flagging off the very first shipments of 2024 after
New Year’s Eve celebration with the team at Nestlé National Distribution Center. [Centre] Mitzie Antonio and other HR colleagues proud to win at GCA 2023.
[From left] Dato’ Adnan Pawanteh, Chew Soi Ping, [fourth from
left] Raef Labaki, and [third from right] Juan Aranols at the signing
ceremony of the MoU with KESEDAR.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
60
[From right] Juan Aranols, Dato’ Adnan Pawanteh and
Carlota Casellas at the MCB’s exhibition after the MoU
signing for the Nestlé Borneo Cocoa Initiative.
[Second from left] Yit Woon Lai, [first from right] Ivy Tan, [third and fourth from right] Norkhayati
Mohamed Hashini, Mitzie Antonio and other colleagues doing their part at the Nestlé Cares Tree
Planting event.
[From right] Frédéric Porchet and Juan Aranols flagging off the collaboration with Carching, igniting
reach and awareness through 100 eye-catching roving vehicles adorned with vibrant NESTLÉ LIVELY Tea
Lemon Guarana wraps.
[Right] Juan Aranols taking Stephanie Hart, Nestlé S.A. global
Head of Operations, on a tour at KPT Recycle, our recycling partner’s
facility: Discussing how Nestlé Malaysia supports KPT to enhance
waste sorting efficiency to cope with the rapid expansion of our
EPR initiatives through the installation of semi-automated Material
Recovery Facility.
[Top row, centre] Juan Aranols and Nestlé Cares volunteers carried
out an underwater clean-up in Mabul Island, Sabah.
Our Leadership
Nestlé Leadership Team
Annual Review
61
Our Leadership
Nestlé Leadership Team
Yeoh She Shiang at the Nestlé Cares Tree Planting event at Hutan Simpan Bukit Bintang in Perlis,
contributing towards a greener future.
[Right] Norkhayati Mohamed Hashini and [left] Yit Woon Lai walking for their heart health at the
activation of NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS WAMM Programme.
[From right] Xolile White and Anurag Dwivedi taking [left] Magdi Batato, former Executive Vice President
and Head of Operations from Nestlé Global on a tour of the National Distribution Centre.
[From right] Teo Heng Keat, Wong Eu Khean, Chow Phee Chat, Syed Saiful Islam, Ng Su Yen, Juan Aranols,
Yit Woon Lai, April Wong and MILO team at the starting line of MILO Malaysia Breakfast Day 2023.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
62
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
YAM Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed Anwar
Jamalullail
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Mr Chin Kwai Fatt
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Hamidah Naziadin
Independent Non-Executive Director
YM Dr. Tunku Alina Alias
Independent Non-Executive Director
YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan
Safinaz Sultan Abd Halim
Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin
Independent Non-Executive Director
Juan Aranols
Executive Director
Chief Executive Officer
Syed Saiful Islam
Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
 
BOARD COMMITTEES
Audit and Risk Committee
Chairman
Mr Chin Kwai Fatt
Members
YAM Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed Anwar Jamalullail
YM Dr. Tunku Alina Alias
Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin
Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee
Chairman
YAM Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed Anwar Jamalullail
Members
Dato’ Hamidah Naziadin
YM Dr. Tunku Alina Alias
YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Sultan Abd
Halim
COMPANY SECRETARY
Tengku Ida Adura Tengku Ismail
(MACS 01686) (SSM PC No.: 201908001581)
Tel : +603 7965 6000
Fax : +603 7962 7213
Email : CompanySecretary.Nestle@my.nestle.com
INVESTOR RELATIONS
Syed Saiful Islam
Chief Financial Officer
Tel : +603 7965 6000
Email : InvestorRelations.Malaysia@my.nestle.com
 
REGISTERED OFFICE
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Registration No.: 198301015532 (110925-W)
Level 22, 1 Powerhouse
No. 1, Persiaran Bandar Utama
Bandar Utama
47800 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 7965 6000
Fax : +603 7965 6767
Company Website
www.nestle.com.my
SHARE REGISTRAR
Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services
Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 197101000970 (11324-H)
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel : +603 2783 9299
Fax : +603 2783 9222
Email : is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com
AUDITORS
Ernst & Young PLT
Registration No.: 202006000003 (LLP0022760-LCA) &
AF 0039
Chartered Accountants
Level 23A, Menara Milenium
Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara
50490 Kuala Lumpur
Tel : +603 7495 8000
Fax : +603 2095 5332
 
PRINCIPAL BANKERS
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad
Registration No.: 198401015221 (127776-V)
Malayan Banking Berhad
Registration No.: 196001000142 (3813-K)
STOCK EXCHANGE LISTING
Main Market of Bursa Malaysia
Securities Berhad
Stock Code : 4707
Stock Name : NESTLÉ
Corporate Information
Annual Review
63
HEAD OFFICE
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Registration No.: 198301015532 (110925-W)
Level 22, 1 Powerhouse
No. 1, Persiaran Bandar Utama
Bandar Utama
47800 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 7965 6000
Fax : +603 7965 6767
Consumer Services
1 800 88 3433
Website
www.nestle.com.my
Facebook
www.facebook.com/Nestle.Malaysia
Instagram
@nestle.malaysia
FACTORIES
Shah Alam Complex
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
PT 927, Jalan Playar 15/1
Seksyen 15, 40200 Shah Alam
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 5522 5600
Fax : +603 5522 5999
Batu Tiga
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
PT 927, Jalan Playar 15/1
Seksyen 15, 40200 Shah Alam
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 5522 5600
Fax : +603 5510 6263
Sri Muda
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
PT 927, Jalan Playar 15/1
Seksyen 15, 40200 Shah Alam
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 5520 6400
Fax : +603 5520 6500
Chembong
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
Lot 691, Jalan Perusahaan Utama
Kawasan Perindustrian Chembong
71300 Rembau
Negeri Sembilan Darul Khusus
Tel : +606 686 3900
Fax : +606 686 4080
Chembong (Ice Cream)
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
Lot 3857 – 3862 Jalan Perusahaan 4
Kawasan Perindustrian Chembong
71300 Rembau
Negeri Sembilan Darul Khusus
Tel : +606 686 3900
Fax : +606 686 4095
Kuching
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
Lot 844, Block 7 Muara Tebas Land District
Estet Perindustrian Demak Laut
93450 Kuching Sarawak
Tel : +6082 472 800
Fax : +6082 472 999
Corporate Directory
DISTRIBUTION CENTRE
Nestlé Products Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 197901000966 (45229-H)
Lot 7316 (PT3609)
Jalan Klang-Banting
Mukim Telok Panglima Garang
42500 Telok Panglima Garang
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 3123 3000
Fax : +603 3123 3001
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
64
NOTICE IS HEREBY GIVEN THAT the 40th Annual General Meeting (“AGM”) of the Company will be held on a virtual basis through live streaming from the broadcast venue at Level 22, 1 Powerhouse,
No. 1, Persiaran Bandar Utama, Bandar Utama, 47800 Petaling Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia on Tuesday, 30 April 2024 at 10.00 a.m. for the transaction of the following business:
AGENDA
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Resolution 1
Resolution 2
Resolution 3
Resolution 4
Resolution 5
Resolution 6
As Ordinary Business
1. TO RECEIVE the statutory financial statements for the financial year ended
31 December 2023, and the Directors’ and Auditors’ reports thereon.
Please refer to Explanatory Note 1
2. TO RE-ELECT the following Directors retiring in accordance with Article 97.1
of the Constitution of the Company:
2.1 Mr. Chin Kwai Fatt
2.2 YM Dr. Tunku Alina Alias
2.3 Mr. Juan Aranols
Please refer to Explanatory Note 2
3. TO RE-ELECT the following Directors who will be retiring in accordance with
Article 106 of the Constitution of the Company:
3.1 YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Sultan Abd Halim
3.2 Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin
Please refer to Explanatory Note 2
4. TO RE-APPOINT Ernst & Young PLT (Firm No. 202006000003 (LLP0022760-
LCA) & AF 0039) as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the Directors
to fix their remuneration.
Please refer to Explanatory Note 3
As Special Business
TO CONSIDER AND IF THOUGHT FIT, to pass the following as Ordinary
Resolutions, unless otherwise indicated:
5. TO APPROVE the following payments to the Directors:
5.1 Fees of RM1,248,500 for the financial year ended 31 December 2023.
5.2 Benefits of RM250,000 for the financial period from 1 July 2024 to
30 June 2025.
6. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature, as set out under Section 2.3(a)
of the Circular to Shareholders dated 29 March 2024.
“THAT approval be hereby given for the renewal of the mandate granted by
the Shareholders of the Company on 26 April 2023 pursuant to paragraph
10.09 of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad, authorising the Company and/or its subsidiaries to enter into the
recurrent related party transactions of a revenue or trading nature as set out
in Section 2.3(a) of the Circular to Shareholders dated 29 March 2024 with
the related parties mentioned therein which are necessary, for the Company
and/or its subsidiaries’ day-to-day operations and which are carried out in
the ordinary course of business on terms which are not more favourable to
the related parties than those generally available to the public and are not to
the detriment of its minority Shareholders.
THAT the authority conferred by such mandate shall commence upon the
passing of this resolution and continue to be in force until:
(i) the conclusion of the next AGM of the Company following the
forthcoming AGM at which such mandate is approved, at which time it
will lapse, unless by a resolution passed at the next AGM, the mandate
is renewed;
		
(ii) the expiration of the period within which the next AGM of the
Company after the forthcoming AGM is required to be held pursuant
to Section 340(2) of the Companies Act 2016 (but must not extend to
such extension as may be allowed pursuant to Section 340(4) of the
Companies Act 2016); or
Resolution 7
Resolution 8
Annual Review
65
Notice of Annual General Meeting
(iii) revoked or varied by resolution passed by the Shareholders in a general
meeting;
		
whichever is earlier;
THAT the Directors be and are hereby authorised to complete and do all such
acts and things (including executing such documents as may be required)
to give effect to the transactions contemplated and/or authorised by this
resolution.”
Please refer to Explanatory Note 4
7. TO TRANSACT any other business for which due notice shall have been
given.
BY ORDER OF THE BOARD
TENGKU IDA ADURA TENGKU ISMAIL
Company Secretary
(SSM PC No. 201908001581)
(MACS 01686)
Petaling Jaya
29 March 2024
Resolution 9
Notes:
Virtual Annual General Meeting (“AGM”)
(i) The 40th AGM of the Company will be conducted on a virtual basis through live streaming
and Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities which will be made available on
the online portal of Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd., TIIH Online at
https://tiih.online. Please refer to the Administrative Details for the 40th AGM for the procedures
to register, participate and vote remotely via the RPV facilities.
(ii) For the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act 2016, the Chairman
of the meeting is required to be present at the main venue of the AGM. Members/Proxies/
Corporate Representatives will not be allowed to attend this AGM in person at the broadcast
venue on the day of the AGM.
Appointment of Proxy
(iii) A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the virtual meeting is entitled to
appoint a proxy to attend and vote in his place. A proxy may, but need not be, a member of the
Company.
(iv) The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the appointer or of
his attorney duly authorised in writing, or if the appointor is a corporation, either under the
corporation’s seal or under the hand of an officer or attorney duly authorised.
(v) Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined under the Security
Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991, he may appoint not more than two proxies in respect
of each Securities Account he holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit
of the said Securities Account. Where a member of the Company is an exempt authorised
nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for multiple beneficial owners in one
Securities Account (“omnibus account”), there is no limit to the number of proxies which the
exempt authorised nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.
Where an authorised nominee appoints two proxies, or where an exempt authorised nominee
appoints two or more proxies, the proportion of shareholdings to be represented by each proxy
must be specified in the instrument appointing the proxies.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
66
(vi) An authorised nominee or an exempt authorised nominee with more than one Securities
Account must submit a separate instrument of proxy for each securities account.
(vii) The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other authority (if any) under
which it is signed or a notarially certified copy of such power or authority shall be deposited at
the office of the Share Registrar of the Company, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn.
Bhd. at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8,
Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or alternatively at the Customer Service Centre
at Unit G-3, Ground Floor, Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi,
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or the proxy form can be electronically lodged with the Share
Registrar of the Company via TIIH Online website at https://tiih.online. All proxy forms submitted
must be received by the Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the
holding of the meeting (i.e. Sunday, 28 April 2024 at 10.00 a.m.) or any adjournment thereof.
In default, the instrument of proxy shall not be treated as valid.
(viii) In respect of deposited securities, only members whose names appeared in the Record of
Depositors as at Monday, 22 April 2024 shall be entitled to attend, speak and vote at the
meeting or appoint proxies to attend, speak and vote on his/her behalf.
Explanatory Notes on Ordinary Business:
1. Audited Financial Statements
This item of the Agenda is meant for discussion only. The provision of Section 340(1) of the
Companies Act 2016 requires that the audited financial statements and the Reports of the
Directors and Auditors thereon be laid before the Company at its AGM. As such, this Agenda
item is not a business that requires a resolution to be put to vote by the Shareholders.
2. Re-election of Retiring Directors
The Board of Directors had through its Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee
carried out an assessment of the Directors who are standing for re-election under Articles 97.1
and 106 of the Company’s Constitution and agreed that the Directors have met the Board’s
expectation in the discharge of their duties and responsibilities.
Directors standing for re-election under Article 97.1 of the Company’s Constitution are:-
• Mr. Chin Kwai Fatt
• YM Dr. Tunku Alina Alias
• Mr. Juan Aranols
All the Directors who will be retiring for re-election according to Article 97.1 were assessed
based on the following criteria:-
(i) Each Director’s performance, skills and contribution based on the results of the Board
Effectiveness Evaluation (BEE) 2023;
(ii) The level of independence demonstrated by each Independent Director, and his/her ability
to act in the best interests of the Company in decision-making; and
(iii) The Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy.
Directors standing for re-election under Article 106 of the Company’s Constitution are:-
• YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Sultan Abd Halim
• Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin
Both the Directors who will be retiring for re-election according to Article 106 were assessed
based on the following criteria:-
(i) Each Director’s level of contribution to the Board deliberations through his/her skills,
experience and strength in qualities;
(ii) The level of independence demonstrated and his/her ability to act in the best interests of
the Company in decision-making; and
(iii) The Directors’ Fit and Proper Policy.
All Directors have completed the conflict of interest assessment, and there are no concerns
noted.
All Directors standing for re-election have abstained from deliberations and decisions on their
own eligibility and have offered themselves for re-election at the 40th AGM.
The Board endorsed the recommendation of the Governance, Nomination and Compensation
Committee on the re-election of the retiring Directors.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Annual Review
67
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Mr. Chin Kwai Fatt
Mr. Chin was appointed on 29 April 2021 and is the Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Mr. Chin’s extensive background in consulting, corporate finance and leadership, coupled
with his proven track record during his tenure with PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) and
PwC Network is valuable as a member of the Board and as the Chairman of the Audit and
Risk Committee. His diverse expertise encompasses financial acumen, risk management,
and information technology consulting, has provided a holistic perspective that is crucial for
steering the Company towards success. He has also demonstrated exceptional governance,
strategic oversights and showcased his commitment to ensuring sound financial practices and
adherence to regulatory standards. Given his wealth of experience and dedication to upholding
the highest standards of corporate governance and financial reporting, the Board recommends
his re-election as a member of the Board and as Chairman of the Audit and Risk Committee.
YM Dr. Tunku Alina Alias (“Dr. Tunku Alina”)
Dr. Tunku Alina was appointed on 21 June 2021, a member of the Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee and a member of the Audit and Risk Committee.
Dr. Tunku Alina brings diverse experience in business as well as academic expertise. Her
qualifications as an Advocate and Solicitor of the High Court of Malaya, underscores her legal
acumen and dispute resolution skills. In the academic sector, she has experience as an Adjunct
Professor of Islamic Finance Law at the University of Miami and an Adjunct Research Fellow at
the International Centre for Education in Islamic Finance (INCIEF). Dr. Tunku Alina has a strong
commitment to sustainability. She has completed the Oxford Leading Sustainable Corporation
Programme at the University of Oxford Saïd Business School and the Circular Economy and
Sustainability Strategies Programme at the University of Cambridge Judge Business School,
and she has also served as the Council Member of the Climate Governance Malaysia. Given
her extensive engagement and strong background in Environmental, Social and Governance
(ESG) as well as her role in the corporate sector, the Board recommends her re-election as
a Board member and to continue to serve as a member of the Governance, Nomination and
Compensation Committee, and the Audit and Risk Committee.
Mr. Juan Aranols
Juan Aranols was appointed on 1 December 2018.
With an extensive background spanning over 30 years with the Nestlé group, Juan Aranols
has undertaken various key roles globally. Prior to being appointed as the Chief Executive
Officer (CEO) of the Group, he was the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) of Zone Asia, Oceania and
Africa (AOA) and also the Zone AOA category lead for the confectionery business and Nestlé
Professional. His resilience, strategic vision and adaptability have proven to steer through
dynamic business landscapes and challenges, especially during the COVID-19 pandemic, the
supply chain disruptions and economic slowdown. Juan Aranols has demonstrated very strong
result-driven strategies and approaches, and consistently exhibited unwavering leadership
during these challenging times. With his vast experience, business acumen and his ability
to navigate complexities, the Board recommends his re-election at the forthcoming AGM to
ensure the sustainable success of the Company.
YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Sultan Abd Halim (“YTM Tunku Puteri”)
YTM Tunku Puteri was appointed on 2 May 2023, a member of the Governance, Nomination
and Compensation Committee.
YTM Tunku Puteri is currently the National Chairperson of the Malaysian Red Crescent Society
and a Governing Board member of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent
Societies. Her significant contributions to social activism, humanitarian efforts, and community
development, including her role in the Sultanah Bahiyah Foundation, showcase her dedication
to positive societal change and commitment to community services. YTM Tunku Puteri’s role
as Royal Patron and adviser to the Langkawi UNESCO Global Geopark underscores her diverse
and impactful engagements. YTM Tunku Puteri has also gained recognition in the academic
arena following esteemed appointments as Chancellor and Pro-chancellor for several local
universities in Malaysia. In view of her extensive experience and notable accomplishments,
particularly in the realm of ESG, the Board believes her re-election aligns strongly with the
Group’s ESG agenda, contributing to our sustainable growth and community outreach efforts.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
68
The Annual Report 2023 and other accompanying documents are available online at
https://www.nestle.com.my/investors/shareholders-meeting and will be sent by electronic
mail to Shareholders who have maintained their e-mail addresses in the Record of Depositors
with Bursa Malaysia Depository Sdn. Bhd.
Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin
Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee was appointed on 1 October 2023, a member of the Audit and Risk
Committee.
Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee is a highly experienced leader with an illustrious career spanning over 40
years. His distinguished leadership roles include prominent positions in PETRONAS, Malaysia
Airlines Berhad and Malaysia Aviation Group Berhad, and spans in various domains, including
management, finance, and regulatory affairs. Beyond the corporate realm, Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee
has served as a Council Member for the East Coast Economic Region Development Council,
Northern Corridor Implementation Authority, and ASEAN Council on Petroleum. He also serves
as an Adjunct Professor at Kulliyyah of Economics and Management Sciences, International
Islamic University of Malaysia. Given his extensive experience, diverse background and proven
leadership, the Board is confident that Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee’s re-election will provide substantial
value and be instrumental in driving the Group’s sustainable growth journey.
The Board ensures that shareholders have the information they require to make an informed
decision on the re-election of retiring directors. This includes details of any interest, position or
relationship that might influence, or reasonably be perceived to influence, in a material respect
their capacity to bring an independent judgement to bear on issues before the Board and to
act in the best interests of the Company as a whole. The profiles of Directors standing for
re-election are set out on pages 47, 48 , 49 and 50 of the Annual Review 2023.
3. Re-appointment of Ernst & Young PLT (Firm No. 202006000003 (LLP0022760-LCA) & AF
0039), as Auditors of the Company (“Ernst & Young PLT”)
The Board had its meeting held on 27 February 2024 and approved the recommendation by
the Audit and Risk Committee to re-appoint Ernst & Young PLT. The Board and Audit and Risk
Committee collectively agreed that Ernst & Young PLT has met the relevant criteria prescribed
by Paragraph 15.21 of the Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad.
Notice of Annual General Meeting
Explanatory Notes on Special Business:
4. Recurrent Related Party Transactions
The proposed Ordinary Resolution 9 is to seek a renewal of the Shareholders’ mandate to
allow the Company and/or its subsidiaries to enter into recurrent related party transactions of a
revenue or trading nature. For further information, please refer to the Circular to Shareholders
dated 29 March 2024 accompanying the Company’s Annual Report for the financial year ended
31 December 2023.
I/We
NRIC/Passport/Company No.
of
being a member of Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad, hereby appoint the person(s) below as my/our proxy
to vote for *me/us on *my/our behalf at the 40th Annual General Meeting of the Company to be
held on a virtual basis via remote participation and electronic voting from the broadcast venue at
the Level 22, 1 Powerhouse, No. 1, Persiaran Bandar Utama, Bandar Utama, 47800 Petaling
Jaya, Selangor Darul Ehsan, Malaysia on Tuesday, 30 April 2024 at 10.00 a.m. and at any
adjournment thereof.
Option# Name of
Proxy(ies)
MyKAD/
Registration No.
Email Address/
Tel No.
Proportion of
shareholding
to be represented
Chairman of
Meeting
%
Appoint ONE proxy only (Please complete details of proxy below)
%
Appoint MORE THAN ONE proxy (Please complete details of proxies below)
Proxy 1 %
Proxy 2 %
# Please tick (√) ONE box only.
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Registration No.: 198301015532 (110925-W) (Incorporated in Malaysia)
No. of shares held
CDS Account No.
Proxy Form
* Delete if not applicable
My/Our proxy is to vote as indicated with an “X” below. If no specific direction as to voting is given,
the proxy will vote or abstain from voting at his/her discretion.
No. Resolutions For Against
1. To re-elect Mr. Chin Kwai Fatt as a Director of the Company.
2. To re-elect YM Dr. Tunku Alina Alias as a Director of the Company.
3. To re-elect Mr. Juan Aranols as a Director of the Company.
4. To re-elect YTM Tan Sri Tunku Puteri Intan Safinaz Sultan Abd Halim as a
Director of the Company.
5. To re-elect Tan Sri Wan Zulkiflee Wan Ariffin as a Director of the Company.
6. To re-appoint Ernst & Young PLT (Firm No. 202006000003 (LLP0022760-
LCA) & AF 0039) as Auditors of the Company and to authorise the
Directors to fix their remuneration.
7. To approve the payment of Directors’ fees of RM1,248,500.00 for the
financial year ended 31 December 2023.
8. To approve the payment of Directors’ benefits of RM250,000.00 for the
financial period from 1 July 2024 to 30 June 2025.
9. Proposed Renewal of Shareholders’ Mandate for Recurrent Related Party
Transactions of a Revenue or Trading Nature as set out under Section
2.3(a) of the Circular to Shareholders dated 29 March 2024.
Dated this day of 2024
Witnessed by :
Signature :
Address/ :
Contact No.		
Company Stamp :
Occupation : Signature of Shareholder or Common Seal
Notes:
Virtual Annual General Meeting (“AGM”)
(i) The 40th AGM of the Company will be conducted on a virtual basis through
live streaming and Remote Participation and Voting (“RPV”) facilities which
will be made available on the online portal of Tricor Investor & Issuing
House Services Sdn. Bhd., TIIH Online at https://tiih.online. Please refer to
the Administrative Details for the 40th AGM for the procedures to register,
participate and vote remotely via the RPV facilities.
(ii) For the purpose of complying with Section 327(2) of the Companies Act
2016, the Chairman of the meeting is required to be present at the main
venue of the AGM. Members/Proxies/Corporate Representatives will not be
allowed to attend this AGM in person at the broadcast venue on the day of
the AGM.
Appointment of Proxy
(iii) A member of the Company entitled to attend and vote at the virtual meeting
is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote in his place. A proxy may,
but need not be, a member of the Company.
(iv) The instrument appointing a proxy shall be in writing under the hand of the
appointer or of his attorney duly authorised in writing, or if the appointor is
a corporation, either under the corporation’s seal or under the hand of an
officer or attorney duly authorised.
(v) Where a member of the Company is an authorised nominee as defined
under the Security Industry (Central Depositories) Act 1991, he may
appoint not more than two proxies in respect of each Securities Account
he holds with ordinary shares of the Company standing to the credit of the
said Securities Account. Where a member of the Company is an exempt
authorised nominee which holds ordinary shares in the Company for
multiple beneficial owners in one Securities Account (“omnibus account”),
there is no limit to the number of proxies which the exempt authorised
nominee may appoint in respect of each omnibus account it holds.
Where an authorised nominee appoints two proxies, or where an exempt
authorised nominee appoints two or more proxies, the proportion of
shareholdings to be represented by each proxy must be specified in the
instrument appointing the proxies.
(vi) An authorised nominee or an exempt authorised nominee with more than
one Securities Account must submit a separate instrument of proxy for
each securities account.
(vii) The instrument appointing a proxy and the power of attorney or other
authority (if any) under which it is signed or a notarially certified copy
of such power or authority shall be deposited at the office of the Share
Registrar of the Company, Tricor Investor & Issuing House Services Sdn.
Bhd. at Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A, Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3,
Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, or
alternatively at the Customer Service Centre at Unit G-3, Ground Floor,
Vertical Podium, Avenue 3, Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi, 59200
Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia or the proxy form can be electronically lodged
with the Share Registrar of the Company via TIIH Online website at
https://tiih.online. All proxy forms submitted must be received by the
Company not less than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding
of the meeting (i.e. Sunday, 28 April 2024 at 10.00 a.m.) or any adjournment
thereof. In default the instrument of proxy shall not be treated as valid.
(viii) In respect of deposited securities, only members whose names appeared
in the Record of Depositors as at Monday, 22 April 2024 shall be entitled to
attend, speak and vote at the meeting or appoint proxies to attend, speak
and vote on his/her behalf.
THE SHARE REGISTRAR
TRICOR INVESTOR & ISSUING HOUSE SERVICES SDN. BHD.
Registration Number: 197101000970 (11324-H)
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite
Avenue 3, Bangsar South
No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia
Affix Postage
Stamp
Please fold here to seal
Please fold here to seal
Cover
Printed on FSC® Certified Mix
Credit 250gsm
Xper Premium White
Text
Printed on FSC® Certified Mix
Credit 120gsm
Xper Premium White
NESTLÉ (MALAYSIA) BERHAD
Registration No.: 198301015532 (110925-W)
Level 22, 1 Powerhouse
No.1, Persiaran Bandar Utama, Bandar Utama
47800 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Malaysia
Tel +603 7965 6000
Fax +603 7965 6767
Nestlé Consumer Services Free Phone
1 800 88 3433
Facebook
www.facebook.com/Nestle.Malaysia
Website
www.nestle.com.my
Publication Date
29th March 2024
