ANNUAL REVIEW 2020
Inside this
Report
UNLOCKING THE POWER OF FOOD TO ENHANCE QUALITY OF
LIFE FOR EVERYONE, TODAY AND FOR GENERATIONS TO COME
As a company that is constantly evolving, our purpose creates a strong
foundation that forms the way we impact and interact with the world.
This encapsulates how we nourish Malaysians with meaningful solutions,
make a positive difference in society and protect our planet’s precious
resources, driving the sustainable growth of the business and enabling us to
forge ahead as a force for good.
2
Our Annual Reporting Suite
3
About this Report
4 - 9
Our Business
Our Presence
Organisation Structure
Fast Facts
Business Value Creation Model
10
Creating Shared Value
12
Message from Our Chairman and CEO
14
Management Discussion & Analysis
20
Our Product Portfolio
22
Business Review
48 - 67
Our Leadership
Board of Directors and Company Secretary
Executive Leadership Team
Nestlé Leadership Team
68
Corporate Information
70
Corporate Directory
2. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Our Annual
Reporting Suite
Our success over these past 108 years would not have been possible without the strong support of our shareholders and stakeholders alike. We continue
to ensure robust engagement with our stakeholders as part of our commitment to transparency and good corporate governance, communicating
consistently on our sustainable growth journey, underpinned by our economic, societal and environmental responsibilities.
To facilitate a thorough understanding of our growth strategy, business operations, financial performance and sustainability approach, we present our
Annual Reporting Suite, comprising three dedicated publications:
Further supporting this are our quarterly reporting on financial results, as well as any material announcements to Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad and
press releases, all of which are readily available on our corporate website: www.nestle.com.my
Growing from strength to strength, Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad (“Company”) has expanded significantly since our inception in
1912. Today, as the Good Food, Good Life company and the leading food and beverage (F&B) manufacturer in the nation,
we remain steadfast in our dedication to nourish Malaysians, in line with our purpose of unlocking the power of food to
enhance the quality of life for everyone, today and for generations to come.
REPORTING FRAMEWORK
• Main Market Listing Requirements of Bursa Malaysia Securities
Berhad
• Corporate Governance Guide by Bursa Malaysia Berhad
• Companies Act 2016
• Malaysian Code on Corporate Governance
• International/Malaysian Financial Reporting Standards
• International Integrated Reporting Framework
• Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Standards)
• International Integrated Reporting Council guidelines
ASSURANCE
• Internal controls and management assurance
• Compliance and internal audit reviews
• External audit by Ernst & Young PLT on financial information
• External audit by PricewaterhouseCoopers on the Nestlé in Society
Report
REPORTING PERIOD, SCOPE AND BOUNDARIES
This Annual Report covers the reporting period between 1 January and
31 December 2020. The report presents detailed information on the
operations and activities of Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad and its subsidiaries
(“Group”), focusing on our performance during the year under review.
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
This Annual Report may contain forward-looking statements with
respect to current views, plans and objectives in relation to the
operations and business of the Company. By their nature, these
forward-looking statements are subject to potential risks and
uncertainties that may emerge in the future, which could cause
actual results and performance to differ materially from what
is expressed or implied by these forward-looking statements.
The Group undertakes no obligation to update or revise these
forward-looking statements, whether due to new developments, future
events or otherwise.
ANNUAL REVIEW
Offers an in-depth perspective
of our strategy, key financial indicators,
brands and business performance, and
other notable initiatives throughout
the year.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
& FINANCIAL REPORT
Presents the Group’s financial
performance for the year and outlines
our efforts to uphold best practices
in transparency and corporate
governance.
NESTLÉ IN SOCIETY REPORT
Provides insights into our sustainability
commitments and the progress we
have achieved towards creating shared
value and effecting positive change in
society and for our planet.
Book 1 Book 2 Book 3 Online Annual
Reporting Suite
To easily access
our 2020 Annual
Reporting Suite online,
simply scan the QR
code below:
nes.tl/AnnualReportMY
3.
An n u a l Re view
Icons in this report
AR
Annual Review 2020
N I S
Nestlé in Society Report 2020
CGFR
Corporate Governance
& Financial Report 2020
About this Report
WELCOME TO THE
NESTLÉ ANNUAL
REVIEW 2020
As our primary report, our Annual Review communicates our strategic priorities and objectives set for the year, as
well as a discussion on the core strategies driving the Company’s performance. This includes operational, marketing
and sales initiatives undertaken during the year.
The Message from our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) section presents an overview of our performance
for 2020, providing context for the socioeconomic backdrop and highlighting our progress against short and
long-term strategic goals. This is followed by the CEO’s Management Discussion & Analysis section, elaborating
in detail about our financial results and operational highlights, as well as strategic growth areas for the year. This
dovetails then into our Business Review section, which provides insights on our brand strategies and main activities.
The Annual Review was approved by the Board of Directors of Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad (“Board”) on 18 March 2021.
4. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
OUR PRESENCE
With a firmly entrenched presence in Malaysia, Nestlé’s operations stem from our head office in the heart of Selangor, to six manufacturing
plants across the country. Supporting these are our strong nationwide sales force, comprising 55 sales offices throughout Malaysia and
Borneo. This strategic network allows us to effectively reach every corner of Malaysia, to serve our distributors and customers across all states.
Perlis
Kelantan
Terengganu
Kedah
Penang
Perak
Sabah
Pahang
Johor
Selangor
Kuala Lumpur
Malacca
Negeri
Sembilan
Sarawak
Selangor
Head Office
3 factories
12 sales offices
1 NESPRESSO Nano Boutique
1 Nestlé Distribution Centre
Kuala Lumpur
1 sales office
1 NESPRESSO Boutique
Malacca
1 sales office
Pahang
5 sales offices
Kelantan
3 sales offices
Penang
3 sales offices
Perlis
1 sales office
Sabah
4 sales offices
Negeri Sembilan
2 factories
4 sales offices
Johor
9 sales offices
Terengganu
1 sales office
Perak
5 sales offices
Kedah
2 sales offices
Sarawak
1 factory
4 sales offices
Head Office Sales Offices Others
Factories
Our
Business
5.
An n u a l Re view
ORGANISATION STRUCTURE
Shared Services Locally Managed Businesses
Regionally & Globally
Managed Businesses
CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
Juan Aranols
Chief Financial Officer
Craig Connolly
Executive Director,
Technical & Production
Alessandro Monica
Executive Director,
Human Resources
Shahzad Umar
Executive Director,
Supply Chain
Salman Nazir
Executive Director,
Sales
Chew Soi Ping
Executive Director,
Corporate Affairs
Dato’ Adnan Pawanteh
Executive Director,
Legal & Secretarial
Tengku Ida Adura Tengku Ismail
Executive Director,
Communications
Chow Phee Chat
(operating out of Singapore)
Business Executive Officer,
MILO
Ng Su Yen
Business Executive Officer,
Foods
Geetha Balakrishna
Business Executive Officer,
Beverages
Othman Chraibi
Business Executive Officer,
Ready-to-Drink
April Wong
Business Executive Officer,
Milks
Lam Pui Yuee
Business Executive Officer,
Ice Cream
Teo Heng Keat
Business Executive Officer,
Confectionery
Frédéric Porchet
Business Executive Officer,
NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL
Yit Woon Lai
Business Executive Officer,
NESTLÉ Health Science
Maria Rica Mier
Business Executive Officer,
NESTLÉ Nutrition
Wong Eu Khean
Business Executive Officer,
NESPRESSO
Floriane Novello
Business Executive Officer,
NESTLÉ Breakfast Cereals
Laurent Therond
6. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
MUTIARA
DAMANSARA,
SELANGOR
5,018 PEOPLE
INMALAYSIA
Nestlé has been operating commercially
Head office
located in
Our categories
Employs
as at 31 December 2020
Public
listed on
Bursa
Malaysia
since
6
Operates
and one national
distribution centre
FACTORIES
FAST FACTS
Our
Business
DAIRY
FOODS
READY-TO-DRINK
ICE CREAM
CONFECTIONERY
HEALTHCARE
NUTRITION
MATERNAL &
CHILD NUTRITION
COFFEE
BREAKFAST
CEREALS
OUT-OF-HOME
7.
An n u a l Re view
PRODUCTS ARE
HALAL-CERTIFIED,
ASINCE1912
ALL
including Malaysian favourite, locally-made household
brands such as MILO, MAGGI and NESCAFÉ
Employs
1989
500
on COVID-19
relief efforts
RM15MILLION
TURNOVER
OF RM5.4
BILLION IN
2020
Malaysian manufacturing
workforce
100%
Market capitalisation of
as at 31 December 2020
RM32.6 BILLION
THE BIGGEST
HALAL-
PRODUCING
NESTLÉ
MARKET IN
THE WORLD
Spent in 2020
RM60MILLION on total COVID-19
operational expenditure
(including on workforce protection efforts)
8. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Protecting trust
OUR
STRATEGY
Driving sustainable and profitable growth
Continue nurturing love and trust in our brands
Enhancing capabilities for the future
Leading the industry’s way into a greener future
INPUT
OUR
VALUE CHAIN
• Market capitalisation: RM32.6 billion
• Shareholder equity: RM557.1 million
• Share capital: RM267.5 million
• Total assets: RM2.86 billion
Financial Capital
Channelling capital and funding through the pandemic to ensure
continuous supply to consumers, protect safety of all employees
and support Malaysians in need.
• Leading efforts to reduce, remove and replace the non-recyclable
materials used in packaging
• Directing resources to tackle climate change across our value chain
Natural Capital
Channelling resources towards shaping a greener and more
sustainable future for all.
Our Communitie
s
Individual
Consumers
Raw
Materials
M
arketing & Sales
Unlocking th
food to enha
of life for e
today a
generation
• 5,018 employees across the organisation
• 35% female employee representation
• 100% local manufacturing workforce
• Comprehensive suite of offline and online training and
development initiatives
Human Capital
Leveraging expertise, experience and insights from our diverse and
engaged talent pool to create shared value.
• Six factories across Malaysia
• Highest capital expenditure in six years: RM295 million
• Adhere to the highest food safety and quality standards (i.e. ISO
9001:2015, FSSC 22000, GLOBE Quality Monitoring Scheme,
Quality Compliance Verification)
• Nestlé’s Global Halal Centre of Excellence
• Largest Nestlé Distribution Centre in Asia located in Selangor,
with state-of-the-art digital technology at our Transportation Hubs
Operational Capital
Continuously investing into avenues for future growth and
producing safe, high-quality products for consumers.
• Expanding product distribution across geographies and channels
• Nurturing brand love by leveraging new innovative approaches to
engage consumers
• Executing marketing campaigns that closely resonate with all
Malaysians
Sales & Marketing Capital
Agility and flexibility in executing our robust marketing strategies
and driving excellence in sales execution for growth.
• Robust product innovation pipeline to deliver sustainable,
healthier and more affordable nutrition
• Nestlé Nutritional Profiling System to assess the nutritional value
of our products
• Expanding Farmer Connect programmes to improve farmers’
livelihoods
Social & Relationship Capital
Pledging commitments to address issues material to the business
to continue upholding trust of our valued stakeholders.
BUSINESS VALUE CREATION MODEL
Our
Business
9.
An n u a l Re view
Financial Capital
Delivering resilient business performance in a challenging
environment.
• Net profit: RM552.7 million
• Revenue: RM5.4 billion
• Total proposed dividend payout: RM2.32 per share
• Basic earnings per share: RM2.36
• Total dividends paid: RM544 million
Human Capital
Strengthening the business, bringing innovation and driving
positive change to create a thriving business.
• One of the top three Most Attractive Employers in Malaysia by
Randstad for the fourth consecutive year
• Over 50% leadership positions held by women
• Increasing female representation in Sales, Supply Chain and
Technical & Production
• Achieved cumulative attendance of 45,424 in training to upskill our
employees
Operational Capital
Scaling up manufacturing capabilities and agility in producing new
innovations and adhering to the most stringent hygiene and safety
standards.
• Established first Nestlé Plant-Based Meal Solutions manufacturing
facility in Southeast Asia
• Portfolio of more than 500 high-quality, Halal-certified products
• Export to more than 50 countries worldwide
• Implementation of Transportation Hubs to reduce carbon dioxide
emissions by 10-12% per annum
Sales & Marketing Capital
Nurturing strong brand loyalty amongst consumers and delivering
growth for the long term.
• Won Putra Brand Awards for MILO, MAGGI, NESCAFÉ, NESTUM,
NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS and KIT KAT
• Biggest nationwide campaign, Peraduan Nestlé Gaji Seumur Hidup
• Best-in-class sales execution and product variants across nine food
and beverage categories
Social & Relationship Capital
Accelerating actions to promote better nutrition, health and
wellness, support our farmers and uplift communities in need.
• Educated over 67,000 students on good nutrition and active living
through NESTLÉ FOR HEALTHIER KIDS since 2010
• Inspire six million Malaysians per year to live active lifestyles
through the MILO Aktif Negaraku movement
• 100% of our products sold benchmarked against the Nestlé
Nutritional Profiling System
• Enhanced the livelihoods of almost 600 farmers through our Farmer
Connect initiatives
Natural Capital
Delivering on our commitments on environmental sustainability.
• Planted one million trees through the Kinabatangan RiLeaf Project
and embarked on Project RELeaf to plant three million trees by 2023
• Two-thirds of our total plastic packaging is designed ready-for-
recycling
• 62,128m3 water saved, equivalent to the annual water consumption
of approximately 1,134 people
OUTPUT
The Planet
ls & Families
Suppliers
Factories
Transportation &
W
arehou
ses
he power of
ance quality
everyone,
and for
ns to come
HOW WE SHARE
THE VALUE WE CREATE
Shareholders &
Investors
Offer competitive
shareholder
returns and
stable investment
propositions.
Customers &
Retailers
Offer a diverse
product portfolio to
meet the needs of
their shoppers.
Consumers &
General Public
Provide healthier
and tastier
product options
to inspire people
to live healthier
lives, supported
via education
on nutrition and
sustainability-related
topics.
Government,
Regulatory
Bodies & NGOs
Operate responsibly
to contribute to
socioeconomic
growth through
job creation
and continuous
investment.
Employees
Provide decent
employment
opportunities and
diversity.
Communities
Uplift rural
livelihoods by
increasing income-
generation.
10. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Creating Shared Value
Good Food, Good Life. This simple yet powerful
philosophy succinctly articulates what we stand for:
to be a force for good. More so today, as consumer
expectations for good food are constantly evolving, we
are firmly dedicated to being responsive to their needs in
sustainable, responsible and attainable ways.
As we strive to deliver on this promise, our Creating
Shared Value (CSV) approach embodies the way we do
business. Creating long-term value for our shareholders
and for society has been instrumental to our sustainable
growth for the past 108 years, and will continue to propel
us moving forward.
CSV plays an integral role in our value chain. Our vast
and intricate network enables us to touch millions of lives
every day through our business and brand activities, from
the farmers we work with to our passionate employees
and consumers across Malaysia, in addition to allowing
us to make a positive difference for the environment.
We have set specific commitments and targets for transparent tracking and reporting of our progress year-on-year. Conscious that we
are stronger together, these commitments are aligned with the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), to contribute
towards shared global objectives for the common good.
Through CSV, we rally our 5,018 employees and more than 30 brands in Nestlé Malaysia to unlock the power of food to enhance the quality
of life for everyone, today and for generations to come.
N IS For more information on our CSV initiatives and achievements, please refer to the Nestlé in Society Report.
To effect meaningful change, we focus on three key pillars:
For Individuals and Families For Our Communities For The Planet
Enabling people to lead happier and
healthier lives by innovating to create better
products that meet the varying needs
of consumers and provide high-quality,
accessible, affordable nutrition.
Building strong communities and supply
chains by improving livelihoods in areas
directly connected to our business activities,
including rural development programmes to
benefit local farmers, as well as advocating
for human rights and best practices in
compliance across our value chain.
Stewarding resources for future
generations by minimising the
environmental impact of our operations
and addressing the global concerns of
climate change and plastic pollution
through innovative and meaningful
solutions.
11.
An n u a l Re view
Our Purpose
Our 2030 Global Ambitions
Our Impact Areas
Our CSV Pillars
Through our ambitions, we are supporting the SDGs
Unlocking the power of food to enhance quality of life for everyone,
today and for generations to come
For Individuals and Families
To help 50 million children
lead healthier lives
To strive for zero environmental
impact in our operations
To help improve 30 million
livelihoods in communities directly
connected to our business activities
For Our Communities For The Planet
Enabling healthier
and happier lives
Helping develop thriving,
resilient communities
Stewarding resources
for future generations
• Offering tastier and healthier choices
• Inspiring people to lead healthier lives
• Building, sharing and applying
nutrition knowledge
• Enhancing rural livelihoods
• Respecting and promoting human
rights
• Promoting decent employment
and diversity
• Caring for water
• Acting on climate change
• Safeguarding the environment
Nutrition, Health and Wellness Rural Development, Our People Water, Environment and Climate
12. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Message from
Our Chairman and CEO
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer (right)
Y.A.M. Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed
Anwar Jamalullail
Chairman (left)
Dear shareholders,
Without a doubt, the
COVID-19 pandemic
has been a highly
disruptive force,
throwing the world
into turmoil in 2020.
In this context, Nestlé
Malaysia reassessed
and redefined
our priorities, to
weather the business
through the storm,
whilst making a
difference for many
by responding as
a caring pillar of
society.
13.
An n u a l Re view
Through this time of crisis, the
Company adopted three
non-negotiable priorities:
To keep our people and business
partners safe; to ensure stable
supply of nutritious foods and
beverages for Malaysians;
as well as to actively support
the community through an
extensive relief programme.
While we have not been
immune to the challenging
environment, our ability to
pivot and remain responsive
to the needs of Malaysians
has enabled us to stand firm,
maintain our momentum and
deliver on our promise to be a
force for good, while delivering
a resilient performance.
Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
12.
Message from
Our Chairman and CEO
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer (right)
Y.A.M. Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed
Anwar Jamalullail
Chairman (left)
Dear shareholders,
Without a doubt, the
COVID-19 pandemic
has been a highly
disruptive force,
throwing the world
into turmoil in 2020.
In this context, Nestlé
Malaysia reassessed
and redefined
our priorities, to
weather the business
through the storm,
whilst making a
difference for many
by responding as
a caring pillar of
society.
NAVIGATING AN UNPRECEDENTED LANDSCAPE
The upheaval caused by COVID-19 was indeed extensive,
as countries around the world instituted lockdowns to contain
the pandemic. These containment measures had a significant
impact on global markets and economies, particularly in the
first half of the year as many sectors and industries essentially
ground to a halt.
In Malaysia, stringent restrictions were enforced under
the Movement Control Order (MCO) implemented by the
Government to curtail the spread of the pandemic. While F&B
manufacturers were considered essential businesses and
were allowed to operate under a strict set of safety protocols,
consumer demand was disrupted.
Out-of-home F&B channels had to stop operations and suffer a
dramatic decline in activity. On the other hand, some categories
experienced a boom in in-home consumption which caused
tensions on the supply side. The impact to livelihoods was
considerable, especially for B40 households and vulnerable
communities, with loss of employment and some sectors
forced to impose salary reductions to stay afloat.
Given the bleak
backdrop, it
was crucial for
individuals,
communities and
corporations in
Malaysia to unite in
a collective effort to
ease the burden on
those most impacted
by the pandemic.
An n u a l Re view 13.
REDEFINING PRIORITIES
In order to protect the Company in an increasingly tough operating
environment, while safeguarding the workforce and supporting
the community, we rapidly realigned our business strategies in
2020 around three key priorities.
We invested over RM60 million to safeguard our employees
and business partners and ensure operational continuity.
This comprised provision of personal protective equipment,
temporary attendance allowances for employees working onsite
during the most critical phase of the first MCO, implementing
additional safety protocols and undertaking a proactive
COVID-19 antigen testing programme recognised as a best-in-
class approach to protect employees even if it came at a high cost.
In our role as an essential supplier of foods and beverages,
we put measures in place to ensure our operations remained
uninterrupted, in line with the strict guidelines of the Government.
This allowed us to continue supplying our consumers with the
brands and products that have always been a part of Malaysians’
daily lives.
To help alleviate the socioeconomic burden on Malaysians,
we pledged to contribute RM15 million in COVID-19 relief efforts.
This included partnering with the Malaysian Red Crescent Society
and other organisations to donate food and other necessities
to frontliners and people in need, in addition to spearheading a
wide range of programmes to uplift the B40 and lower income
communities, as well as local F&B operators. These initiatives are
elaborated further in this report, and in more detail in our Nestlé
in Society Report 2020.
NIS For more information, please refer to page 49 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
Out-of-home F&B channels among the most affected by the COVID-19 pandemic.
Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Message from
Our Chairman and CEO
12.
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer (right)
Y.A.M. Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed
Anwar Jamalullail
Chairman (left)
Dear shareholders,
Without a doubt, the
COVID-19 pandemic
has been a highly
disruptive force,
throwing the world
into turmoil in 2020.
In this context, Nestlé
Malaysia reassessed
and redefined
our priorities, to
weather the business
through the storm,
whilst making a
difference for many
by responding as
a caring pillar of
society.
ADAPTING TO THE NEW NORMAL
As we faced evolving market dynamics and shifting consumer
needs during the pandemic, our ability to quickly pivot was crucial
to maintaining business resilience. This allowed us to respond in
meaningful ways and capture new growth opportunities.
Adapting to the new normal, we strengthened our engagement
with consumers by amplifying our presence leveraging digital
communication and engagement for our brand campaigns.
Our strong online presence allowed us to capture the shift of
consumers into e-commerce, and our brands found multiple
creative ways to uplift the spirits of many Malaysians while
they stayed home. In addition, we continued to introduce new
innovations catering to the preferences of increasingly health-
conscious consumers.
ACCELERATING OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY
We accelerated also our journey towards a greener and more
sustainable future while addressing the pandemic’s socio-
economicrepercussions.Thisincludespartneringwithlike-minded
public and private stakeholders to achieve transformational
changes, innovating new packaging solutions and engaging
with communities to promote positive behavioural changes,
encouraging collective actions to make a meaningful impact.
N I S
For more information on our sustainability commitments and progress,
please refer to the Nestlé in Society Report.
[From left] YBhg. Dato’ Mohd Sayuthi bin Bakar, Mayor of Petaling Jaya and Juan
Aranols, CEO, at the MoU signing ceremony between Nestlé Malaysia and Petaling
Jaya City Council for a pioneering kerbside recycling initiative launched in August 2020.
An n u a l Re view 13.
EXPANDING OUR PRESENCE
Through 108 years in Malaysia, we take pride in having grown
together with the nation. Malaysia also contributes significantly
to the Nestlé group and today, we continue to build for the
future having invested nearly RM1 billion over the past five years
and in 2020, recorded a capital expenditure of RM295 million,
marking a six-year high. On top of expanding our manufacturing
capacity, we are investing into new categories that are well in
tune with consumer trends and will further contribute to a more
sustainable future, such as the establishment of a Plant-Based
Meal Solutions facility in Malaysia.
FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE
2020 constantly tested the mettle and adaptability of companies
through a global crisis. Nestlé Malaysia was not immune and
our results reflected the crisis in the very important out-of-home
sectors, as well as the cost impacts derived from SOPs and
other COVID-19 protection measures. We take pride in having
protected jobs and income for all our workforce. While financial
results were impacted compared to previous years, they remained
remarkable on absolute levels, with sales reaching RM5.4 billion
as well as solid bottom-line and cash flow performance.
DIVIDEND
Our commitment to delivering shareholder value remained
steadfast and we confirmed in 2020 again a healthy dividend
payout. The Board of Directors proposed a third interim dividend
of RM0.92 per share for the financial year ended 31 December
2020, bringing total dividends for the year to RM2.32 per share,
a solid dividend payout despite the volatile climate of 2020.
CORPORATE GOVERNANCE
As we strive to uphold best practices in corporate governance,
we welcomed two new Independent Non-Executive Directors to
the Board during the year. The appointment of Dato’ Hamidah
Naziadin and Datin Sri Azlin Arshad broadened the depth of
expertise and brought further diversity to the Board.
In light of the MCO situation and the directive by regulatory
authorities, we conducted our first virtual Annual General
Meeting (AGM) in 2020. This enabled us to fulfil our fiduciary
responsibilities while providing an effective digital platform for
our shareholders to participate in the AGM from the safety of
their homes.
Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Message from
Our Chairman and CEO
12.
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer (right)
Y.A.M. Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed
Anwar Jamalullail
Chairman (left)
Dear shareholders,
Without a doubt, the
COVID-19 pandemic
has been a highly
disruptive force,
throwing the world
into turmoil in 2020.
In this context, Nestlé
Malaysia reassessed
and redefined
our priorities, to
weather the business
through the storm,
whilst making a
difference for many
by responding as
a caring pillar of
society.
KEY ACHIEVEMENTS
Supporting Malaysians in the wake of COVID-19, we fulfilled
our pledge to contribute RM15 million towards pandemic
relief efforts undertaken by the Company, including from our
brands who adopted a number of community programmes,
reaching directly or through charity organisations, over 200,000
Malaysians and their families.
Our largest nationwide campaign to date, Peraduan Nestlé
Gaji Seumur Hidup (Nestlé Salary for Life Contest), offered
Malaysians amazing prizes to lift spirits in challenging times.
We also extended this to vulnerable communities affected by the
pandemic, with 17 charitable organisations receiving total cash
contributions of RM684,000 from Nestlé Malaysia.
We are pleased to make tangible progress in our sustainability
journey, specifically in our mission to reduce our plastic footprint,
successfully implementing 100% paper straws across our entire
UHT range. This breakthrough achievement can eliminate more
As we made progress
towards a greener and
more sustainable future,
the Group achieved
important milestones that
both contributed to our
environmental commitments
as well as made a positive
impact on society.
The Malaysian Red Crescent Society was among our key partners engaged to distribute
our product donations to families and communities in need throughout the year.
An n u a l Re view 13.
than 200 million plastic straws per year. We also reduced the
empty space in the packaging of many products in our portfolio,
and made progress in the education of the public through a
number of pioneering initiatives.
We continued to invest in Malaysia, venturing into an exciting
new frontier in the F&B industry by setting up our pioneering
manufacturing facility for Plant-Based Meal Solutions. Malaysia
will be the host for one of only two Nestlé facilities of this kind in
Asia, catering to both domestic and export markets.
The Company was also honoured to be the recipient of several
prestigious awards, namely the Graduates’ Choice Award
(Employer of Choice for the FMCG category), the M100 Leading
Graduate Employers Awards (Employer of Choice for the FMCG
category) as well as the National Annual Corporate Report
Awards (Platinum Award for Best Sustainability Report).
OUTLOOK
The year 2021 began on an encouraging note, with COVID-19
vaccines progressively being rolled out. While this will certainly
have a positive bearing on the solution to the pandemic, we also
expect that COVID-19 will weigh significantly throughout the first
half of 2021. We also foresee a significant rebound in the prices
of many key commodities that anticipates margin tensions which
we will continue to do our best to manage.
In the above context, we will continue to focus on ensuring the
safety of our people, the continued supply of our products to
our customers and will again support vulnerable communities
through different programmes and reach new heights in our
sustainability journey. We remain focused on driving our business
with long term goals and always delivering safe, high-quality
nutritional products meeting the taste and other expectations of
all Malaysians.
We are trulythankful forthe unwavering support ofouremployees,
customers, suppliers, business partners and shareholders.
In a turbulent year, the fact that our bond with Malaysians has
remained strong is reflective of the trust they continue to place in
the Company and our brands, for which we are grateful.
Our gratitude as well goes to the members of the Board,
the Management Team and our entire Nestlé family for their
dedication to our purpose and values, and for remaining resilient
and united through a watershed year.
NIS
For more information on accolades received in the year, please refer
to page 111 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
14. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Management
Discussion & Analysis
FINANCIAL REVIEW
At the very onset of the pandemic, we quickly realigned our
priorities significantly to ramp up safety, health and preventive
measures for our people and to preserve operational
continuity. We focused increasingly on the pressing needs of
communities, whether it be through providing nourishment
with our high-quality products, or via outreach and support
programmes.
As a result of our efforts to sustain business growth while
meeting the needs of Malaysians, we recorded a turnover
of RM5.4 billion for the financial year. This result balanced
the severe impact to out-of-home channels, with an
acceleration of in-home consumption. The Group’s core F&B
businesses grew by 2.3% on the back of solid sales execution
and effective marketing and communication campaigns.
The Group registered a resilient profit after tax of RM552.7
million and a profit before tax of RM724.8 million, with strong
cash flow results preserving the solid financial position of the
Company in a difficult year.
OPERATIONAL & BUSINESS REVIEW
Every challenge also brings new opportunities, and our teams
remained focused, proactive and entrepreneurial to tap into
each potential opportunity.
Nestlé Malaysia
continued to
demonstrate resilience
throughout the year,
weathering through
a global pandemic to
turn in another stable
performance for 2020.
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer
15.
An n u a l Re view
Our business focus continued to build on the pillars of
previous years, namely:
1. Driving sustainable and profitable growth momentum;
2. Continue nurturing the love and trust in our brands;
3. Enhancing core fundamentals and capabilities for the
future; and
4. Leading the industry’s way into a greener future.
1. Driving sustainable and profitable growth momentum
As more people stayed at home due to movement restrictions,
we found new ways to engage consumers via digital tools and
explored innovative approaches to help deliver our products
to consumers. Underpinning this was our manufacturing
and supply chain resilience which allowed us to maintain
operational continuity, coupled with excellence in sales
execution supported by our best-in-class sales force to ensure
on-shelf availability.
Driving digital engagement and e-commerce
Throughout the year, we continued to engage our consumers
digitally and further ramped up our online activations.
We explored new models such as live streaming and shifted
from traditional product launches to online events, offering
consumers an interactive online shopping experience and
successfully increasing our reach. Through this, we saw the
launches of several new offerings such as NESCAFÉ Latte
Milk Tea coffee mixes and MAGGI FUSIAN Sarang Kimchi and
Karai Miso bowl noodles. We also leveraged on the Dalgona
coffee craze, with a live stream event featuring how Dalgona
coffee can be prepared using NESCAFÉ products.
Campaigns such as the Nestlé Super Brand Day and
11.11 drove significant traffic to our products across key
e-commerce platforms and helped accelerate our online
penetration, leading to record-breaking achievements during
the big online sales days. All these allowed us to drive strong
growth in e-commerce, further reinforcing our position as the
biggest e-commerce business among the Nestlé markets in
Southeast Asia.
Exploring new business models to reach out to consumers
Responding to the shift in consumer behaviour towards
higher in-home consumption, categories like Ice Cream took
on the challenge to continue delighting Malaysians at home.
The new NESTLÉ Ice Cream Home Delivery business model
proved to be a resounding success when it was first piloted
and was subsequently rolled out nationwide within a week of
launching.
Our Ready-to-Drink (RTD) business also further expanded
their presence online – making a wider range of Nestlé
products available for online purchase, as well as rolling out a
new home delivery option for RTD products such as MILO and
NESCAFÉ Original cans.
Supporting out-of-home operators
Conscious of the profound impact to out-of-home channels,
the NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL team focused on supporting
local F&B operators impacted by COVID-19. Through the
Bangkit Bersama Nestlé campaign, we rolled out trade
assistance programmes and provided cash contributions to
help support coffee shops, mamak shops and other eateries
and restaurants. This saw us channelling a total of RM5 million
to more than 15,000 local F&B operators to help keep their
businesses afloat.
In addition, we reached out to professional chefs nationwide
via an online cooking competition, MAGGI Wok Bersamamu,
with cash prizes up for grabs. Chefs were able to take part
by uploading videos of themselves cooking creative dishes
utilising MAGGI professional products and demonstrating
their culinary skills.
Manufacturing and supply chain excellence
Throughout the pandemic, we upheld our commitment
to ensure continued production and delivery of our foods
and beverages to consumers. Our manufacturing, supply
chain and distribution operations demonstrated remarkable
resilience and agility, allowing us to provide Malaysians with
a stable supply of essential products across our brands such
as MILO, MAGGI and NESCAFÉ, whilst strictly adhering to the
safety requirements set by the Government.
Best-in-class sales execution
Serving a wide spectrum of customers and consumers
throughout the nation with diverse preferences and
requirements, our extensive sales network continued to play
a core role in driving performance and ensuring continuous
availability of products for all Malaysians during the pandemic.
Our sales force plays a decisive contribution to revenue growth.
Working as a cohesive unit together with other functions,
brands and geographies in Malaysia, this enables our sales
team to keep a pulse on evolving needs of the retail ecosystem.
Throughout 2020, our sales force frontliners tirelessly worked
to ensure the continued relevance and strong presence of our
market-leading brands across all channels.
16. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Management
Discussion & Analysis
2. Continue nurturing the love and trust in our brands
Embracing our Company’s purpose to enhance quality of life, we undertook numerous initiatives to support Malaysians facing tough times over
the year, channelling an investment of RM15 million for pandemic relief efforts as well as various programmes to ease the burden on communities.
In addition to this, all our brands played a role in engaging with consumers and finding ways to be close and relevant to them.
Brands supporting communities in need with campaigns that matter
We are always committed to extend a helping hand in whatever way we can. Through meaningful campaigns together with our brands, we did our
utmost to make a positive difference.
The Peraduan Nestlé Gaji Seumur Hidup, our biggest nationwide contest to-date, offered Malaysians the chance to fulfil their dreams with the grand
prize of a salary for life. Recognising the increasingly challenging times, we extended the contest period with additional cash prizes and donated
RM684,000 in cash contributions to charitable organisations.
N I S
More information on our response to the COVID-19 outbreak can be
found on page 49 onwards of the Nestlé in Society Report.
Our KIT KAT Break Bus dropping off KIT KAT products for our frontliners at Hospital Sungai Buloh, Selangor.
The KIT KAT team also donated products to benefit over
12,000 healthcare workers in six hospitals in the Klang Valley,
encouraging frontliners to take a short break for themselves
during their efforts to combat the pandemic.
A donation drive was spearheaded by EVERYDAY Milk,
sponsoring over RM4.5 million worth of nutritious EVERYDAY
products to more than 85,000 Malaysians from vulnerable
communities.
Our Sampling team distributing MAGGI Bubur Lambuk to B40 communities during the month of Ramadan.
We distributed more than 120,000 bowls of MAGGI bubur
lambuk to B40 families, charity homes and frontliners. On top
of this, the MAGGI Sah Malaysia campaign donated a total of
50,000 meal kits to B40 communities nationwide.
Through Program Mentor Wanita Cukup Berani MAGGI, more
than 900 women benefitted from a three-day Wanita Cukup
Berani MAGGI online workshop. The session was aimed at
empowering the participants to be more confident as well as
cultivating their digital, entrepreneurial and culinary skills.
MILO rallied Malaysians to donate through #SkuadKebaikan
MILO food parcels via Shopee. Seven charity organisations
received a ‘Box of Hope’ comprising MILO bundle packs and
other Nestlé products.
Providing better nutrition and encouraging healthier lives through a pandemic
We continuously innovate and transform our product portfolio to improve the nutritional profile of our offerings and also meet evolving and rising
consumer expectations. This has allowed us to fulfil the more stringent requirements of the Malaysian Ministry of Health’s (MOH) Healthier Choice
Logo (HCL) introduced in 2020. As at end-2020, a total of 22 Nestlé products have attained the more stringent HCL certification.
More information on the Peraduan Nestlé Gaji Seumur Hidup can be found on page 22 of this report.
A R
17.
An n u a l Re view
3. Enhancing core fundamentals and capabilities for
the future
To future-proof the business, it is vital to reinforce our
foundation and build the necessary capabilities to keep us
competitive and ahead of the game.
Harnessing digital technology to enhance operations
We constantly seek out opportunities to increase efficiency
in our operations and to tap on to digital transformation to
facilitate continuous improvement.
During the year, we were one of the first Nestlé markets to
adopt a new technology to enhance the efficiency of land
transportation of products from our distribution centre.
Optimising logistical routes by utilising data analytics and
digital tools, this allows us to reduce our carbon footprint
and logistics costs, proving that environmental and cost
efficiencies can be achieved together.
Diversity and gender balance
As part of our commitment to cultivate a fair and equitable
organisational culture, we continued to promote diversity
and gender balance across the Group.
Empowering strong female representation, we
progressively worked to increase the number of female
heads of department in our Sales, Supply Chain and
Technical & Production teams, as well as prioritising hiring
of new female talent in these functions.
We have created a supportive working culture for all
our people. This includes providing a Flexible Working
Arrangement for both new mothers and fathers who take
on the role of primary caregivers. Due to the pandemic this
year, we also introduced a Remote Working Arrangement,
enabling employees to effectively manage the transition of
working from home.
To help close the gender pay gap, we have adopted
a global approach of practicing pay transparency.
This conveys information on our compensation practices in
a transparent manner to our employees, institutionalising
a competitive remuneration framework and preventing
potential structural inequalities.
With containment measures temporarily halting most outdoor activities including
sports, we leveraged digital platforms to encourage Malaysians to continue
maintaining healthy and active lifestyles during the pandemic.
Under the MILO Aktif Negaraku movement, we stepped up our online engagement
to motivate Malaysians to stay active at home. Through the MILO Rentak Aktif
programme, we offered fun and easy virtual workouts for children and adults. To help
children practice sports, we adapted our annual MILO Champions Clinic through
virtual means, conducting our first-ever MILO Champions Clinic E-Coaching.
In conjunction with World Heart Month, we launched our NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS
Walk A Million Miles campaign, encouraging Malaysians to clock in their walking
miles and stay healthy despite the pandemic. We exceeded our target, recording
a total of 1,165,879 miles with over 16,000 Malaysians participating throughout
an entire month. Following the success of this event, a total of RM100,000 was
donated to Yayasan Jantung Malaysia and Institut Jantung Negara Foundation.
Employees joining in on a live recording session rallying Malaysians to take part in the NESTLÉ OMEGA
PLUS Walk A Million Miles virtual event and walk for their heart health.
We expanded our range of healthier options in 2020. This included MILO ACTIV-GO
Plus Fibre containing 2.5 times more fibre than regular MILO powder and even
lower added sugar (sucrose); MILO Nutri Breakfast providing the goodness of MILO
in an instant oatmeal form; and Nestlé OMEGA PLUS UHT Dark Choc, containing
ACTICOL and plant sterols to support heart health.
18. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Management
Discussion & Analysis
Employee safety and well-being
The health and well-being of our people is a non-negotiable priority,
more so in the context of the pandemic. Consistent with this, we
poured significant resources towards safeguarding the welfare of all
our employees.
From the start of the pandemic, we implemented a holistic approach
to protect all employees across our offices, manufacturing facilities
and warehouses. On top of additional safety facilities and measures
implemented across Nestlé work sites including proactive COVID-19
antigen screenings, we also stepped up education and communication
to employees on staying safe from COVID-19, at work and at home.
Going beyond employee safety, we took steps to care for the
overall well-being of our people especially during the pandemic.
These initiatives included introducing the 24/7 toll-free Nestlé MY
Careline for employees to seek professional counselling and support.
We continued promoting better employee well-being through our
LUNCH N LEARN informative sessions, as well as the #HealthyLives
training module under the Nestlé Framework for Employee Health,
which were conducted online. In addition, to protect our people from
seasonal influenza, we offered free flu vaccination to all our employees,
including third-party workers. We kept up strong communication
within the organisation, through digital town halls and other tools and
opportunities to maintain the strong bond between teams working
remotely.
4. Leading the industry’s way into a greener future
Paving the way to a greener, waste-free future, we continue to strive
for zero environmental impact in our operations. Reflecting this
commitment, we scaled up our efforts in 2020.
Accelerating efforts through sustainable packaging
As part of our pledge to make our packaging 100% recyclable or
reusable by 2025, we are dedicated to reducing plastic waste.
One of the key ways we achieve this is through innovative packaging
solutions.
Following our introduction of paper straws for MILO UHT
125ml drink packs in 2019, we expanded even further this year,
with all Ready-To-Drink UHT products transitioning to paper straws,
making us the first large scale F&B company in ASEAN to do so.
To date, through our environmentally-friendly solutions, we have
removed more than 2,710 tonnes of packaging since 2008 with
two-thirds of our plastic packaging designed ready-for-recycling.
We also introduced new packaging communications with recycling
education on-pack, to convey to consumers on how to correctly
separate Nestlé product packaging for recycling purposes. This is
currently featured on 80% of all our packaging which are designed
ready-for-recycling. All our brand teams worked to reduce the plastic
footprint, eliminating redundancy and empty spaces in our packaging
and fostering consumer education.
Our new on-pack recycling guide box label now enables consumers to responsibly dispose of
their Nestlé packaging correctly and confidently.
19.
An n u a l Re view
Broadening our reach by collaborating with stakeholders
By practicing good recycling habits, communities can contribute to making a
tangible impact. With this in mind, together with our partners we kicked off
community programmes aimed at instilling a stronger recycling culture among
Malaysians.
Working with the Petaling Jaya City Council, we launched a kerbside collection
recycling programme for two townships in Petaling Jaya. This enabled us
to scale up new and existing kerbside collection for recycling in Bandar Sri
Damansara and Ara Damansara.
Through CAREton Project in partnership with Tetra Pak, we have collected more
than 95 million used beverage cartons since 2012.
Sustainability is of utmost importance for the Group and
we are accelerating our efforts progressively, with clear
targets in place.
CONCLUSION
Weathering through a year of unprecedented adversity,
we kept the course during the pandemic by remaining
focused on what mattered: ensuring safety and protecting
jobs and income for all our people, ensuring supply
continuity to our customers and fulfilling our pledge
to contribute RM15 million to the community through
different relief programmes. Looking ahead as economic
volatility is expected to persist through the first half of 2021,
we will continue to focus on the long term, delivering safe,
high-quality and nutritious products for all Malaysians,
while exploring new avenues for future growth. Last but
not least, we will continue accelerating our efforts in 2021
and beyond to shape a greener and more sustainable
future for all.
N I S
Find out more about our sustainability initiatives for the planet on
page 82 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
[From right] Juan Aranols, CEO, and YB Dato’ Dr. Shamsul Anuar Bin Hj Nasarah,
Minister of Energy and Natural Resources officiating the launch of our latest
reforestation initiative, Project RELeaf in September 2020.
[From left] Juan Aranols, CEO, and Chew Soi Ping, Executive Director of Sales, demonstrating how to FLIP,
FLAP and FLATTEN an empty beverage carton to be recycled through CAREton Project during the launch of
our inaugural collaboration with 99 Speedmart.
Collaborating with stakeholders directly connected to our value chain, we joined
forces with minimarket chain 99 Speedmart to set up CAREton bins at 100
outlets aimed at encouraging recycling among the local communities.
Implementing nature-based solutions to fight climate change
Contributing to our global objective to achieve net zero greenhouse gas
emissions by 2050, we embarked on Project RELeaf. This initiative builds on
our pioneering Kinabatangan RiLeaf Project which concluded in 2020, having
successfully fulfilled our extended target of planting one million trees along
Sabah’s Kinabatangan River.
Through Project RELeaf, we have set out a definitive roadmap to plant three
million trees by 2023, across Sabah’s Kinabatangan Wetlands and Merisuli
Forest Restoration areas and in Bintulu, Sarawak as well as forest reserves along
the Central Forest Spine in Peninsular Malaysia. Moreover, the initiative will
uplift livelihoods in the local community via forest seedling purchasing, planting
and maintenance activities.
20. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Our Product Portfolio
21.
An n u a l Re view
This is reflected in our extensive
portfolio of healthier and tastier
Halal-certified products, with
market-leading household
brands that are part of the
everyday lives of Malaysians.
As we strive to offer meaningful
solutions to nourish consumers
and support them in their
journey to live healthier, happier
lives, we are equally committed
to our environmental objectives,
ensuring that we deliver our
products in a sustainable
manner.
We remain
steadfast in
our purpose of
unlocking the
power of food
to enhance the
quality of life
for everyone,
today and for
generations to
come.
22. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Business Review
Peraduan Nestlé Gaji Seumur
Hidup reflects our appreciation
to Malaysians for their support
for over 100 years. With many
struggling because of the
COVID-19 impact, we felt that
our commitment to make a
positive difference in society was
more needed now than ever.
We hope that this initiative will
inspire many more to give back to
society and help at a time where
many families are in great need.
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer
Inspired by Malaysians’ natural spirit of giving and sharing joy in
challenging times, Nestlé Malaysia launched our biggest nationwide
contest ever – the Peraduan Nestlé Gaji Seumur Hidup (Nestlé Salary
for Life Contest) which began in February 2020.
The idea for the campaign was sparked to create shopper pull in the
market during a particularly quiet shopper period from February to
April 2020. This was due to a reduced occasion for shopper spending
in the first half of 2020 following an early Chinese New Year in January.
By just purchasing RM15 worth of Nestlé products in a single receipt,
the contest offered two lucky Grand Prize winners the opportunity to
fulfil their dreams and earn a ‘Salary for Life’ of RM3,000 every month.
In spite of the COVID-19 restrictions, the campaign received
an overwhelming response and was extended to provide more
opportunities for Malaysians to win. More than 850 Malaysians won
over RM4 million in cash prizes through this contest. These included
weekly prizes of RM500 each to 100 winners of a ‘Salary for a Month’,
15 winners of a ‘Salary for a Year’, and the two final winners of a
‘Salary for Life’.
To further support vulnerable communities affected by the COVID-19
pandemic, Nestlé Malaysia also contributed a total of RM684,000 to
17 charitable organisations nominated by each of the contest finalists.
brings joy to hundreds of Malaysians in tough times
PERADUAN NESTLÉ GAJI SEUMUR HIDUP
23.
An n u a l Re view
Over the 15-week contest duration, which culminated on 31 May 2020, Nestlé Malaysia’s contest received over 1.3 million entries – the highest
ever by the Company. The Peraduan Nestlé Gaji Seumur Hidup Grand Finale also became the number one show across all TV channels from
10.00 p.m. to 11.00 p.m., with over 1.9 million viewers tuning in. The contest also garnered RM7 million in media exposure value across 96
news outlets.
More importantly, the campaign captured the hearts of all Malaysians, strengthening Nestlé’s position as one of Malaysia’s most loved brands.
These organisations are:
• Development of Human Resources of Rural Areas Malaysia
(DHRRA Malaysia)
• Dignity for Children Foundation
• Food Aid Foundation
• Global Peace Foundation
• Global Peace Mission Malaysia
• IDEAS Autism Centre
• Kasih Hospice Care Society
• Kechara Soup Kitchen
• Malaysian Foundation for the Blind
• Orphan Care
• Persatuan Kebajikan Da Ai Malaysia
• PERTIWI
• Rumah Kita
• Shelter Home for Children
• Tzu-Chi Foundation Malaysia
• Yayasan Amal Malaysia
• Yayasan Chow Kit
The 16 finalists took part in a variety of fun-filled
games during the Peraduan Nestlé Gaji Seumur
Hidup Grand Finale game show.
24. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
MILO
With a history in Malaysia spanning seven decades,
MILO is today the leading nutritious chocolate
malt beverage in the country. Providing the natural
goodness of malt from barley, milk and cocoa, and
enriched with vitamins and minerals, MILO continues
to fuel Malaysians to unlock their potential, particularly
given the brand’s vital role in grassroots sports
development in the nation.
We marked a significant milestone in 2020, celebrating
the 70th anniversary of MILO in Malaysia. Despite the
impact of the pandemic on out-of-home channels,
in-home consumption of MILO saw a substantial
increase as people spent more time at home, and we
also continued encouraging Malaysians to lead active
lifestyles even when confined at home.
With this in mind, we redoubled our efforts on building
brand love and enhancing key brand imagery among
Malaysian adults throughout the year, and across all the
demographic consumer groups.
AMPLIFYING BRAND APPEAL AMONG MOTHERS
AND ADULTS
In 2020, we placed significant emphasis on strengthening
the nutrition credentials of MILO amongst Malaysians.
Aimed at reinforcing brand relevance and heightening
appeal to assure existing loyal users and recruit new adult
consumers, the MILO Goodness campaign was launched.
Along with highlighting the nutritious product ingredients,
a core objective was positioning MILO as the brand of
choice, particularly within the breakfast mealtime. This was
geared towards mothers and adults in general, on top of
leveraging occasions such as the month of Ramadan and
school exam periods, demonstrating how MILO provides
Malaysians with the energy to go further.
We utilised omnichannel touchpoints for the campaign,
tapping on the power of word of mouth, leveraging key
opinion leaders and influencers. While traditional channels
such as print publications, TV and radio along with
digital platforms provided optimum reach and frequency,
engaging digital influencers allowed us to unlock a deeper
connection between the brand and consumers.
The impactful communication of the campaign effectively
conveyed the nutritional properties of MILO, successfully
improving consumer perception that MILO does not have
high added sugar content. This enabled us to protect
brand equity and uphold our strong bonds of trust with
consumers.
Scan here to learn more about the
goodness of MILO.
Business Review
25.
An n u a l Re view
PROMOTING ACTIVE LIFESTYLES
Leveraging our proven track record of cultivating national champions, we continued to inspire Malaysians to keep fit amid the pandemic.
While public sports activities were not permitted during the movement restrictions, we made it possible for people to stay active at home
through our MILO Aktif Negaraku virtual programmes.
Tapping into the virtual workout trend, we organised online Zumba sessions, with fun and engaging exercises relevant for parents and children
alike. Allowing us to showcase our brand purpose and positively engage with Malaysians, the programme saw more than 250,000 participants
and resulted in good media exposure, with over RM1.7 million in PR value.
FURTHER BUILDING ON OUR GOOD NUTRITION PROFILE
THROUGH OUR INNOVATIONS
MILO ACTIV-GO Plus Fibre
Conscious that consumers are increasingly seeking healthier
options, we launched a new variant to our MILO powder
product range, MILO ACTIV-GO Plus Fibre. Containing twice
as much fibre and 50% less added sugar (sucrose) compared
to regular MILO powder, this latest addition reinforces the
brand’s nutritional properties while maintaining the signature
MILO taste that Malaysians love.
We utilised both mainstream media and digital engagements,
coupled with in-store activation and value-adding promotions
to drive brand awareness and product sampling. Rolled out in
August 2020, consumers responded well to the taste of the
new product, recording 80% distribution within the first three
months of launching to market.
MILO Nutri Breakfast
Catering to growing consumer demand for convenient yet
wholesome breakfast options, we introduced the first-ever
MILO instant oatmeal, the MILO Nutri Breakfast. Combining
the great taste of MILO with the goodness of oats with real
banana pieces and seeds, the product was accorded with
MOH’s Healthier Choice Logo.
Through this launch, we were able to extend product visibility
and availability beyond home shelves, penetrating new shelf
categories. Supported by other communication initiatives, the
launch of our new MILO format successfully created positive
buzz and built excitement amongst consumers. Testament to
this, MILO Nutri Breakfast elicited a highly positive response in
a sample test conducted by the Home Testers Club involving
1,000 participants, whereby 99% recommended this new
offering.
26. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Scan to catch our MILO 70 Tahun
Kebaikan video.
Business Review
Celebrating 70 years of goodness, we rallied the nation
through various engagements with the aim of reigniting
Malaysians’ love for MILO. With the theme ’70 Years of Passing
on the Goodness’, we showcased the positive values MILO
has embodied over the past seven decades. This included
championing the ‘Never Give Up’ attitude, which was certainly
apt given the challenges of the pandemic, resonating strongly
with Malaysians.
Key activations in 2020 included:
These initiatives generated positive media exposure,
achieving over RM2.8 million in PR value, subsequently
inspiring our neighbouring markets, Indonesia and
Singapore, to follow suit.
Konvoi Kebaikan MILO
Spreading joy, this convoy featuring MILO’s iconic vans
throughout the decades, travelled across the nation to
distribute cold, refreshing cups of MILO to Malaysians.
MILO 70 Tahun Kebaikan Dalam 70 Hari Contest
Aimed at supporting Malaysians in this time of need,
this nationwide contest offered attractive cash prizes,
garnering over 260,000 entries.
Pekan MILO Concourse Event
We created experiential MILO Towns at Sunway Pyramid,
Selangor and AEON Tebrau City, Johor, showcasing the
history of the brand and insights into the exciting future of
MILO.
My MILO Stories
Closing the celebrations on a heartwarming note, we
partnered with local radio stations to invite Malaysians to
share their favourite MILO memories on-air, obtaining over
700 entries.
NURTURING BRAND LOVE THROUGH THE MILO 70TH ANNIVERSARY
Our extended MILO team raising a cup of cold MILO from the centre of the Pekan MILO setup in Sunway
Pyramid to pay tribute to 70 years of MILO goodness in Malaysia.
Among other exciting features, visitors enjoyed learning the rich Malaysian history of MILO at the Pekan MILO
concourse event.
Malaysians young and old joined us throughout the nationwide tour of our Konvoi Kebaikan MILO, showcasing
replicas of MILO trucks from across the decades.
In a difficult year, all our efforts were premised on forging
strong connections to continue winning the hearts of
Malaysians. As a result, 2020 saw our highest in-home
penetration since 2017, as well as recording increased
share-of-throat among both children and adults.
27.
An n u a l Re view
FOODS
From humble beginnings in the 1880s, MAGGI
is today known the world-over for its top-quality
products that are ideal for easy preparation of
tasty and balanced meals. With more than 50 years
in Malaysia, MAGGI is a household name that
resonates strongly with consumers as the brand
constantly ensures to meet their evolving needs.
Amid the pandemic in 2020, the brand continued
to play a role in providing Malaysians with relevant
offerings and recipe ideas to create delightful
homemade meals with the goodness of added
proteins and vegetables. In tandem, we continued
to strengthen our bond with consumers in many
meaningful ways. Scan here to view the
#MemoriMAGGIku videos by our brand
ambassadors and celebrities.
The videos showcased personal testimonials by each of
the personalities on how the brand has touched their lives.
Leveraging the hashtag #MemoriMAGGIku, Malaysians
from all walks of life were invited to share their fondest
MAGGI moments.
[From left] Geetha Balakrishna, Business Executive Officer, Foods and Juan
Aranols, CEO, officiating the MAGGI Sah Malaysia campaign.
MAGGI SAH MALAYSIA CAMPAIGN
Having grown alongside generations of Malaysians, we
celebrated the rich history and cultural diversity of this nation
in conjunction with Hari Merdeka and Malaysia Day through
the inaugural MAGGI Sah Malaysia campaign. We partnered
MAGGI brand ambassadors, Datin Paduka Eina Azman
and Sheila Rusly, along with local celebrities such as Stacy
Anam, Zizan Razak, Bala Ganapathi William and social media
sensation, Jenn Chia, to launch a series of videos featuring
their favourite MAGGI memories throughout the years.
28. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Business Review
BROADENING OUR CONSUMER BASE WITH EXCITING PORTFOLIO
ADDITIONS
MAGGI Mi Goreng Sambal Tumis Bilis and Cili ala Kampung
We expanded our bag dry noodles segment with two truly Malaysian flavours,
MAGGI Mi Goreng Sambal Tumis Bilis and Cili ala Kampung. Catering to
Malaysians’ love of spice, the new offerings contain fresh ingredients such as
chilli, onion, garlic and anchovies that are cooked to perfection.
The new additions contributed to our strong market share for the segment,
with more than 3.5 million packs sold in just under 11 months.
Inspired by the spirit of unity among Malaysians even during these challenging times, the campaign also rallied support for those in need
through a shop and reward contest. With the purchase of any MAGGI product, consumers stood a chance to win whilst we pledged to donate
meal kits to those in need with the entries received. With an overwhelming response of over 800,000 entries, we were able to distribute more
than 50,000 MAGGI meal kits to B40 families.
Local celebrities and influencers [from left] Daphne Iking, Sheila Rusly, Datin Paduka Eina Azman, Stacy Anam, Jenn Chia and Bala
Ganapathi William sharing their very own MAGGI memories during the media launch of the MAGGI Sah Malaysia campaign.
Joining in the celebration, attendees during the MAGGI Sah Malaysia campaign
media launch waving the Jalur Gemilang.
29.
An n u a l Re view
MAGGI Sambal Tumis
As people spent more time cooking at home, we leveraged this opportunity
with the timely introduction of MAGGI Sambal Tumis, making home cooking
simpler, faster and more convenient, whilst delivering a delicious sambal dish.
Given that sambal is a staple among Malaysian cuisine, the product resonated
very well among consumers and allowed us to penetrate the recipe solutions’
paste segment. We complemented the launch and engaged consumers
through live cooking demonstrations via famous e-commerce platforms,
featuring social media influencers known for their love of cooking such as
Eina Azman, Sheila Rusly and Stacy Anam, showcasing how the product can
be used as a base to easily make a variety of sambal dishes at home whilst
highlighting the fresh ingredients it is made of.
MAGGI FUSIAN Bowls
We also continued to entice consumers by tapping into their love
for international fare through new unique portable bowl offerings.
Although travelling outside the country was not possible in 2020, our
all-new MAGGI FUSIAN Bowls Sarang Kimchi and Karai Miso catered
to Malaysians’ growing appreciation for Korean and Japanese cuisine,
bringing consumers on a culinary journey while staying safe at home.
Leveraging our recipe expertise and technical know-how, we were able
to replicate signature tastes utilising authentic ingredients such as miso
paste from Japan and Korean Chili Paste crafted with an authentic
Korean gochujang recipe, paired with a thicker and springier noodle cake
for a more chewy texture and satisfying mouthfeel.
The launch of our new MAGGI FUSIAN Bowls added greater value to
our portable bowl segment, offering a premium selection of the bowl
franchise.
PROGRAM MENTOR WANITA CUKUP BERANI MAGGI
Following the success of the MAGGI CUKUPRASA Tak Kenal Tak
Cinta campaign last year, we launched Program Mentor Wanita
Cukup Berani MAGGI with the objective of empowering and
inspiring women to improve their self-confidence by trying things
out of their comfort zone, whether in cooking, business or life in
general. There were two components, namely a series of digital
workshops as well as a personal mentorship programme with
well-known entrepreneurs.
Partnering with Women Will by Google, the digital workshops
cultivated entrepreneurial and culinary skills among women,
particularly those from the B40 community. More than 900
participants benefitted from the workshops, helping them to
improve their communication skills and equipping them with
the knowledge to start and manage a business using Google
platforms and tools, as well as gaining new cooking skills from
our in-house chef, Chef Muluk.
Scan here to watch this inspiring
MAGGI CUKUPRASA Wanita
Cukup Berani campaign video.
30. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Business Review
COFFEE
Globally, the coffee category represents one of
Nestlé’s most strategic businesses, especially as
coffee consumption continues to grow each year.
We have strengthened our leadership position
by consistently delivering offerings that meet the
varying tastes and preferences of coffee drinkers,
providing superior quality and premium coffee
experiences.
Reflecting our drive to continuously expand our
coffee business with diverse, relevant choices
for coffee lovers to enjoy, our portfolio includes
three iconic brands: NESCAFÉ, NESPRESSO and
STARBUCKS AT HOME.
In 2020, although the movement restrictions resulted in
greater in-home coffee consumption, the low footfall in
stores nationwide impacted consumer engagement activities.
To remain relevant against this backdrop and ensure strong
top-of-mind awareness, we ramped up communication
campaigns to relate to Malaysians in the current climate,
introduced exciting innovations and an enhanced recipe for
our core product range, allowing us to reinforce our market
leading position.
PROVIDING A REASSURING PRESENCE AND UPLIFTING
MALAYSIANS IN TOUGH TIMES
Commemorating the resilience of Malaysians amid the
challenges of the pandemic, we launched the NESCAFÉ Good
Morning campaign. Instilling optimism among Malaysians to
look forward to better days ahead and fostering a sense of
unity, we developed a video entitled Bangkitkan Semangat
Baru dengan NESCAFÉ which garnered more than three
million views. Additionally, we increased in-store promotions
for various products to offer greater value to our consumers,
supporting them in these difficult times.
NESCAFÉ
Since 1938, NESCAFÉ has remained true to
its commitment to constantly innovate and
deliver a great cup of coffee to consumers.
Bringing quality coffee moments to Malaysians,
NESCAFÉ is a quintessential part of the
country’s coffee culture and a staple in every
household.
Scan here to view the Bangkitkan
Semangat Baru dengan NESCAFÉ video.
31.
An n u a l Re view
IMPROVING PRODUCT OFFERINGS THROUGH RECIPE
ENHANCEMENT OF NESCAFÉ CLASSIC
Conscious that consumer preferences are constantly evolving,
we continuously work to enhance our product recipes to
ensure that we maintain our consumer preference across the
NESCAFÉ portfolio. This year, we focused on reformulating the
recipe for our NESCAFÉ Classic range of pure soluble coffee.
Strengthening digital engagement, we tapped on the Dalgona
coffee sensation which took the internet by storm during the
MCO. Showcasing via social media how the trendy beverage
could be easily made at home with NESCAFÉ, Malaysians
were encouraged to share their own Dalgona creations,
driving amazing user-generated content which further
amplified consumer excitement.
Launched in October 2020, this new recipe for NESCAFÉ Classic was highlighted
on our product packaging and communications, complemented by a TV commercial
which was recognised by Nestlé globally for best-in-class execution. The product
gained good traction with a record-high penetration rate and significant sales growth
of 4%, strengthening our market leadership within the pure soluble coffee segment.
We leveraged the Dalgona coffee trend to repost and recognise the creativity of
our consumers.
Leveraging on a proprietary new roasting technology, we successfully elevated
the flavour of NESCAFÉ Classic while maintaining its signature taste and aroma.
Testament to this new winning formula, a 60/40 taste test comparison against
competitor brands saw our recipe emerging as the preferred choice.
32. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Business Review
NESCAFÉ Latte Milk Tea
Embarking on a new
journey with a synthesis
of coffee and tea, we
brought together the best
of both worlds with the
all-new NESCAFÉ Latte
Milk Tea.
NIS Find out more about NESCAFÉ Grown Respectfully on page 55 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
EXCITING CONSUMERS WITH NEW INNOVATIONS
NESCAFÉ Classic Kopi Kedah
We marked a milestone this year with the launch of our first 100% home-grown
coffee, NESCAFÉ Classic Kopi Kedah. Made entirely with locally grown coffee
beans from the NESCAFÉ Grown Respectfully programme, our sustainable coffee
farming initiative in Kedah, the limited-edition product deepened our connection with
Malaysians through a truly authentic local coffee experience, instilling a sense of
national pride. The traditional batik design of the collectible tin product packaging
paid further tribute to its local origins.
Building awareness through engaging communications and TV commercials,
we highlighted the local farmers involved in NESCAFÉ Grown Respectfully and
how this initiative has helped to improve their quality of life. Their inspiring stories
resonated strongly with Malaysians, driving encouraging response with many
looking forward to more exciting innovations to come.
More Innovations
NESCAFÉ GOLD
Origins Cap Columbia
Made from single-origin Arabica
coffee beans from Colombia, this
latest addition to the NESCAFÉ GOLD
range delivers a smooth and naturally
fruity medium-bodied coffee taste
coupled with a delicate aroma.
NESCAFÉ GOLD
Origins Alta Rica
Another addition to the NESCAFÉ
GOLD range, the Alta Rica is crafted
with the finest Arabica coffee beans
from high-altitude regions of Latin
America, creating a delicious dark
roast with a bold and intense flavour.
This allowed us to widen our consumer base by appealing
to non-coffee drinkers as well as those who prefer tea,
the second largest hot beverage consumed among coffee
drinkers in Malaysia.
With a timely launch when in-home consumption was
heightening, the product was featured across media channels
and digital platforms, along with live streaming sessions on
e-commerce platform, Shopee. We also participated in trial
collaborations with prominent delivery services, convenience
stores and supermarkets such as Dahmakan and Tesco.
NESCAFÉ Latte Milk Tea received an encouraging response,
quickly becoming the second-most popular flavour in the
NESCAFÉ Latte range.
33.
An n u a l Re view
STARBUCKS
AT HOME
As part of our drive to grow
our coffee portfolio and
recognising the increasing
affinity for premium coffee
experiences, in 2018 we
embarked on a global alliance
with Starbucks. Along with
extending our consumer reach,
this allowed us to tap into
opportunities for both in-home
and out-of-home segments
through exciting innovations
and solutions, with the
STARBUCKS AT HOME range
launched in Malaysia in 2019.
CATERING TO GROWING PREFERENCES FOR PREMIUM EXPERIENCES
Building on this momentum, we expanded our premium offerings by introducing
STARBUCKS AT HOME Premium Instant (Soluble) coffee in April 2020. This
consists of Medium Roast and Dark Roast coffees as well other flavours inspired
by signature Starbucks café beverages which consumers can now conveniently
prepare at home.
To heighten market penetration for the brand, we scaled up our communications
and engagement activities to further enhance visibility.
SCALING UP COMMUNICATIONS AND CONSUMER ENGAGEMENT
Increasing brand awareness on-ground in 2020, we deployed 350 displays in
key stores. In addition, prior to the MCO, we participated in activated concourse
events at two prime locations which saw us engaging with close to 10,000
people, achieving an average conversion rate of 60%.
Later in the year, we shifted heavily towards digital activations namely via
e-commerce campaigns for International Coffee Month and Lazada Singles Day.
The latter drove significant sales with an increase of nearly 500% from 2019.
LIMITED-EDITION HOLIDAY FAVOURITES
To build excitement during the festive season, we launched the STARBUCKS AT
HOME Holiday Favourites range. This limited-edition range allowed consumers
to enjoy their favourite festive flavours from the comfort and safety of their
homes, as well as positioning the brand as an ideal Christmas gift for coffee
drinkers.
The seasonal range included Starbucks Holiday Blend ground coffee, the
Starbucks Toffee Nut Latte, a Malaysian favourite during the holidays available
in a premium instant mix format, along with NESCAFÉ DOLCE GUSTO capsules.
34. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Business Review
NESPRESSO
Transforming the coffee category in 1986
with its ground-breaking capsule format,
NESPRESSO today continues to bring
innovative, high-quality offerings to coffee
lovers across the globe. Through its world-
renowned NESPRESSO machines, coffee
connoisseurs can enjoy a wide range of
premium curated coffee capsules, providing
distinctive, sophisticated coffee experiences.
Since its debut in Malaysia in 2016,
NESPRESSO has contributed to strengthening
the Company’s position in the super premium
coffee segment. Adapting in 2020, we focused
our efforts towards inspiring Malaysian
coffee drinkers to be creative at home with
NESPRESSO.
CREATING EXCITEMENT AND BROADENING CONSUMER APPEAL THROUGH
NEW PRODUCT LAUNCHES
Inviting consumers to experience a taste of Italy’s rich coffee culture, we introduced our
NESPRESSO Ispirazione Italiana coffee range, along with unveiling two new intense
blends in the collection. We also expanded our NESPRESSO Barista Creations range
with the new Milk and Flavoured editions, comprising Vanilla Éclair, Caramel Crème
Brûlée and Cocoa Truffle.
Further inspired by signature Italian tastes, we launched the new limited edition,
NESPRESSO Festive Italy range leading up to the year-end holiday season. Reinforcing
our position as a premium gifting brand for coffee lovers at home during the festive
season, the range featured three unique flavours, Il Caffè, Torta di Nocciole and
Amaretti.
ADAPTING OUR MARKETING AND ENGAGEMENT INITIATIVES TO REMAIN
RELEVANT
Following the pandemic, we worked quickly to adapt our marketing and
communications strategy to remain relevant by reinforcing our proposition to
`be a barista at home’ with NESPRESSO. We focused on sharing coffee recipes and
food pairing ideas via both print and digital media channels as well as social media
platforms, inspiring consumers to forge stronger connections with their loved ones by
creating and enjoying café-quality coffee at home.
Partnering social media influencers also allowed us to amplify digital communications
and strengthen engagement for our new products. Driving awareness for NESPRESSO
Festive Italy, we created a coffee and food pairing video featuring well-known chef,
Chef Nathalie Arbefeuille and local celebrity Carey Ng, showcasing the various
ways to enjoy a cup of NESPRESSO accompanied by delectable desserts at home.
This and more helped contribute to a 39% sales growth for this range and 30% growth
in capsule sales compared with our 2019 festive campaign.
Scan here to watch the NESPRESSO Variations Italia Coffee
Pairing video on Instagram.
A NESPRESSO Boutique worker ready to greet visitors in the new normal.
35.
An n u a l Re view
Scan here to learn more about the
Ramadan Nutrition Plan.
#OPTIMUMSTRENGTHOPTIMUMDEFENCE CAMPAIGN
In order to raise awareness on the benefits of NUTREN Optimum, a nutritionally
complete formula that helps to build muscle strength and immunity, we launched
the #OptimumStrengthOptimumDefence campaign. Directly reaching out to the
target consumer segment of adults aged 50 years and above, we highlighted the
benefits of the product in supporting good health via a TV commercial coupled with
online activations.
NATIONAL DIABETES-RAMADAN VIRTUAL CONFERENCE
Addressing the increasing prevalence of diabetes in the country, we organised one
of Malaysia’s largest virtual Continuous Medical Education events. The National
Diabetes-Ramadan Virtual Conference brought together over 800 participants
attending virtually.
The conference featured faculty speakers and top endocrinologists, including the
lead investigator of our NUTREN Untuk Diabetik Ramadan study. This also provided
a platform to share the findings of our study with healthcare professionals along
with members of the media and target consumers.
HEALTH
SCIENCE
At Nestlé, we are committed to supporting
the diverse nutritional requirements of our
consumers, achieved via the science-based
innovations developed through our Nestlé
Health Science (NHS) portfolio.
During the year, the COVID-19 pandemic
took a toll on many industries, including the
healthcare sector, which saw reduced patient
footfall in hospitals and delayed elective
surgeries and medical procedures. The
decline in medical tourism and professional
healthcare consultation services had a direct
bearing on the NHS business.
To mitigate this, we focused on strengthening
direct-to-consumer communications and
diversified our sales channels beyond
hospitals and pharmacies.
Innovations
OPTIFAST Coffee & Vanilla
A clinically-proven and
nutritionally-complete weight
loss management solution,
OPTIFAST is available in two new
flavours, Coffee and Vanilla. The
low-calorie, high-protein shake is
suitable for total or partial meal
replacement.
WORLD DIABETES DAY
In 2020, we took our annual World Diabetes Day event online by hosting an
interactive virtual webinar, in partnership with The Star Media Group. Themed
‘Living with Diabetes in A Changing World’, this was aimed at building awareness
on good diabetes management as well as to provide support and positivity to
patients. The interactive live engagement sessions saw an encouraging response,
with a total of close to 700 virtual attendees participating.
36. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Business Review
READY-TO-
DRINK
In 2020, while the Ready-to-Drink business
was impacted by the decline in on-the-go
consumption due to lower traffic in key
convenience channels, we were able to
leverage growing in-home consumption
to strengthen top of mind awareness and
market share.
Our RTD products are available in multiple
formats, from beverage cartons and cans to
PET bottles and cups, catering for diverse
lifestyle choices and present across all
channels, while leading the way into a world
without plastic straws. We take great pride
in the results of our sustainability projects,
through CAREton Project and the industry-
leading transition across all UHT products
into sustainably-sourced paper straws.
LAUNCH OF NEW PRODUCTS
NESCAFÉ Iced Cappuccino
Widening our product portfolio with exciting
innovations, we introduced NESCAFÉ Iced
Cappuccino in our very first 500ml PET bottle format.
Having started off as a pilot project, the product
quickly gained strong market acceptance for its great
taste and larger convenient pack size, contributing to
both in-home and on-the-go consumption, allowing
us to improve our market leadership within the RTD
bottled coffee segment.
NESCAFÉ Iced Cappuccino is now available as a
permanent offering and will be produced locally
to further optimise our PET manufacturing line in
Shah Alam, Selangor.
NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS UHT Dark Choc
Conscious that consumers are placing greater emphasis
on health, we expanded our NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS UHT
range with a new dark chocolate variant. Similar to the
popular original variant, the beverage contains ACTICOL,
a plant sterol proven to effectively lower cholesterol by
consuming just two packs a day, supported by a healthy
lifestyle.
NIS
For more information on the CAREton Project, please
refer to page 98 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
37.
An n u a l Re view
CONNECTING WITH MALAYSIANS THROUGH A COMMEMORATIVE MILO
VINTAGE CANS CAMPAIGN
Celebrating the 70th anniversary of MILO in Malaysia, we unveiled a range of
limited-edition vintage MILO cans, paying tribute to iconic designs over the
decades.
Supporting this, we kicked off a consumer contest partnering popular local
streetwear brand, Pestle & Mortar, offering consumers iconic limited-edition
MILO-designed apparel to create hype and excitement especially among the
younger segments. This saw an overwhelming response of contest submissions,
helping to encourage sales despite the challenging backdrop and ultimately
maintaining our market leadership.
NESCAFÉ CANS PENETRATES THE E-SPORTS SCENE
Tapping into the fast-growing e-sports scene which is vastly popular among young
adult consumers, with over 20.1 million gamers in Malaysia alone, we became
the official beverage partner of Team SMG Mobile Legends, a mobile multiplayer
online game with a massive pool of active gamers. Besides this, we also partnered
with Facebook’s e-sports influencers to create content, inspiring gamers to enjoy
NESCAFÉ Cans as they play. This subsequently increased in-home consumption,
allowing us to reach 5.1 million users in less than two months.
We look forward to building on this further, especially as the Ministry of Youth
and Sports is set to cultivate a vibrant e-sports ecosystem in Malaysia with the
launch of the E-sports Integrated initiative.
More Innovations
NESCAFÉ Cups Smooth
Cappuccino and Caramel
Macchiato
Offering café-style coffee
in specially-designed cups,
NESCAFÉ Cups comes in two
variants, Smooth Cappuccino
and Caramel Macchiato, made
with single origin Brazilian coffee
beans and balanced with creamy
milk for an indulgent experience.
NESCAFÉ Cold Brew
Hazelnut
Expanding our NESCAFÉ Cold
Brew range which provides a
richer and naturally smooth
coffee taste, this new variant
has a creamy hazelnut finish,
offering consumers a light and
flavourful experience.
38. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Business Review
LAUNCH OF EXCITING NEW PRODUCTS
We introduced a number of high-quality innovative products by leveraging our
strong brands and appealing to Malaysian taste buds. To drive awareness and
amplify excitement for our new offerings, we engaged with local celebrities
and social media influencers, and leveraged nationwide digital out-of-home
activations as well as TV commercials to broaden our reach.
KIT KAT Stick Ice Cream
Building on consumers’ love for the classic KIT KAT chocolate wafer, we unveiled
our latest KIT KAT innovation in the form of an indulgent ice cream stick. The
KIT KAT Stick Ice Cream is coated in rich chocolate and crispy KIT KAT wafer.
Heightened buzz on digital platforms drove consumer excitement for the great
taste of this new innovation, which became our best-selling ice cream product
in the impulse category during the MCO. Contributing significantly to our total
sales, our made-in-Malaysia KIT KAT Stick Ice Cream was subsequently exported
to regional markets, including Singapore, Indonesia, Thailand and Hong Kong.
NESTLÉ Musang King Ice Cream
Catering to Malaysians’ passion for durian, we paid tribute to the king of fruits
with the new NESTLÉ Musang King Ice Cream. Produced locally and containing
real Musang King durian, the premium ice cream delivers the authentic flavour
of durian at an affordable price point. Overcoming challenges such as ingredient
sourcing during the movement restrictions, the product was successfully
launched, and with strong social media hype generating over 350 digital
contents, it quickly became a viral sensation, selling out within a month.
ICE
CREAM
Bringing delectable and refreshing flavours
in innovative formats for Malaysians to
consume both in-home and on-the-go, our
ice cream portfolio includes much-loved
brands such as KIT KAT, LA CREMERIA,
OREO, DRUMSTICK and MAT KOOL.
Disrupted by the movement restrictions
since March, our Ice Cream business acted
swiftly to adapt our strategies and operations
to overcome the challenges faced in these
difficult times. Our approaches included
bringing Malaysians new, indulgent product
innovations, staying relevant through our
communications and introducing an all-new
business model, enabling us to continue
achieving strong growth and market shares
by the year end, in spite of the challenges.
We collaborated with over 100 celebrities and social media influencers for the launch of the KIT KAT Stick Ice
Cream.
Photo by Mira Filzah (@mirafilzah)
39.
An n u a l Re view
LA CREMERIA Peanut Butter
With the aim of delivering a unique and indulgent experience
to consumers, we expanded our LA CREMERIA range with
the introduction of LA CREMERIA Peanut Butter, featuring
a rich and soft peanut butter coating, going beyond the
conventional chocolate-coated ice cream. Available in both
stick and pint formats, this latest addition elevated our market
leadership in the premium impulse adult category.
NESTLÉ Musang King Ice Cream today ranks as the
top-selling ice cream on e-commerce channels Lazada and
Shopee Malaysia, earning us the number one spot within the
premium pint segment.
The NESTLÉ Musang King Ice Cream, a finely crafted premium ice cream with
real Musang King durian.
A happy consumer receiving her NESTLÉ Ice Cream products delivered by our iconic blue truck right to her
doorstep.
More Innovations
NESTLÉ Mickey Ice Cream
Exciting Disney fans across the
nation, we brought the iconic
NESTLÉ Mickey Ice Cream to
Malaysia. The Mickey Mouse-shaped
treat is made with vanilla ice cream
coated in rich milk chocolate, with a
salted caramel centre.
LEVERAGING OPPORTUNITIES WITH A NEW BUSINESS MODEL
As people stayed at home during the MCO, demand for home delivery services
surged. We tapped into this opportunity by introducing the NESTLÉ Ice Cream
Home Delivery service, a new business model to enable consumers to enjoy our ice
cream while staying safe at home.
Delighted with this direct-to-doorstep home delivery for our ice cream, consumers
organically shared their experiences which led to this trending on social media.
Testament to the efficacy of this model, we recorded significant growth through our
NESTLÉ Ice Cream trucks e-commerce business.
STAYING RELEVANT AMID THE PANDEMIC
In order to spread joy and lift spirits during the pandemic, we embarked on the LA
CREMERIA ‘Bersama You’ Raya campaign. This initiative helped to foster positivity
and a sense of community among Malaysians despite being apart from families
and loved ones during the Hari Raya celebration. Building on this encouraging
response, we rolled out our LA CREMERIA Share A Pint year-end campaign, rallying
Malaysians to close the year on a positive note over LA CREMERIA pints.
40. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Business Review
GOING BACK TO BASICS AND STRENGTHENING OUR CORE BUSINESS
The COVID-19 containment measures during the MCO impacted mobility
channels like convenience stores and petrolmarts, as well as the sales of
confectionery products during this period. Despite the unique circumstances,
we were able to drive the business by focusing on the basics and adapting our
brand communications to remain relevant and speak to the hearts of consumers
amidst the global outbreak, building opportunities out of challenges.
With the goal of restoring our fundamentals and ensuring only the best quality
products continue to be delivered to consumers, we focused on implementing
best-in-class execution in critical areas, namely availability, visibility, accessibility
and freshness. This was applied at all levels, from portfolio management to
in-store execution.
Throughout the rest of the year, in order to reinforce the key value proposition
of KIT KAT as well as to continue keeping our brand top-of-mind, we dialled
up communications with the launch of our KIT KAT appetite appeal ads which
ran on selected billboard sites and digital spaces. Communicating the perfect
balance of smooth chocolate and crispy wafers was instrumental to re-instate
brand love in this phase of strengthening our core business.
CONNECTING WITH MALAYSIANS THROUGH FESTIVE CELEBRATIONS
Festive breaks have always played a key role in the confectionery category.
Understanding that Hari Raya would be very unique this year under the
unprecedented circumstances, we took the opportunity to foster a stronger
connection with Malaysians by partnering with local celebrities to develop
a catchy yet emotional video that resonated very well with consumers. By
capturing the reality of the Hari Raya celebrations while separated from families
and loved ones during the pandemic, the video generated more than four million
views, allowing KIT KAT to remain top-of-mind during this key festive period.
CONFECTIONERY
The confectionery category
represents more than just
snacks, it is an important part
of balanced lifestyles. Through
our iconic global brands such as
KIT KAT and NESTLÉ CRUNCH,
we create opportunities for
consumers to enjoy high-quality
products and indulge in special
moments, creating little smiles
throughout their day. Since its
introduction to the Malaysian
market in 1988, KIT KAT
today still stands as one of the
country’s favourite chocolate
brands.
Scan to watch the #RayaBersamaKITKAT video.
41.
An n u a l Re view
ENCOURAGING HOMEBAKING WITH KIT KAT THROUGH EASYRECIPEASY
Home-cooking saw a marked increase during the movement restrictions as Malaysians
had to stay at home. With this in mind, we kicked off the KIT KAT EasyRecipeasy baking
challenge to inspire consumers to bake at home using KIT KAT products.
We engaged social media influencers for a five-week challenge to hype up the campaign
and encourage baking with KIT KAT products, creating excitement on digital channels.
Social media buzz around this campaign quickly caught on, with more and more
influencers organically responding, and within two months, we received more than
200 entries, with a total reach of over 31 million. With this, EasyRecipeasy will surely
continue to resonate with Malaysian consumers and evolve in the coming months.
More Innovations
KIT KAT Mandarin Orange
Leveraging the tradition of giving out
mandarin oranges to usher in prosperity
during Chinese New Year, KIT KAT Mandarin
Orange offered a unique alternative with a
crispy wafer bar wrapped in orange-flavored
milk chocolate.
KIT KAT Ruby
A new variant of the
classic KIT KAT wafer,
the KIT KAT 4 Finger
Ruby Chocolate Bar
is crafted with Ruby
cocoa beans, creating
a distinctive pink hue
with a naturally fruity
taste, completely
without flavouring or
colouring.
KIT KAT Dark
KIT KAT Crispy Wafer
Bar expanded its range
with KIT KAT Dark
Chocolate, delivering
a richer, more intense
taste with its dark-
chocolate coating,
made with sustainably-
sourced cocoa from the
NESTLÉ COCOA PLAN
programme.
N I S
Find out more about NESTLÉ COCOA PLAN on
page 57 of the Nestlé in Society Report.
All in all, and despite the challenging backdrop, these initiatives and more have been
instrumental in further driving consumption of our confectionery products, enabling us
to reach an increase in penetration in December, the highest since March 2019.
Scan here to catch the delicious recipes from our KIT KAT EasyRecipeasy video series.
42. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Business Review
MILKS
Nestlé’s wide range of dairy
products has become an integral
part of Malaysians’ daily lives,
nourishing people of all ages. Our
portfolio includes brands such as
NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS, NESTUM,
NESTLÉ EVERYDAY and
NESPRAY, offering high-quality
products packed with calcium and
important nutrients contained
in the natural goodness of milk,
supporting healthy development
and growth.
With the containment measures in place, the category saw a robust growth
in in-home penetration, largely driven by hot cereals, as consumers sought
out convenient light meal solutions at home. Building on this and catering to
Malaysians’ growing awareness on the importance of health, we focused the
year on launching our inaugural NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS Walk A Million Miles
virtual walking event in support of World Heart Month as well as introducing an
all-new NESTUM Special Edition Sweet Potato and Taro.
NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS WALK A MILLION MILES
The annual NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS Walk A Mile event encourages Malaysians to
take ownership of their heart health. In 2020, as we marked the 20th anniversary
of the event, we took proactive steps to quickly adapt to the new normal,
transitioning to a virtual platform. This allowed us to reinforce the positioning
for NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS as a leading heart health brand with the first-ever
virtual NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS Walk A Million Miles programme, kicking off a
nationwide movement to celebrate World Heart Month with Malaysians across
the country.
Over 100 employees and partners came together for a live shooting in Bandar Utama, Petaling Jaya to rally
Malaysians to take part in the NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS Walk A Million Miles virtual run.
[From left] Dato’ Fazley Yaakob, celebrity chef alongside host, Fatimah Hamimah demostrating heart-healthy
recipes incorporating NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS products in conjunction with the NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS Walk A
Million Miles programme.
43.
An n u a l Re view
Over 100 employees and partners came together for a live shooting in Bandar Utama, Petaling Jaya to rally Malaysians to take
part in the NESTLÉ OMEGA PLUS Walk A Million Miles virtual run
Amplifying engagement to galvanise Malaysians, we leveraged multiple channels such as prime time television, digital executions and radio
partnerships. This was complemented by other heart healthy initiatives, including a live home workout session by a local fitness celebrity,
heart-healthy recipe videos by a celebrity Master Chef, live interviews with nutritionists and radio capsules featuring heart health experts.
On top of rallying Malaysians to walk for their own heart health and that of their loved ones, we also pledged to support underprivileged patients
with heart conditions, including those in need of surgery, donating RM100,000 to established heart institutions and our long-standing partners,
Yayasan Jantung Malaysia and Institut Jantung Negara Foundation.
LAUNCH OF NESTUM PURPLE SWEET POTATO AND TARO
Leveraging the growing hot cereal category and catering to consumer preferences for healthier products,
we launched NESTUM Purple Sweet Potato and Taro. Certified with MOH’s Healthier Choice Logo, the
multigrain cereal beverage has 30% less sugar compared to the original variant and is packed with real
purple sweet potato and taro that naturally contains antioxidants*.
Along with investing in television commercials and digital activations, we ramped up in-store visibility
and drove strong sampling of dry sachets to promote product trials.
As a result, we attained 100% distribution within just two months and achieved over 100% of our sales
target, solidifying our leadership position within the category.
These efforts allowed us to achieve a new milestone of over 16,000 participants, four times higher than 2019, as well as surpassing our target
by clocking in more than 1.1 million miles. This saw the brand recording its highest market share since 2018.
* Purple sweet potatoes and taro naturally contain anthocyanin (an antioxidant), a pigment found in purple-coloured plants and tubers.
[Centre left] Juan Aranols, CEO, and [centre right] Lam Pui Yuee, Business Executive Officer, Milks, handing over Nestlé’s contribution to the honourable representatives from Institut Jantung Negara
Foundation and Yayasan Jantung Malaysia.
44. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Business Review
NUTRITION
For over 100 years, Nestlé has nourished
generations of healthier, happier children
by providing age-appropriate nutrition.
Utilising a science-based approach, our
nutrition portfolio is tailored to support
optimal growth and development.
During the pandemic, the shift in
consumer purchasing behaviour from
premium growing-up milk (GUM)
to mainstream GUM provided an
opportunity to position LACTOGROW
as the ideal product under the GUM
category. To this end, our marketing
strategy was geared towards reaching
out and engaging consumers to share on
the functional benefits and key features
of our products, despite not being able to
undertake on-ground activities and
face-to-face interactions.
CABARAN GROW HAPPY BERSAMA NESTLÉ LACTOGROW
To engage with Malaysian families at home, we kicked off our LACTOGROW
Cabaran Grow Happy TV programme for the third consecutive year. Presenting
#GrowHappy moments, the game show featured young celebrity parents such
as Faezah Elai, Haziq Hussni and Siti Sarah amongst others, with their children
in a friendly competition with other young families.
Through fun educational games and quizzes, the show focused on topics such
as nutrition and parenting, as well as promoting active lifestyles. Aired on
mainstream channel TV3, the show enabled us to forge a strong connection
with consumers, ranking as the top 13th best-performing programme across all
free-to-air channels amongst housewives.
Adding on to this, we also reached out to parents via digital channels with
tips themed ‘Grow Happy at Home’, offering actionable advice to help parents
working from home juggle multiple roles. All these efforts not only helped
increase brand awareness, but also imparted nutrition knowledge amongst our
consumers and highlighted the product benefits, subsequently contributing to
sales growth.
Scan here to catch the 2020 LACTOGROW Cabaran Grow Happy episodes.
45.
An n u a l Re view
REBRANDING LACTOKID TO LACTOGROW AKTIF
Harnessing the growth potential of the GUM category, we took
proactive steps to restrategise our product offerings to remain relevant,
rebranding our LACTOKID brand into LACTOGROW Aktif. Through this
brand repositioning exercise, LACTOGROW Aktif will continue to meet
the needs of parents as an affordable GUM that offers optimal growth
and DHA for the growing up needs of toddlers.
The rebranding commenced with a TESCO-exclusive debut in
November 2020, leveraging the TESCO Club network of parents.
Expanding our reach among Malaysian parents, we also engaged
with KOL mothers to publish honest reviews on social media.
The launch of LACTOGROW Aktif enabled us to lay a strong
foundation to continue engaging with parents moving forward, in line
with our commitment to offer affordable nutrition for optimal growth.
LAUNCHING THE NEW AND IMPROVED NANKID OPTIPRO
Aimed at empowering children with a stronger immune system, which
is now more important than ever, we launched NANKID OPTIPRO
with an enhanced recipe, incorporating a high level of 2’-FL with the
exclusive combination of probiotics to boost immunity.
In addition to a consumer launch on e-commerce platform Lazada,
we also organised a medical symposium in collaboration with the
Malaysian Medical Association. This was aimed at familiarising
healthcare professionals with the nutritional concept of 2’-FL and
Probiotic B. lactis in improving the body defense system among
children. These initiatives successfully drove product trials by 40% in
sample requests for NANKID OPTIPRO.
An exciting dialogue discussion between experts held during the medical symposium
featuring [from left] Dr. Dominique JC Brassart, R&D External Innovation Expert from
Nestlé Nutrition Research in Vevey, Switzerland, Dr. Azam bin Mohd. Nor, Head of Paediatric
Department and Consultant Paediatric Cardiologist at Pantai Hospital KL and Assoc. Prof.
Dr. José M. Saavedra, Associate Professor of Pediatrics from The Johns Hopkins University
School of Medicine Baltimore, USA.
Scan here to check out our nutritious and delicious CERELAC
recipes for your little ones.
CERELAC WITH NO ADDED SUGAR
As part of our ongoing drive to enhance our product portfolio, we
expanded our infant cereal range with the introduction of CERELAC
Rice Infant Cereals with No Added Sugar. Mindful that parents are
increasingly seeking for healthier options for their children, our
scientific research capabilities allowed us to develop this new offering
without compromising on taste.
Boosting awareness, we focused our consumer engagement on
digital platforms, tapping into the trend of cooking at home by
offering creative recipes incorporating our new product. Supporting
this, our Semangkuk Nutrisi, Penuh Kebaikan campaign highlighted
the wholesome ingredients of our range of CERELAC infant cereals.
These efforts proved effective, enabling us to achieve 108% of
projected sales for this product in 2020.
46. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Business Review
NESTLÉ
PROFESSIONAL
Serving the diverse needs
of out-of-home channels,
NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL
provides customised and
creative food and beverage
solutions. With an extensive
range of high-quality
offerings from trusted brands
such as MILO, MAGGI and
NESCAFÉ, we strive to be
the preferred partner for F&B
businesses and operators,
along with providing support
through meaningful industry
engagements.
In 2020, the out-of-home segment was among the hardest hit by the pandemic
containment measures. The movement restrictions saw a significant decline
in business activity particularly in the hotels, restaurants and cafes (HORECA)
sector, which subsequently had a direct impact on the NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL
business. As such, our efforts were focused on supporting our partners and
local F&B operators who were most impacted, with a view towards aiding in the
industry’s recovery and strengthening our trajectory for the year ahead.
BANGKIT BERSAMA NESTLÉ
To assist local F&B operators during this tough time, especially smaller
businesses such as coffee shops and hawker stalls that were particularly
affected, we kicked off the Bangkit Bersama Nestlé campaign to help local F&B
operators keep their businesses afloat during this tough time.
Through this initiative, we contributed RM5 million to support over 15,000
F&B operators with various programmes. This included trade assistance
programmes and cash contributions to help support coffee shops, mamak
shops and other eateries and restaurants. A NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL Rewards
mobile application was also launched to reward our partners and equip them
with a convenient sales ordering tool to facilitate business during the MCO.
Additionally, we also conducted a consumer campaign with cash prizes to help
boost excitement in this sector and drive consumer footfall.
As a leader in the F&B industry, we are mindful that we are in a position to
extend a helping hand. The campaign is part of our aim to uplift local businesses
and strengthen resilience, in order to emerge stronger together.
[Centre left to right] Yit Woon Lai, Business Executive Officer, NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL, presenting a
mock cheque to Datuk Ho Su Mong, President of Malaysia Singapore Coffee Shop Proprietors’ General
Association as part of our Bangkit Bersama Nestlé contribution to local F&B operators.
47.
An n u a l Re view
MAGGI WOK BERSAMAMU CONTEST
Conscious that the impacted HORECA sector affected
the livelihoods of professional chefs, we launched the
MAGGI Wok Bersamamu contest. Leveraging the hashtag
#MAGGISapotChef, we called upon chefs to submit creative
cooking videos featuring MAGGI professional products to
win cash prizes worth up to RM8,000. This helped local
chefs to weather through this tough time, in addition to
reinforcing MAGGI’s brand positioning as the preferred
choice among chefs.
To build awareness on the contest, we engaged with
organisations such as United Chef Malaysia, Pan Kusu
and the Penang Chefs Association. This generated strong
traction in the out-of-home F&B industry especially among
chefs nationwide, nurturing brand affinity and further
establishing NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL as a responsible and
caring brand.
EXPANDING ON WE PROUDLY SERVE STARBUCKS
Following the global alliance between Nestlé and Starbucks, we debuted the
exciting new introduction of our WE PROUDLY SERVE STARBUCKS brand in
September 2019, offering the Starbucks premium coffee experience in both
served as well as self-serve formats to Malaysian out-of-home channels.
We focused the year on accelerating our reach and securing outlet placements
in relevant, high traffic locations including medical centres, offices, hotels and
residences among others. In spite of the movement restrictions in 2020, we
successfully secured 25 outlets in key customer locations such as MAHSA
University, Common Ground coworking spaces, Sunway hotels and more.
Chef Lo Tshun prepares a blend of seasoning mix using MAGGI Lime Powder and chicken stock to be used
for his appetiser menu in the MAGGI Wok Bersamamu contest.
WE PROUDLY SERVE STARBUCKS offers Malaysians the much-loved Starbucks premium coffee experience in advanced served and self-serve formats.
48. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Our
Leadership
WITH A STRONG GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK DESIGNED TO PROMOTE HIGH ETHICAL STANDARDS.
EXPERIENCED, EFFECTIVE
AND DIVERSE LEADERSHIP
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Y.A.M. Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed Anwar Jamalullail Juan Aranols
Datin Sri Azlin Arshad Dato’ Mohd. Rafik Shah Mohamad
49.
An n u a l Re view
More details can be
found in the Corporate
Governance and Financial
Report. Scan here to
access our digital Annual
Report 2020.
CGFR
Declarations by the Board:
• None of the Directors own any shares in Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad.
• None of the Directors have any conflict of interest, any personal interest or any family
relationship with any other Director and/or major shareholders of the Group.
• None of the Directors have been convicted for any offences within the past 10 years nor
have been imposed with any public sanction or penalty by any relevant regulatory bodies,
other than traffic offences (if any).
Dato’ Hamidah Naziadin Dato’ Dr. Nirmala Menon
Tengku Ida Adura Tengku Ismail
Craig Connolly
50. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Our
Leadership
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY
Y.A.M. TAN SRI DATO’ SERI SYED ANWAR JAMALULLAIL
Chairman, Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 25 February 2002 (Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
• 5 November 2004 (Re-designated as Independent Non-Executive
Director)
• 16 April 2009 (Chairman)
• 20 February 2018 (Re-designated as Non-Independent Non-Executive
Director)
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
TOTAL ATTENDANCE: 5/5
ACADEMIC/PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Arts in Accounting, Macquarie University,
Sydney, Australia
• Chartered Accountant
• Member, Certified Practising Accountant (CPA),
Australia
• Member, Malaysian Institute of Accountants
• Court of Emeritus Fellows, Malaysian Institute of
Management
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP(S)
• Chairman of SP Setia Berhad
• Chairman of Kenanga Investment Bank Berhad
• Chairman of Lembaga Zakat Selangor
OTHER APPOINTMENT(S)
• Chancellor of SEGi University
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Chairman, Malaysia Airport Holdings Berhad
• Chairman, Cahya Mata Sarawak Berhad
• Chairman, Malakoff Corporation Berhad
• Chairman, Media Prima Berhad
• Chairman, MRCB Berhad
• Chairman, DRB-Hicom Berhad
• Chairman, EON Bank Berhad
• Chairman, Uni Asia Life Assurance Berhad
• Chairman, Uni Asia General Insurance Berhad
• Chairman, Lembaga Tabung Haji Investment Panel
• Independent Director, Maxis Communications Berhad
• Independent Director, Bangkok Bank Berhad
• Group Managing Director, Amanah Capital Partners
Berhad
• Financial Accountant, Malaysian Airlines Systems
Berhad
100%
Gender - Male
Age - 69
Nationality - Malaysian
• Chairman of the Governance, Nomination
and Compensation Committee
• Member of the Audit Committee
51.
An n u a l Re view
DATO’ MOHD. RAFIK SHAH MOHAMAD
Independent Non-Executive Director
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 June 2007 (Non-Independent Non-Executive Director)
• 7 August 2008 (Re-designated as Independent Non-Executive Director)
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
TOTAL ATTENDANCE: 5/5
ACADEMIC/PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Chartered Accountant, Malaysian Institute of
Accountants
• Fellow of the Association of Chartered Certified
Accounts, United Kingdom
• Executive Development Programme, International
Institute for Management Development, Lausanne,
Switzerland
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP(S)
• Nil
OTHER APPOINTMENT(S)
• Nil
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Chairman, Cold Chain Network Sdn. Bhd.
• Chairman, Malaysian AgriFood Corp. Berhad
• Chairman, Biotropics Malaysia Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director, Felda Global
Ventures Holdings Sdn. Bhd.
• Independent Non-Executive Director, AgriFood
Resources Holding Sdn. Bhd.
• Independent Non-Executive Director, Handal
Resources Berhad
• Non-Independent Non-Executive Director, Sanicare
Hygiene Services Sdn. Bhd.
• Various management positions in the Nestlé group of
companies (worldwide)
100%
Gender - Male
Age - 70
Nationality - Malaysian
• Chairman of the Audit Committee
• Member of the Governance, Nomination
and Compensation Committee
52. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
TOTAL ATTENDANCE: 5/5
ACADEMIC/PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Degree in Medicine from the University of Mysore,
India (First Class Distinction)
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP(S)
• Independent Non-Executive Director, Sime Darby
Berhad
• Independent Director, Bank Negara Malaysia
OTHER APPOINTMENT(S)
• Nil
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Independent Non-Executive Director, AXA Affin
General Insurance Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director, Khazanah
Nasional Berhad
• Executive Vice President, Head of Designated Markets
& Health Asia, MetLife Asia Pacific Ltd
• Head of South Asia, ING Asia Pacific Ltd
• President and CEO, ING Malaysia Berhad
• Medical Officer, Hospital Kuala Lumpur
Our
Leadership
100%
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 27 April 2018
DATO’ DR. NIRMALA MENON
Independent Non-Executive Director
Gender - Female
Age - 61
Nationality - Malaysian
• Member of the Governance,
Nomination and Compensation
Committee
53.
An n u a l Re view
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
TOTAL ATTENDANCE: 3/3 (SINCE HER APPOINTMENT)
ACADEMIC/PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Laws, University of Wolverhampton,
United Kingdom
• Certificate in Personnel Management, Malaysian
Institute of Personnel Management
• Certified in-house Facilitator - Franklin Covey’s The 7
Habits of Highly Effective People® for CIMB Group
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP(S)
• Independent Non-Executive Director, Maxis Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENT(S)
• Chairman, Remuneration Committee, Maxis Berhad
• Advisory Council Member, Faculty of Business and
Accountancy, University of Malaya
• Board Member, Majlis Sukan Negara
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Group Chief People Officer, CIMB Group
• Chief Executive Officer, CIMB Foundation
• Member of Board of Commissioners, CIMB Niaga
• Member of Nomination and Remuneration Committee,
CIMB Niaga
• President of Malaysian Commercial Banks Association
(MCBA)
• Personnel Officer, The Pacific Bank Berhad
100%
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 May 2020
DATO’ HAMIDAH NAZIADIN
Independent Non-Executive Director
Gender - Female
Age - 57
Nationality - Malaysian
• Member of the Governance,
Nomination and Compensation
Committee
54. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
TOTAL ATTENDANCE: 3/3 (SINCE HER APPOINTMENT)
ACADEMIC/PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Honours Degree in Accounting and Finance,
University of Glamorgan (now known as University of
South Wales), United Kingdom
• Graduate of ICLIF’s High Performers’ Leadership
Programme
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP(S)
• Director, Astro AWANI
OTHER APPOINTMENT(S)
• Director and Senior Vice President of PAYTV-SVP,
Astro Malaysia Holdings Berhad
• Committee Member, Tabung PPUM Care, Pusat
Perubatan Universiti Malaya
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Acting Head, Astro AWANI
• Deputy Chairman, Independent Non-Executive Director,
Syarikat Takaful Keluarga Malaysia Berhad
• Vice President, Industrial Development Division
Johor Corporation
• Non-Independent Non-Executive Director,
QSR Holdings Berhad
• Chief Operating Officer-NJOI, ASTRO’s Prepaid Satellite
TV
• Group CEO, ECM Libra Financial Group Berhad
• Deputy CEO, ECM Libra Investment Bank Berhad
(ECMLIB)
• Head of Investment Banking and Head of Structured
Finance, ECMLIB
• Director and Head of Corporate Finance, ECMLIB
• Vice President (Team Head), Maybank Investment Bank
Berhad
• Assistant Vice President, Maybank Investment
Bank Berhad
• Mentor for ICAEW’s Women in Leadership Programme
Our
Leadership
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 May 2020
100%
DATIN SRI AZLIN ARSHAD
Independent Non-Executive Director
Gender - Female
Age - 47
Nationality - Malaysian
• Member of the Audit Committee
55.
An n u a l Re view
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
TOTAL ATTENDANCE: 5/5
ACADEMIC/PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Economic Science and Business,
University of Barcelona, Spain
• Executive Development Programme, International
Institute for Management Development, Lausanne,
Switzerland
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP(S)
• Chairman of Malaysian Recycling Alliance Berhad
(MAREA)
OTHER APPOINTMENT(S)
• Council Member, Federation of Malaysian
Manufacturers (FMM)
• Chairman, FMM Sustainability Committee
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Chief Financial Officer (CFO), Zone Asia,
Oceania & Sub-Saharan African (AOA), Nestlé S.A.
• Head of Group Control, Zone AOA, Nestlé S.A.
• CFO, Nestlé Iberian region
• CFO, Nestlé Caribbean region
• CFO, Nestlé Plata region
• Finance Manager, Nestlé Ice Cream and Frozen Food
businesses, Nestlé Italy
• Strategic Business Controller, Nestlé S.A.
• Auditor, Nestlé Spain
100%
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 December 2018
ALTERNATE DIRECTOR
• Alessandro Monica
JUAN ARANOLS
Chief Executive Officer, Executive Director
Gender - Male
Age - 52
Nationality - Spanish
The profile of Alessandro Monica can be found on page 60 of this report.
AR
56. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
TOTAL ATTENDANCE: 5/5
ACADEMIC/PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Graduated from Macquarie University, Australia
• Executive Development Programme, International
Institute for Management Development, Lausanne,
Switzerland
• Leadership Training, London Business School
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP(S)
• Nil
OTHER APPOINTMENT(S)
• Committee Member, FMM Strategic Policies
Committee
• Committee Member, Swiss Malaysian Business
Association
PAST EXPERIENCES
• CFO, Nestlé Vietnam
• Head of Nestlé Business Services (NBS), Philippines
• Finance Shared Services Manager, Nestlé Oceania
• National Credit Manager, Nestlé Oceania
• Key Customer Service Manager, Nestlé Oceania
Our
Leadership
100%
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 1 February 2019
ALTERNATE DIRECTOR
• Shahzad Umar
CRAIG CONNOLLY
Chief Financial Officer, Executive Director
Gender - Male
Age - 53
Nationality - Australian
The profile of Shahzad Umar can be found on page 62 of this report.
AR
57.
An n u a l Re view
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
TOTAL ATTENDANCE: 5/5
ACADEMIC/PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor of Laws, University of Nottingham, United
Kingdom
• Barrister-at-Law of the Honourable Society
of Lincoln’s Inn
• Diploma in Syariah Law and Legal Practice,
International Islamic University of Malaysia
• Called to the Malaysian Bar
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP(S)
• Director and Vice Chairman, ICC Malaysia Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENT(S)
• Chairman, ICC Corporate Responsibility
& Anti-Corruption Committee
• Malaysian Trustee, ASEAN CSR Network
• Vice Chairman, FMM Business Ethics & Governance
Committee
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Legal Counsel, Zone AOA and the Middle East, Nestlé
S.A.
• Legal Counsel, Nestlé Malaysia
• Legal Manager, Kumpulan Guthrie Berhad
• Legal Practitioner
100%
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 6 August 2013
TENGKU IDA ADURA TENGKU ISMAIL
Company Secretary
Gender - Female
Age - 48
Nationality - Malaysian
58. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMPANY SECRETARY
The following directors have retired since the 2020 AGM:
Our
Leadership
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
TOTAL ATTENDANCE: 2/2 (BEFORE RETIREMENT)
ACADEMIC/PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Master of Laws, Queen’s University, Belfast, United Kingdom
• Bachelor of Laws, Queen’s University, Belfast, United Kingdom
• Honorary Doctorate, Queen’s University, Belfast, United Kingdom
• Called to the Malaysian Bar in 1988
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP(S)
• Chairman, Allianz Malaysia Berhad
• Chairman, Allianz General Insurance Company (Malaysia) Berhad
• Chairman, Malaysian Genomics Resources Centre Berhad
• Senior Independent Non-Executive Director, Minda Global Berhad
• Independent Non-Executive Director, Lotte Chemical Titan Holding Berhad
OTHER APPOINTMENT(S)
• President, Malay Girls’ College/Tunku Kurshiah College Old Girls’ Association
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Malaysia’s first female Vice-Chancellor, University of Malaya
• Assistant Secretary General, United Nations Human Resource Management, New York, USA
• Assistant Governor, Central Bank of Malaysia
• Executive Director, International Centre for Leadership in Finance
• Human Resource General Manager, Malayan Banking Berhad
• Lecturer, Deputy and Dean of the Law Faculty, University of Malaya
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 17 April 2009
DATE OF RETIREMENT
• 30 April 2020
TAN SRI DATUK (DR.)
RAFIAH SALIM
Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director
Gender - Female
Age - 73
Nationality - Malaysian
100%
• Member of the Audit
Committee
• Member of the
Governance, Nomination
and Compensation
Committee
59.
An n u a l Re view
BOARD MEETING ATTENDANCE IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR
TOTAL ATTENDANCE: 2/2 (BEFORE RETIREMENT)
ACADEMIC/PROFESSIONAL QUALIFICATIONS
• Bachelor’s Degree in Economics, School of Economics, Rotterdam (HES), Netherlands
• Executive Development Programme, International Institute for Management Development,
Lausanne, Switzerland
PRESENT DIRECTORSHIP(S)
• Board Member, Sika AG, Switzerland
• Member of Advisory Board, Al Muhaidib Group, Saudi Arabia
OTHER APPOINTMENT(S)
• Nil
PAST EXPERIENCES
• Executive Vice President and Head of Zone AOA and the Middle East, Nestlé S.A.
• Chairman and CEO, Nestlé Waters
• Market Head, Nestlé Japan
• Market Head, Nestlé Malaysia
• Chief Operating Officer, Nestlé Malaysia
• Various management positions in Nestlé group of companies (worldwide)
• Sales Representative, Nestlé United Kingdom
DATE OF APPOINTMENT(S)
• 26 April 2006
(Non-Independent
Non-Executive Director)
• 19 November 2013
(Independent
Non-Executive Director)
DATE OF RETIREMENT
• 30 April 2020
DATO’
FRITS VAN DIJK
Independent
Non-Executive Director
Gender - Male
Age - 73
Nationality - Dutch
100%
• Member of the
Governance, Nomination
and Compensation
Committee
60. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Our
Leadership
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM
Gender - Male
Age - 61
Nationality - Malaysian
Chew Soi Ping
Executive Director, Sales since 1 November 2015
Career Background
Chew Soi Ping joined Nestlé Malaysia as a Management Trainee in 1988, gaining valuable brand management
experience through the MAGGI, Chilled Dairy, Milks and Ice Cream businesses. In 2006, he was assigned to Nestlé
S.A., Switzerland as Zone AOA Regional Zone Assistant Adviser for the ASEAN, India, Sri Lanka and Bangladesh
markets. Since then, he has held a number of senior positions, including Executive Director for Ice Cream as well
as Nestlé Continuous Excellence, and Senior Vice President for the Ice Cream business in the Philippines.
Academic/Professional Qualifications
• Masters in Business Administration, University of Central Arkansas, USA
• Bachelor of Science in Marketing (Hons), University of Ozarks, Arkansas, USA
• Leadership Course, London Business School, United Kingdom
• Marketing Course, International Institute for Management Development, Lausanne, Switzerland
Gender - Male
Age - 52
Nationality - Spanish
Juan Aranols
Chief Executive Officer since 1 December 2018
Career Background
Juan Aranols began his career with Nestlé Spain as an Internal Auditor in 1990. He subsequently served as
Strategy Business Controller for various categories under Nestlé S.A., Switzerland, and later as Controller of the
Ice Cream and Frozen Food businesses for Nestlé Italy. He then assumed the role of CFO for the Plata region
(Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay), then CFO of the Caribbean region in 2005 and the Iberian region in 2008. In 2012,
he was appointed Senior Vice President, Head of Group Control at Nestlé S.A. and in 2015, became CFO for Zone
AOA, where he also helmed the Confectionery and NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL businesses.
Academic/Professional Qualifications
• Bachelor of Economic Science and Business, University of Barcelona, Spain
• Executive Development Programme, International Institute for Management Development, Lausanne, Switzerland
Gender - Male
Age - 50
Nationality - Italian
Alessandro Monica
Executive Director, Technical & Production since 1 July 2017
Career Background
Alessandro Monica started his career with Nestlé Italy in 1998, where he held various positions including Head
of Engineering for Ice Cream and Frozen Food; Market Safety, Health and Environment Officer; and Factory
Manager for the Ice Cream, Culinary, Chilled and Nutrition businesses. In 2011, he assumed the role of
Operations Manager for the Ice Cream Strategic Business Unit in Nestlé Switzerland, where he was instrumental
in the implementation of improvement strategies for competitive operations across the value chain, in addition
to contributing significantly to enhancing the management of total cost competitiveness.
Academic/Professional Qualifications
• Degree in Mechanical Engineering, University of Parma, Italy
All the information disclosed in the Profile of Executive Leadership Team is true as of 18 March 2021.
61.
An n u a l Re view
Gender - Male
Age - 53
Nationality - Australian
Gender - Male
Age - 59
Nationality - Malaysian
Craig Connolly
Chief Financial Officer since 1 February 2019
Dato’ Adnan Pawanteh
Executive Director, Corporate Affairs since 1 April 2020
Career Background
Craig Connolly joined Nestlé Oceania in 1986, where he took on a number of senior Accounting roles, including
Key Customer Service Manager, National Credit Manager and Finance Shared Services Manager. He was then
appointed Head of NBS in the Philippines, where he spearheaded the establishment of NBS Centres in Manila
and Cairo, providing services to the AOA markets. In 2014, he took on the role of CFO of Nestlé Vietnam.
Academic/Professional Qualifications
• Graduated from Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia
• Executive Development Programme, International Institute for Management Development, Lausanne, Switzerland
• Leadership Course, London Business School, United Kingdom
Career Background
Dato’ Adnan joined Nestlé Malaysia in 1984 as a Trainee Engineer and took on several positions in the Technical
area. He subsequently served as Industrial Performance and Production Manager for Nestlé Australia. He later
returned to Malaysia to assume the role of Factory Manager at the Shah Alam Complex, before moving to
Nestlé Turkey as Technical Director. Following this, he returned to Malaysia as Executive Director for Technical &
Production. In 2017, he was appointed Technical Director of Nestlé Philippines. In addition to his present role as
Executive Director for Corporate Affairs at Nestlé Malaysia, he oversees the Sustainability, Corporate Nutrition,
Consumer Services and Halal Affairs profiles for the Company.
Academic/Professional Qualifications
• Masters of Business Administration in Management, Ohio University, USA
• Bachelor’s Degree in Engineering, Loughborough University, United Kingdom
Gender - Female
Age - 48
Nationality - Malaysian
Tengku Ida Adura Tengku Ismail
Executive Director, Legal & Secretarial since 6 August 2013
Career Background
Tengku Ida began her career with Nestlé Malaysia as a Legal Counsel in 2005. In 2010, she was appointed as Legal
Counsel for Zone AOA and the Middle East in Nestlé S.A., Switzerland. Upon her return to Malaysia in 2013, she
has been heading the legal, secretarial and compliance functions for Nestlé Malaysia and Singapore.
Academic/Professional Qualifications
• Bachelor of Laws (Hons), University of Nottingham, United Kingdom
• Barrister-at-Law of the Honourable Society of Lincoln’s Inn, United Kingdom
• Called to the Malaysian Bar
• Diploma in Syariah Law & Legal Practice, International Islamic University of Malaysia
• Leadership Course, London Business School, United Kingdom
62. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
EXECUTIVE LEADERSHIP TEAM
Our
Leadership
Gender - Female
Age - 42
Nationality - Malaysian
Gender - Male
Age - 57
Nationality - Pakistani
Ng Su Yen
Business Executive Officer, MILO since 1 March 2020
Career Background
Ng Su Yen started her career as part of the New Talent Management programme for Nestlé, where her first role was
in the Sales Division as a Field Sales Executive for the Central region in 2004. She later joined the MILO business
as a Brand Executive. She was later assigned to the MILO Strategic Business Unit in Vevey, Switzerland, after which
she returned to Malaysia as Consumer Marketing Manager for MILO. Following this, she assumed the position of
Business Executive Officer of the Milks business. In 2018, she was appointed Business Executive Officer for the
Ready-to-Drink business.
Academic/Professional Qualifications
• Masters of Business, University of New South Wales, Australia
• Bachelor of Business, University of Technology, Sydney, Australia
Salman Nazir
Executive Director, Supply Chain since 1 February 2018
Career Background
Salman Nazir started his career at Nestlé Pakistan as a Management Trainee in 1993, after which he took
on various roles in the areas of Factory Controlling, Project Management, IT, Procurement and Supply Chain
Management. He was then appointed Procurement Specialist at Nestec S.A., Switzerland. Following this, he
returned to Pakistan as Corporate Procurement Manager before being appointed as Head of Supply Chain. In
2015, he took on the role of Supply Chain Director at Nestlé South Africa.
Academic/Professional Qualifications
• Bachelor of Science Degree, Punjab University, Lahore, Pakistan
• Certified Management Accountant
• Executive Development Course, International Institute for Management Development, Lausanne, Switzerland
• Organisational Leadership Course, London Business School, United Kingdom
Gender - Male
Age - 43
Nationality - Pakistani
Shahzad Umar
Executive Director, Human Resources since 1 March 2016
Career Background
Shahzad Umar joined Nestlé Pakistan as a Management Trainee in 2001, where he held key managerial roles in Human
Resources. He was then assigned to Thailand to oversee Compensation & Benefits for Nestlé Indo-China, after which
he was appointed Human Resources Manager for Organisational Development for Nestlé Malaysia. Subsequently,
he returned to Pakistan in 2012 to head the Human Resources Division. Presently, along with his role as Executive
Director of Human Resources for Nestlé Malaysia, he also helms the Nestlé Business Excellence portfolio for both
Nestlé Malaysia and Singapore.
Academic/Professional Qualifications
• Degree in Mechanical Engineering, University of Engineering and Technology, Lahore, Pakistan
• Leadership Course, London Business School, United Kingdom
• Executive Development Course, International Institute for Management Development, Lausanne, Switzerland
• Masters of Business Administration, University of Nottingham (Malaysian Campus)
63.
An n u a l Re view
Gender - Female
Age - 50
Nationality - Malaysian
Yit Woon Lai
Business Executive Officer, NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL since 1 July 2017
Career Background
Yit Woon Lai began her career in 1995 as a Brand Executive for Nestlé Cold Storage, a NESTLÉ Ice Cream joint
venture. Throughout her years in the Company, she has held various positions including the role of Senior Brand
Manager for the MILO business and subsequently the position of Group Brand Manager of Chilled Dairy. In 2007,
she was appointed to head the Chilled Dairy business followed by the Ice Cream business in 2012 before assuming
her current position as Business Executive Officer for NESTLÉ PROFESSIONAL Malaysia and Singapore.
Academic/Professional Qualifications
• Bachelor’s Degree in Economics majoring in Business, University of Malaya
• Executive Development Programme, International Institute for Management Development, Lausanne, Switzerland
Gender - Female
Age - 56
Nationality - Malaysian
Geetha Balakrishna
Business Executive Officer, Foods since 1 August 2017
Career Background
Geetha Balakrishna started her career at Nestlé with MAGGI in 1988. She later left the Company and joined
Mattel Inc, where she held various commercial positions, with her last position as Commercial Director for
Southeast Asia. She then joined Cerebos Pacific Ltd in Singapore as General Manager for the food supplements
business across Singapore, Indonesia, Brunei and Philippines. She subsequently returned to the Nestlé family,
joining Nestlé Singapore as Marketing Director for Food and Dairy. In 2014, she was appointed Business
Executive Manager for the MAGGI Food business in Nestlé Philippines.
Academic/Professional Qualifications
• Bachelor of Management Degree (Hons), Universiti Sains Malaysia
64. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Our Leadership
NESTLÉ LEADERSHIP TEAM
The members of our Nestlé Leadership Team continued to be actively
involved in numerous activities, events and engagements throughout
the year, ranging from corporate and brand-related initiatives to
environmental programmes and more.
1
2
5
4
3
65.
An n u a l Re view
6
8
9
10
7
1
[Right] Juan Aranols sharing a light moment with the
Minister of Energy and Natural Resources, Y.B Dato’
Dr. Shamsul Anuar bin Hj Nasarah, over a cup of
NESCAFÉ at the launch of Project RELeaf.
3
[Front row from right] Juan Aranols and Lee Thiam
Wah, 99 Speedmart Founder and Managing Director,
together with [back row, second from left] Chew
Soi Ping and April Wong, kick starting our CAREton
Project collaboration with 99 Speedmart to encourage
Malaysians to adopt greener habits.
5
[From left] Chew Soi Ping, Juan Aranols and Ng Su
Yen launching MILO ACTIV-GO Plus Fibre.
7
[Right] Yit Woon Lai cooking up a storm using MAGGI
professional products together with the chefs of
Dorsett Hotel.
9
[From left] Craig Connolly, Juan Aranols, Chairman
Y.A.M. Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed Anwar Jamalullail and
Tengku Ida Adura Tengku Ismail preparing for our
very first virtual AGM.
2
[Left] Juan Aranols and YBhg Dato’ Mohd Sayuthi bin
Bakar, Mayor of Petaling Jaya, commemorating the
launch of a pioneering kerbside recycling programme
in two Petaling Jaya townships.
4
[From left] Geetha Balakrishna and Juan Aranols
officiating the launch of the MAGGI Sah Malaysia
campaign.
6
[Left] Alessandro Monica, [right] Salman Nazir and
team ensuring that the best crop quality is produced
from our NESTLÉ CHILLI CLUB contract farming
programme.
8
[Centre] Juan Aranols and our 16 finalists of the
Peraduan Nestlé Gaji Seumur Hidup during the Grand
Finale closing.
10
The Nestlé Leadership Team coming together in
February to launch the Peraduan Nestlé Gaji Seumur
Hidup before the MCO.
66. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
11 14
12 15
16
13
67.
An n u a l Re view
17
19
18
20
21
11
[From left] Juan Aranols and April Wong showcasing
the Company’s latest packaging innovation,
transitioning to 100% paper straws for our entire UHT
range.
13
[Right] Juan Aranols handing over a donation of
essential school supplies to a representative of Sekolah
Kebangsaan Putrajaya Presint 9 (1) for their selected
B40 students as part of our NESTLÉ CARES Back-to-
School programme.
15
[From left] Alessandro Monica and Juan Aranols
inspecting the all-new Plant-Based Meal Solutions
manufacturing line in Shah Alam.
17
[Left] Frédéric Porchet and team paying a market visit
to review the improved on-shelf visibility of KIT KAT
products, aimed at enhancing consumers’ experience.
19
[From right] Lam Pui Yuee, Adnan Pawanteh and
Shahzad Umar celebrating World Heart Month during
a workout session in conjunction with the NESTLÉ
OMEGA PLUS Walk A Million Miles.
12
[Far left] Maria Rica Mier joined the NESTLÉ Health
Science team for a get-together session prior to the MCO.
14
A determined LA CREMERIA ice cream promoter
recommending LA CREMERIA products to [left] Teo
Heng Keat and [right] Juan Aranols during a market
visit.
16
Ng Su Yen officiating the launch of Pekan MILO to
celebrate 70 years of MILO goodness in Malaysia.
18
Florianne Novello announcing the winning teams
that collected the highest amount of trash during the
NESTLÉ CARES Nationwide Beach Clean-up at Pantai
Cunang, Selangor.
20
[Centre] Wong Eu Khean kicking off the launch of
NANKID OPTIPRO with a new and improved recipe,
in collaboration with e-commerce platform Lazada in
January.
21
[Front] Othman Chraibi and members of our passionate
Sales team in front of a roving NESCAFÉ sampling truck
celebrating International Coffee Month.
68. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Corporate
Information
Board Committees
Audit Committee
Chairman
Dato’ Mohd. Rafik Shah Mohamad
Members
Y.A.M. Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed Anwar Jamalullail
Tan Sri Datuk (Dr.) Rafiah Salim (retired on 30 April 2020)
Datin Sri Azlin Arshad (appointed on 1 May 2020)
Governance, Nomination and Compensation Committee
(Formerly known as Nomination and Compensation Committee)
Chairman
Y.A.M. Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed Anwar Jamalullail
Members
Dato’ Mohd. Rafik Shah Mohamad
Tan Sri Datuk (Dr.) Rafiah Salim (retired on 30 April 2020)
Dato’ Frits van Dijk (retired on 30 April 2020)
Dato’ Dr. Nirmala Menon
Dato’ Hamidah Naziadin (appointed on 1 May 2020)
Board of Directors
Y.A.M. Tan Sri Dato’ Seri Syed Anwar Jamalullail
Non-Independent Non-Executive Director
Chairman of the Board of Directors
Dato’ Mohd. Rafik Shah Mohamad
Independent Non-Executive Director
Tan Sri Datuk (Dr.) Rafiah Salim
Independent Non-Executive Director
(retired on 30 April 2020)
Dato’ Frits van Dijk
Independent Non-Executive Director
(retired on 30 April 2020)
Dato’ Dr. Nirmala Menon
Independent Non-Executive Director
Dato’ Hamidah Naziadin
Independent Non-Executive Director
(appointed on 1 May 2020)
Datin Sri Azlin Arshad
Independent Non-Executive Director
(appointed on 1 May 2020)
Juan Aranols
Executive Director
Chief Executive Officer
Craig Connolly
Executive Director
Chief Financial Officer
Company Secretary
Tengku Ida Adura Tengku Ismail
(MACS 01686) (SSM PC No.: 201908001581)
Tel : +603 7965 6000
Fax : +603 7962 7213
E-mail: CompanySecretary.Nestle@my.nestle.com
Registered Office
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Registration No.: 198301015532 (110925-W)
22-1, 22nd Floor, Menara Surian
No. 1, Jalan PJU 7/3
Mutiara Damansara
47810 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 7965 6000
Fax : +603 7965 6767
69.
An n u a l Re view
Stock Exchange Listing
Main Market
Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad
Registration No.: 200301033577 (635998-W)
Stock Code : 4707
Stock Name : NESTLÉ
Principal Bankers
HSBC Bank Malaysia Berhad
Registration No.: 198401015221 (127776-V)
Malayan Banking Berhad
Registration No.: 196001000142 (3813-K)
Company Website
www.nestle.com.my
Share Registrar
Tricor Investor &
Issuing House Services Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 197101000970 (11324-H)
Unit 32-01, Level 32, Tower A
Vertical Business Suite, Avenue 3
Bangsar South, No. 8, Jalan Kerinchi
59200 Kuala Lumpur
Tel : +603 2783 9299
Fax : +603 2783 9222
E-mail: is.enquiry@my.tricorglobal.com
Auditors
Ernst & Young PLT
(Firm No. LLP022760-LCA & AF 0039)
Chartered Accountants
Level 23A, Menara Milenium
Jalan Damanlela, Pusat Bandar Damansara
50490 Kuala Lumpur
Tel : +603 7495 8000
Fax : +603 2095 5332
70. Ne s tl é ( M a l a ys i a) B er h ad
Corporate
Directory
Head Office
Nestlé (Malaysia) Berhad
Registration No.: 198301015532 (110925-W)
22-1, 22nd Floor, Menara Surian
No. 1, Jalan PJU 7/3
Mutiara Damansara
47810 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 7965 6000
Fax : +603 7965 6767
Factories
Shah Alam Complex
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
PT 927, Jalan Playar 15/1
Seksyen 15, 40200 Shah Alam
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 5522 5600
Fax : +603 5522 5999
Batu Tiga
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
PT 927, Jalan Playar 15/1
Seksyen 15, 40200 Shah Alam
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 5522 5600
Fax : +603 5510 6263
Sri Muda
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
PT 927, Jalan Playar 15/1
Seksyen 15, 40200 Shah Alam
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 5520 6400
Fax : +603 5520 6500
Consumer Services
1 800 88 3433
Investor Relations
Craig Connolly, Chief Financial Officer
Tel
+603 7965 6000
Email
InvestorRelations.Malaysia@my.nestle.com
Website
www.nestle.com.my
Facebook
www.facebook.com/Nestle.Malaysia
71.
An n u a l Re view
Distribution Centre
Chembong
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
Lot 691, Jalan Perusahaan Utama
Kawasan Perindustrian Chembong
71300 Rembau
Negeri Sembilan Darul Khusus
Tel : +606 686 3900
Fax : +606 686 4080
Chembong (Ice Cream)
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
Lot 3857 – 3862
Jalan Perusahaan 4
Kawasan Perindustrian Chembong
71300 Rembau
Negeri Sembilan Darul Khusus
Tel : +606 686 3900
Fax : +606 686 4095
Kuching
Nestlé Manufacturing (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 199401029400 (315081-K)
Lot 844, Block 7
Muara Tebas Land District
Estet Perindustrian Demak Laut
93450 Kuching Sarawak
Tel : +6082 472 800
Fax : +6082 472 999
Nestlé Products Sdn. Bhd.
Registration No.: 197901000966 (45229-H)
Lot 7316 (PT3609)
Jalan Klang-Banting
Mukim Telok Panglima Garang
42500 Telok Panglima Garang
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Tel : +603 3123 3000
Fax : +603 3123 3001
This page has been intentionally left blank.
Cover
Printed on FSC® Certified Mix Credit
250gsm Xper Premium White
Text
Printed on FSC® Certified Mix Credit
120gsm Xper Premium White
NESTLÉ (MALAYSIA) BERHAD
Registration No.: 198301015532 (110925-W)
22-1, 22nd Floor, Menara Surian
No. 1, Jalan PJU 7/3
Mutiara Damansara
47810 Petaling Jaya
Selangor Darul Ehsan
Malaysia
Tel (+603) 7965 6000
Fax (+603) 7965 6767
Nestlé Consumer Services Free Phone
1-800-88-3433
Facebook
www.facebook.com/Nestle.Malaysia
Website
www.nestle.com.my
